CITY OF AUBURN, NEBRASKA
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2012 S-1 Supplement Contains:
Local legislation current through Ord. 2-12, passed 2-27-2012
State Legislation current through 2011
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing Corporation
One West Fourth Street, STE 300
Cincinnati, Ohio  45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Fax: (513) 763-3562
Internet: http://www.amlegal.com
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
CHAPTER 10:  RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
Section
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Interpretation
   
10.03   Application to future ordinances
   
10.04   Captions
   
10.05   Definitions
   
10.06   Rules of interpretation
   
10.07   Severability
   
10.08   Reference to other sections
   
10.09   Reference to offices
   
10.10   Errors and omissions
   
10.11   Official time
   
10.12   Reasonable time
   
10.13   Ordinances repealed
   
10.14   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.15   Repeal or modification of ordinance
   
10.16   Section histories; statutory references
   
10.17   Local changes to this code of ordinances
 
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01  TITLE OF CODE.
   This codification of ordinances shall be designated as the Auburn City Code
of Ordinances and may be so cited.
§ 10.02  INTERPRETATION.
   Unless otherwise provided herein, or by law or implication required, the
same rules of construction, definition and application shall govern the
interpretation of this code as those governing the interpretation of state law.
§ 10.03  APPLICATION TO FUTURE ORDINANCES.
   All provisions of Title I compatible with future legislation shall apply to
ordinances hereafter adopted amending or supplementing this code unless
otherwise specifically provided.
§ 10.04  CAPTIONS.
   Headings and captions used in this code other than the title, chapter and
section numbers are employed for reference purposes only and shall not be
deemed a part of the text of any section.
§ 10.05  DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   General rule. Words and phrases shall be taken in their plain,
ordinary and usual sense. However, technical words and phrases having a
peculiar and appropriate meaning in law shall be understood according to their
technical import.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this code, the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      CITY, MUNICIPAL CORPORATION or MUNICIPALITY. The City of Auburn,
Nebraska.
      CITY COUNCIL. The legislative body of Auburn, Nebraska.
      CODE,THIS CODE or THIS CODE OF ORDINANCES. This city code, as modified by
amendment, revision and adoption of new titles, chapters or sections.
      COUNTY. The County of Nemaha, Nebraska.
      MAY. The act referred to is permissive.
      MONTH. A calendar month.
      OATH. Includes an affirmation in all cases in which, by law, an
affirmation may be substituted for an oath and, in such cases, the words SWEAR
and SWORN shall be equivalent to the words AFFIRM and AFFIRMED.
      OFFICER, OFFICE, EMPLOYEE, COMMISSION or DEPARTMENT. An officer, office,
employee, commission or department of the city unless the context clearly
requires otherwise.
      PERSON. Includes bodies politic and corporate, societies, communities,
the public generally, individuals, partnerships, limited liability companies,
joint-stock companies and associations.
(Neb. RS 49-801(16))
      PRECEDING or FOLLOWING. Next before or next after, respectively.
      SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory.
      SIGNATURE or SUBSCRIPTION. Includes a mark when the person cannot write.
      STATE. The State of Nebraska.
      SUBCHAPTER. A division of a chapter, designated in this code by a heading
in the chapter analysis and a capitalized heading in the body of the chapter,
setting apart a group of sections related by the subject matter of the heading.
Not all chapters have SUBCHAPTERS.
      WRITTEN. Any representation of words, letters or figures, whether by
printing or otherwise.
      YEAR. A calendar year, unless otherwise expressed.
§ 10.06  RULES OF INTERPRETATION.
   The construction of all ordinances of the city shall be by the following
rules, unless that construction is plainly repugnant to the intent of the Mayor
and City Council or of the context of the same ordinance.
   (A)   ANDorOR. Either conjunction shall include the other as if written
“and/or”, if the sense requires it.
   (B)   Acts by assistants. When a statute or ordinance requires an act to be
done which, by law, an agent or deputy as well may do as the principal, the
requisition shall be satisfied by the performance of the act by an authorized
agent or deputy.
   (C)   Gender; singular and plural; tenses. Words denoting the masculine
gender shall be deemed to include the feminine and neuter genders; words in the
singular shall include the plural and words in the plural shall include the
singular; the use of a verb in the present tense shall include the future, if
applicable.
   (D)   General term. A general term following specific enumeration of terms
is not to be limited to the class enumerated unless expressly so limited.
§ 10.07  SEVERABILITY.
   If any provision of this code as now or later amended or its application to
any person or circumstance is held invalid, the invalidity does not affect
other provisions that can be given effect without the invalid provision or
application.
§ 10.08  REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   Whenever a section refers to another section hereof, that reference shall
extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently amended, revised,
recodified or renumbered unless the subject matter is materially altered by the
amendment or revision.
§ 10.09  REFERENCE TO OFFICES.
   Reference to a public office or officer shall be deemed to apply to any
office, officer or employee of the city exercising the powers, duties or
functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any transfer of
functions or change in the official title of the functionary.
§ 10.10  ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error is discovered, consisting of the misspelling of any
words; the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention of
the provisions affected; the use of a word or words to which no meaning can be
attached; or the use of a word or words when another word or words was clearly
intended to express the intent, the spelling shall be corrected and the word or
words supplied, omitted or substituted as will conform with the manifest
intention, and the provisions shall have the same effect as though the correct
words were contained in the text as originally published. No alteration shall
be made or permitted if any question exists regarding the nature or extent of
the error.
§ 10.11  OFFICIAL TIME.
   The official time, as established by applicable state/federal laws, shall be
the official time within this city for the transaction of all city business.
§ 10.12  REASONABLE TIME.
   (A)   In all cases where an ordinance requires an act to be done in a
reasonable time or requires reasonable notice to be given, reasonable time or
notice shall be deemed to mean the time which is necessary for a prompt
performance of the act or the giving of the notice.
   (B)   The time within which an act is to be done, as herein provided, shall
be computed by excluding the first day and including the last. If the last day
is Sunday, it shall be excluded.
§ 10.13  ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   This code contains all of the provisions of a general nature pertaining to
the subjects enumerated and embraced in this code. All prior ordinances
pertaining to the subjects treated by this code are repealed, except that
nothing shall affect any rights acquired under, actions involving or fines,
penalties, forfeitures or liabilities incurred pursuant to those ordinances
prior to repeal.
§ 10.14  ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not embraced in this code, including ordinances
specified in this section, shall remain in full force and effect unless
repealed expressly or by necessary implication:
   (A)   Vacating or setting the boundaries of streets, alleys or other public
places;
   (B)   Annexing or detaching territory;
   (C)   Granting or accepting easements, plats or dedication of land to public
use;
   (D)   Providing for the acquisition or conveyance of real or personal
property;
   (E)   Authorizing or directing public improvements to be made;
   (F)   Levying taxes or special assessments;
   (G)   Appropriating money;
   (H)   Granting franchises or special licenses; or
   (I)   Providing for the issuance of bonds or other instruments of
indebtedness.
§ 10.15  REPEAL OR MODIFICATION OF ORDINANCE.
   (A)   Whenever any ordinance or part of an ordinance is repealed or modified
by a subsequent ordinance, the ordinance or part of an ordinance thus repealed
or modified shall continue in force until the publication of the ordinance
repealing or modifying it to give effect thereto.
   (B)   No suit, proceedings, right, liability, fine, forfeiture or penalty
instituted, created, given, secured or accrued under any ordinance previous to
its repeal shall in any way be affected, released or discharged, but may be
prosecuted, enjoyed and recovered as fully as if the ordinance had continued in
force, unless it is otherwise expressly provided.
   (C)   When any ordinance repealing a former ordinance, clause or provision
is itself repealed, the repeal shall not be construed to revive the former
ordinance, clause or provision, unless it is expressly provided.
Statutory reference:
   Requirements for amendments and revisions, see Neb. RS 17-614
§ 10.16  SECTION HISTORIES; STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   A statutory cite included in the history indicates that the text of
the section reads substantially the same as the statute. Example: (Neb. RS 18-
132)
   (B)   A statutory cite set forth as a “statutory reference” following the
text of the section indicates that the reader should refer to that statute for
further information. Example:
   § 39.01  PUBLIC RECORDS AVAILABLE.
      This municipality shall make available to any person for inspection or
copying all public records, unless otherwise exempted by state law.
   Statutory reference:
      Inspection of public records, see Neb. RS 84-712 et seq.
§ 10.17  LOCAL CHANGES TO THIS CODE OF ORDINANCES.
   Any provision of this code of ordinances may be repealed, modified or
superseded by an ordinance passed by the City Council.
§ 10.99  GENERAL PENALTY.
   Any person who violates any of the provisions of the city code, unless
otherwise specifically provided herein, shall be deemed guilty of an offense
and, upon conviction thereof, shall be fined in any sum not exceeding $500. A
new violation shall be deemed to have been committed every 24 hours of failure
to comply with the provisions of this code.
Statutory reference:
   Authority to abate nuisances, see Neb. RS 18-1720 and 18-1722
   Authority to impose fines, see Neb. RS 17-505
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
31.   ELECTED AND APPOINTED OFFICIALS
      
32.   CITY ORGANIZATIONS
      
33.   FIRE DEPARTMENT
      
34.   POLICE DEPARTMENT
      
35.   ORDINANCES
      
36.   ELECTIONS
      
37.   FISCAL MANAGEMENT
      
38.   ANNEXATIONS
      
39.   EMINENT DOMAIN
      
40.   INITIATIVES AND REFERENDUMS
      
41.   INTERGOVERNMENTAL RISK MANAGEMENT
CHAPTER 30:  GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
30.01   Seal; official corporate
Meetings
   
30.15   Public meetings
   
30.16   City Council; change in office
   
30.17   City Council; organization
   
30.18   City Council; order of business
   
30.19   City Council; parliamentary procedure
   
30.20   Definitions
   
30.21   Closed session
   
30.22   Prohibited acts; exempt events
   
30.23   Emergency meetings
   
30.24   Public participation
   
30.25   Regular meetings
   
30.26   Special meetings
   
30.27   Videoconferencing
   
30.28   Teleconferencing
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 30.01  SEAL; OFFICIAL CORPORATE.
   The official corporate seal of the city shall be kept in the office of the
City Clerk and shall bear the following inscription: “Seal, City of Auburn,
Nemaha County, Nebraska”.
(Prior Code, § 1-401)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-502
MEETINGS
§ 30.15  PUBLIC MEETINGS.
   (A)   All public meetings, as defined by law, shall be held in a city public
building which shall be open to attendance by the public. All meetings shall be
held in the public building in which the City Council usually holds meetings
unless the publicized notice hereinafter required shall designate some other
public building or other specified place. The advance publicized notice of all
public convened meetings shall be simultaneously transmitted to all members of
the City Council and to the public by a method designated by the City Council
or by the Mayor/Chairperson if the City Council has not designated a method.
The notice shall contain the time and specific place for each meeting and
either an enumeration of the agenda subjects known at the time of the notice,
or a statement that an agenda kept continually current shall be readily
available for public inspection at the office of the City Clerk.
   (B)   Except for items of an emergency nature, the agenda shall not be
altered later than:
      (1)   Twenty-four hours before the scheduled commencement of the meeting;
or
      (2)   Forty-eight hours before the scheduled commencement of a meeting of
the City Council scheduled outside corporate limits of the city.
   (C)   The City Council shall have the right to modify the agenda to include
items of an emergency nature only, at such public meetings. The minutes of the
City Clerk shall include the record of the manner and advance time by which the
advance publicized notice was given, a statement of how the availability of an
agenda of the then known subjects was communicated, the time and specific place
of the meetings, and the names of each member of the City Council present or
absent at each convened meeting. The minutes of the City Council shall be a
public record open to inspection by the public upon request at any reasonable
time at the office of the City Clerk.
   (D)   Any official action on any question or motion duly moved and seconded
shall be taken only by roll call vote of the City Council in open session. The
record of the City Clerk shall show how each member voted, or that the member
was absent and did not vote.
(Prior Code, § 1-501)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Nev. RS 84-1408, 84-1409, 84-1411, 84-1413
§ 30.16  CITY COUNCIL; CHANGE IN OFFICE.
   The change in office shall be carried out as follows: The Mayor and City
Council shall meet at the hour of 7:00 p.m. on the first regular meeting date
in December of each year in which a city election is held and the outgoing
officers and the outgoing members of the City Council shall present their
reports and, upon the old City Council having completed its business up to the
time, the outgoing members of the City Council shall thereupon each surrender
to his or her successor in office all property, records, papers and moneys
belonging to the same.
(Prior Code, § 1-502)  (Ord. 10-05, passed 7-11-2005)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-104
§ 30.17  CITY COUNCIL; ORGANIZATION.
   The newly elected City Council shall convene at the regular place of meeting
in the city on the first regular meeting date in December of each year in which
a city election is held immediately after the outgoing City Council adjourns
and proceed to organize itself for the ensuing year. The Mayor elected for the
new city year shall call the meeting to order. After the meeting has been
called to order, the City Clerk shall report the names of all City Council
members-elect who shall have qualified for their respective offices and this
report shall be spread upon the minutes of the meeting preceding the roll call.
The City Council shall then proceed to examine the credentials of its members
and of other elective officers of the city to see that each has been duly and
properly elected and to see that oaths and bonds have been given as are
required. It is hereby made the duty of each and every member of the City
Council, or his or her successor in office, and of each officer elected to any
city office, to qualify for their respective offices, prior to the time of the
first regular meeting of the City Council in December following his or her
election. All appointive officers of the city shall qualify within two weeks
following their appointments. Qualification for each officer who is not
required to give bond shall consist of his or her subscribing and taking an
oath to support the Constitution of the United States, the Constitution of the
state and the laws of the city and to perform faithfully and impartially the
duties of his or her office, the oath to be filed in the office of the City
Clerk. After ascertaining that all members and officers are duly qualified, the
City Council shall elect the President of the Council. The Mayor shall then
nominate his or her candidates for appointive offices and proceed with the
regular order of business.
(Prior Code, § 1-503)
§ 30.18  CITY COUNCIL; ORDER OF BUSINESS.
   Promptly at the hour set by law on the day of each regular meeting, the
members of the City Council, the City Clerk, the Mayor and other city officials
that may be required shall take their regular stations in the Council Chambers,
and the business of the city shall be taken up for consideration and
disposition in the order set forth in the official agenda, as provided for by
ordinance and by the laws of the state, including, but not limited to, Neb. RS
84-1411, as amended or superseded.
(Prior Code, § 1-505)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 84-1411
§ 30.19  CITY COUNCIL; PARLIAMENTARY PROCEDURE.
   The Mayor shall preserve order during meetings of the City Council and shall
decide all questions of order, subject to an appeal to the City Council. When
any person is called to order, he or she shall be seated until the point is
decided. When the Mayor is putting the question, no person shall leave the
meeting room. Every person present, previous to speaking shall rise from his or
her seat and address himself or herself to the presiding officer and while
speaking shall confine himself or herself to the question. When two or more
persons rise at once, the Mayor shall recognize the one who spoke first. All
resolutions or motions shall be reduced to writing before being acted upon, if
requested by the City Clerk, or any member of the City Council. Every member of
the City Council who is present when a question is voted upon, shall cast his
or her vote unless excused by a majority of the City Council present. No motion
shall be put or debated unless seconded. When seconded, it shall be stated by
the Mayor before being debatable. In all cases where a motion or resolution is
entered on the minutes, the name of the member of the City Council making the
motion or resolution shall be entered also. After each vote, the “Yeas” and
“Nays” shall be taken, and entered in the minutes upon the request of any
member of the City Council. Before the vote is actually taken, any resolution,
motion or proposed ordinance may be withdrawn from consideration by the sponsor
thereof with the consent of the member of the City Council seconding the
resolution, motion or ordinance. When, in the consideration of an ordinance,
different times or amounts are proposed, the question shall be put on the
largest sum or the longest time. A question to reconsider shall be in order
when made by a member voting with the majority, but the motion to reconsider
must be made before the expiration of the third regular meeting after the
initial consideration of the question. When any question is under debate, no
motion shall be made, entertained or seconded except the previous question, a
motion to table and to adjourn. Each of the motions shall be decided without
debate. Any of the rules of the City Council for meetings may be suspended by a
two-thirds vote of the members present. In all cases in which provisions are
not made by these rules, Robert’s Rules of Order is the authority by which the
City Council shall decide all procedural disputes that may arise.
(Prior Code, § 1-506)
§ 30.20  DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      MEETINGS. All regular, special or called meetings, formal or informal, of
a public body for the purposes of briefing, discussion of public business,
formation of tentative policy or the taking of any action.
(Prior Code, § 1-507)
      PUBLIC BODY.
         (a)   The City Council;
         (b)   All independent boards, commissions, bureaus, committees,
councils, subunits or any other bodies, now or hereafter created by
Constitution, statute, ordinance or otherwise pursuant to law; and
         (c)   Advisory committees of the bodies listed above.
   (B)   This section shall not apply to subcommittees of the bodies unless a
quorum of the public body attends a subcommittee meeting or unless the
subcommittees are holding hearings, making policy or taking formal action on
behalf of their parent body.
(Prior Code, § 1-508)
(Ord. 3-93, passed 5-3-1993)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 84-1409(1), 84-1409(2)
§ 30.21  CLOSED SESSION.
   (A)   (1)   Any public body may hold a closed session by the affirmative
vote of a majority of its voting members if a closed session is clearly
necessary for the protection of the public interest or for the prevention of
needless injury to the reputation of an individual and if the individual has
not requested a public meeting. Closed sessions may be held for, but shall not
be limited, such reasons as:
         (a)   Strategy sessions with respect to collective bargaining, real
estate purchases, pending litigation or litigation which is imminent as
evidenced by communication of a claim or threat of litigation to or by the
public body;
         (b)   Discussion regarding deployment of security personnel or
devices;
         (c)   Investigative proceedings regarding allegations of criminal
misconduct; or
         (d)   Evaluation of the job performance of a person when necessary to
prevent needless injury to the reputation of a person and if the person has not
requested a public meeting.
      (2)   Nothing in this section shall permit a closed meeting for
discussion of the appointment or election of a new member to any public body.
   (B)   The vote to hold a closed session shall be taken in open session. The
vote of each member on the question of holding a closed session, the reason for
the closed session, and the time when the closed session commenced and
concluded shall be recorded in the minutes. The public body holding a closed
session shall restrict its consideration to matters during the closed portions
to only those purposes set forth in the minutes as the reason for the closed
session. The meeting shall be reconvened in open session before any formal
action may be taken. For purposes of this section, FORMAL ACTION means a
collective decision or a collective commitment or promise to make a decision on
any question, motion, proposal, resolution, order or ordinance or formation of
a position or policy, but shall not include negotiating guidance given by
members of the public body to legal counsel or other negotiators in closed
sessions authorized under division (A)(1)(a) of this section.
   (C)   (1)   Any member of the public body shall have the right to challenge
the continuation of a closed session if the member determines that the session
has exceeded the reason stated in the original motion to hold a closed session
or if the member contends that the closed session is neither clearly necessary
for:
         (a)   The protection of the public interest; or
         (b)   The prevention of needless injury to the reputation of an
individual.
      (2)   The challenge shall be overruled only by a majority vote of the
members of the public body. The challenge and its disposition shall be recorded
in the minutes.
   (D)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to require that any meeting
be closed to the public.
(Prior Code, § 1-509)  (Ord. 1-05, passed 1-10-2005)
§ 30.22  PROHIBITED ACTS; EXEMPT EVENTS.
   (A)   No person or public body shall fail to invite a portion of its members
to a meeting and no public body shall designate itself a subcommittee of the
whole body for the purpose of circumventing this subchapter or the Open
Meetings Act. No closed session, informal meeting, chance meeting, social
gathering, email, fax or electronic communication shall be used for the purpose
of circumventing the requirements of this subchapter or the Act.
   (B)   This subchapter does not apply to chance meetings or to attendance at
or travel to conventions or workshops of members of a public body at which
there is no meeting of the body then intentionally convened, if there is no
vote or other action taken regarding any matter over which the public body has
supervision, control, jurisdiction or advisory power.
(Prior Code, § 1-509.01)  (Ord. 1-05, passed 1-10-2005)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 84-1410
§ 30.23  EMERGENCY MEETINGS.
   When it is necessary to hold an emergency meeting without reasonable advance
public notice, the nature of the emergency shall be stated in the minutes and
any formal action taken in the meeting shall pertain only to the emergency. The
emergency meetings may be held by means of electronic or telecommunication
equipment. The provisions of §
30.19 shall be complied with in conducting emergency meetings. Complete minutes
of the emergency meetings specifying the nature of the emergency and any formal
action taken at the meeting shall be made available to the public by no later
than the end of the next regular business day.
(Prior Code, § 1-510)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 84-1411
§ 30.24  PUBLIC PARTICIPATION.
   (A)   Subject to the provisions of this subchapter, the public shall have
the right to attend and the right to speak at meetings of public bodies, and
all or any part of a meeting of a public body, except for closed sessions
called pursuant to §
30.21, may be videotaped, televised, photographed, broadcast or recorded by any
person in attendance by means of a tape recorder, camera, video equipment or
any other means of pictorial or sonic reproduction or in writing.
   (B)   It shall not be a violation of this section for any public body to
make and enforce reasonable rules and regulations regarding the conduct of
persons attending, speaking at, videotaping, televising, photographing,
broadcasting or recording its meetings. A body may not be required to allow
citizens to speak at each meeting, but it may not forbid public participation
at all meetings.
   (C)   No public body shall require members of the public to identify
themselves as a condition for admission to the meeting. The body may require
any member of the public desiring to address the body to identify himself or
herself.
   (D)   No public body shall, for the purpose of circumventing the provision
of this subchapter, hold a meeting in a place known by the body to be too small
to accommodate the anticipated audience.
   (E)   No public body shall be deemed in violation of this section if it
holds its meeting in its traditional meeting place which is located in the
state.
   (F)   No public body shall be deemed in violation of this section if it
holds a meeting outside of the state if, but only if, a member entity of the
public body is located outside of the state and the other requirements of Neb.
RS 84-1412 are met.
   (G)   The public body shall, upon request, make a reasonable effort to
accommodate the public’s right to hear the discussion and testimony presented
at the meeting.
   (H)   Public bodies shall make available at the meeting, for examination and
copying by members of the public, at least one copy of all reproducible written
material to be discussed at an open meeting.
(Prior Code, § 1-511)  (Ord. 7-02, passed 7-8-2002)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 84-1412
§ 30.25  REGULAR MEETINGS.
   (A)   The meetings of the City Council shall be held in the meeting place of
the city. The regular meeting shall be held on the second Monday of each month
at the hour of 7:00 p.m.; provided that, when the second Monday of any month
falls on any legal holiday, the regular meeting of the City Council shall not
be held on the day, but shall be held on the next day which is not a legal
holiday at the hour set for the regular meeting.
   (B)   A majority of all the members elected to the City Council shall
constitute a quorum for the transaction of any business, but a fewer number may
adjourn from time to time and compel the attendance of absent members. Unless a
greater vote is required by law, an affirmative vote of at least one-half of
the elected members shall be required for the transaction of any business.
(Prior Code, § 1-512)  (Ord. 10-05, passed 7-11-2005; Ord. 5-11, passed 2-14-
2011; Ord. 2-12, passed 2- 27-2012)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-105
§ 30.26  SPECIAL MEETINGS.
   Special meetings may be called by the Mayor, or by three members of the City
Council, the object of which shall be submitted to the Council in writing. The
call and object, as well as the disposition thereof, shall be entered upon the
journal by the City Clerk. On filing the call for special meeting, the City
Clerk shall notify the Council members of the special meeting, stating the time
and its purpose. Notice of a special meeting need not be given to a Council
member known to be out of the state, or physically unable to be present. A
majority of the members of the City Council shall constitute a quorum for the
transaction of business, but a smaller number may adjourn from day to day and
compel the attendance of the absent members. Whether a quorum is present or
not, all absent members shall be sent for and compelled to attend. At the hour
appointed for the meeting, the City Clerk shall proceed to call the roll of
members and announce whether a quorum is present. If a quorum is present, the
Council shall be called to order by the Mayor, if present, or if absent, by the
President of the Council. In the absence of both the Mayor and the President of
the Council, the City Council members shall elect a President pro tempore. All
ordinances passed at any special meeting shall comply with procedures set forth
in herein.
(Prior Code, § 1-513)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-106
§ 30.27  VIDEOCONFERENCING.
   (A)   A meeting of an organization created under the Interlocal Cooperation
Act, the Joint Public Agency Act or the City Cooperative Financing Act or of
the City Council of a risk management pool or its advisory committees organized
in accordance with the Intergovernmental Risk Management Act may be held by
means of videoconferencing if:
      (1)   Reasonable advance publicized notice is given;
      (2)   Reasonable arrangements are made to accommodate the public’s right
to attend, hear and speak at a meeting, including seating, recordation by audio
or visual recording devices, and a reasonable opportunity for input such as
public comment or questions to at least the same extent as would be provided if
videoconferencing were not used;
      (3)   At least one copy of all documents being considered is available to
the public at each site of the video conference;
      (4)   At least one member of the City Council or advisory committee is
present at each site of the video conference; and
      (5)   No more than one-half of the City Council’s or advisory committee’s
meetings in a calendar year are held by video conference.
   (B)   Videoconferencing or conferencing by other electronic communication
shall not be used to circumvent any of the public government purposes
established in the Open Meetings Act.
   (C)   For the purpose of this section, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      V1DEOCONFERENCING. Conducting a meeting involving participants at two or
more locations through the use of audio-video equipment which allows
participants at each location to hear and see each meeting participant at each
other location, including public input. Interaction between meeting
participants shall be possible at all meeting locations.
(Prior Code, § 1-514)  (Ord. 1-05, passed 1-10-2005)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 84-1409, 84-1411
§ 30.28  TELECONFERENCING.
   (A)   A meeting of the City Council of an entity formed under the Interlocal
Cooperation Act or the Joint Public Agency Act or of the City Council of a risk
management pool or its advisory committees organized in accordance with the
Intergovernmental Risk Management Act may be held by telephone conference call
if:
      (1)   The territory represented by the member public agencies of the
entity or pool covers more than one county;
      (2)   Reasonable advance publicized notice is given which identifies each
telephone conference location at which a member of the entity’s or pool’s City
Council will be present;
      (3)   All telephone conference meeting sites identified in the notice are
located within public buildings used by members of the entity or pool or at a
place which will accommodate the anticipated audience;
      (4)   Reasonable arrangements are made to accommodate the public’s right
to attend, hear and speak at the meeting, including seating, recordation by
audio recording devices and a reasonable opportunity for input such as public
comment or questions to at least the same extent as would be provided if a
telephone conference call was not used;
      (5)   At least one copy of all documents being considered is available to
the public at each site of the telephone conference call;
      (6)   At least one member of the City Council of the entity or pool is
present at each site of the telephone conference call identified in the public
notice;
      (7)   The telephone conference call lasts no more than one hour; and
      (8)   No more than one-half of the entity’s or pool’s meetings in a
calendar year are held by telephone conference call.
   (B)   Nothing in this section shall prevent the participation of
consultants, members of the press and other nonmembers of the City Council at
sites not identified in the public notice. Telephone conference calls, emails,
faxes or other electronic communication shall not be used to circumvent any of
the public government purposes established in the Open Meetings Act.
(Prior Code, § 1-515)  (Ord. 1-05, passed 1-10-2005)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 84-1411
CHAPTER 31:  ELECTED AND APPOINTED OFFICIALS
Section
Bonds, Oaths and Limitations of Liability
   
31.001   Bonds; form
   
31.002   Oath of office
   
31.003   Limits of liability
Compensation
   
31.015   Generally
   
31.016   Conflict of interest involving contracts
Social Security
   
31.030   Acceptance of system
   
31.031   Contracts and agreements
   
31.032   Withholdings
   
31.033   Fund creation
   
31.034   Records and reports
   
31.035   Tax levy
Elected Officials
   
31.050   Vacancies
   
31.051   Restrictions on other employment or elective office
   
31.052   Elections; petition candidates; procedure
   
31.053   City Mayor; selection and duties
   
31.054   City Council; President; Acting President; selection and duties
Appointed Officials
   
31.065   Appointment; removal
   
31.066   Merger of offices
   
31.067   Vacancies
   
31.068   City Attorney
   
31.069   City Treasurer
   
31.070   City Clerk
   
31.071   City Physician
   
31.072   City Police Chief
   
31.073   Police officers
   
31.074   City Fire Chief
   
31.075   Special Engineer
   
31.076   Board of Public Works Manager
   
31.077   City Street Commissioner
   
31.078   City Zoning Commissioner
   
31.079   City Electrical Inspector
   
31.080   City Plumbing Inspector
Cross-reference:
   Removal of police officers, see §
34.04
BONDS, OATHS AND LIMITATIONS OF LIABILITY
§ 31.001 BONDS; FORM.
   (A)   The city may require from all officers and servants, elected or
appointed, bonds and security for the faithful performance of their duty. All
official bonds of the city shall be in form joint and several and made payable
to the city in such penalty as the City Council may fix by resolution;
provided, the penalty amount of any bond shall not be less than any legal
minimum established therefor pursuant to the laws of the state, including, but
not limited to, Neb. RS 11-119, 11-120 and 17-541, as amended or superseded.
All official bonds of city officers shall be executed by the principal named in
the bonds and by the sureties as shall be required by ordinance and by the laws
of the state, including, but not limited to, Neb. RS 11-109, 11-114 and 11-
118,as amended or superseded. No city official, while still in his or her
official term of office, shall be accepted as surety on any other official’s
bond, contractor’s bond, license bond or appeal bond under any circumstances.
The premium on any official bond required to be given may be paid out of the
General Fund or other proper city fund, upon the adoption of a resolution to
that effect by the City Council at the beginning of any city year. All bonds
herein required shall obligate the principal and sureties for the faithful
discharge of all duties required by law of the principal and shall ensure to
the benefit of any persons injured by a breach of the conditions of the bonds.
No bond shall be deemed to be given or complete until the approval of the City
Council and all sureties are endorsed in writing on the instrument by the Mayor
and the City Clerk pursuant to the approval of the City Council. All official
bonds meeting the conditions herein shall, be filed with the City Clerk for his
or her official records and the City Clerk shall carefully record and preserve
the same and shall give certified copies thereof under the seal of his or her
office upon the payment of the fee as shall be set by resolution of the City
Council. Any official who is re-elected to office shall be required to file a
new bond, as herein provided, after each election. In the event that the
sureties on the official bond of any officer of the city, in the opinion of the
City Council, shall become insufficient, the City Council may, by resolution,
fix a reasonable time within which the officer may give a new bond or
additional sureties as directed. In the event that the officer should fail,
refuse or neglect to give the new bond or additional sureties to the
satisfaction of the City Council, then the office shall become vacant and it
shall be the duty of the City Council to fill the vacancy as provided by the
laws of the state.
(Prior Code, § 1-301)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-604, 11-103, 11-104, 11-109 through 11-
120
§ 31.002  OATH OF OFFICE.
   All officials of the city, whether elected or appointed, except when a
different oath is specifically provided herein, shall, before entering upon
their respective duties, take and subscribe the following oath which shall be
endorsed upon their respective bonds:
      “I,                                                , do solemnly swear
that I will support the Constitution of the United States and the Constitution
of the State of Nebraska, against all enemies, foreign and domestic; that I
will bear true faith and allegiance to the same; that I take this obligation
freely and without mental reservation or for the purpose of evasion; and that I
will faithfully and impartially perform the duties of the office of            
                     , according to law and to the best of my ability. And I do
further swear that I do not advocate, nor am I a member of any political party
or organization that advocates the overthrow of the government of the United
States or of this State by force, or violence; and that during such time as I
am in this position I will not advocate, nor become a member of any political
party or organization that advocates the overthrow of the government of the
United States or of this State by force or violence. So help me God.”
(Prior Code, § 1-302)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 11-101
§ 31.003  LIMITS OF LIABILITY.
   (A)   No agent, servant, employee or officer, whether elected or appointed,
of the city shall be liable in any civil action to respond in damages as a
result of his or her acts of commission or omission arising out of and in the
course of his or her performance, in good faith, of his or her lawful duties as
the agent, servant, employee or officer; provided that, the immunity from
liability shall not extend to the operation of any motor vehicle in connection
with the activities.
   (B)   Nothing in this subchapter shall be deemed to grant any immunity to
any person causing damage by his or her willful or wanton acts of commission or
omission.
(Prior Code, § 1-303)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 35-107
COMPENSATION
§ 31.015  GENERALLY.
   (A)    All officers and employees of the city shall receive such
compensation as the City Council shall fix by ordinance; provided that, the
compensation of any elective official of the city shall not be increased or
diminished during the term for which he or she shall have elected, except as
provided by the laws of the state, including, but not limited to, Neb. RS 17-
108.02 and 17-612, as amended or superseded. No person who shall have resigned
or vacated any office shall be eligible to return to the same, during the time
for which he or she was elected or appointed, if, during the same time, the
compensation therefore was increased.
   (B)   All ordinances fixing the compensation of officers and employees of
the city shall be available for public inspection at the office of the City
Clerk.
(Prior Code, § 1-901)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-108, 17-108.02, 17-543, 17-604, 17-610,
17-612, 18-1303
§ 31.016  CONFLICT OF INTEREST INVOLVING CONTRACTS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      BUSINESS ASSOCIATION.
         (a)   A business:
            1.   In which the individual is a partner, limited liability
company member, director or officer; or
            2.   In which the individual or a member of the individual’s
immediate family is a stockholder of closed corporation stock worth $1,000 or
more at fair market value or which represents more than a 5% equity interest or
is a stockholder of publicly traded stock worth $10,000 or more at fair market
value or which represents more than 10% equity interest.
         (b)   An individual who occupies a confidential professional
relationship protected by law shall be exempt from this definition. This
definition shall not apply to publicly traded stock under a trading account if
the filer reports the name and address of the stockbroker.
      IMMEDIATE FAMILY. A child residing in an individual’s household, a spouse
of an individual or an individual claimed by that individual or that
individual’s spouse as a dependent for federal income tax purposes.
      OFFICER.
         (a)   A member of any board or commission of the city which spends and
administers its own funds, who is dealing with a contract made by the board or
commission; or
         (b)   Any elected city official. OFFICER does not mean volunteer
firefighters or ambulance drivers with respect to their duties as firefighters
or ambulance drivers.
   (B)   (1)   Except as provided in Neb. RS 49-1499.04 or 70-624.04, no
officer may have an interest in any contract to which his or her governing body
or anyone for its benefit, is a party. The existence of an interest in any
contract shall render the contract voidable by decree of a court of competent
jurisdiction as to any person who entered into the contract or took assignment
of the contract with actual knowledge of the prohibited conflict. An action to
have a contract declared void under this section may be brought by the county
attorney, the City Council or any resident within the jurisdiction of the City
Council and shall be brought within one year after the contract is signed or
assigned. The decree may provide for the reimbursement of any person for the
reasonable value of all money, goods, material, labor or services furnished
under the contract, to the extent that the City Council has benefitted thereby.
      (2)   The prohibition in this division (B) shall apply only when the
officer or his or her parent, spouse or child:
         (a)   Has a business association with the business involved in the
contract; or
         (b)   Will receive a direct pecuniary fee or commission as a result of
the contract.
   (C)   Division (B) of this section does not apply if the contract is an
agenda item approved at a meeting of the governing body and the interested
officer:
      (1)   Makes a declaration on the record to the City Council responsible
for approving the contract regarding the nature and extent of his or her
interest prior to official consideration of the contract;
      (2)   Does not vote on the matters of granting the contract, making
payments pursuant to the contract or accepting performance of work under the
contract or similar matters relating to the contract, except that if the number
of members of the City Council declaring an interest in the contract would
prevent the body with all members present from securing a quorum on the issue,
then all members may vote on the matters; and
      (3)   Does not act for the City Council which is a party to the contract
as to inspection or performance under the contract in which he or she has an
interest.
   (D)   An officer who has no business association with the business involved
in the contract or will not receive a direct pecuniary fee or commission as a
result of the contract shall not be deemed to have an interest within the
meaning of this section.
   (E)   The receiving of deposits, cashing of checks and buying and selling of
warrants and bonds of indebtedness of any governing body, by a financial
institution shall not be considered a contract for purposes of this section.
The ownership of less than 5% of the outstanding shares of a corporation shall
not constitute an interest within the meaning of this section.
   (F)   If an officer’s parent, spouse or child is an employee of the
officer’s governing body, the officer may vote on all issues of the contract
which are generally applicable to all employees or all employees within a
classification and do not single out his or her parent, spouse or child for
special action.
   (G)   Neb. RS 49-14,102 shall not apply to contracts covered by this
section.
   (H)   (1)   The person charged with keeping records for the City Council
shall maintain separately from other records a ledger containing the
information listed herein divisions (H)(1)(a) through (e) below about every
contract entered into by the City Council in which an officer of the body has
an interest and for which disclosure is made pursuant to division (C) of this
section. The information shall be kept in the ledger for five years from the
date of the officer’s last day in office and shall include the:
         (a)   Names of the contracting parties;
         (b)   Nature of the interest of the officer in question;
         (c)   Date that the contract was approved by the City Council;
         (d)   Amount of the contract; and
         (e)   Basic terms of the contract.
      (2)   The information supplied relative to the contract shall be provided
no later than ten days after the contract has been signed by both parties. The
ledger kept pursuant to this division (H) shall be available for public
inspection during the normal working hours of the office in which it is kept.
   (I)   (1)   An open account established for the benefit of any City Council
with a business in which an officer has an interest shall be deemed a contract
subject to this section. The statement required to be filed by division (H) of
this section shall be filed within ten days after the account is opened.
      (2)   Thereafter, the person charged with keeping records for the City
Council shall maintain a running account of amounts purchased on the open
account.
      (3)   Purchases made from petty cash or a petty cash fund shall not be
subject to this section.
   (J)   Notwithstanding divisions (A) through (I) of this section, the City
Council may prohibit contracts over a specific dollar amount in which an
officer of the City Council may have an interest.
   (K)   The City Council may exempt from divisions (A) through (I) of this
section, contracts involving $100 or less in which an officer of the body may
have an interest.
(Prior Code, § 1-902)  (Ord. 7-02, passed 7-8-2002)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 49-14,103.01, 49-14,103.02, 49-14,103.03,
49-14,103.05, 49-1408, 49-1425
SOCIAL SECURITY
§ 31.030  ACCEPTANCE OF SYSTEM.
   The city hereby accepts for itself and on behalf of its officials,
appointees and employees, except such as are hereinafter excluded from the
provisions hereof, their dependents and survivors, the provision, benefits and
protection of the Federal Old Age and Survivors Insurance System, hereinafter
designated the “System”, established by Title II of Social Security Act, the
same being Pub. Law No. 734 (81st Congress, Second Session, H.R. 6000) and to
be cited as the “Social Security Act Amendments of 1950". The term EMPLOYEE, as
used herein, shall mean an employee as defined by the Social Security Act and
shall include both officers and appointees of the city. The employees or
classes of employees, of the city shall include all employees as are hereby
determined to be within and entitled to the benefits and protection of the
system. Any employee of the city occupying a position not authorized for
coverage by applicable state or federal laws or regulations of the federal
administrative agency is excluded.
(Prior Code, § 1-1101)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 68-601 through 68-623
§ 31.031  CONTRACTS AND AGREEMENTS.
   The Mayor is hereby authorized and directed to enter into the contracts and
make the agreements and stipulations with the administrator of the system in
and for the state or other state agency for the purpose that may hereafter be
designated or created, as may be deemed necessary or expedient by the
administrator or other state agency authorized in the premise, as the case may
be or as required by general law, state or federal or any applicable
regulations of the state or federal agency, to extend the benefits and
protection of the system to the eligible employees of the city, their
dependents and survivors. The contracts, agreements or stipulations shall be
executed in duplicate by the Mayor and attested by the signature of the City
Clerk with the seal of the city attached thereto, one copy thereof to be filed
with and become a part of the permanent records of the city. The agreement
shall be made retroactive to 1-1-1951, in all respects.
(Prior Code, § 1-1102)
§ 31.032  WITHHOLDINGS.
   Withholdings from the compensation of eligible employees of the city are
hereby authorized and the city shall impose upon employees as to services
covered, the withholdings to be made in amounts and at times as may be required
by general law, state or federal and applicable regulations promulgated with
respect thereto by state or federal administrative agencies.
(Prior Code, § 1-1103)
§ 31.033  FUND CREATION.
   There is hereby created and the City Treasurer is hereby authorized and
directed to set up an account to be known as the “Social Security Fund”, into
which the withholdings authorized by the preceding section hereof shall be
paid; also the proceeds from the tax levy as hereinafter authorized, together
with any appropriations from available funds that might be made from time to
time by city authority for the benefit of the fund. The fund shall be kept
segregated and shall be used for no other purposes than the provisions and
obligations of this act, as herein provided, to be accomplished by the fund.
(Prior Code, § 1-1104)
§ 31.034  RECORDS AND REPORTS.
   The City Treasurer shall keep records and make the reports relevant to the
administration of the Social Security Act, as may be required by general law,
state or federal or as provided by regulations promulgated by either the state
or federal administrator of the system.
(Prior Code, § 1-1105)
§ 31.035  TAX LEVY.
   The Mayor and Council shall levy a tax in addition to all other taxes, of a
sufficient number of mills upon the dollar of the actual value of real and
personal property in the city, in order to defray the cost to the city in
meeting the obligations arising by reason of the contracts, agreements or
stipulations authorized herein; provided, the revenue raised by the special
levy shall be used for no other purpose.
(Prior Code, § 1-1106)
ELECTED OFFICIALS
§ 31.050  VACANCIES.
   (A)   (1)   Every elective office shall be vacant upon the happening of any
of the events specified in Neb. RS 32-560 except as provided in Neb. RS 32-561.
      (2)   In the case of any vacancy in the office of Mayor or in case of his
or her disability or absence, the President of the Council shall exercise the
office of Mayor for the unexpired term until the vacancy is filled or the
disability is removed or, in case of temporary absence, until the Mayor
returns. If the President of the Council assumes the office of Mayor for the
unexpired term, there shall be a vacancy on the Council.
      (3)   (a)   Except as otherwise provided in divisions (A)(2), (4) or (5)
of this section, vacancies in city elected offices shall be filled by the Mayor
and City Council for the balance of the unexpired term. Notice of a vacancy,
except a vacancy resulting from the death of the incumbent, shall be in writing
and presented to the Council at a regular or special meeting and shall appear
as a part of the minutes of the meeting. The Council shall at once give public
notice of the vacancy by causing to be published in a newspaper of general
circulation within the city or by posting in three public places in the city,
the office vacated and the length of the unexpired term.
         (b)   The Mayor shall, within four weeks after the meeting at which
such notice of vacancy has been presented or upon the death of the incumbent,
call a special meeting of the Council or place the issue of filling the vacancy
on the agenda at the next regular meeting at which time the Mayor shall submit
the name of a qualified registered voter to fill the vacancy for the balance of
the unexpired term. The Council shall vote upon the nominee and, if a majority
votes in favor of the nominee, the vacancy shall be declared filled. If the
nominee fails to receive a majority of the votes, the nomination shall be
rejected and the Mayor shall, at the next regular or special meeting, submit
the name of another qualified registered voter to fill the vacancy. If the
subsequent nominee fails to receive a majority of the votes, the Mayor shall
continue at the meeting to submit the names of qualified registered voters in
nomination and the Council shall continue to vote upon the nominations until
the vacancy is filled. The Mayor shall cast his or her vote for or against the
nominee in the case of a tie vote of the Council. All Council members present
shall cast a ballot for or against the nominee. Any member of the Council who
has been appointed to fill a vacancy on the Council shall have the same rights,
including voting, as if the person were elected.
      (4)   The Mayor and Council may, in lieu of filling a vacancy in a city
elected office as provided in division (A)(3) of this section, call a special
city election to fill the vacancy.
      (5)   If vacancies exist in the offices of a majority of the members of
the City Council, the Secretary of State shall conduct a special city election
to fill the vacancies.
(Prior Code, § 1-105)
   (B)   (1)   In addition to the events listed in Neb. RS 32-560 and any other
reasons for a vacancy provided by law, after notice and a hearing, a vacancy on
the City Council shall exist if a member is absent from more than five
consecutive regular meetings of the Council unless the absences are excused by
a majority vote of the remaining members.
      (2)   The City Council shall take a vote on whether to excuse a member’s
absence from a meeting upon either:
         (a)   A written request from the member submitted to the City Clerk;
or
         (b)   A motion of any other Council member.
      (3)   If a Council member has been absent from six consecutive regular
meetings and none of the absences have been excused by a majority vote of the
remaining members, the City Clerk shall include this as an item on the agenda
for the next regular meeting. At that meeting, the Council shall set a date for
a hearing and direct the City Clerk to give the member notice of the hearing by
personal service or first-class mail to the member’s last-known address.
      (4)   At the hearing, the Council member shall have the right to present
information on why one or more of the absences should be excused. If the
Council does not excuse one or more of the member’s absences by a majority vote
at the conclusion of the hearing, there shall be a vacancy on the Council.
(Prior Code, § 1-108)
(Ord. 7-02, passed 7-8-2002; Ord. 4-03, passed 4-14-2003)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 19-3101, 32-560, 32-568(4), 32-569
§ 31.051  RESTRICTIONS ON OTHER EMPLOYMENT OR ELECTIVE OFFICE.
   (A)   The Mayor and members of the Council shall hold no other elective or
appointive office or employment with the city.
   (B)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      ELECTIVE OFFICE. Any office which has candidates nominated or elected at
the time of a statewide primary election, any office which has candidates
nominated at the time of a statewide primary election and elected at the time
of a statewide general election, any office which has candidates elected at the
time of a statewide general election, any office which has candidates nominated
or elected at a city or village election and any office created by an act of
the legislature which has candidates elected at an election and includes an
office which is filled at an election held in conjunction with the annual
meeting of a public body created by an act of the legislature.
      HIGH ELECTIVE OFFICE. A member of the legislature, an elective office
described in Article IV, §§ 1 or 20, or Article VII, §§ 3 or 10, of the
Constitution of the state or a county, city or school district elective office.
   (C)   No candidate for member of the legislature or an elective office
described in Article IV, §§ 1 or 20, or Article VII, §§ 3 or 10, of the
Constitution of the state shall be eligible to file as a candidate, to petition
on the ballot as a candidate, to accept nomination by a political party or by
party convention, caucus or committee to fill a vacancy or to be a declared
write-in candidate for more than one elective office to be filled at the same
election except for the position of delegate to a county, state or national
political party convention. No candidate for any other high elective office
shall be eligible to file as a candidate, to petition on the ballot as a
candidate, to accept a nomination by a political party or by party convention,
caucus or committee to fill a vacancy or to be declared a write-in candidate
for more than one high elective office to be filled at the same election.
   (D)   Except as provided in divisions (E) or (G) of this section, no person
shall be precluded from being elected or appointed to or holding an elective
office for the reason that he or she has been elected or appointed to or holds
another elective office.
   (E)   No person serving as a member of the legislature or in an elective
office described in Article IV, §§ 1 or 20, or Article VII, §§ 3 or 10, of the
Constitution of the state shall simultaneously serve in any other elective
office; except that, a person may simultaneously serve in another elective
office which is filled at an election held in conjunction with the annual
meeting of a public body.
   (F)   Whenever an incumbent serving as a member of the legislature or in an
elective office described in Article IV, §§ 1 or 20, or Article VII, §§ 3 or
10, of the Constitution of the state assumes another elective office, except an
elective office filled at an election held in conjunction with the annual
meeting of a public body, the office first held by the incumbent shall be
deemed vacant.
   (G)   No person serving in a high elective office shall simultaneously serve
in any other high elective office.
   (H)   Notwithstanding divisions (E) through (G) of this section, any person
holding more than one high elective office upon 9-13-1997, shall be entitled to
serve the remainder of all terms for which he or she was elected or appointed.
(Prior Code, § 1-106)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-108.02, 32-109, 32-603, 32-604
§ 31.052  ELECTIONS; PETITION CANDIDATES: PROCEDURE.
   (A)   (1)   Any registered voter who was not a candidate in the primary
election may have his or her name placed on the general election ballot for a
partisan office by filing petitions as prescribed in this section and Neb. RS
32-621 or by nomination by political party convention or committee.
      (2)   Any candidate who was defeated in the primary election and any
registered voter who was not a candidate in the primary election may have his
or her name placed on the general election ballot if a vacancy exists on the
ballot under division (A)(1) of Neb. RS 32-626 and the candidate files for the
office by petition as prescribed in this section.
   (B)   (1)   The number of signatures of registered voters needed to place
the name of a candidate upon the nonpartisan ballot for the general election
shall be at least 10% of the total number of registered voters voting for
Governor or President of the United States at the immediately preceding general
election in the city.
      (2)   The number of signatures of registered voters needed to place the
name of a candidate upon the partisan ballot for the general election shall be
at least 20% of the total vote for Governor or President of the United States
at the immediately preceding general election within the city not to exceed
2,000.
   (C)    Petitions for nomination shall conform to the requirements of Neb. RS
32-628. Petitions shall state the office to be filled and the name and address
of the candidate. Petitions for partisan office shall also indicate the party
affiliation of the candidate. Petitions shall be signed by registered voters
residing in the city and shall be filed with the filing officer in the same
manner as provided for candidate filing forms in Neb. RS 32-607. Petition
signers and circulators shall conform to the requirements of Neb. RS 32-629 and
32-630. No petition for nomination shall be filed unless there is attached
thereto a receipt showing payment of the required filing fee. The petitions
shall be filed by September 1 in the year of the general election.
(Prior Code, § 1-107)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 32-616 through 32-618
§ 31.053  CITY MAYOR; SELECTION AND DUTIES.
   (A)   The Mayor of the city shall have the general and immediate control
over all property and officials, whether elected or appointed, of the city. He
or she shall preside at all meetings of the City Council and may vote when his
or her vote shall be decisive and the Council is equally divided on any pending
matter, legislation or transaction and the Mayor shall, for the purpose of the
vote, be deemed to be a member of the Council. His or her signature must appear
on the City Clerk’s minutes of all meetings and he or she must sign all
resolutions which have been passed and warrants for the payment of money when
ordered by the City Council; provided, any ordinance vetoed by the Mayor may be
passed over his or her veto by a two-thirds vote by the members of the City
Council, but if the Mayor neglects or refuses to sign any ordinance and returns
it to the Council with his or her objections in writing at the next regular
Council meeting, the ordinance shall become a law without his or her signature.
He or she shall from time to time communicate to the Council such information
and recommendations as, in his or her opinion, may improve the city, may
require at reasonable intervals any city official to exhibit his or her
accounts and make reports to the Council on any subject pertaining to his or
her office. He or she shall have the power to office. Any candidate for Mayor
must have resided within the city for 40 days prior to filing for the office
and must, in addition, be a qualified taxpayer.
   (B)   (1)   The Mayor, with the consent of the Council, may appoint such
officers as shall be required by ordinance or otherwise required by law. Such
officers may be removed from office by the Mayor. The Mayor, by and with the
consent of the Council, shall appoint such a number of regular police officers
as may be necessary. All police officers appointed by the Mayor and Council may
be removed, demoted, or suspended at any time by the Mayor as provided in §
31.065 below. A police officer, including the chief of police, may appeal to
the City Council such removal, demotion, or suspension with or without pay.
After a hearing, the City Council may uphold, reverse, or modify the action.
      (2)   This division does not apply to a Police Officer during his or her
probationary period.
(Prior Code, § 1-101)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-107, 17-110 through 17-114
§ 31.054  CITY COUNCIL; PRESIDENT; ACTING PRESIDENT; SELECTION AND DUTIES.
   (A)   The City Council shall elect one of its own body each year who shall
be styled the President of the Council. In the absence of the President of the
Council, the City Council shall elect one of its own body to occupy his or her
place temporarily, who shall be styled Acting President of the Council. The
President and Acting President of the Council shall perform duties and have
such powers as are provided for by ordinance or by the laws of the state,
including, but not limited to, Neb. RS 17-115, 17-121 and 17-148, as amended or
superseded.
(Prior Code, § 1-102)
   (B)   The members of the City Council shall be elected at the city general
election and shall serve a four-year term of office. The City Council shall be
the legislative division of the city government and shall perform such duties
and have such powers as are provided for by ordinance or by the laws of the
state. The City Council shall maintain the peace, regulate business, protect
the public health and safety and assess the taxes and fees as are necessary and
appropriate funds in the exercise of these functions.
(Prior Code, § 1-103)
   (C)   Each ward of the city shall be represented by two Council members.
Persons shall be deemed eligible for the office of Council member as provided
by the laws of the state, including, but not limited to, Neb. RS 17-103 and 17-
104, as amended or superseded. City Council members of the city shall take
office and commence their duties on the first regular meeting in December
following their election. The newly elected Council members who have qualified
as prescribed by law, together with the members of the City Council holding
over, shall assemble in a regular meeting at the hour and place hereinafter
prescribed and perfect the reorganization of the City Council as herein
provided and all appointive offices in which the terms of incumbent are expired
shall be filled by appointment.
(Prior Code, § 1-104)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-103, 17-104, 17-107, 17-121, 17-148, 17-
505, 17-506, 23-2403
APPOINTED OFFICIALS
§ 31.065  APPOINTMENT; REMOVAL.
   (A)   The Mayor, by and with the consent of the Council, shall appoint such
a number of  regular police officers as may be necessary. All police officers
appointed by the Mayor and Council may be removed, demoted, or suspended at any
time by the Mayor as provided in division (B) of this section. A police
officer, including the Chief of Police, may appeal to the City Council such
removal, demotion, or suspension with or without pay. After hearing, the City
Council may uphold, reverse, or modify the action.
   (B)   The following procedures shall apply to accusations made against any
police officer, other than the Chief of Police, by the Mayor, or a citizen or a
taxpayer.
      (1)   Complaints and accusations relating to the performance of any such
officer, if not made to the Chief of Police, shall ordinarily be referred to
him or her for investigation.
      (2)   The Police Chief shall make such an initial investigation and
interview such witnesses as he or she judges to be appropriate.
      (3)   If the Chief of Police determines that the accusations made against
the police officer are not of a nature which could result in the removal,
demotion, or suspension with or without pay of the affected officer, the
procedures set forth below in division (B)(4) through (8) shall not apply. In
such case, the Chief of Police may interview the affected officer and impose
such disciplinary consequences other than removal, demotion, or suspension with
or without pay, as the Chief of Police judges to be appropriate.
      (4)   If the Chief of Police determines that the accusations made against
the police officer are of a nature which could result in the removal, demotion,
or suspension with or without pay of the affected officer, then the affected
officer shall have the following rights in connection with the investigation.
         (a)   Before being interviewed, he or she shall be given a copy of the
written accusation. If the charges have not theretofore been put in writing,
the Chief of Police shall put the charges in writing and deliver the same to
the affected officer.
         (b)    The affected officer shall be apprised of his or her right to
have an attorney or representative retained by the officer present with him or
her at all proceedings regarding the accusation which is under investigation.
The Chief of Police or his or her designee shall not, however, be required to
significantly postpone his or her questioning of the affected police officer.
If the affected police officer has failed to retain an attorney or other
representative within 24 hours of being apprised of his or her right to do so,
or if the representative or attorney is unable to be present at the time
designated by the Chief of Police, the Chief of Police may proceed to interview
the affected police officer without that officer’s attorney or representative
being present. The Chief of Police may insist that the attorney or other
representative withhold any comments until the affected officer has spoken. The
attorney or other representative may not interpose “objections” to any
questions asked by the Chief of Police. After the affected police officer has
responded to all questions posed by the Chief of Police, his or her attorney or
representative may clarify the affected officer’s statements concerning the
facts and may suggest witnesses who may be aware of relevant facts.
         (c)   The affected police officer, the Chief of Police, and their
respective attorneys shall have the right to record all hearings or proceedings
regarding the written accusation.
         (d)    The actions of the Chief of Police in interviewing the affected
police officer shall constitute “a hearing or proceeding” for purposes of this
section. Accordingly, the police officer shall, subject to the limitations set
forth in division (B)(4)(b) above have the right to have an attorney present
during questioning and shall have the right to record the interview.
         (e)    The Chief of Police may interview other witnesses and examine
evidence outside the presence of the affected officer and his or her attorney.
The interviewing of such witnesses and the examination of such evidence shall
not constitute a “hearing or proceeding” for purposes of this section.
         (f)   The affected officer shall have the right to make a statement
regarding the accusations made against him or her.
         (g)   After interviewing the affected officer, the Chief of Police
shall conduct such additional investigation as he or she judges to be
necessary. The Chief of Police may interview witnesses suggested by the
affected officer, but shall not be required to do so.
         (h)   The affected officer may present evidence in connection with the
accusations made against him or her. However, the Chief of Police may require
in his or her discretion that any such evidence be presented in a written form.
Further, the Chief of Police shall not be required to significantly postpone
taking disciplinary action in order to permit the affected officer to present
evidence. If the affected officer or his or her attorney has failed to provide
evidence within 24 hours after being told of the need to do so, the Chief of
Police may proceed to make a recommendation to the Mayor regarding disciplinary
action.
      (5)   If the Chief of Police determines after conducting the
investigation referred to in division (B)(4) above that the misconduct of the
affected officer, if any, is not of a nature which should be disciplined by
removal, demotion, or suspension with or without pay, the Chief of Police may
either elect to impose no discipline, or may elect to impose a disciplinary
consequence other than removal, demotion, or suspension with or without pay of
the affected officer.
      (6)   If the Chief of Police determines after conducting the
investigation referred to in division (B)(4) above that the affected officer
has engaged in misconduct of a nature which warrants removal, demotion, or
suspension with or without pay, the Chief of Police shall make a recommendation
to the Mayor for the imposition of such discipline.
      (7)   The Mayor may accept the recommendation of the Police Chief or may
increase or decrease the disciplinary consequences recommended by the Chief of
Police. The Mayor shall give written notice of the disciplinary action to be
taken to the affected officer.
      (8)   If the Mayor elects to remove, demote, or to suspend the affected
officer with or without pay, the discipline imposed by the Mayor shall not take
effect until the affected officer has been given the opportunity for a hearing
as specified herein. If the Mayor reduces the disciplinary consequences
recommended by the Chief of Police to something less than removal, demotion, or
suspension with or without pay, then the disciplinary consequences shall take
effect immediately.
   (C)   If an officer has been notified by the Mayor that he or she will be
removed, demoted, or suspended with or without pay, the affected officer shall
have the right to appeal the decision of the Mayor to the City Council. The
following procedures shall apply to such an appeal.
      (1)   The affected officer may, within seven days following receipt of a
written notice from the Mayor of the discipline to be imposed against him or
her, deliver a written request for a hearing to the Chairperson of the City
Council. If the affected officer fails to request a hearing within the time set
forth herein, he or she shall be deemed to have waived his or her right to a
hearing and the disciplinary action taken by the Mayor shall take effect
immediately following expiration of the seven-day period.
      (2)   Upon receiving a request for a hearing, the Chairperson of the City
Council shall notify the affected officer and the Mayor of the time, date, and
place of the hearing. Thereafter, the time and date of the hearing may be
modified by the Council Chairperson, or may be modified upon the written
agreement of the Mayor and the affected officer or their respective attorneys.
      (3)   The affected officer shall the following rights in connection with
the hearing:
         (a)   To be provided with written notice at least five days prior to
the hearing of the grounds for the disciplinary action taken by the Mayor;
         (b)   To be provided with the names of any witnesses who will be
called to testify and given an opportunity to examine any documents that will
be presented at the hearing at least five days prior to the hearing;
         (c)   To be represented by counsel;
         (d)   To cross-examine all witnesses and to examine all documents and
to present evidence material to the issues.
      (4)   The Mayor shall have the following rights in connection with the
hearing:
         (a)   To be provided by the affected officer with the names of any
witnesses who will be called to testify and given an opportunity to examine any
documents that will be presented by the officer at the hearing at least five
days prior to the hearing;
         (b)   To be represented by counsel at the hearing;
         (c)   To cross-examine all witnesses and to examine all documents and
to present evidence material to the issues.
      (5)   Neither the Mayor nor the affected officer shall have the right to
call witnesses, or to offer evidence at the hearing unless such evidence and
witnesses have been disclosed to the opposing party at least five days prior to
the hearing, except that the Council may permit such evidence to be received in
evidence upon a finding of  good cause and that receipt of the evidence or
testimony of such witnesses will not significantly prejudice the rights of the
party against whom such evidence is offered.
      (6)   Not later than 30 days following the adjournment of the meeting at
which the hearing was held, the City Council shall vote to uphold, reverse, or
modify the action. The failure of the City Council to act within 30 days or the
failure of a majority of the elected Council Members to vote to reverse or
modify the action shall be construed as a vote to reverse the action taken by
the Mayor.
      (7)   The decision of the City Council shall be based upon its
determination that, under the facts and evidence presented at the hearing, the
action was necessary for the proper management and the effective operation of
the Police Department in the performance of its duties under the statutes of
the State of Nebraska.
   (D)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to prevent the preemptory
suspension with pay by the Mayor, pending the hearing provided for in division
(C), in cases of gross misconduct, neglect of duty, or disobedience of orders.
   (E)   The City Council may retain an attorney to serve as hearing officer
and advisor to the Council in connection with any hearing conducted under the
provisions of this section. Any such hearing officer shall have the authority
on behalf of the City Council to conduct a prehearing conference according to
such reasonable procedures as may be established by the hearing officer; to
rule on pre-hearing motions; to make reasonable orders relating to discovery;
when authorized by law to do so, to issue subpoenas to compel the attendance of
witnesses at the hearing or at pre-hearing depositions; to rule on motions and
evidentiary objections at the hearing; to advise the Council on issues of law;
and to undertake such other related responsibilities as directed by the
Chairperson of the City Council. Either the City Attorney, or another attorney
appointed by the Council Chairperson may serve as the bearing officer and
advisor to the City Council.
   (F)   The Chief of Police may delegate the duties which he or she has in
connection with the investigation of any complaint against a Police Officer
provided that the person or agency to whom such duties are delegated shall
insure that the affected officer is provided with all the rights set forth in
division (B)(1) through (8).
   (G)   If a complaint is made to the Mayor regarding any officer other than
the Chief of Police, the Mayor may choose to delegate the investigation thereof
to a person or agency other than the Chief of Police. In such cases, the Chief
of Police shall be involved in the investigation only as directed by the Mayor.
Also, in such cases, the person or agency conducting the investigation shall
ensure that the affected officer is provided with all of the rights set forth
in division (B)(1) through (8).
   (H)   If a complaint is made regarding the Chief of Police, the complaint
shall be investigated by the Mayor, or by a person or agency delegated by the
Mayor to conduct the investigation. In such cases, the Chief of Police shall
have all the rights of a police officer as set forth in division (B)(1) through
(8). If the Mayor takes action to remove, demote, or suspend the Chief of
Police, he or she shall have the right to appeal such action in the manner set
forth in division (C)(1) through (7).
   (I)   This section does not apply to a police officer during his or her
probationary period.
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-107, 17-541, 81-1438
§ 31.066  MERGER OF OFFICES.
   The City Council may, at its discretion, by ordinance combine and merge any
elective or appointive office or employment or any combination of duties of any
such offices or employments, except Mayor and Council member, with any other
elective or appointive office or employment so that one or more of the offices
or employments or any combination of duties of any offices or employments may
be held by the same officer or employee at the same time. The City Manager/
Administrator, in a city under the city manager/administrator plan of
government as provided by law, may in his or her discretion combine and merge
any elective or appointive office or employment or any combination of duties of
any offices or employments, except Mayor and Council member, with any other
elective or appointive office or employment so that one or more of the offices
or employments may be held by the same officer or employee at the same time.
The offices or employments so merged and combined shall always be construed to
be separate and the effect of the combination or merger shall be limited to a
consolidation of official duties only. The salary or compensation of the
officer or employee holding the merged or combined offices or employments or
offices and employments shall not be in excess of the maximum amount provided
by law for the salary or compensation of  the office, offices, employment or
employments so merged and combined. For purposes of this section, volunteer
firefighters and ambulance drivers shall not be considered officers.
(Prior Code, § 1-202)  (Ord. 1-91, passed 2-4-1991)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-108.02
§ 31.067  VACANCIES.
   Whenever any vacancy shall occur in any appointive office of the city, by
death, resignation, impeachment, absence from a city or from any regular or
special meeting of the Council for 30 days without being excused by the Mayor
or other legal cause, the Mayor shall with the concurrence of a majority of the
members of the Council fill the vacancy for the unexpired term. A vote shall be
taken and a record made in the filling of vacancies.
(Prior Code, § 1-203)
§ 31.068  CITY ATTORNEY.
   A City Attorney shall be appointed to serve as the city’s legal advisor. The
City Attorney shall perform the duties and have the powers as are provided for
that office by ordinance or by the laws of the state, including, but not
limited to, Neb. RS 17-610, as amended or superseded. When requested by the
City Council, he or she shall attend meetings of the City Council and shall
advise any city official in all matters of law in which the interests of the
city may be involved. He or she shall draft the ordinances, bonds, contracts
and other writings as may be required in the administration of the affairs of
the city. He or she shall examine all bonds, contracts and documents on which
the City Council will be required to act and attach thereto a brief statement
in writing to all instruments and documents as to whether or not, the document
is in legal and proper form. He or she shall commence, prosecute and defend all
actions on behalf of the city or that may be ordered by the City Council.
Without direction, he or she shall appear and prosecute all cases for violation
of the city ordinances that have been appealed to and are pending in any higher
court. He or she shall also examine, when requested to do so by the City
Council, the ordinance records and advise and assist the City Clerk as much as
may be necessary to the end that each procedural step will be taken in the
passage of each ordinance to ensure that it will be valid and subsisting local
laws in so far as their passage and approval are concerned. The City Council
shall have the right to compensate the City Attorney for legal services on such
terms as the City Council and the City Attorney may agree and to employ any
additional legal assistance as may be necessary out of the funds of the city.
(Prior Code, § 1-204)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-610
§ 31.069  CITY TREASURER.
   (A)   The City Treasurer shall be the custodian of all money belonging to
the city. He or she shall keep a separate account of each fund or appropriation
and the debts and credits belonging thereto. He or she shall give every person
paying money into the treasury a receipt therefor, specifying the date of
payment and on what account paid. He or she shall also file copies of the
receipts with his or her monthly reports. The City Treasurer shall, at the end
of every month and as often as may be required, render an account to the City
Council, under oath, showing the state of the treasury at the date of the
account and the balance of money in the treasury. He or she shall also
accompany the accounts with a statement of all receipts and disbursements,
together with all warrants redeemed and paid by him or her, which warrants,
with any and all vouchers held by him or her, shall be filed with his or her
account in the City Clerk’s office. If the City Treasurer neglects or fails,
for the space of ten days from the end of each month, to render his or her
account, the office shall be declared vacant and the City Council shall fill
the vacancy by appointment until the next election for city officers.
   (B)   (1)   All warrants upon the City Treasurer shall be paid in the order
of their presentation therefor and as otherwise provided in Neb. RS 77-2201
through 77-2215.
      (2)   The City Treasurer shall keep a warrant register in the form
required by Neb. RS 77-2202.
      (3)   The City Treasurer shall make duplicate receipts for all sums which
shall be paid into his or her office, which receipts shall show the source from
which the funds are derived and shall, by distinct lines and columns, show the
amount received to the credit of each separate fund and whether the same was
paid in cash, in warrants or otherwise. The Treasurer shall deliver one of the
duplicates to the person making the payment and retain the other in his or her
office.
      (4)   The City Treasurer shall daily, as money is received, foot the
several columns of the cash book and of the register and carry the amounts
forward and at the close of each year, in case the amount of money received by
the Treasurer is insufficient to pay the warrants registered, he or she shall
close the account for that year in the register and shall carry forward the
excess.
   (C)   (1)   The City Treasurer shall prepare and publish annually within 60
days following the close of the city fiscal year a statement of the receipts
and expenditures by funds of the city for the preceding fiscal year.
      (2)   Publication shall be made in one legal newspaper of general
circulation in the city. If no legal newspaper is published in the city, then
the publication shall be made in one legal newspaper published or of general
circulation within the county in which the city is located.
   (D)   The City Treasurer shall keep all money belonging to the city separate
and distinct from his or her own money. He or she shall invest and collect all
money owned by or owed to the city as directed by the City Council. He or she
shall maintain depository evidence that all money is, in the name of the city,
in a solvent and going financial institution of a type authorized by state law
for deposit of city funds. He or she shall cancel all bonds, coupons, warrants
and other evidences of debt against the city, whenever paid by him or her, by
writing or stamping on the face thereof, “Paid by the City Treasurer”, with the
date of payment written or stamped thereon. He or she shall collect all special
taxes, allocate special assessments to the several owners and obtain from the
County Treasurer a monthly report as to the collection of delinquent taxes.
(Prior Code, § 1-206)  (Ord. 7-02, passed 7-8-2002)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS  17-606, 19-1101, 19-1103, 77-2201, 77-2209,
77-2210
§ 31.070  CITY CLERK.
   (A)   The City Clerk shall attend the meetings of the City Council and keep
a correct journal of the proceedings of that body. He or she shall keep a
record of all outstanding bonds against the city and when any bonds are sold,
purchased, paid or cancelled, the record shall show the fact. He or she shall
make, at the end of the fiscal year, a report of the business of the city
transacted through his or her office for the year. That record shall describe
particularly the bonds issued and sold during the year and the terms of the
sale with each and every item and expense thereof. He or she shall file all
official bonds after the same shall have been properly executed and approved.
He or she shall make the proper certificate of passage which shall be attached
to original copies of all bond ordinances hereafter enacted by the City
Council.
   (B)   The City Clerk shall issue and sign all licenses, permits and
occupation tax receipts authorized by law and required by the city ordinances.
He or she shall collect all occupation taxes and license money except where
some other city officer is specifically charged with that duty. He or she shall
keep a register of all licenses granted in the city and the purpose for which
they have been issued.
   (C)   The City Clerk shall permit no records, public papers or other
documents of the city kept and preserved in his or her office to be taken
therefrom, except by the officers of the city as may be entitled to the use of
the same, but only upon their leaving a receipt therefor. He or she shall keep
all the records of his or her office, including a record of all licenses issued
by him or her in a blank book with a proper index. He or she shall include as
part of his or her records all petitions under which the City Council shall
order public work to be done at the expense of the property fronting thereon,
together with references to all resolutions and ordinances relating to the
same. He or she shall endorse the date and hour of filing upon every paper or
document so filed in his or her office. All filing made by him or her shall be
properly docketed. Included in his or her records shall be all standard codes,
amendments thereto and other documents incorporated by reference and arranged
in a manner convenient for reference. He or she shall keep an accurate and
complete account of the appropriation of the several funds, draw, sign and
attest all warrants ordered for the payment of money on the particular fund
from which the same is payable. At the end of each month, he or she shall then
make a report of the amounts appropriated to the various funds and the amount
of the warrants drawn thereon. Nothing herein shall be construed to prevent any
citizen, official or other person from examining any public records at all
reasonable times.
   (D)   The City Clerk shall deliver all warrants, ordinances and resolutions
under his or her charge to the Mayor for his or her signature. He or she shall
also deliver to officers, employees and committees all resolutions and
communications which are directed at the officers, employees or committees.
With the seal of the city, he or she shall duly attest the Mayor’s signature to
all ordinances, deeds and papers required to be attested to when ordered to do
so by the City Council. Within 30 days after any meeting of the City Council,
the City Clerk shall prepare and publish the official proceedings of the City
Council in a legal newspaper of general circulation in the city and which was
duly designated as such by the City Council. The publication shall set forth a
statement of the proceedings thereof and shall also include the amount of each
claim allowed, the purpose of the claim and the name of the claimant, except
that the aggregate amount of all payroll claims may be included as one item.
Between July 15 and August 15 of each year, the employee job titles and the
current annual, monthly or hourly salaries corresponding to the job titles
shall be published. Each job title published shall be descriptive and
indicative of the duties and functions of the position. The charge for the
publication shall not exceed the rates provided by the statutes of the state.
The publication shall be charged against the General Fund. He or she shall then
keep in a book with a proper index, copies of all notices required to be
published or posted by the City Clerk by order of the City Council or under the
ordinances of the city. To each of the file copies of the notices shall be
attached the printer’s affidavit of publication, if the notices are required to
be published or the City Clerk’s certificate under seal where the same are
required to be posted only.
   (E)   The City Clerk shall receive all objections to creation of paving
districts and other street improvements. He or she shall receive the claims of
any person against the city and in the event that the claim is disallowed in
part or in whole, the City Clerk shall notify the claimant, his or her agent or
attorney by letter within five days after the disallowance and the City Clerk
shall then prepare transcripts on appeals of any disallowance of a claim in all
proper cases.
   (F)   The City Clerk may charge a reasonable fee for certified copies of any
record in his or her office as set by resolution of the City Council. He or she
shall destroy city records under the direction of the State Records Board
pursuant to Neb. RS 84-1201 through 84-1220; provided, the City Council shall
not have the authority to destroy the minutes of the City Clerk, the permanent
ordinances and resolution books or any other records classified as permanent by
the State Records Board.
(Prior Code, § 1-207)  (Ord. 3-93, passed 5-3-1993)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-605, 19-1102, 19-1104, 84-712, 84-1201
through 84-1220
§ 31.071  CITY PHYSICIAN.
   (A)   A City Physician shall be appointed who shall be a licensed physician
residing permanently within the city and who shall serve as a member of the
Board of Health of the city. The City Physician shall perform the duties and
have the powers as devolve upon him or her as the medical advisor of the Board
of Health and as are otherwise provided for that office by ordinance or by the
laws of the state.
   (B)   In the case of all injuries where a liability may be asserted against
the city, the City Physician shall immediately investigate the injuries, the
extent thereof and the circumstances. He or she shall then report the results
of his or her investigation with the name of the party injured and all other
persons who may have personal knowledge of the matter. He or she shall make all
physical examinations and necessary laboratory tests incident thereto and issue
the health certificates as are required by ordinance and by the laws of the
state. When premises are quarantined, he or she shall, when ordered to do so by
the City Council, disinfect or fumigate the premises or the persons in or about
the premises. He or she shall, when ordered to do so by the City Council,
render medical service to indigent sick persons and shall perform other
professional services as the City Council may direct. He or she shall, in the
discharge of his or her official duties and upon proper identification of his
or her official capacity, have authority pursuant to this chapter to enter into
any building, structure or premises in the city at any reasonable hour for the
purpose of making inspections of the sanitary conditions of the building,
structure or premises and the state of health of the inhabitants thereof. The
inspections shall be carried out as provided by the laws of the state,
including, but not limited to, Neb. RS 29-830 through 29-835, inclusive, as
amended or superseded. The City Physician shall receive as compensation for his
or her services sums of money as the City Council may from time to time set by
resolution, but he or she shall receive no compensation for his or her services
as a member of the City Board of Health.
(Prior Code, § 1-208)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-108, 17-114, 17-121, 17-123, 29-830
through 29-935
§ 31.072  CITY POLICE CHIEF.
   A City Police Chief shall be appointed who shall direct the police work of
the city and shall be responsible for the maintenance of law and order. The
City Police Chief shall perform the duties and have the powers as are provided
for that office by ordinance or by the laws of the state, including, but not
limited to, Neb. RS 17-118 and 17-121, as amended or superseded. He or she
shall file the necessary complaints in cases arising out of violations of city
ordinances and shall make all necessary reports required by ordinance and by
the laws of the state. In the event that no person is appointed to serve in the
capacity of City Health Inspector or of City Building Inspector, the City
Police Chief shall act in those capacities and shall perform the duties and
have the powers as are provided for those offices by ordinance and by the laws
of the state.
(Prior Code, § 1-209)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-107, 17-118, 17-121
§ 31.073  POLICE OFFICERS.
   The Mayor, by and with the consent of the City Council, shall appoint a
number of regular police officers as may be necessary and may also appoint
special police officers from time to time as exigencies arise. The City Police,
whether regular or special, shall perform the duties and have the powers as are
provided for by ordinance or by the laws of the state, including, but not
limited to, Neb. RS 17-118, as amended or superseded. The City Police shall, in
the discharge of their official duties, provide proper identification of their
official capacity which the identification shall be otherwise legally required,
have authority pursuant to this chapter to enter into any building, structure
or premises under their jurisdiction for the purpose of making the searches and
seizures as are legally permissible under the circumstances. The City Police
shall have full power and authority to call upon any person, whenever
necessary, to assist them in performing public duties and any person who
willingly falls, neglects or refuses to render the assistance shall be guilty
of a crime and shall, upon conviction thereof, be punished by a fine not
exceeding $100. Every city police officer shall be expected to be conversant
and knowledgeable with the city and state laws. City police officers shall have
the duty to file the complaints and reports as may be required by ordinance and
by the laws of the state. Any city police officer who shall willfully fail,
neglect or refuse to make an arrest or who shall willfully fail, neglect or
refuse to make a complaint after an arrest is made shall be guilty of a crime
and shall, upon conviction thereof, be punished by a fine not exceeding $100.
It shall be the duty of every city police officer making a lawful arrest to
search all persons in the presence of some other person, whenever possible and
to carefully keep and produce to the proper judicial official, upon trial,
everything found upon the person or the prisoners. All personal effects thus
taken from the prisoners shall be restored to them upon their release from
custody following the disposition of the charges against  them. Suitable
uniforms and badges shall be furnished to the City Police by the city and any
city police officer who shall lose or destroy the same shall be required to pay
the replacement cost of the equipment. The City Council may, from time to time,
provide the City Police with the uniforms, equipment and transportation as may
be essential in the performance of their official duties. It shall be unlawful
for the City Council to retain any city police officer in that position after
he or she shall have been duly convicted of the willful violation of any law of
the United States, the state or any ordinance of the city, except minor traffic
violations. All city police officers appointed by the Mayor and the City
Council shall be subject to removal as provided by the laws of the state,
including, but not limited to, Neb. RS 17-107 and 25-21,147, as amended or
superseded. See §§
31.053 and
31.065 regarding the appointment and removal of police officers. In the event
that any officer shall leave the City Police, he or she shall immediately
deliver his or her badge to the City Police Chief.
(Prior Code, § 1-210)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-107, 17-118, 17-124
§ 31.074  CITY FIRE CHIEF.
   A City Fire Chief shall be elected by the members of the Fire Department,
subject to the approval of the City Council. The City Fire Chief shall perform
such duties and have such powers as are provided for that office by ordinance
or by the laws of the state, including, but not limited to, Neb. RS 17-131, 17-
147, 17-503, 17-718, 33-102, 81-506 and 81-512, as amended or superseded. The
City Fire Chief shall enforce all laws and ordinances covering the prevention
of fires, the storage and use of explosives and flammable substances, the
installation of fire alarm systems, the maintenance of fire extinguishing
equipment, the regulation of fire escapes and the inspection of all premises
requiring adequate fire escapes. The City Fire Chief shall, in the discharge of
his or her official duties and upon proper identification of his or her
official capacity, have authority pursuant to this chapter and to the laws of
the state, including, but not limited to, Neb. RS 81-512, as amended or
superseded, to enter into any building, structure or premises in the city at
any reasonable hour for the purpose of inspection. The inspection shall be
carried out as provided by the laws of the state, including, but not limited
to, Neb. RS 29-830 through 29-835, as amended or superseded. The City Fire
Chief shall cause the secretary to file, with the City Clerk and the Clerk of
the District Court, a certified copy of the rolls of all members of the Fire
Department as required by the laws of the state, including, but not limited to,
Neb. RS 35-102, as amended or superseded. The City Fire Chief shall investigate
or cause to be investigated the cause, origin and circumstances of every fire
occurring within the city as provided by the laws of the state, including, but
not limited to, Neb. RS 81-506, as amended or superseded. The City Fire Chief
shall have the power, during the time of a fire and for a period of 36 hours
thereafter, to arrest any suspected arsonist, any person conducting himself or
herself in a noisy and disorderly manner at the scene of a fire, any person who
shall hinder the emergency efforts of the Fire Department or any person who
shall refuse to obey any lawful order of the Fire Chief or Assistant Fire Chief
in the performance of his or her official duties. The Fire Chief or his or her
assistant in charge of operations at a fire may command the assistance of any
person present at the scene of any fire in extinguishing the same or in the
removal and protection of property.
(Prior Code, § 1-211)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-131, 17-147, 17-505, 17-718, 29-830
through 29-835, 35-102, 81-512, 81-506
§ 31.075  SPECIAL ENGINEER.
   The City Council may employ a special engineer to make or assist the City
Engineer in making any particular estimate, survey or other work. The special
engineer shall make a record of the minutes of his or her surveys and all other
work done for the city. He or she shall, when directed by the City Council,
accurately make all plats, sections, profiles and maps as may be necessary in
the judgment of the City Council. He or she shall, upon request of the City
Council, make estimates of the costs of labor and material which may be done or
furnished by contract with the city and make all surveys, estimates and
calculations necessary for the establishment of grades, bridges, building of
culverts, sewers, electric light systems, waterworks, power plant, public
heating system, bridges, curbing and gutters and the improvement of streets and
erection and repair of buildings and shall perform other duties as the City
Council may require. All records of the special engineer shall be public
records which shall belong to the City and shall be turned over to his or her
successor.
(Prior Code, § 1-212)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-405, 17-568.01, 17-919
§ 31.076  BOARD OF PUBLIC WORKS MANAGER.
   A Manager of the Board of Public Works shall, subject to confirmation by the
Mayor and City Council, be employed by the Board of Public Works who shall
serve as City Water Commissioner and shall have the immediate supervision and
control over all city utility departments and shall be primarily responsible
for the economic management and prudent operation thereof. The Manager of the
Board of Public Works shall, before he or she enters upon the discharge of his
or her duties, execute a bond to the city, as provided by the laws of the
state, including, but not limited to, Neb. RS 17-451, 17-543, 17-804 and 19-
1405, as amended or superseded. All actions, decisions and procedures of the
Manager of the Board of Public Works shall have the immediate control and
supervisory authority over all employees of the city utility departments and
shall faithfully account for any pay over the same to the City Treasurer,
taking his or her receipt therefore in duplicate, filing one of the same with
the City Clerk. He or she shall make detailed reports to the Board of Public
Works as may be requested concerning improvements, repairs and extensions of
the utility departments as he or she may deem proper or that may be ordered by
the Board and shall make all other reports as may be required by ordinance or
by the laws of the state, including, but not limited to, Neb. RS 17-543, as
amended or superseded. The reports shall show the amount of receipts and
expenditures on account thereof for the period covered in the report. No funds
shall be expended for the improvements, repairs or extension of the city
utility systems except upon recommendation thereof by the Manager of the Board
of Public Works and approval thereof by the Board of Public Works or the City
Council, as provided by ordinance and by the laws of the state.
(Prior Code, § 1-213)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-541, 17-543, 17-804
§ 31.077  CITY STREET COMMISSIONER.
    A City Street Commissioner shall be appointed who shall serve as the
overseer of the streets of the city and who shall perform the duties and have
the powers as are provided for that office by ordinance or by the laws of the
state, including, but not limited to, Neb. RS 17-119, as amended or superseded.
The City Street Commissioner shall, subject to the orders and directives of the
City Council, have general charge, direction and control of all work on the
streets, sidewalks, culverts and bridges of the city and shall perform other
duties as the City Council may require. It shall be his or her responsibility
to see that gutters and drains therein function properly and that the same are
kept in good repair. He or she shall, at the request of the City Council, make
a detailed report to the City Council on the condition of the streets,
sidewalks, culverts, alleys and bridges of the city and shall direct their
attention to such improvements, repairs, extensions, additions and additional
employees as he or she may believe are needed to maintain a satisfactory street
system in the city along with an estimate of the cost thereof. He or she shall
issue permits and assume such other duties as the City Council may direct.
(Prior Code, § 1-214)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-119
§ 31.078  CITY ZONING COMMISSIONER.
   (A)   (1)   A Zoning Commissioner shall be appointed who shall serve as
chief zoning official and building inspector for the city. The Zoning
Commissioner shall perform such duties and have such powers as are provided for
that office by ordinance and by the laws of the state. It shall be the duty of
the Zoning Commissioner to administer and enforce all ordinances, codes,
standards, rules and regulations relating to buildings and utility installation
and to zoning and subdivisions. The Zoning Commissioner shall investigate all
complaints, whether they are verbal, written or in the form of a petition,
alleging and charging the violation of any ordinance, code, standard, rule or
regulation relating to buildings, utility installation, zoning or subdivisions.
The Zoning Commissioner shall keep records of all complaints received,
inspection reports, orders and complaints issued and shall prepare an annual
report to the City Council including statistics based upon the records. The
records shall be available for public inspection. It shall be the duty of the
Zoning Commissioner to make reports and perform duties as the City Council
shall direct.
      (2)   It shall be the duty of the Zoning Commissioner to conduct surveys
and make inspections within the jurisdiction of the city in order to determine
whether all buildings and structures are in compliance with all ordinances,
codes, standards, rules and regulations relating to buildings and utility
installation and to zoning and subdivisions. The Zoning Commissioner shall, in
the discharge of his or her official duties and upon proper identification of
his or her official capacity, have the authority pursuant to this section to
enter into any building, structure or premises in the city at any reasonable
hour for the purpose of inspection. The inspection shall be carried out as
provided by the laws of the state, including, but limited to, Neb. RS 29-830
through 29-835, inclusive, as amended or superseded. In the event that the
Zoning Commissioner shall discover a violation of the provisions of any
ordinance, code, standard, rule or regulation relating to buildings, utility
installation, zoning or subdivisions, it shall be the duty of the Zoning
Commissioner to notify, in writing, the person, firm or corporation responsible
for the violation, indicating the nature of the violation and ordering the
actions necessary to correct it. The notice shall include appropriate orders
for the discontinuance of illegal use of land, buildings or structures, the
repair, rehabilitation or demolition and removal of buildings, structures,
additions, alterations or structural changes which are illegal or unsafe and a
public nuisance and the discontinuance of any illegal work being done upon any
land, building or structure. It shall be the duty of the Zoning Commissioner to
take any action, authorized by ordinance and by the laws of the state,
necessary to ensure compliance with or prevent violation of all ordinances,
codes, standards, rules and regulations relating to buildings and utility
installation and to zoning and subdivisions.
      (3)   The Zoning Commissioner shall have the power to require the City
Electrical Inspector and the City Plumbing Inspector to assist him or her in
the execution of his or her duties, as defined by ordinance and by the laws of
the state.
      (4)   The Zoning Commissioner shall have no financial interest in the
furnishing of labor, materials or appliances for any building or structure
within his or her jurisdiction, except where he or she is the owner of the
building or structure, neither shall the Zoning Commissioner act as an agent
for any dealer of the labor, materials or appliances. The Zoning Commissioner
shall not act as an agent for the sale, lease or rental of any real estate
within his or her jurisdiction.
(Prior Code, § 1-215)
   (B)   A Zoning Commissioner shall be appointed who shall be the chief zoning
official of the city. The Zoning Commissioner shall perform the duties and have
the powers as are provided for that office by ordinance or by the laws of the
state. It shall be the duty of the Zoning Commissioner to administer and
enforce the zoning and subdivision laws of the city. In the event that the
Zoning Commissioner shall find that any provisions are being violated, he or
she shall notify in writing the person responsible for the violations,
indicating the nature of the violations and ordering the actions necessary to
correct them. He or she shall order the discontinuance of illegal use of land,
buildings or structures, the removal of illegal buildings, structures,
additions, alterations or structural changes and the discontinuance of any
illegal work being done and shall take any other action authorized by ordinance
and by the laws of the state to ensure compliance with or prevent violation of
the zoning and subdivision laws of the city.
(Prior Code, § 1-218)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-131, 18-1722, 19-904, 19-913, 29-830
through 29-835
§ 31.079  CITY ELECTRICAL INSPECTOR.
   A City Electrical Inspector shall be appointed who shall enforce all laws
relating to the installation of electrical wiring and connections thereto. No
person other than the holder of an electrical inspector’s certificate or
qualification shall be appointed to the office of City Electrical Inspector.
The City Electrical Inspector shall perform the duties and have the powers as
are provided for that office by the laws of the state. The City Electrical
Inspector shall perform the other duties and issue the permits as the City
Council may direct. The City Electrical Inspector shall, in the discharge of
his or her official duties and upon identification of his or her official
capacity, have authority pursuant to this section to enter into any building,
structure or premises in the city at any reasonable hour for the purpose of
inspection. The inspection shall be carried out as provided by the laws of the
state, including, but not limited to, Neb. RS 29-830 through 29-835, inclusive,
as amended or superseded.
(Prior Code, § 1-216)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 29-830 through 29-835
§ 31.080  CITY PLUMBING INSPECTOR.
   A City Plumbing Inspector shall be appointed who shall enforce all laws
relating to the installation of plumbing and connections thereto. The City
Plumbing Inspector shall perform the duties and have the powers as are provided
for that office by ordinance or by the laws of the state. The City Plumbing
Inspector shall perform other duties and issue the permits as the City Council
may direct. The City Plumbing Inspector shall, in the discharge of his or her
official duties and upon identification of his or her official capacity, have
authority pursuant to this section to enter into any building, structure or
premises in the city at any reasonable hour for the purpose of inspection. The
inspection shall be carried out as provided by the laws of the state,
including, but not limited to, Neb. RS 29-830 through 29-835, inclusive, as
amended or superseded.
(Prior Code, § 1-217)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 29-830 through 29-835
CHAPTER 32:  CITY ORGANIZATIONS
Section
   
32.01   Standing committees generally
   
32.02   Library Board
   
32.03   Planning Commission
   
32.04   Reserved
   
32.05   Board of Adjustment
   
32.06   Board of Public Works
   
32.07   Board of Health
   
32.08   Tree Board
   
32.09   Joint Housing Authority
   
32.10   Community Redevelopment Authority
§ 32.01  STANDING COMMITTEES GENERALLY.
   At the organizational meeting of the City Council, the Mayor shall appoint
members of the standing committees as the City Council may, by ordinance or
resolution, create. The membership of the standing committees may be changed at
any time by the Mayor. The Mayor shall be a member ex officio of each standing
committee. The members of the standing committees shall serve a term of office
of one year, unless reappointed.
(Prior Code, § 2-101)
§ 32.02  LIBRARY BOARD.
   (A)   (1)   The Library Board shall consist of five appointed members who
shall be residents of the city and who shall serve terms of four years. The
Board members shall be appointed by a majority vote of the members of the City
Council. Neither the Mayor nor any member of the City Council shall be a member
of the Library Board. The terms of members serving on the effective date of a
change in the number of members shall not be shortened and any successors to
those members shall be appointed as the terms of those members expire. In cases
of vacancies by resignation, removal or otherwise, the City Council shall fill
the vacancy for the unexpired term. No member shall receive any pay or
compensation for any services rendered as a member of the Library Board.
      (2)   The City Council may require the members of the Library Board to
give a bond in a sum set by resolution and conditioned upon the faithful
performance of their duties.
   (B)   (1)   The members of the Library Board shall immediately after their
appointment meet and organize by electing from their number a President, a
Secretary and other officers as may be necessary. A majority of the members of
the Library Board shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business.
      (2)   No member of the Board shall serve in the capacity of both the
President and Secretary of the Board. It shall be the duty of the Secretary to
keep the full and correct minutes and records of all meetings and to file the
same with the City Clerk where they shall be available for public inspection at
any reasonable time.
      (3)   The Board shall meet at such times as the Board may designate.
Special meetings may be held upon the call of the President or a majority of
the members of the Board.
(Prior Code, § 2-201)  (Ord. 7-02, passed 7-8-2002)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 51-202, 51-204
§ 32.03  PLANNING COMMISSION.
   (A)   (1)   The Planning Commission shall consist of seven regular members
who shall represent, insofar as is possible, the different professions or
occupations in the city and shall be appointed by the Mayor, by and with the
approval of a majority vote of the members elected to the City Council. Two of
the regular members may be residents of the area over which the city is
authorized to exercise extraterritorial zoning and subdivision regulation. When
there is a sufficient number of residents in the area over which the city
exercises extraterritorial zoning and subdivision regulation, one regular
member of the Commission shall be a resident from the area. If it is determined
by the City Council that a sufficient number of residents reside in the area
subject to extraterritorial zoning and subdivision regulation and no resident
is a regular member of the Commission, the first available vacancy on the
Commission shall be filled by the appointment of an individual. For purposes of
this section, a sufficient number of residents shall mean 500 residents. The
term of each regular member shall be three years, except that approximately
one-third of the regular members of the first Commission shall serve for terms
of one year, one-third for terms of two years and one-third for terms of three
years.
      (2)   All regular members shall hold office until their successors are
appointed. Any member may, after a public hearing before the City Council, be
removed by the Mayor, with the consent of a majority vote of the members
elected to the City Council, for inefficiency, neglect of duty or malfeasance
in office or other good and sufficient cause. Vacancies occurring otherwise
than through the expiration of term shall be filled for the unexpired portion
of the term by the Mayor.
   (B)   (1)   All regular members of the Commission shall serve without
compensation and shall hold no other city office, except when appointed to
serve on the Board of Adjustment, as provided in Neb. RS 19-908. All members of
the Commission may be required, in the discretion of the Mayor and City
Council, to give bond in a sum set by resolution of the City Council and
conditioned upon the faithful performance of their duties.
      (2)   The Commission shall elect its Chairperson and a Secretary from its
members and create and fill other of its officers as it may determine. The term
of the Chairperson and the Secretary shall be one year and they shall be
eligible for reelection. No member of the Commission shall serve in the
capacity of both the Chairperson and the Secretary of the Commission. It shall
be the duty of the Secretary to keep the full and correct minutes and records
of all meetings and to file them with the City Clerk where they shall be
available for public inspection during office hours.
      (3)   The Commission shall be funded by the City Council from time to
time out of the General Fund. The expenditures of the Commission, exclusive of
gifts, shall be within the amounts appropriated for that purpose by the City
Council; and no expenditures nor agreements for expenditures shall be valid in
excess of the amounts. A number of Commissioners equal to a majority of the
number of regular members appointed to the Commission shall constitute a quorum
for the transaction of any business. The Commission shall hold at least one
regular meeting in each calendar quarter, except the City Council may require
the Commission to meet more frequently and the Chairperson of the Commission
may call for a meeting when necessary to deal with business pending before the
Commission. Special meetings may also be held upon the call of any three
members of the Commission.
      (4)   The Commission shall adopt rules and regulations for the
transaction of business and shall keep a record of its resolutions,
transactions, findings and determinations, which shall be public record. The
Commission shall make and adopt plans for the physical development of the city,
including any areas outside its boundaries which, in the Commission’s judgment,
bear relation to the planning of the city and shall carry out the other duties
and exercise the powers specified in Neb. RS 19-929. All actions by the
Commission shall be subject to the review and supervision of the Mayor and City
Council. The Commission shall make its recommendations to the City Council so
that they are received by the City Council within 60 days after the Commission
begins consideration of a matter relating to the comprehensive development
plan, capital improvements, building codes, subdivision development, the
annexation of territory or zoning. The Commission shall be responsible for
making the reports and performing other duties as the Mayor and City Council
may, from time to time, designate.
   (C)   The Mayor, with the approval of a majority vote of the elected members
of the City Council, shall appoint one alternate member to the Commission. The
alternate member shall serve without compensation and shall hold no other city
office. The term of the alternate member shall be three years and he or she
shall hold office until his or her successor is appointed and approved. The
alternate member may be removed from office in the same manner as a regular
member. If the alternate member position becomes vacant other than through the
expiration of the term, the vacancy shall be filled for the unexpired portion
of the term by the Mayor with the approval of a majority vote of the elected
members of the City Council. The alternate member may attend any meeting and
may serve as a voting and participating member of the Commission at any time
when less than the full number of regular Commission members is present and
capable of voting.
(Prior Code, § 2-202)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 19-924 through 19-929
§ 32.04  RESERVED.
§ 32.05  BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT.
   (A)   (1)   The Mayor shall appoint, with the consent of the City Council, a
Board of Adjustment, which shall consist of five regular members, plus one
additional member designated as an alternate who shall attend and serve only
when one of the regular members is unable to attend for any reason. Each member
shall be appointed for a term of three years and shall be removable for cause
by the Mayor upon written charges and after public hearings. Vacancies shall be
filled for the unexpired term of any member whose term becomes vacant. One
member only of the Board of Adjustment shall be appointed from the membership
of the Planning Commission and the loss of membership on the Planning
Commission by such member shall also result in his or her immediate loss of
membership on the Board of Adjustment and the appointment of another Planning
Commissioner to the Board of Adjustment. If the Board does not include a member
who resides in the extraterritorial zoning jurisdiction of the city, the first
vacancy occurring on the Board of Adjustment after the effective date of this
section shall be filled by the appointment of a person who resides in the
extraterritorial zoning jurisdiction of the city at such time as more than 200
persons reside within the area.
      (2)   Thereafter, at all times, at least one member of the Board of
Adjustment shall reside outside the corporate boundaries of the city, but
within its extraterritorial zoning jurisdiction. Neither the Mayor nor any
member of the City Council shall serve as a member of the Board of Adjustment.
   (B)   The members of the Board shall serve without compensation and may be
required, in the discretion of the City Council, to give a bond in a sum set by
resolution of the City Council and conditioned upon the faithful performance of
their duties. The Board shall organize at its first meeting each year after the
City Council meeting when appointments are regularly made and shall elect from
its membership a Chairperson and Secretary. No member of the Board of
Adjustment shall serve in the capacity of both Chairperson and Secretary of the
Board.
   (C)   The Board shall adopt rules in accordance with the provisions of this
section and Neb. RS 19-901 to 19-914. Meetings of the Board shall be held at
the call of the Chairperson and at such other times as the Board may determine.
Special meetings may be also held upon the call of any three members of the
Board. A majority of the Board shall constitute a quorum for the purpose of
doing business. The chairperson or in his or her absence the acting
chairperson, may administer oaths and compel the attendance of witnesses. All
meetings of the Board shall be open to the public. It shall be the duty of the
Secretary to keep complete and accurate minutes of the Board’s proceedings,
showing the vote of each member upon each question, or, if absent or failing to
vote, indicating the fact and to keep records of the Board’s examinations and
other official actions, all of which shall be immediately filed in the office
of the Board and shall be public record. The Board shall be responsible for
making the reports and performing other duties as the Mayor and City Council
may designate.
   (D)   Appeals to the Board may be taken by any person aggrieved or by any
officer, department, board or bureau of the city affected by any decision of
the administrative officer. The appeal shall be taken within a reasonable time,
as provided by the rules of the Board, by filing with the officer from whom the
appeal is taken and with the Board a notice of appeal specifying the grounds
thereof. The officer from whom the appeal is taken shall forthwith transmit to
the Board all the papers constituting the record upon which the action appealed
from was taken. An appeal stays all proceedings in furtherance of the action
appealed from, unless the officer from whom the appeal is taken certifies to
the Board, after the notice of appeal shall have been filed with him or her,
that by reason of facts stated in the certificate a stay would, in his or her
opinion, cause imminent peril to life or property. In such case, proceedings
shall not be stayed otherwise than by a restraining order which may be granted
by the Board or by a court of record on application on notice to the officer
from whom the appeal is taken and on due cause shown. The Board shall fix a
reasonable time for the hearing of the appeal, give public notice thereof, as
well as due notice to the parties in interest and decide the same within a
reasonable time. Upon the hearing, any party may appear in person or by agent
or by attorney.
   (E)   The Board shall have only the following powers:
      (1)   To hear and decide appeals when it is alleged there is error in any
order, requirement, decision or determination made by an administrative
official or agency based on or made in the enforcement of any zoning regulation
or any regulation relating to the location or soundness of structures, except
that the authority to hear and decide appeals shall not apply to decisions made
by the City Council or Planning Commission regarding a conditional use or
special exception:
      (2)   To hear and decide, in accordance with the provisions of any zoning
regulation, requests for interpretation of any map; and
      (3)   When by reason of exceptional narrowness, shallowness or shape of a
specific piece of property at the time of the enactment of the zoning
regulations or by reason of exceptional topographic conditions or other
extraordinary and exceptional situation or condition of the piece of property,
the strict application of any zoning regulation would result in peculiar and
exceptional practical difficulties to or exceptional and undue hardships upon
the owner of the property, to authorize, upon an appeal relating to the
property; a variance from the strict application so as to relieve the
difficulties or hardship, if the relief may be granted without substantial
detriment to the public good and without substantially impairing the intent and
purpose of any ordinance or resolution.
   (F)   (1)   No such variance shall be authorized by the Board unless it
finds that:
         (a)   The strict application of the zoning regulation would produce
undue hardship;
         (b)   The hardship is not shared generally by other properties in the
same zoning district and the same vicinity;
         (c)   The authorization of the variance will not be of substantial
detriment to adjacent property and the character of the district will not be
changed by the granting of the variance; and
         (d)   The granting of the variance is based upon reason of
demonstrable and exceptional hardship as distinguished from variations for
purposes of convenience, profit or caprice.
      (2)   No variance shall be authorized unless the Board finds that the
condition or situation of the property concerned or the intended use of the
property is not of so general or recurring a nature as to make reasonably
practicable the formulation of a general regulation to be adopted as an
amendment to the zoning regulations.
   (G)   In exercising the powers granted in this section, the Board may, in
conformity with Neb. RS 19-901 to 19-915, reverse or affirm, wholly or partly
or may modify the order, requirement, decision or determination appealed from
and may make the order, requirement, decision or determination as ought to be
made and to that end shall have all the powers of the officer from whom the
appeal is taken. The concurring vote of four members of the Board shall be
necessary to reverse any order, requirement, decision or determination of any
administrative official or to decide in favor of the applicant on any matter
upon which it is required to pass under any regulation or to effect any
variation in the regulation.
   (H)   Appeals from a decision by the Board may be taken as provided in Neb.
RS 19-912.
(Prior Code, § 2-205)  (Ord. 1-05, passed 1-10-2005)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 19-908 through 19-910
§ 32.06  BOARD OF PUBLIC WORKS.
   (A)   (1)   The City Council shall appoint the Board of Public Works. The
Board shall consist of five members who are residents of the city. The members
of the Board shall serve a four-year term of office at a salary set by
ordinance of the City Council. Each of the members shall be required to give a
bond to the city in the sum of $5,000 and shall be conditioned on the faithful
performance of the duties of their office; provided, the premium on the bond
shall be paid out of a city fund designated by the City Council. The members of
the Board shall be required to take an oath to faithfully perform the duties of
their office before entering upon the discharge thereof. At the time of the
Board’s first meeting in June of each year, the Board members shall organize by
selecting from among their number a Chairperson and Secretary. It shall be the
duty of the Secretary to keep the full and correct minutes and records of all
meetings and to file the same with the City Clerk where they shall be available
for public inspection at any time. The minutes of each meeting shall be
published in a legal newspaper of general circulation in the city within 30
days after it is held.
      (2)   The Board shall meet at such times as the City Council may
designate. Special meetings may be held upon the call of the Chairperson or any
three members of the Board. A majority of the Board members shall constitute a
quorum for the transaction of business. It shall be the duty of the Board to
operate any utility owned by the city and to exercise all powers conferred by
law upon the city for the operation of utilities to the same extent as the City
Council, except that the Board shall not make an expenditure other than
ordinary operational expenses exceeding the amount of $40,000 without first
obtaining the approval of the City Council. The Board may, in its discretion
employ a Commissioner to operate one or more of the city utilities and who
shall be under the immediate authority of the Board of Public Works. All
actions of the Board shall be subject to the review and supervision of the City
Council. The Board shall be responsible for making the reports and performing
other duties as the City Council may, from time to time, designate. No member
of the City Council shall serve as a member of the Board of Public Works while
serving a term of office as a member of the City Council. No member of the
Board of Public Works shall serve in the capacity of both the Chairperson and
Secretary of the Board.
(Prior Code, § 2-206)
   (B)   The Board of Public Works shall perform the duties and have the powers
as are provided therefor by the laws of the state, including, but not limited
to, Neb. RS 17-802 through 17-806, 17-808 and 17-810, as amended or superseded.
The Board of Public Works shall have full and complete control, charge and
management of the electric light plant and system, the water plant and system,
the sewer system and the sewage disposal plant. The Board of Public Works shall
exercise alt powers conferred by law upon the city for the operation and
government of the aforementioned utilities to the same extent, in the same
manner and under the same restrictions as the City Council could do, except
that the Board of Public Works shall not make any expenditure or contract any
indebtedness, other than for ordinary running expenses, exceeding in amount
$40,000, without first obtaining approval of the City Council; and provided,
further, that, in any event, before the Board of Public Works shall enter into
any contract for any personal services or for materials, work, building or
improvement, which exceeds $40,000 in cost, an estimate of the cost thereof
shall be made by the City Engineer and submitted to the City Council and no
contract shall be entered into for any construction, work or improvements
without first advertising for bids where the advertisement is required by the
laws of the state, including, but not limited to, Neb. RS 17-568.01(1) and 17-
533, as amended or superseded. Where the advertisement for bids is required, it
shall be carried out in compliance with the laws of the state, including, but
not limited to, Neb. RS 17-533 and 17-568.01(2), as amended or superseded. In
advertising for bids for any work, the City Council, by and through its Board
of Public Works, may cause the amount of the estimate of the City Engineer to
be published therein. The Board of Public Works shall enforce the performance
of all contracts and works with respect to the separate utilities and shall
have charge and custody of all books, property and assets belonging to each
utility. The Board of Public Works shall also exercise other powers and perform
other duties in the superintendence of each utility and the improvement and
repairs thereof as are necessary. The Board of Public Works shall make all
necessary regulations for the government of each of the separate utilities not
inconsistent with the laws of the state or the laws of the city relating
thereto.
(Prior Code, § 2-207)
   (C)   The Board of Public Works shall keep separate books of account for
each utility showing current entries of the receipts and expenditures of the
Board and duplicate vouchers of all its expenditures for each of the utilities,
which records shall, at all times, be open to the examination of the City
Council or a committee thereof. The Board of Public Works shall make a monthly
report of their receipts and expenditures for each separate utility to the City
Council. The audit and report, at the close of the fiscal year, of the
financial transactions and affairs of the public utilities, operating through
the Board of Public Works, shall be entirely separate from the general audit of
the city’s account, at the close of the fiscal year and may be carried out by a
different accountant than the one making the general audit.
(Prior Code, § 2-208)
   (D)   The assessment and collection of rates for power, water, sewer use or
other services furnished and rendered by the separate city utilities shall be
under the control and supervision of the Board of Public Works, subject to the
review and supervision of the City Council. All revenues of the separate city
utilities shall be segregated from all other funds and revenues of the city and
shall be paid and deposited in separate funds, as designated by the Board of
Public Works, the funds to be administered solely by the Board of Public Works,
solely for the purpose of paying the operating expenses of the separate city
utilities, the maintenance and repair of each of the utilities and for paying
the interest on and principal of all revenue bonds or combined revenue bonds of
the utilities; provided that, any surplus funds arising out of the operation of
any of the city utilities by the Board of Public Works may, if not invested
pursuant to the provisions of any other law upon the subject, be invested by
the Board, with the approval of the City Council, as provided by the laws of
the state, including but not limited to, Neb. RS 17-540, 16-691.01 and 17-803,
as amended or superseded. The Board of Public Works shall be bound by the terms
of any ordinance, duly passed and adopted by the City Council, in respect to
all city utility funds in the issuance of bonds and all other matters.
(Prior Code, § 2-209)
   (E)    The Board of Public Works shall not be entitled to or have authority
over any money raised by taxation for street lighting purposes. Funds so raised
shall be under the control to the City Council. The Board of Public Works may,
by mutual contract or agreement with the City Council furnish electric power
for street lighting and water pumping for the operation of the sewage disposal
plant, at rates as may be agreed upon.
(Prior Code, § 2-210)
   (F)   Except as may otherwise be provided by the laws of the state, no
member of the Board of Public Works shall ever be financially interested,
directly or indirectly, in any contract entered into by them on behalf of the
city for more than $10,000 in one year.
(Prior Code, § 2-211)
   (G)   If the Board of Public Works determines that the best interests of the
city and the patrons of the utility will be better or more economically served
thereby, they may pay the City Clerk as ex officio bookkeeper and collector for
one or more of the city utilities under their operation and control and he or
she may be paid a reasonable salary for the extra services required of him or
her in a position in addition to his or her salary as City Clerk.
(Prior Code, § 2-212)
(Ord. 3-99, passed 6-14-1999)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-533, 17-540, 17-543, 17-568.01, 17-611,
17-801 through 17-808, 17-810, 18-301, 19-2903
§ 32.07  BOARD OF HEALTH.
   (A)   The City Council shall appoint a Board of Health which shall consist
of four members. The members of the Board shall include the Mayor, who shall
serve as Chairperson, the President of the City Council and two other members.
One member shall be a physician or health care provider, if one can be found
who is willing to serve. The physician or health care provider, if appointed,
shall be the Board’s medical advisor. If the Mayor has appointed a Chief of
Police, The Chief of Police shall serve on the Board as Secretary and
quarantine officer. The members of the Board shall serve, without compensation,
a one-year term of office, unless reappointed and shall reorganize at the first
meeting in December of each year. No member of the Board of Health shall hold
more than one Board of Health position.
   (B)   The Secretary shall keep full and correct minutes and records of all
meetings and file the same with the City Clerk where they shall be available
for public inspection during office hours. The Board of Health shall be funded
by the City Council from time to time out of the General Fund. A majority of
the Board shall constitute a quorum for the purpose of doing business. The
Board shall meet at the times as the City Council may designate. Special
meetings may be held upon the call of the Chairperson or any two members of the
Board.
   (C)   The Board shall enact rates and regulations, which shall have the full
force and effect of the law, to safeguard the health of the people of the city.
The Board shall enforce the rules and regulations and provide fines and
punishments for any violations thereof. It may regulate, suppress and prevent
the occurrence of nuisances and enforce all laws of the state and ordinances of
the city relating to nuisances and to matters of sanitation which affect the
health and safety of the people. The Board shall regularly inspect the premises
and businesses as the City Council may direct. All members of the Board shall
be responsible for making the reports and performing such other duties as the
City Council may, from time to time, designate.
(Prior Code, § 2-213)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-121
§ 32.08  TREE BOARD.
   (A)    The City Tree Board shall consist of five members, who shall be
residents of the city. Members of the City Tree Board shall be appointed by the
Mayor, by and with the approval of a majority of the members elected to the
City Council. The term of the members of the City Tree Board shall be three
years. Two members shall be appointed or reappointed to the City Tree Board on
each of two successive years. On each year immediately following the second of
the two successive years of appointment, one member shall be appointed or
reappointed to the Tree Board. On each of the two successive years immediately
following that year in which one member shall be appointed to the City Tree
Board, two members shall be appointed or reappointed to the Board, as
hereinabove provided. In the event of any vacancy in the membership of the City
Tree Board, by whatever cause, the vacancy shall be filled by appointment of
the Mayor, by and with approval of a majority of the members elected to the
City Council. The person appointed to fill a vacancy on the City Tree Board
shall hold office for the unexpired term. All members of the City Tree Board
shall serve without compensation, except the City Forester. The City Tree Board
shall make and formulate its own procedural rules and regulations, which shall
be posted in a conspicuous location upon the premises where the proceedings of
the Board are normally conducted and shall keep a journal of all of its
proceedings. A majority of the members of the City Tree Board shall constitute
a quorum for the transaction of business. One member of the city shall be
designated the City Forester and shall serve as Chairperson of the Board.
(Prior Code, § 2-214)
   (B)   (1)   It shall be the duty and responsibility of the City Tree Board
to study, investigate, develop, formulate, up-date annually and administer a
written plan for the care, preservation, pruning, planting, replanting, removal
and disposition of all park trees and street trees within the city and to
present such plan annually to the City Council, which plan shall, upon its
acceptance and approval by the City Council, constitute the official
Comprehensive City Tree Plan of the city. The term PARK TREES, as used herein,
shall mean all trees, shrubs, bushes and all other or different, woody
vegetation situated in all public parks having individual names and all other
or different, areas or tracts of land owned by the City or open to the general
public as a park or public recreational area. The term STREET TREES, as used
herein, shall mean all trees, shrubs, bushes and all other or different, woody
vegetation situated on any land between the property lines on either side of
all streets, avenues, alleys and all other or different, public thoroughfares
within the city. The City Tree Board shall maintain at the office of the City
Clerk a list, approved by a majority of the members of the City Tree Board, of
species of trees, listed by common name, which shall constitute the officially
recognized street trees species for the city, which list shall include a list
of small trees, large trees and others. This list is incorporated by reference
into this section which shall include any amendments or changes to the list.
All trees planted as street trees in the city shall be planted 25 to 35 feet
apart. All trees planted as street trees in the city shall be planted at least
ten feet from all curbs, curb lines; five feet from sidewalks; and ten feet
from driveways. No street trees, other than those species classified as small
trees, shall be planted under or within ten lateral fee of, any overhead
electrical, telephone or other utility wire or line or over or within five
lateral feet of, any underground water, sewer, electrical, telephone or other
utility wire, line or main. Not street tree shall be planted within ten feet,
of any fire plug or with in 35 feet of an intersection of any two or more,
curbs or curb lines. Any and all trees, bushes and shrubs planted or allowed to
become or remain in conflict with the provisions of this section or any parts
or portions hereof, are hereby declared to be a public nuisance and the city
shall be and hereby is, authorized and empowered to institute and prosecute
legal proceedings for the abatement of the same in the manner provided by law.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful for any person, corporation, partnership,
group, firm or entity to trim, prune, treat, care for or sever from any land
and street tree or park tree or any part or portion thereof, in return for any
sum of money or any other thing of value, without first applying for and
obtaining the written consent of the City Forester; provided that, before any
consent shall be given, the City Forester shall require each and every
applicant to furnish certificates of insurance issued by an insurance company
or insurance companies, licensed in the state, showing that each such applicant
has worker’s compensation coverage effective in the state and liability
insurance in the minimum amount of $100,000 for bodily injury to any one
person, $300,000 for bodily injury for any one occurrence and $50,000 property
damage, which will indemnify and hold harmless the city of and from any and all
claims, demands, liabilities and causes of action of every kind, sort or
nature, covering, concerning, relating to, arising from or out of or connected
with any and all acts of the applicant.
      (3)   The city shall have the right to care for, preserve, prune, plant,
re-plant, maintain, remove cause to be removed, order to be removed and
disposed of all street trees and all park trees, at such times, for such
reasons and in such manners as the city may, in its sole and absolute
discretion, decide from time to time. It shall be unlawful for any person to
obstruct, delay, impede or interfere with the City Tree Board or any of its
members, agents and servants or any other agents, servants or employees of the
city while engaging in or performing, any duties or activities authorized,
empowered, ordered or directed by, under or pursuant to this section or any
part or portion thereof. Any person who willfully fails, refuses or neglects to
comply with any part, portion or provision of the section shall be deemed
guilty of an offense. A new violation shall be deemed to have been committed
every 24 hours of any failure, refusal or neglect to comply with any parts,
portions or provisions of this section.
      (4)   The City Council shall have the right to review any and all acts,
conduct, rulings, orders and decisions of the City Tree Board; and any person
may appeal any act, conduct, ruling, order or decision of the City Tree Board
to the City Council, which shall hear and decide the appeal within a reasonable
time. The City Tree Board shall, from time to time, as requested by the City
Council, study, consider and investigate and make findings, reports and
recommendations upon or concerning any and all matters, items and things coming
within, concerning or relating to the duties and responsibilities.
(Prior Code, § 2-215)
   (C)   (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to top any tree on city-
owned land or public road right-of-way.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful for any person working for hire to top any
tree on public land within the corporate limits of the city.
      (3)   The term TOP or TOPPING is defined as removing the vertical leader
stems and cutting the tree limbs back to a stub, bud or a later branch not
large enough to assume a terminal role, resulting in decay of the trunk and/or
main branches and sprout production. Usually involves removing more than one
third the tree canopy.
(Prior Code, § 2-215.01)  Penalty, see §
10.99
(Ord. 8-04, passed 7-12-2004; Ord. 10-04, passed 7-12-2004)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-555
§ 32.09  JOINT HOUSING AUTHORITY.
   (A)   (1)   Any two or more cities, villages or counties or any combination
thereof, may by resolution of their separate governing bodies, determine that
there is a need for a Joint Housing Authority to provide decent, safe and
sanitary housing for persons of low income living in a multi-jurisdictional
area and that this need would be more efficiently served by the establishment
of the Joint Housing Authority. The Joint Housing Authority shall have
perpetual existence; except that any city, village or county as the case may
be, may withdraw from participation in the Joint Housing Authority by
resolution of its City Council only under conditions set out in state law. The
area of operation of the Joint Housing Authority would be an area equivalent to
the total areas of operation which the housing authorities, if created
separately by cities, villages or counties establishing the joint authority
would have. The creation of subsequent housing authorities shall not affect the
area of operation or territorial jurisdiction of any existing housing
authority. Whenever a Joint Housing Authority is created, it shall bear such
name as the political subdivision or subdivisions creating it shall choose and
such name shall include the words Joint Housing Authority.
      (2)   When it is determined by resolution of the governing bodies of two
or more cities, villages or counties or any combination thereof, that it is
expedient to create a Joint Housing Authority and to participate therein, the
governing bodies shall appoint persons who shall be residents of the area of
operations of the Authority and who shall constitute the Joint Housing
Authority and the persons shall be called Commissioners. The Commissioners
shall be appointed as follows:
         (a)   When two political subdivisions constitute the participating
members in the Joint Authority, each shall appoint two persons to act as
Commissioners and the Commissioners shall elect a fifth person to act as a
Commissioner;
         (b)   When three political subdivisions constitute the participating
members in the Joint Authority, each shall appoint one person to act as a
Commissioner and the Commissioners shall elect a fourth and fifth person to act
as Commissioners;
         (c)   When four political subdivisions constitute the participating
members in the Joint Authority, each shall appoint one person to act as
Commissioner and the Commissioners shall elect a fifth person to act as a
Commissioner; and
         (d)   When five or more political subdivisions constitute the
participating members in the Joint Authority, each shall appoint one person to
act as Commissioner.
      (3)   Each Commissioner shall serve a term of five years from the date of
his or her appointment. All vacancies shall be filled for the unexpired term by
the entity originally appointing the Commissioner. Tenancy in a project
established by a Joint Housing Authority shall not preclude the appointment of
any person to serve as a Commissioner of the Joint Housing Authority. After a
Joint Housing Authority has been created, additional political subdivisions may
elect to participate as members of the Joint Housing Authority after compliance
with Neb. RS 71-1523, if the majority of existing Commissioners in the Joint
Housing Authority and all participating political subdivisions by their
respective governing bodies consent to the additional member. A Joint Housing
Authority having 12 or more Commissioners may, by resolution, establish an
Executive Committee of at least five, but not more than seven, Commissioners.
The Committee shall have the powers over the management and operation of the
Joint Housing Authority as the Commissioners of the Joint Housing Authority
shall specify and shall declare in the resolution. No person shall serve as a
Commissioner unless he or she resides within the area of operation of the Joint
Housing Authority involved.
(Prior Code, § 2-216)
   (B)   (1)   The local housing authority established under prior state law
and in existence on 1-1-2000 shall have continued existence as a housing agency
under the State Housing Agency Act.
      (2)   The local housing agency shall conduct its operations consistent
with the State Housing Agency Act. All property, rights in land, buildings,
records and equipment and any funds, money, revenue, receipts or assets of the
authority belong to the agency as successor. All obligations, debts,
commitments and liabilities of the authority are obligations, debts,
commitments and liabilities of the successor agency.
      (3)   Any resolution by the authority and any action taken by the
authority prior to 1-1-2000, with regard to any project or program which is to
be completed within or to be conducted for a 12-month period following 1-1-2000
and which resolution or action is lawful under state law as it existed prior to
1-1-2000, is a lawful resolution or action of the successor agency and binding
upon the successor agency and enforceable by or against the agency
notwithstanding that the resolution or action is inconsistent with, not
authorized by or prohibited under the provisions of the State Housing Agency
Act.
      (4)   All commissioners of the local housing agency and all officers,
legal counsel, technical experts, directors and other appointees or employees
of the agency holding office or employment by virtue of any prior law on 1-1-
2000, shall be deemed to have been appointed or employed under the State
Housing Agency Act.
(Prior Code, § 2-217)
Statutory reference:
   Local housing agencies, see Neb. RS 71-1572 through 71-1580
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 71-1576
§ 32.10  COMMUNITY REDEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY.
   Pursuant to Neb. RS 18-2101 et seq., there is hereby created a community
redevelopment authority which shall be known as the “Community Redevelopment
Authority of the City of Auburn”. The Authority may exercise all of the power
and authority granted to a community redevelopment authority under Neb. RS 18-
2101 to 18-2144. Within 90 days after passage of this section, the Mayor, with
the approval of the City Council, shall appoint five persons who shall
constitute the Authority. The terms of the members of the Authority initially
appointed shall be for one year, two years, three years, four years and five
years, as designated by the Mayor in making the respective appointments. As the
terms of the members of the Authority expire, the Mayor, with the approval of
the City Council, shall appoint or reappoint a member of the Authority for a
term of five years to succeed the member whose term expires. Vacancies shall be
filled for any unexpired term in the same manner as the original appointment.
Members of the Authority so appointed shall hold office until their successors
have been appointed and qualified. All members of the Authority shall serve
without compensation, but shall be entitled to be reimbursed for all necessary
expenses incurred. The Authority shall organize by electing such statutory
officers as may be necessary. No member or employee of the Authority shall have
any interest directly or indirectly in any contract for property, materials or
services to be required by the Authority. The Authority shall keep an accurate
account of all its activities and of all receipts and disbursements and shall
make at least an annual report of its activities, receipts and disbursements to
the Mayor and City Council.
(Prior Code, § 2-218)  (Ord. 6-01, passed 6-11-2001)
CHAPTER 33:  FIRE DEPARTMENT
Section
   
33.01   Funding and operation
   
33.02   Membership
   
33.03   Records
   
33.04   Inspections
   
33.05   Notice of violation
   
33.06   Fires
   
33.07   Fires outside the corporate limits
   
33.08   Mandatory assistance
   
33.09   Fire investigation
   
33.10   Limitation of liability
§ 33.01  FUNDING AND OPERATION.
   (A)   The city operates the City Fire Department through the City Fire Chief
and firefighters. The City Council shall have the power and authority to levy a
special tax, not exceeding the maximum limits therefor as prescribed by state
law, upon the assessed value of all the taxable property in the city, except
intangible property, for the purposes of purchasing and maintaining equipment,
including rescue or emergency first aid equipment, for a City Fire Department,
purchasing real estate for fire station quarters or for erection, building,
alteration or repairing of fire station quarters, for purchasing, installing
and equipping a fire alarm or communication system or the payment of bonds
authorized by Neb. RS 18-1202. The City Council may annually levy a tax, not
exceeding the maximum limits therefor as prescribed by state law, upon the
assessed value of all the taxable property within the city, except intangible
property, for the regular maintenance and benefit of the voluntary City Fire
Department and the revenue from the tax shall, at all times, be in the
possession of the City Treasurer shall disburse revenues from the Fire
Department Fund upon the order of the City Fire Chief, with the approval of the
City Council.
   (B)   The City Fire Chief shall manage the City Fire Department and it shall
be his or her duty to inform the City Council when any of the fire engines,
hose ladders or other apparatus needs repair or replacement and, upon written
consent and directive of the City Council, the City Fire Chief shall cause the
repair, improvement or maintenance of the equipment and shall personally
supervise and approve of the same.
(Prior Code, § 3-201)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-147, 17-718, 17-953, 18-1201, 18-1202
§ 33.02  MEMBERSHIP.
   (A)   The Fire Department shall consist of so many members as may be decided
by the City Council. The members may organize themselves in any way they may
decide, subject to the review of the City Council. The Fire Chief shall appoint
no more than 25 members for each Fire Department company subject to the review
and approval of the City Council. All vacancies shall be filled in this manner.
   (B)   All members of the Fire Department shall be subject to such rules and
regulations and shall perform such duties, as may be prescribed or required of
them by the Fire Chief or the City Council. The members of the Fire Department
shall, during the time of a fire or great public danger, have and exercise the
powers and duties of police officers and shall have full power and authority to
arrest all persons guilty of any violation of the city code or the laws of the
state.
   (C)   Members of the Fire Department may hold meetings and engage in social
activities with the approval of the City Council. The Secretary shall, upon
request, keep a record of all meetings and shall make a report to the City
Council of all meetings and activities of the Fire Department.
   (D)   Members of the Fire Department shall be considered to be employees of
the city for the purpose of providing them with workers’ compensation and other
benefits. The City Council may compensate or reimburse any member of the Fire
Department for expenses incurred in carrying out his or her duties in an amount
set by resolution.
   (E)   The City Council shall purchase and maintain in force a policy of
group term life insurance to age 65 covering the lives of all of the city’s
active volunteer fire and rescue personnel, except that when any person serves
more than one city or rural or suburban fire protection district, the policy
shall be purchased only by the first city or district which he or she serves.
The policy shall provide a minimum death benefit of $10,000 for death from any
cause and shall, at the option of the insured, be convertible to a permanent
form of life insurance at age 65. The coverage of the policy shall terminate as
to any individual who ceases to be an active volunteer member of the Fire
Department of the city.
   (F)   For purposes of Neb. RS 33-139.01, volunteer firefighters and rescue
squad members testifying as witnesses in that capacity alone shall not be
deemed employees of the city.
(Prior Code, § 3-202)  (Ord. 1-04, passed 4-12-2004)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 35-108
§ 33.03  RECORDS.
   The Fire Chief shall keep or cause to be kept a record of all meetings of
the Fire Department, the attendance record of all members, a record of all
fires and shall make a full report of the records to the City Clerk during the
last week in April each year. The record of any fire shall include the cause,
origin, circumstances, property involved and whether criminal conduct may have
been involved. In the event of sizable property damage, he or she shall include
the information of whether the losses were covered by insurance and if so, in
what amount. All records shall be available to the public at any reasonable
time.
(Prior Code, § 3-203)
§ 33.04  INSPECTIONS.
    It shall be the duty of the Fire Chief, when directed to do so by the City
Council, to inspect or cause to be inspected by Fire Department officers,
members or some other official to inspect as often as may be necessary, but not
less than two times a year in outlying districts and four times a year within
the fire limits, all buildings, premises and public thoroughfares, except the
interiors of private dwellings, for the purpose of ascertaining and causing to
be corrected any conditions liable to create a fire hazard. The inspection
shall be of the storage, sale and use of flammable liquids, combustibles and
explosives; electric wiring and heating; and the means and adequacy of exits,
in case of fire in schools, churches, hotels, halls, theaters, factories,
hospitals and all other buildings in which numbers of persons congregate from
time to time for any purpose whether publicly or privately owned; the design,
construction, location, installation and operation of equipment for storing,
handling and utilizing of liquified petroleum gases, specifying the odorization
of the gases and the degree thereof; and chemicals, prozylin plastics,
nitrocellulose films or any other hazardous material that may now or hereafter
exist.
(Prior Code, § 3-204)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 81-512
§ 33.05  NOTICE OF VIOLATION.
   Upon the finding that the city code has been violated, the Fire Chief shall
notify or cause to be notified, the owner, occupant or manager of the premise
where a violation has occurred. Notice may be made personally or by delivering
a copy to the premise and affixing it to the door of the main entrance of the
premise. Whenever it may be necessary to serve an order upon the owner, the
order may be served personally or by mailing a copy to the owner’s last known
post office address if the owner is absent from the jurisdiction. Any order
shall be immediately complied with by the owner, occupant or manager of the
premise or building. The owner, occupant or manager may, within five days after
the order by the Chief of the Fire Department of his or her agent, appeal the
order with the City Council requesting a review and it shall be the duty of the
City Council to hear the same within not less than five days, nor more than ten
days, from the time when the request was filed in writing with the City Clerk.
The City Council shall then affirm, modify or rescind the order as safety and
justice may require and the decision shall then be final, subject only to any
remedy which the aggrieved person may have at law or equity. The order shall be
modified or rescinded only where it is evident that reasonable safety exists
and that conditions necessitate a variance due to the probable hardship in
complying literally with the order of the Fire Chief. A copy of any decision so
made shall be sent to both the Fire Chief and the owner, occupant or manager
making the appeal. Failure to comply with the order within the time prescribed
shall be cause for the City Council to notify the State Fire Marshal of the
violation and shall entitle the City Council to all legal remedies available to
abate the fire hazard.
(Prior Code, § 3-205)
§ 33.06  FIRES.
   It shall be the duty of the Fire Department to use all proper means for the
extinguishment of fires; to protect property within the city; and to secure the
observance of all ordinances, laws and other rules and regulations with respect
to fires and fire prevention.
(Prior Code, § 3-206)
§ 33.07  FIRES OUTSIDE THE CORPORATE LIMITS.
   The City Fire Department is hereby authorized to provide fire and emergency
service outside of the corporate limits of the city. All members of the City
Fire Department shall be considered and held as acting in the performance and
within the scope of their regular line of duties in fighting fire or saving
property or life outside of the corporate limits or the city, when directed to
do so by the City Fire Chief or by some person authorized to act for the Chief.
In the event that the City Fire Department does engage in providing fire and
emergency service outside of the corporate limits or the city, the Department
may take and employ the fire equipment of the city as may be designated by the
City Council.
(Prior Code, § 3-207)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 18-1706, 18-1708, 48-115(d)
§ 33.08  MANDATORY ASSISTANCE.
   The City Fire Chief or his or her assistant in charge of operations at a
fire, may command the assistance of any person present at the scene of any fire
in extinguishing the same or in the removal and protection of property and any
person so commanded who willfully fails, neglects or refuses to obey the
command shall be guilty of a crime and shall upon conviction thereof, be
punished by a fine not exceeding $100.
(Prior Code, § 3-208)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-147, 17-505
§ 33.09  FIRE INVESTIGATION.
   It shall be the duty of the Fire Department to investigate or cause to be
investigated, the cause, origin and circumstances of every fire occurring in
the city in which property has been destroyed or damaged in excess of $50. All
fires of unknown origin shall be reported and the officers shall especially
make an investigation and report as to whether the fire was the result of
carelessness, accident or design. The investigation shall be begun within two
days of the occurrence of the fire and the State Fire Marshal shall have the
right to supervise and direct the investigation whenever he or she deems it
expedient or necessary. The officer making the investigation of fires occurring
within the city shall immediately notify the State Fire Marshal and shall,
within one week of the occurrence of the fire, furnish him or her with a
written statement of all the facts relating to the cause and origin of the fire
and such further information as he or she may call for.
(Prior Code, § 3-209)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 81-506
§ 33.10  LIMITATION OF LIABILITY.
   No member of the City Fire Department shall be liable in any civil action to
respond in damages as the result or the acts of commission or omission arising
out of and in the course of his or her rendering in good faith emergency public
first aid and rescue services as the member, but the immunity from liability
shall not extend to the operation of any motor vehicle in the connection with
the activities. Nothing in this chapter shall be deemed to grant any immunity
to any person causing damage by his or her willful or wanton acts of commission
or omission.
(Prior Code, § 3-210)
CHAPTER 34:  POLICE DEPARTMENT
Section
   
34.01   Duties
   
34.02   Reserve officer bond
   
34.03   Arrest and enforcement jurisdiction
   
34.04   Officers; discipline or removal from duty
Cross-reference:
   Removal of police officers, see §§
31.053,
31.065 and
31.073
§ 34.01  DUTIES.
   The Police Department shall consist of the City  Police Chief and such
further number of regular police officers as may be duly ordered by resolution
of the City Council. The City Police Chief shall, subject to the direction of
the City Council, have control and management of all matters relating to the
Police Department, its officers and members and shall have the custody and
control of all property and books belonging to the Police Department. The City
Police Chief shall devote his or her full time to the city affairs, interests
of the city and to the preservation of the peace, order, safety and cleanliness
thereof. The Police Department shall execute and enforce all laws and all
lawful orders of the City Council. It shall be the duty of the Police
Department to protect the rights of persons and property. There shall be a
proper police force at all fires. The Police Department shall take notice of
all nuisances, impediments obstructions and defects in the streets, alleys,
business places and residences of the city. The Police Department shall execute
or cause to be executed, the processes issues and shall cause all persons
arrested to be brought before the proper court for trial as speedily as
possible. The City Police Chief and all regular and special police officers
shall be expected to be conversant and knowledgeable with the city and state
laws.
(Prior Code, § 3-401)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-107, 17-118, 17-124
§ 34.02  RESERVE OFFICER BOND.
   No appointment of a law enforcement reserve officer shall be valid until a
bond in the amount of $2,000, payable to the city, has been filed with the City
Clerk by the individual appointed or a blanket surety bond arranged and paid
for by the City Council and bonding all such officers of the City Council has
been filed. The bonds shall be subject to the provisions of Neb. RS Ch. 11,
Art. 11.
(Prior Code, § 3-402)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 81-1444
§ 34.03  ARREST AND ENFORCEMENT JURISDICTION.
   (A)   Every city law enforcement officer has the power and authority to
enforce the laws of the state and the city or otherwise perform the functions
of that office anywhere within his or her primary jurisdiction. Primary
jurisdiction means the geographic area within territorial limits of the city.
   (B)   Any city law enforcement officer who is within this state, but beyond
his or her primary jurisdiction, has the power and authority to enforce the
laws of this state or any legal ordinance of any city or incorporated village
or otherwise perform the functions of his or her office, including the
authority to arrest and detain suspects, as if enforcing the laws or performing
the functions within his or her primary jurisdiction in the following cases:
      (1)   Any city law enforcement officer, if in a fresh attempt to
apprehend a person suspected of committing a felony, may follow the person into
any other jurisdiction in this state and there arrest and detain the person and
return the person to the officer’s primary jurisdiction;
      (2)   Any city law enforcement officer, if in a fresh attempt to
apprehend a person suspected of committing a misdemeanor or a traffic
infraction, may follow the person anywhere in an area within 25 miles of the
boundaries of the officer’s primary jurisdiction and there arrest and detain
the person and return the person to the officer’s primary jurisdiction;
      (3)   Any city law enforcement officer has such enforcement and arrest
and detention authority when responding to a call in which a local, state or
federal law enforcement officer is in need of assistance. A law enforcement
officer in need of assistance shall mean:
         (a)   A law enforcement officer whose life is in danger; or
         (b)   A law enforcement officer who needs assistance in making an
arrest and the suspect:
            1.   Will not be apprehended unless immediately arrested;
            2.   May cause injury to himself or herself or others or damage to
property unless
immediately arrested; or
            3.   May destroy or conceal evidence of the commission of a crime;
and
      (4)   If the city, under the provisions of the Interlocal Cooperation Act
or the Joint Public Agency Act, enters into a contract with any other city or
county for law enforcement services or joint law enforcement services, law
enforcement personnel may have the enforcement authority within the
jurisdiction of each of the participating political subdivisions if provided
for in the agreement. Unless otherwise provided in the agreement, the city
shall provide liability insurance coverage for its own law enforcement
personnel as provided in Neb. RS 13-1802.
   (C)   When probable cause exists to believe that a person is operating or in
the actual physical control of any motor vehicle, motorboat or aircraft while
under the influence of alcoholic liquor or of any drug or otherwise in
violation of Neb. RS 28-1465, 28-1466, 28-1472, 37-1254.01, 37-1254.02, 60-
4,163, 60-4,164, 60-6,196, 60-6,197, 60-6,211.01 or 60-6,211.02, a city law
enforcement officer has the power and authority to do any of the following or
any combination thereof:
      (1)   Transport the person to a facility outside of the law enforcement
officer’s primary jurisdiction for appropriate chemical testing of the person;
      (2)   Administer outside of the law enforcement officer’s primary
jurisdiction any post-arrest test advisement to the person; or
      (3)   With respect to the person, perform other procedures or functions
outside of the law enforcement officer’s primary jurisdiction which are
directly and solely related to enforcing the laws that concern a person
operating or being in the actual physical control of any motor vehicle,
motorboat or aircraft while under the influence of alcoholic liquor or of any
other drug or otherwise in violation of Neb. RS 28-1465, 28-1466, 28-1472, 37-
1254.01, 37-1254.02, 60-4,163, 60-4,164, 60-6,196, 60-6,197, 60-6,211.01 or 60-
6,211.02.
   (D)   If city law enforcement personnel are rendering aid in their law
enforcement capacity outside the limits of the: city in the event of disaster,
emergency or civil defense emergency or in connection with any program of
practice or training for the disaster, emergency or civil defense emergency
when such program is conducted or participated in by the State Emergency
Management Agency or with any other related training program, the law
enforcement personnel have the power and authority to enforce the laws of the
state or any legal ordinances or resolutions of the local government where they
are rendering aid or otherwise perform the functions of their office, including
the authority to arrest and detain suspects, as if enforcing the laws or
performing the functions within their primary jurisdiction. The city shall
self-insure or contract for insurance against any liability for personal
injuries or property damage that may be incurred by it or by its personnel as
the result of any movement made pursuant to this section.
(Prior Code, § 3-403)  (Ord. 1-04, passed 4-12-2004)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 29-215
§ 34.04  OFFICERS; DISCIPLINE OR REMOVAL FROM DUTY.
   (A)   (1)   The City Council shall by ordinance adopt rules and regulations
governing the removal or discipline of any police officer, including the Chief
of Police. The ordinance shall include a procedure for making application for
an appeal, specifications on the period of time within which such application
shall be made, and provisions on the manner in which the appeals hearing shall
be conducted.
      (2)   Both the police officer and the individual imposing the
disciplinary action shall have the right at the hearing to be heard and to
present evidence to the Council for its consideration.
      (3)   Not later than 30 days following the adjournment of the meeting at
which the hearing was held, the Council shall vote to uphold, reverse, or
modify the removal or disciplinary action. The failure of the Council to act
within 30 days or the failure of a majority of the elected Council members to
vote to reverse or modify the removal or disciplinary action shall be construed
as a vote to uphold the removal or disciplinary action. The decision of the
Council shall be based upon its determination that, under the facts and
evidence presented at the hearing, the challenged removal or disciplinary
action was necessary for the proper management and the effective operation of
the Police Department in the performance of its duties under the statutes of
the state.
      (4)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to prevent the pre-
emptory suspension or immediate removal from duty of an officer by the
appropriate authority, pending the hearing authorized by this division, in
cases of gross misconduct, neglect of duty, or disobedience of orders.
(Neb. RS 17-107)
   (B)   (1)   Except as provided otherwise in an ordinance adopted by the
Council, the procedures specified in this division (B) shall constitute the
rules and regulations required by Neb. RS 17-107.
      (2)   No police officer, including the Chief of Police, shall be
disciplined, suspended, demoted, removed, or discharged except upon written
notice stating the reasons for such disciplinary action, suspension, demotion,
removal, or discharge.  Such notice shall also contain a statement informing
the police officer of his or her right to a hearing before the City Council.
      (3)   Any police officer so disciplined, suspended, demoted, removed, or
discharged may, within ten days after being notified of such disciplinary
action, suspension, demotion, removal, or discharge, file with the City Clerk a
written demand for a hearing before the City Council.  The Council shall set
the matter for hearing not less than ten nor more than 20 days after the filing
of the written demand for a hearing.  The Council shall give the police officer
written notice of the hearing not less than seven days prior to the hearing.
      (4)   At the hearing, the police officer shall have the right to:
         (a)   Respond in person to the charges and to present witnesses and
documentary evidence;
         (b)   Confront and cross-examine available adverse witnesses; and
         (c)   To be represented by counsel.
CHAPTER 35:  ORDINANCES
Section
   
35.01   Grant of power
   
35.02   Introduction
   
35.03   Orders; bylaws; reading; passage
   
35.04   Passages
   
35.05   Style
   
35.06   Title
   
35.07   Effective date; emergency ordinances
   
35.08   Publication or posting
   
35.09   Certificate of publication
   
35.10   Amendments; revisions
§ 35.01  GRANT OF POWER.
   The City Council may make all ordinances, bylaws, rules, regulations and
resolutions, not inconsistent with the laws of the state, as may be expedient
for maintaining the peace, good government and welfare of the city and its
trade, commerce and manufacturing.
(Prior Code, § 1-601)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-505
§ 35.02  INTRODUCTION.
   Ordinances shall be introduced by members of the City Council in one of the
following ways:
   (A)   With the recognition of the Mayor, a member may, in the presence and
hearing of a majority of the members elected to the City Council, announce his
or her introduction of the proposed ordinance and file a copy with the City
Clerk for future consideration; or
   (B)   With the recognition of the Mayor, a member may present the proposed
ordinance to the Clerk, who, in the presence and hearing of a majority of the
members elected to the City Council, shall announce the introduction of the
proposed ordinance and file it for future consideration.
(Prior Code, § 1-602)
§ 35.03  ORDERS; BYLAWS; READING; PASSAGE.
   Ordinances of a general or permanent nature shall be read by title on three
different days unless three-fourths of the City Council vote to suspend this
requirement; except that, the requirement shall not be suspended for any
ordinance for the annexation of territory. In case the requirement is
suspended, the ordinance shall be read by title and then moved for final
passage. Three-fourths of the City Council may require a reading of any
ordinance in full before enactment under either procedure set out in this
section. All ordinances and resolutions or orders for the appropriation or
payment of money shall require for their passage or adoption the concurrence of
a majority of all members elected to the City Council. On the passage or
adoption of every bylaw or ordinance and every resolution or order to enter
into a contract by the City Council, the yeas and nays shall be called and
recorded. To pass or adopt any bylaw, ordinance or any such resolution or
order, a concurrence of a majority of the whole number of members elected to
the City Council shall be required. All appointments of the officers by the
City Council shall be made viva voce; and the concurrence of a like majority
shall be required and the names of those and for whom they voted, on the vote
resulting in an appointment, shall be recorded. The requirements of a roll call
or viva voce vote shall be satisfied by a city which utilizes an electronic
voting device which allows the yeas and nays of each member of the City Council
to be readily seen by the public.
(Prior Code, § 1-603)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-614, 17-616
§ 35.04  PASSAGES.
   Ordinances, resolutions or orders for the appropriation of money shall
require for their adoption a concurrence of the majority of the members of the
City Council. Ordinances of a general or permanent nature shall be read by the
title on three different days unless three-fourths of the City Council vote to
suspend this requirement; except that, the requirement shall not be suspended
for any ordinance for the annexation of territory. In case the requirement is
suspended, the ordinance shall be read by title and then moved for final
passage. Three-fourths of the Council may require any ordinance to be read in
full before final passage under either process.
(Prior Code, § 1-604)  (Ord. 9-95, passed 8-7-1995)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-614
§ 35.05  STYLE.
   The style of all city ordinances shall be: “Be it ordained by the Mayor and
Council of the City of Auburn, Nebraska”.
(Prior Code, § 1-605)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-613
§ 35.06  TITLE.
   No ordinance shall contain a subject not clearly expressed in its title,
except as provided by the laws of the state, including, but not limited to,
Neb. RS 17-614, as amended or superseded.
(Prior Code, § 1-606)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-614
§ 35.07  EFFECTIVE DATE; EMERGENCY ORDINANCES.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (B) below, an ordinance for the
government of the city which has been adopted by the City Council without
submission to the voters of the city shall not go into effect until 15 days
after the passage of the ordinance.
   (B)   In the case of riot, infectious or contagious diseases or other
impending danger, failure of a public utility or any other emergency requiring
its immediate operation, an ordinance shall take effect upon the proclamation
of the Mayor and the posting thereof in at least three of the most public
places in the city. The emergency ordinance shall recite the emergency, be
passed by a three-fourths vote of the City Council and be entered of record on
the City Clerk’s minutes.
(Prior Code, § 1-607)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-613, 19-3701
§ 35.08  PUBLICATION OR POSTING.
   All ordinances of a general nature shall, before they take effect, be
published one time within 15 days after they are passed:
   (A)   In some newspaper published in the city or, if no paper is published
in the city, then by posting a written or printed copy in each of three public
places in the city; or
   (B)   In book or pamphlet form.
(Prior Code, § 1-608)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-613
§ 35.09  CERTIFICATE OF PUBLICATION.
   The passage, approval and publication or posting of all ordinances shall be
sufficiently proved by a certificate under the seal of the city from the City
Clerk, showing that the ordinances were passed and approved and when and in
what newspaper the same was published or when and by whom and where the same
was posted. When ordinances are printed in book or pamphlet form, purporting to
be published by authority of the City Council, the same need not otherwise be
published and the book or pamphlet shall be received as evidence of the passage
and legal publication of the ordinances as of the dates mentioned in the book
or pamphlet.
(Prior Code, § 1-609)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-613
§ 35.10  AMENDMENTS; REVISIONS.
   No ordinance or section thereof shall be revised or amended unless the new
ordinance contains the entire ordinance or section as revised or amended and
the ordinance or section so amended is repealed; except that, an ordinance
revising all the ordinances of the city and modifications to zoning or building
districts may be adopted as otherwise provided by law.
(Prior Code, § 1-610)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-614
CHAPTER 36:  ELECTIONS
Section
   
36.01   Generally; term of office
   
36.02   Officers; certifications required
   
36.03   Primary elections; effect of number of candidates filing; preparation
of ballots
   
36.04   Wards
   
36.05   Special elections
   
36.06   Petition, write-in and other candidates for general election ballot;
procedures
   
36.07   Candidate qualifications
   
36.08   Exit polls
   
36.09   Candidate filing forms; deadlines, filing officer
§ 36.01  GENERALLY; TERM OF OFFICE.
   (A)   (1)   All city issues and offices shall be combined on the statewide
primary and general election ballots whenever possible.
      (2)   The issuance of separate ballots shall be avoided in a statewide
election if city offices or issues can reasonably be combined with the
nonpartisan ballot and state law does not require otherwise.
      (3)   All city elections involving the election of officers shall be held
in accordance with the Election Act and in conjunction with the statewide
primary or general election.
   (B)   When the city holds an election in conjunction with the statewide
primary or general election, the election shall be held as provided in the
Election Act. Any other election held by the city shall be held as provided in
the Election Act unless otherwise provided by the city’s Charter, code or
bylaws.
   (C)   All elected officers of the city shall serve a term of four years and
until their successors are elected and have qualified.
(Prior Code, § 1-701)  (Ord. 1-05, passed 1-10-2005)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 32-404, 32-556
§ 36.02  OFFICERS; CERTIFICATIONS REQUIRED.
   No later than January 5 of each even-numbered year, the City Council shall
certify to the Election Commissioner or the County Clerk, on forms prescribed
by the official, the name of the city, the number of officers to be elected,
the length of the terms of office, the vacancies to be filled by election and
length of remaining term and the number of votes to be cast by a registered
voter for each office.
(Prior Code, § 1-702)  (Ord. 1-05, passed 1-10-2005)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 32-404
§ 36.03  PRIMARY ELECTIONS; EFFECT OF NUMBER OF CANDIDATES FILING; PREPARATION
OF BALLOTS.
   (A)   If the number of candidates properly filed for nomination at the
primary election does not exceed two for each vacancy to be filled, all
candidates properly filed shall be considered nominated and no primary election
for their nomination shall be required.
   (B)   When more than one person becomes a candidate by filing a petition or
write-in procedures for the same position in the primary, the County Clerk, in
preparing the official ballot for the general election shall place thereon the
names of the persons who received the greatest number of votes in the primary,
but in no event shall the names on the general election ballot be more then
twice the number of vacancies to be filled at the general election.
   (C)   The County Clerk shall place the names of the candidates on the
general election ballot in the direct order according to the number of votes
received at the primary election. If no primary election was held, the names of
the candidates shall be placed upon the general election ballot in the order of
their filing.
(Prior Code, § 1-703)
§ 36.04  WARDS.
   (A)   The city shall be divided into three wards.
   (B)   The wards of the city shall be redistricted, using the most recent
federal census report, in order to ensure that each ward is substantially equal
in population. The three wards of the city shall be and are hereby construed as
follows:
      (1)   First Ward. All that portion of the city lying south of the north
corporate limit line, as it runs east and west, south to the center line of
14th Street, as it runs east and west, from corporate limit line to corporate
limit line; but excluding the Nemaha County Good Samaritan Center and all of
Census Tract 9682, Block 4010. The above description herein shall be and hereby
constitutes the First Ward.
      (2)   Second Ward. All that portion of the city lying south of the south
boundary of the First Ward (as stated in division (A)(1) above), as the same
runs east and west from corporate limit line to corporate limit line,  south to
the center line of 20th Street, as the same runs east and west, and including
all of Census Block  9682, Block 2019, the Nemaha County Good Samaritan Center
and all of Census Tract 9682, Block 4010, and all or any portion of Census
Tract 9682, Block 2006 within corporate limits; but excluding  all of Census
Tract 9682, Block 4039.  The above description herein shall be and hereby
constitutes the Second Ward.
      (3)   Third Ward.  All that portion of the city lying south of the south
boundary line of the Second Ward (as stated in division (A)(2) above), as the
same runs east and west from corporate limit line to corporate limit line,
south to the south corporate limit line of the city, as the same runs to the
east and west corporate limit lines, and including all of  Census Tract 9682,
Block 4039.  The above description herein shall be and hereby constitutes the
Third Ward.
(Prior Code, § 1-704)  (Ord. 4-94, passed 4-4-1994; Ord. 37-11, passed 10-25-
2011)
§ 36.05  SPECIAL ELECTIONS.
   (A)   (1)   Except as provided in Neb. RS 77-3444, any issue to be submitted
to the registered voters at a special election by the city shall be certified
by the City Clerk to the Election Commissioner or County Clerk at least 50 days
prior to the election. A special election may be held by mail as provided in
Neb. RS 32-952 through 32-959. Any other special election shall be subject to
division (B) of this section.
      (2)   In lieu of submitting the issue at a special election, the city may
submit the issue at a statewide primary or general election or at any scheduled
county election, except that no such issue shall be submitted at a statewide
election or scheduled county election unless the issue to be submitted has been
certified by the City Clerk to the Election Commissioner or County Clerk by
March 1 for the primary election and by September 1 for the general election.
      (3)   After the Election Commissioner or County Clerk has received the
certification of the issue to be submitted, he or she shall be responsible for
all matters relating to the submission of the issue to the registered voters,
except that the City Clerk shall be responsible for the publication or posting
of any required special notice of the submission of the issue other than the
notice required to be given of the statewide election issues. The Election
Commissioner or County Clerk shall prepare the ballots and issue absentee
ballots and shall also conduct the submission of the issue, including the
receiving and counting of ballots on the issue. The election returns shall be
made to the Election Commissioner or County Clerk. The ballots, including
absentee ballots, shall be counted and canvassed at the same time an in the
same manner as the other ballots. Upon completion of the canvass of the vote by
the County Canvassing Board, the Election Commissioner or County Clerk shall
certify the election results to the City Council. The canvass by the County
Canvassing Board shall have the same force and effect as if made by the City
Council.
   (B)   Any special election under the Election Act shall be held on the first
Tuesday following the second Monday of the selected month unless otherwise
specifically provided. No special election shall be held under the Election Act
in April, May, June, October, November or December of an even-numbered year
unless it is held in conjunction with the statewide primary or general
election.
(Prior Code, § 1-706)  (Ord. 1-04, passed 4-12-2004)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 32-405, 32-559
§ 36.06  PETITION, WRITE-IN AND OTHER CANDIDATES FOR GENERAL ELECTION BALLOT;
PROCEDURES.
   (A)   (1)   Any registered voter who was not a candidate in the primary
election and who was not registered to vote with a party affiliation on or
before March 1 in the calendar year of the general election may have his or her
name placed on the general election ballot for a partisan office by filing
petitions as prescribed in this section and Neb. RS 32-621 or by nomination by
political party convention or committee pursuant to Neb. RS 32-627 or 32-710.
      (2)   Any candidate who was defeated in the primary election and any
registered voter who was not a candidate in the primary election may have his
or her name placed on the general election ballot if a vacancy exists on the
ballot under Neb. RS 32-625(2) and the candidate files for the office by
petition as prescribed in divisions (B) and (C) of this section, or files as a
write-in candidate as prescribed in Neb. RS 32-615, or is nominated by
political party convention or committee pursuant to Neb. RS 32-710.
   (B)   Petitions for nomination shall conform to the requirements of Neb. RS
32-628.  Petitions shall state the office to be filled and the name and address
of the candidate.  Petitions for partisan office shall also indicate the party
affiliation of the candidate.  A sample copy of the petition shall be filed
with the filing officer prior to circulation. Petitions shall be signed by
registered voters residing in the municipality, if candidates are chosen at
large, or in the ward in which the officer is to be elected, if candidates are
chosen by ward, and shall be filed with the filing officer in the same manner
as provided for candidate filing forms in § 36.09.  Petition signers and
petition circulators shall conform to the requirements of Neb. RS 32-629 and
32-630.  No petition for nomination shall be filed unless there is attached
thereto a receipt showing the payment of the filing fee required pursuant to
Neb. RS 32-608.  The petitions shall be filed by September 1 in the year of the
general election.
   (C)   (1)   The number of signatures of registered voters needed to place
the name of a candidate upon the nonpartisan ballot for the general election
shall be at least 10% of the total number of registered voters voting for
Governor or President of the United States at the immediately preceding general
election in the municipality or in the ward in which the officer is to be
elected, not to exceed 2,000.
      (2)   The number of signatures of registered voters needed to place the
name of a candidate upon the partisan ballot for the general election shall be
at least 20% of the total vote for Governor or President of the United States
at the immediately preceding general election within the municipality or in the
ward in which the officer is to be elected, as appropriate, not to exceed
2,000.
(Prior Code, § 1-707)  (Ord. 4-03, passed 4-14-2003; Ord. 39-11, passed 11-27-
2011)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 32-616, 32-617, 32-618
§ 36.07  CANDIDATE QUALIFICATIONS.
   (A)   Any person seeking elected office in the city shall be a registered
voter prior to holding the office and in addition shall have reached the age of
majority.
   (B)   The Mayor and members of the Council shall be residents and qualified
electors of the city.
   (C)   They shall not hold any other public elective public office, except
for officers of public power districts, public power and irrigation districts
and public utility companies.
(Prior Code, § 1-708)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-108.02, LB 623, 1984
§ 36.08  EXIT POLLS.
   No person shall conduct any exit poll, public opinion poll or any other
interview with voters on election day seeking to determine voter preference
within 20 feet of the entrance of any polling place room or, if inside the
polling place building, within 100 feet of any voting booth.
(Prior Code, § 1-709)
§ 36.09  CANDIDATE FILING FORMS; DEADLINES; FILING OFFICER.
   (A)   Any candidate may place his or her name on the primary election ballot
by filing a candidate filing form prescribed by the Secretary of State as
provided in division (B). If a candidate is an incumbent of any elective
office, the filing period for filing the candidate filing form shall be between
December 1 and February 15 prior to the date of the primary election. No
incumbent who resigns from elective office prior to the expiration of his or
her term shall file for any office after February 15 of that election year. All
other candidates shall file for office between December 1 and March 1 prior to
the date of the general election.
   (B)   Candidate filing forms shall be filed in the office of the Election
Commissioner or County Clerk.
(Ord. 13-11, passed 6-27-2011; Ord. 38-11, passed 12-27-2011)
Statutory reference:
   Filling of vacancy on ballot, see Neb. RS 32-625 and 32-627
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 32-606, 32-607
   Withdrawal after filing, see Neb. RS 32-622
CHAPTER 37:  FISCAL MANAGEMENT
Section
Fiscal Management Generally
   
37.01   Fiscal year
   
37.02   Adopted budget statement; filing; certification of tax amount
   
37.03   Expenditures prior to budget adoption
   
37.04   Budget procedure
   
37.05   Property tax; certification of amount
   
37.06   Appropriations
   
37.07   Expenditures
   
37.08   Contracts and purchases; bidding and other requirements
   
37.09   Claims
   
37.10   Warrants
   
37.11   Special Assessment Fund
   
37.12   Establishment of sinking funds
   
37.13   Deposit of funds; certificates; time deposits; conditions
   
37.14   Investment of funds
   
37.15   Bond issues
   
37.16   Proprietary functions; fiscal year; budget statements; filing; hearing;
adoption; reconciliation
   
37.17   Collection of special assessments; procedure
   
37.18   Property tax; levy maximum and request; authority to set and exceed
   
37.19   All-purpose levy; allocation; abandonment; extraordinary levies
   
37.20   Credit cards and electronic fund transfers; authority to accept
   
37.21   Revision of budget
Proposed Budget Statement
   
37.35   Contents; availability; correction
   
37.36   Hearing; adoption; certification of tax amount
FISCAL MANAGEMENT GENERALLY
§ 37.01  FISCAL YEAR.
   The fiscal year of the city and any public utility of the city commences on
October 1 and extends through the following September 30, except as provided in
the City Proprietary Function Act.
(Prior Code, § 1-801)  (Ord. 2-96, passed 1-8-1996)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-701
§ 37.02  ADOPTED BUDGET STATEMENT: FILING; CERTIFICATION OF TAX AMOUNT.
   (A)   After publication and hearing on the proposed budget statement and
within the time prescribed by law, the City Council shall file with and certify
to the levying board on or before September 20 of each year and file with the
Auditor of Public Accounts, a copy of the adopted budget statement, together
with the amount of the tax required to fund the adopted budget, setting out
separately:
      (1)   The amount to be levied for the payment of principal or interest on
bonds issued by the City Council; and
      (2)   The amount to be levied for all other purposes. Proof of
publication shall be attached to the statements.
   (B)   The City Council, in certifying the amount required, may make
allowance for delinquent taxes not exceeding 5% of the amount required plus the
actual percentage of delinquent taxes for the preceding tax year and for the
amount of estimated tax loss from any pending or anticipated litigation which
involves taxation and in which tax collections have been or can be withheld or
escrowed by court order. For purposes of this section, anticipated litigation
shall be limited to the anticipation of an action being filed by a taxpayer who
or which filed a similar action for the preceding year which is still pending.
Except for the allowances, the City Council shall not certify an amount of tax
more than 1% greater or lesser than the amount determined in the proposed
budget statement.
   (C)   The City Council may designate one of its members to perform any duty
or responsibility required of the body by this section.
(Prior Code, § 1-804)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 13-508
§ 37.03  EXPENDITURES PRIOR TO BUDGET ADOPTION.
   (A)   On and after the first day of its fiscal year in 1993 and of each
succeeding year and until the adoption of the budget by the City Council in
September, the City Council may expend any balance of cash on hand for the
current expenses of the city. Except as provided in division (B) of this
section, the expenditures shall not exceed an amount equivalent to the total
amount expended under the last budget in the equivalent period of the prior
budget year. The expenditures shall be charged against the appropriations for
each individual fund or purpose as provided in the budget when adopted.
   (B)   The restriction on expenditures in division (A) of this section may be
exceeded upon the express finding of the City Council that expenditures beyond
the amount authorized are necessary to enable the city to meet its statutory
duties and responsibilities. The finding and approval of the expenditures in
excess of the statutory authorization shall be adopted by the City Council in
open public session. Expenditures authorized by this section shall be charged
against appropriations for each individual fund or purpose as provided in the
budget when adopted and nothing in this section shall be construed to authorize
expenditures by the city in excess of that authorized by any other statutory
provision.
(Prior Code, § 1-804.01)  (Ord. 10-95, passed 8-7-1995)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 13-509.01, 13-509.02
§ 37.04  BUDGET PROCEDURE.
   (A)   The Manual of Instructions for City/Village Budgets, prepared by the
Auditor of Public Accounts, State Capitol, Lincoln, Nebraska 68509 is
incorporated by reference for the purpose of proper budget preparation.
(Prior Code, § 1-805)
   (B)   The City Council shall cause an audit of the city accounts to be made
by a qualified accountant as expeditiously as possible following the close of
the fiscal year. The audit shall be made on a cash or accrual method at the
discretion of the City Council. The audit shall be completed and the annual
audit report made not later than six months after the close of the fiscal year.
The accountant making die audit shall submit not less than three copies of the
audit report to the City Council. All public utilities or other enterprises
which substantially generate their own revenue shall be audited separately,
except in villages having a population of less than 800 and the results of the
audits shall appear separately tn the annual audit report and the audits shall
be on an accrual basis and shall contain statements and materials which conform
to generally accepted accounting principles. The audit report shall set forth
the financial position and results of financial operations for each fund or
group of accounts of the city as well as an opinion by the accountant with
respect to the financial statements. Two copies of the annual audit report
shall be filed with the City Clerk and shall become a part of the public
records of the City Clerk’s office and will at all times thereafter, be open
for public inspection. One copy shall be filed with the Auditor of Public
Accounts; provided that, all villages may file an unaudited statement of cash
receipts and disbursements annually in lieu of an annual audit. The unaudited
statement shall be filed with the Auditor of Public Accounts in a form
prescribed by him or her. The unaudited statement of cash receipts and
disbursements shall become a part of the public records of the City Clerk and
shall at all times thereafter be open and subject to public inspection. Every
City Council that is required herein to submit to an audit of its accounts
shall provide and file with the City Clerk, no later than August 1 of each
year, financial statements showing its actual and budgeted figures for the most
recently completed fiscal year.
(Prior Code, § 1-806)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 19-2901 through 19-2909, LB 932, 1984
§ 37.05  PROPERTY TAX; CERTIFICATION OF AMOUNT.
   The City Council shall, at the time and in the manner provided by law, cause
to be certified to the County Clerk the amount of tax to be levied upon the
taxable value of all the taxable property of the city which the city requires
for the purposes of the adopted budget statement for the ensuing year,
including all special assessments and taxes assessed as otherwise provided.
Subject to Neb. RS 77-3442, the maximum amount of tax which may be so
certified, assessed and collected shall not require a tax levy in excess of the
amounts specified in Neb. RS 17-702.
(Prior Code, § 1-807)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-702
§ 37.06  APPROPRIATIONS.
   The City Council shall adopt a budget statement pursuant to the State Budget
Act, to be termed “The Annual Appropriation Bill”, in which are appropriated
the sums of money as may be deemed necessary to defray all necessary expenses
and liabilities of the city.
(Prior Code, § 1-808)  (Ord. 3-96, passed 1-8-1996)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-706
§ 37.07  EXPENDITURES.
   The City Council shall have no power to appropriate, issue or draw any order
or warrant on the City Treasurer for money, unless the same has been
appropriated or ordered by ordinance or unless the order or warrant is issued
for the payment of a claim against the city presented and allowed as provided
by ordinance and by the laws of the state, including, but not limited to, Neb.
RS 17-714 and 17-715, as amended or superseded and funds for the class or
object out of which the claim is payable have been included in the adopted
budget statement or transferred according to law. No expenditure for any
improvement to be paid out of the general fund of the city shall exceed, in any
one year, the amount provided for that improvement in the adopted budget
statement.
(Prior Code, § 1-809)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-108, 17-714, 17-715
§ 37.08  CONTRACTS AND PURCHASES; BIDDING AND OTHER REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Except as provided in Neb. RS 18-412.01 for a contract with a public
power district to operate, renew, replace, or add to the electric distribution,
transmission, or generation system of the city, no contract for enlargement or
general improvements, such as water extensions, sewers, public heating system,
bridges, work on streets, or any other work or improvement when the cost of the
enlargement or improvement is assessed to the property, costing over $30,000,
shall be made unless it is first approved by the governing body.
   (B)   Except as provided in Neb. RS 18-412.01, before the governing body
makes any contract in excess of $30,000 for enlargement or general
improvements, such as water extensions, sewers, public heating system, bridges,
work on streets, or any other work or improvement when the cost of the
enlargement or improvement is assessed to the property, an estimate of the cost
shall be made by the Municipal Engineer and submitted to the governing body. 
In advertising for bids as provided in divisions (C) and (E) of this section,
the governing body may publish the amount of the estimate.
   (C)   Advertisements for bids shall be required for any contract costing
over $30,000 entered into:
      (1)   For enlargement or general improvements, such as water extensions,
sewers, public heating system, bridges, work on streets, or any other work or
improvement when the cost of the enlargement or improvement is assessed to the
property; or
      (2)   For the purchase of equipment used in the construction of the
enlargement or general improvements.
   (D)   A municipal electric utility may enter into a contract for the
enlargement or improvement of the electric system or for the purchase of
equipment used for the enlargement or improvement without advertising for bids
if the price is:
      (1)   $30,000 or less;
      (2)   $60,000 or less and the city electric utility has gross annual
revenue from retail sales in excess of $1,000,000;
      (3)   $90,000 or less and the city electric utility has gross annual
revenue from retail sales in excess of $5,000,000; or
      (4)   $120,000 or less and the city electric utility has gross annual
revenue from retail sales in excess of $10,000,000.
   (E)   The advertisement provided for in division (C) of this section shall
be published at least seven days prior to the bid closing in a legal newspaper
published in or of general circulation in the municipality, and if there is no
legal newspaper published in or of general circulation in the municipality,
then in some newspaper of general circulation published in the county in which
the municipality is located, and if there is no legal newspaper of general
circulation published in the county in which the municipality is located, then
in a newspaper, designated by the County Board, having a general circulation
within the county where bids are required, and if no newspaper is published in
the municipality or county, or if no newspaper has general circulation in the
county, then by posting a written or printed copy thereof in each of 3 public
places in the municipality at least seven days prior to the bid closing.  In
case of a public emergency resulting from infectious or contagious diseases,
destructive windstorms, floods, snow, war, or an exigency or pressing necessity
or unforeseen need calling for immediate action or remedy to prevent a serious
loss of or serious injury or damage to life, health, or property, estimates of
costs and advertising for bids may be waived in the emergency ordinance
authorized by Neb. RS 17-613 when adopted by a 3/4 vote of the governing body
and entered of record.
   (F)   If, after advertising for bids as provided in this section, the
governing body receives fewer than two bids on a contract or if the bids
received by the governing body contain a price which exceeds the estimated
cost, the governing body may negotiate a contract in an attempt to complete the
proposed enlargement or general improvements at a cost commensurate with the
estimate given.
   (G)   If the materials are of such a nature that, in the opinion of the
manufacturer and with the concurrence of the governing body or Board of Public
Works, no cost can be estimated until the materials have been manufactured or
assembled to the specific qualifications of the city, the governing body or
Board of Public Works may authorize the manufacture and assemblage of those
materials and may thereafter approve the estimated cost expenditure when it is
provided by the manufacturer.
   (H)   Any bidding procedure may be waived by the governing body or Board of
Public Works:
      (1)   When materials or equipment are purchased at the same price and
from the same seller as materials or equipment which have formerly been
obtained pursuant to the state bidding procedure in Neb. RS 81-145 through 81-
162; or
      (2)   When the contract is negotiated directly with a sheltered workshop
pursuant to Neb. RS 48-1503; or
      (3)   When required to comply with any federal grant, loan, or program.
   (I)   (1)   Notwithstanding any other provisions of law or a home rule
charter, a municipality which has established, by an interlocal agreement with
any county, a joint purchasing division or agency may purchase personal
property without competitive bidding if the price for the property has been
established by the ederal General Services Administration or the materiel
division of the Department of Administrative Services.
      (2)   For the purpose of this division (I), the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
         PERSONAL PROPERTY.  Includes but is not limited to supplies,
materials, and equipment used by or furnished to any officer, office,
department, institution, board, or other agency.
         PURCHASING or PURCHASE.  The obtaining of personal property by sale,
lease, or other contractual means.
(Prior Code, § 1-810)  (Ord. 40-11, passed 12-27-2011)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-568.01, 17-568.02, 18-1756
   Requirements for public lettings, see Neb. RS 73-101 et seq.
§ 37.09  CLAIMS.
   All claims against the city shall be presented to the City Council in
writing with a full account of the items and no claim or demand shall be
audited or allowed unless presented as provided by this chapter and by the laws
of the state, including, but not limited to, Neb. RS 17-714, as amended or
superseded. No costs shall be recovered against the city in any action brought
against it for an unliquidated claim which has not been presented to the City
Council to be audited, nor upon claims allowed in part, unless recovery shall
be for a greater sum than the amount allowed, with the interest due. Upon the
allowance of claims by the City Council, the order for their payment
appropriation out of which they are payable as specified in the adopted budget
statement. No order or warrant shall be drawn in excess of 85% of the current
levy for the purpose for which it is drawn, unless there shall be sufficient
money in the City Treasury at the credit of the proper fund for its payment;
provided that, in the event there exists at the time the warrant is drawn,
obligated funds from the federal and/or state government for the general
purpose or purposes of the warrant, then the warrant may be drawn in excess of
85% of the current levy for the purpose for which it is drawn to the additional
extent of 100% of the obligated federal or state funds. No claim shall be
audited or allowed unless an order or warrant for the payment thereof may
legally be drawn.
(Prior Code, § 1-811)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-714, 17-715
§ 37.10  WARRANTS.
   All warrants drawn upon the City Treasury must be signed by the Mayor and
countersigned by the City Clerk, stating the particular fund to which the
warrant is chargeable, the person to whom it is payable and the purpose of the
expenditure. No money shall be otherwise paid than upon warrants so drawn. Each
warrant shall specify the amount included in the adopted budget statement for
the fund upon which it is drawn and the amount already expended of the fund.
(Prior Code, § 1-812)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-711
§ 37.11  SPECIAL ASSESSMENT FUND.
   All money received on special tax assessments shall be held by the City
Treasurer as a special fund to be applied to the payment of the improvement for
which the assessment was made and such money shall be used for no other purpose
unless to reimburse the city for money expended for any such improvement.
(Prior Code, § 1-814)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-710
§ 37.12  ESTABLISHMENT OF SINKING FUNDS.
   (A)   The City Council shall have the power to levy a tax, not to exceed
that prescribed by the laws of the state, including, but not limited to, Neb.
RS 17-702(2) and 19-1302, as amended or superseded, upon the assessed value of
all the taxable property within the city, except intangible property, for a
term not to exceed that prescribed by the laws of the state, including, but not
limited to, Neb. RS 19-1302, as amended or superseded, in addition to the
amount of tax which may be annually levied for the purpose of the adopted
budget statement of the city, for the purpose of establishing a sinking fund
for the construction, purchase, improvement, extension, original equipment or
repair, not including maintenance, for any one or more of the public
improvements authorized therefore by the laws of the state, including, but not
limited to Neb. RS 19-1302, as amended or superseded. Before any sinking fund
or funds shall be established or before any annual tax shall be levied for one
or more planned city improvements, the City Council shall declare its purpose
by resolution to submit to the qualified electors of the city at the next
general city election the proposition to provide the city with the specific
city improvement or improvements planned for consummation.
   (B)   The resolution of submission shall, among other things, set forth a
clear description of the improvements planned thereunder, the estimated cost
thereof according to the prevailing costs, the amount of annual, levy over a
definite period of years, not exceeding ten years, required to provide the
cost, the specific name or designation for the sinking fund sought to be
established to carry out the planned improvement, together with a statement of
the proposition for placement upon the ballot at the election. Notice of the
submission of the proposition, together with a copy of the official ballot
containing the same, shall be published as provided by the laws of the state,
including, but not limited to, Neb. RS 19-1303, as amended or superseded. No
sinking fund shall be established unless the same shall have been authorized by
a majority or more of the legal votes favor the establishment of the sinking
fund, then the planned improvement shall not be made, no annual tax shall be
levied therefor and no sinking fund or sinking funds shall be established in
connection therewith, but the resolution of submission, shall forthwith be
repealed.
   (C)   If the proposition shall carry at the election in the manner aforethe,
then the City Council shall proceed to do all things authorized under the
resolution of submission. The funds received by the City Treasurer, as provided
herein, shall, as they accumulate, be immediately invested by him or her, with
the written approval of the City Council, in the manner provided therefore by
the laws of the state, including, but not limited to, Neb. RS 77-2337, 77-2341,
as amended or superseded. Whenever investments of the sinking fund or funds are
made, the nature and character of the same shall be reported to the local City
Council and the investment report shall be made a matter of record by the City
Clerk in the proceedings of the City Council.
   (D)   The sinking fund or sinking funds, accumulated as provided herein,
shall constitute a special fund or funds, for the purpose or purposes for which
the same was authorized and shall not be used for any other purpose, unless
authorized by 60% of the qualified electors if the city voting at a general
election favoring the change in the use of the sinking fund or sinking funds.
   (E)   The question of the change in the use of the sinking fund or sinking
funds, when it shall fail to carry, shall not be resubmitted in substance for a
period of one year from and after the date of the election.
(Prior Code, § 1-815)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-702(2), 19-1301 through 19-1304, 77-2337,
77-2341
§ 37.13  DEPOSIT OF FUNDS; CERTIFICATES; TIME DEPOSITS; CONDITIONS.
   (A)   (1)   The City Treasurer shall deposit and at all times keep on
deposit, for safekeeping, in banks, capital stock financial institutions or
qualifying mutual financial institutions of approved and responsible standing,
all money collected, received or held by him or her as City Treasurer. Such
deposits shall be subject to all regulations imposed by law or adopted by the
City Council for the receiving and holding thereof. The fact that a
stockholder, director or other officer of the bank, capital stock financial
institution or qualifying mutual financial institution is also serving as
Mayor, as a member of the City Council or as any other officer of the city
shall not disqualify the bank, capital stock financial institution or
qualifying mutual financial institution from acting as a depository for the
city funds.
      (2)   The City Council shall require from all banks, capital stock
financial institutions or qualifying mutual financial institutions a bond in a
penal sum as may be the maximum amount on deposit at any time less the amount
insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation; or, in lieu thereof,
security given as provided in the Public Funds Deposit Security Act to secure
the payment of all deposits and accretions. The City Council shall approve such
bond or giving of security. The City Treasurer shall not be liable for any loss
of any money sustained by reason of the failure of any depository so designated
and approved.
      (3)   The insurance afforded to depositors in banks, capital stock
financial institutions or qualifying mutual financial institutions through the
Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation shall be deemed and construed to be a
surety bond to the extent that the deposits are insured by such corporation and
for deposits so insured, no other surety bond or other security shad be
required.
      (4)   Neb. RS 77-2366 shall apply to deposits in capital stock financial
institutions. Neb. RS 77-2365.01 shall apply to deposits in qualifying mutual
financial institutions.
(Prior Code, § 1-817)
   (B)   (1)   The City Treasurer may, upon resolution of the Mayor and City
Council authorizing the same, purchase certificates of deposit from and make
time deposits in any bank, capital stock financial institution or qualifying
mutual financial institution in the state to the extent that the certificates
of deposit or time deposits are insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance
Corporation.
      (2)   Deposits may be made in excess of the amounts so secured by the
corporation and the amount of the excess deposit shall be secured by a bond or
by security given in the same manner as is provided for cities of the first
class in Neb. RS 16-714 to 16-716.
      (3)   Neb. RS 77-2366 shall apply to deposits in capital stock financial
institutions.
      (4)   Neb. RS 77-2365.01 shall apply to deposits in qualifying mutual
financial institutions.
(Prior Code, § 1-817.01)
(Ord. 7-02, passed 7-8-2002; Ord. 1-04, passed 4-12-2004)
Statutory reference;
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-607, 17-720, 77-2362
§ 37.14  INVESTMENT OF FUNDS.
   Whenever a city has accumulated a surplus of any fund in excess of its
current needs of has accumulated a sinking fund for the payment of its bonds
and the money in such sinking fund exceeds the amount necessary to pay the
principal and interest of any bonds which become due during the current year,
the City Council of the city may invest any surplus in certificates of deposit,
in time deposits and in any securities in which the state investment officer is
authorized by law and as provided in the authorized investment guidelines of
the State Investment Council in effect on the date the investment is made.
(Prior Code, § 1-818)  (Ord. 11-89, passed 1-2-1990)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-608, 17-609, 77-2341
§ 37.15  BOND ISSUES.
   The City Council may, after meeting all the requirements of state law, issue
bonds, fund bonds and retire bonds for purposes as may be permitted by state
law. The City Council shall have the authority to levy special assessments for
the payment of interest and principal on bonds and may spread the payments up
to the maximum number of years permitted by state law.
(Prior Code, § 1-819)
Statutory reference:
   Bonds in general, see Neb. RS 18-1801 through 18-1805
   Funding and refunding bonds, see Neb. RS 10-606 through 10-612
   General provisions, see Neb. RS 10-101 through 10-143
§ 37.16  PROPRIETARY FUNCTIONS; FISCAL YEAR; BUDGET STATEMENTS; FILING;
HEARING; ADOPTION; RECONCILIATION.
   (A)   Pursuant to the City Proprietary Function Act, the City Council may
prepare a proprietary budget statement for its proprietary functions separate
and apart from its city budget statement prepared pursuant to the State Budget
Act. For purposes of this section, PROPRIETARY FUNCTION shall mean a water
supply or distribution utility, a wastewater collection or treatment utility,
an electric generation, transmission or distribution utility, a gas supply,
transmission or distribution utility, an integrated solid waste management
collection, disposal or handling utility or a hospital or a nursing home owned
by the city.
   (B)   The City Council may establish a separate fiscal year for each
proprietary function, except that any proprietary-function which is subsidized
by appropriations from the city’s General Fund shall have the same fiscal year
as the city. For purposes of this section, SUBSIDIZATION shall mean that the
costs of operation of a proprietary function are regularly financed by
appropriations from the city’s general fund in excess of the amount paid by the
city to the proprietary function for actual service or services received.
   (C)   If the city does not include its proprietary functions in its city
budget statement, a proposed proprietary statement shall be prepared in writing
on forms provided by the State Auditor and filed with the City Clerk, at least
30 days prior to the start of the fiscal year of each proprietary function,
containing the following information:
      (1)   For the immediate two prior fiscal years, the revenue from all
sources, the unencumbered cash balance at the beginning and end of the year,
the amount received by taxation and the amount of actual expenditure;
      (2)   For the current fiscal year, actual and estimated revenue from all
sources separately stated as to each source, the actual unencumbered cash
balance available at the beginning of the year, the amount received from
taxation and the amount of actual and estimated expenditure, whichever is
applicable;
      (3)   For the immediately ensuing fiscal year, an estimate of revenue
from all sources separately stated to each source, the actual or estimated
unencumbered cash balance, whichever is applicable, to be available at the
beginning of the year, the amounts proposed to be expended during the fiscal
year and the amount of cash reserve based on actual experience of prior years;
and
      (4)   A uniform summary of the proposed budget statement which shall
include a total of all funds maintained for the proprietary function. The
statement shall contain the estimated cash reserve for each fiscal year and
shall whether or not the reserve is encumbered. The cash reserve projections
shall be based upon the actual experience of prior years.
   (D)   (1)   After the proposed proprietary budget statement is filed with
the City Clerk, the City Council shall conduct a public hearing on the
statement. Notice of the time and place of the hearing, a summary of the
proposed proprietary budget statement and notice that the full proposed
proprietary budget statement is available for public review with the City Clerk
during normal business hours, shall be published at least five days prior to
the hearing in a newspaper of general circulation within the City Council’s
jurisdiction or by mailing each resident within the City Council’s
jurisdiction.
      (2)   After the hearing, the proposed proprietary budget statement shall
be adopted or amended and adopted as amended and a written record shall be kept
of the hearing. If the adopted proprietary budget statement reflects a change
from the proposed proprietary statement presented at the hearing, a copy of the
adopted proprietary budget statement shall be filed with the City Clerk within
20 days after its adoption and published in a newspaper of general circulation
within the City Council’s jurisdiction or by mailing to each resident within
the City Council’s jurisdiction.
   (E)   If the actual expenditures for a proprietary function exceed the
estimated expenditures in the proprietary budget statement during its fiscal
year, the City Council shall adopt a proprietary function reconciliation
statement within 90 days after the end of the fiscal year which reflects any
difference between the adopted proprietary budget statement for the previous
fiscal year and the actual expenditures and revenue for the fiscal year. After
the adoption of a proprietary function reconciliation statement, it shall be
filed with the City Clerk and published in a newspaper of general circulation
within the City Council’s jurisdiction or by mailing to each resident within
the City Council’s jurisdiction. If the difference between the adopted
proprietary budget for previous fiscal year and the actual expenditures and
revenues for the fiscal year is greater than 10%, the proprietary function
reconciliation statement shall only be adopted following a public hearing.
   (F)   Any income from a proprietary function which is transferred to the
General Fund of the city shall be shown as a source of revenue in the city
budget statement created pursuant to the State Budget Act.
(Prior Code, § 1-820)  (Ord. 11-94, passed 12-19-1994)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 18-2803 to 18-2808
§ 37.17  COLLECTION OF SPECIAL ASSESSMENTS; PROCEDURE.
   (A)   The city shall collect the special assessments which it levies and
perform all other necessary functions related thereto including foreclosure.
Notice that special assessments are due shall be mailed or otherwise delivered
to the last-known address of the person against whom the special assessments
are assessed or to the lending institution or other party responsible for
paying the special assessments. Failure to receive the notice shall not relieve
the taxpayer from any liability to pay the special assessments and any interest
or penalties accrued thereon.
   (B)   The city shall:
      (1)   File notice of the assessments and the amount of assessment being
levied for each lot or tract of land to the Register of Deeds; and
      (2)   File a release of assessment upon final payment of each assessment
with the Register of Deeds.
(Prior Code, § 1-821)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 18-1216
§ 37.18  PROPERTY TAX; LEVY MAXIMUM AND REQUEST: AUTHORITY TO SET AND EXCEED.
   (A)   (1)   The property tax request for the prior year shall be the
property tax request for the current year for purposes of the levy set by the
County Board of Equalization in Neb. RS 77-1601 unless the City Council passes
by a majority vote a resolution or ordinance setting the tax request at a
different amount. The resolution or ordinance shall only be passed after a
special public hearing called for the purpose is held and after notice is
published in a newspaper of general circulation in the area of the city at
least five days prior to the hearing.
      (2)   The hearing shall contain the following information;
         (a)   The dollar amount of the prior year’s tax request and the
property tax rate that was necessary to fund that tax request;
         (b)   The property tax rate that would be necessary to fund last
year’s tax request if applied to the current year’s valuation; and
         (c)   The proposed dollar amount of the tax request for the current
year and the property tax rate that will be necessary to fund that tax request.
      (3)   Any resolution setting a tax request under this section shall be
certified and forwarded to the County Clerk prior to October 14 of the year for
which the tax request is to apply.
      (4)   Any tax levy which is not in compliance with this section and Neb.
RS 77-1601 shall be construed as an unauthorized levy under Neb. RS 77-1606.
(Prior Code, § 1-822)
   (B)   (1)   Property tax levies for the support of the city for fiscal years
beginning on or after 7-1-1998, shall be limited to the amounts set forth in
this division, except as provided herein. The city may levy a maximum levy of
$0.45 per $100 of taxable valuation of property subject to the levy plus an
additional $0.05 per $ 100 of taxable valuation to provide financing for the
city’s share of revenue required under an agreement or agreements executed
pursuant to the Interlocal Cooperation Act or the Joint Public Agency Act. The
maximum levy shall include amounts levied to pay for sums to support a library
pursuant to Neb. RS 51-201, museum pursuant to Neb. RS 51-501, visiting
community nurse, home health nurse or home health agency pursuant to Neb. RS
71-1637 or statue, memorial or monument pursuant to Neb. RS 80-202. Property
tax levies for judgments, except judgments or orders from the Commission of
Industrial Relations, obtained against the city which require or obligate the
city to pay such judgment, to the extent the judgment is not paid by liability
insurance coverage of the city, for preexisting lease-purchase contracts
approved prior to 7-1-1998, for bonded indebtedness approved according to law
and secured by a levy on property and for payments by a public airport to
retire interest-free loans from the Department of Aeronautics in lieu of bonded
indebtedness at a lower cost to the public airport are not included in the levy
limits established by this division (B)(1). The limitations on tax levies
provided in this division (B)(1) are to include all other general or special
levies provided by law. Notwithstanding other provisions of law, the only
exceptions to the limits in this division (B)(1) are those provided by or
authorized by this section. Tax levies in excess of the limitations in this
section shall be considered unauthorized levies under Neb. RS 77-1606 unless
approved under division (B)(3).
      (2)   (a)   All city airport authorities established under the Cities
Airport Authorities Act, community redevelopment authorities established under
the Community Development Law and off-street parking districts established
under the Off-Street Parking District Act may be allocated property taxes as
authorized by law which are authorized by the city and are counted in the city
levy limit provided by division (B)(1), except that the limitation shall not
apply to property tax levies for preexisting lease-purchase contracts approved
prior to 7-1-1998, for bonded indebtedness approved according to law and
secured by a levy on property and for payments by a public airport to retire
interest-free loans from the Department of Aeronautics in lieu of bonded
indebtedness at a lower cost to the public airport. For off-street parking
districts established under the Off-Street Parking District Act, the tax shall
be counted in the allocation by the city proportionately, by dividing the tonal
taxable valuation of the taxable property within the district by the total
taxable valuation of the taxable property within the city multiplied by the
levy of the district. The City Council shall review and approve or disapprove
the levy request of the political subdivisions subject to this division (B)(2).
The City Council may approve all or a portion of the levy request and may
approve a levy request that would allow a levy greater than that permitted by
law. The levy allocated by the city may be exceeded as provided in division (B)
(3).
         (b)   On or before August 1, all political subdivisions subject to
city levy authority under this division (B)(2) shall submit a preliminary
request for levy allocation to the City Council. The preliminary request of the
political subdivision shall be in the form of a resolution adopted by a
majority vote of members present of the political subdivision’s City Council.
The failure of a political subdivision to make a preliminary request shall
preclude such political subdivision from using procedures set forth in Neb. RS
77-3444 to exceed the final levy allocation as determined in this division (B)
(2).
         (c)   1.   The City Council shall:
               a.   Adopt a resolution by a majority vote of members present
which determines a final allocation of levy authority to its political
subdivisions; and
               b.   Forward a copy of such resolution to the chairperson of the
City Council of each of its political subdivisions.
      (2)   No final levy allocation shall be changed after September 1, except
by agreement between both the City Council and the City Council of the
political subdivision whose final levy allocation is at issue.
      (3)   (a)   The city may exceed the limits provided in division (B)(1) by
an amount not to exceed a maximum levy approved by a majority of registered
voters voting on the issue in a primary, general or special election at which
the issue is placed before the registered voters. A vote to exceed the limits
must be approved prior to October 10 of the fiscal year which is to be the
first to exceed the limits.
         (b)   The City Council may call for the submission of the issue to the
voters:
            1.   By passing a resolution calling for exceeding the limits by a
vote of at least two-thirds of the members of the City Council and delivering a
copy of the resolution to the County Clerk or Election Commissioner of every
county which contains all or part of the city; or
            2.   Upon receipt of a petition by the County Clerk or Election
Commissioner of every county containing all or part of the city requesting an
election signed by at least 5% of the registered voters residing in the city.
         (c)   The resolution or petition shall include the amount of levy
which would be imposed in excess of the limits provided in division (B)(1) and
the duration of the excess levy authority. The excess levy authority shall not
have a duration greater than five years. Any resolution or petition calling for
a special election shall be filed with the County Clerk or Election
Commissioner no later than 30 days prior to the date of the election and the
time of publication and providing a copy of the notice of election required in
Neb. RS 32-802 shall be no later than 20 days prior to the election.
         (d)   The County Clerk or Election Commissioner shall place the issue
on the ballot at an election as called for in the resolution or petition which
is at least 30 days after receipt of the resolution or petition. The election
shall be held pursuant to the Election Act. For petitions filed with the County
Clerk or Election Commissioner on or after 5-1-1998, the petition shall be in
the form as provided in Neb. RS 32-628 through 32-631.
         (e)   Any excess levy authority approved under this division (B)(3)
shall terminate pursuant to its terms, on a vote of the City Council to
terminate the authority to levy more than the limits, at the end of the fourth
fiscal year following the first year in which the levy exceeded the limit or as
provided in division (B)(3)(h) below, whichever is earliest.
         (f)   The City Council may pass no more than one resolution calling
for an election pursuant to this division (B)(3) during any one calendar year.
Only one election may be held in any one calendar year pursuant to a petition
initiated under this division (B)(3). The ballot question may include any
terms: and conditions set forth in the resolution or petition and shall include
the language specified in Neb. RS 77-3444.
         (g)   If a majority of the votes cast upon the ballot question are in
favor of such tax, the County Board shall authorize a tax in excess of the
limits in division (B)(1), but the tax shall not exceed the amount stated in
the ballot question. If a majority of those voting on the ballot question are
opposed to the tax, the City Council shall not impose the tax.
         (h)   1.   The city may rescind or modify a previously approved excess
levy authority prior to its expiration by a majority of registered voters
voting on the issue in a primary, general or special election at which the
issue is placed before the registered voters. A vote to rescind or modify must
be approved prior to October 10 of the fiscal year for which it is to be
effective.
            2.   The City Council may call for the submission of the issue to
the voters:
               a.   By passing a resolution calling for the rescission or
modification by a vote of at least two-thirds of the members of the City
Council and delivering a copy of the resolution to the County Clerk or Election
Commissioner of every county which contains all or part of the city; or
               b.   Upon request of a petition by the County Clerk or Election
Commissioner of every county containing all or part of the city requesting an
election signed by at least 5% of the registered voters residing in the city.
            3.   The resolution or petition shall include the amount and the
duration of the previously approved excess levy authority and a statement that
either the excess levy authority will be rescinded or the excess levy authority
will be modified. If the excess levy authority will be modified, the amount and
duration of the modification shall be stated. The modification shall not have a
duration greater than five years. The County Clerk or Election Commissioner
shall place the issue on the ballot at an election as called for in the
resolution or petition which is at least 30 days after receipt of the
resolution or petition and the time of publication and providing a copy of the
notice of election required in Neb. RS 32-802 shall be no later than 20 days
prior to the election. The election shall be held pursuant to the Election Act.
(Prior Code, § 1-823)
(Ord. 4-03, passed 4-14-2003)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 77-1601.02, 77-3442 through 77-3444
§ 37.19  ALL-PURPOSE LEVY; ALLOCATION; ABANDONMENT; EXTRAORDINARY LEVIES.
   (A)   The City Council has decided to certify to the County Clerk for
collection one all-purpose levy required to be raised by taxation for all city
purposes instead of certifying a schedule of levies for specific purposes added
together. Subject to the limits in Neb. RS 77-3442, the all-purpose levy shall
not exceed the annual levy specified in Neb. RS 19-1309 to be levied upon the
taxable valuation of all taxable property in the city.
   (B)   The amount of the all-purpose levy shall be certified as a single
amount for General Fund purposes. The City Council shall allocate the amount
raised by the all-purpose levy to the several departments of the city in its
annual budget and appropriation ordinance or in other legal manner, as the City
Council deems wisest and best.
   (C)   The city shall be bound by its election to follow the all-purpose levy
method during the ensuing fiscal year, but may abandon such method in
succeeding fiscal years.
   (D)   Otherwise authorized extraordinary levies to service and pay bonded
indebtedness of the city may be made by the city in addition to the all-purpose
levy.
(Prior Code, § 1-824)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 19-1309 through 19-1312
§ 37.20  CREDIT CARDS AND ELECTRONIC FUND TRANSFERS; AUTHORITY TO ACCEPT.
   (A)   The City Council may authorize city officials to accept credit cards,
charge cards or debit cards, whether presented in person or electronically or
electronic funds transfers as a method of cash payment of any tax, levy,
excise, duty, custom, toll, interest, penalty, fine, license, fee or assessment
of whatever kind or nature, whether general or special, as provided by Neb. RS
77-1702.
   (B)   The total amount of the taxes, levies, excises, duties, customs,
tolls, interest, penalties, fines, licenses, fees or assessments of whatever
kind or nature, whether general or special, paid for by credit card, charge
card, debit card or electronic funds transfer shall be collected by the city
official.
   (C)   With respect to a facility which it operates in a proprietary
capacity, the City Council may choose to accept credit cards, charge cards or
debit cards, whether presented in person or electronically or electronic funds
transfers as a means of cash payment and may adjust the price for services to
reflect the handling and payment costs.
   (D)   The city official shall obtain, for each transaction, authorization
for use of any credit card, charge card or debit card used pursuant to this
section from the financial institution, vending service company, credit card or
charge card company or third-party merchant bank providing the service.
   (E)   The City Council may choose to participate in the state contract for
the payment services. If the City Council chooses not to participate in the
state contract, it may choose types of credit cards, charge cards and debit
cards and may negotiate and contract independently or collectively as a
governmental entity with one or more financial institutions, vending service
companies, credit card, charge card or debit card companies or third-party
merchant banks for the provision of the services.
   (F)   When authorizing acceptance of credit card or charge card payments,
the City Council shall be authorized but not required to impose a surcharge or
convenience fee upon the person making a payment by credit card or charge card
so as to wholly or partially offset the amount of any discount or
administrative fees charged to the city, but the surcharge or convenience fee
shall not exceed the surcharge or convenience fee imposed by the credit card or
charge card companies or third-party merchant banks which have contracted with
the state or under division (E) of this section. The surcharge or convenience
fee shall be applied only when allowed by the operating rules and regulations
of the credit card or charge card involved or when authorized in writing by the
credit card or charge card company involved. When a person elects to make a
payment to the city by credit card or charge card and such a surcharge or
convenience fee is imposed, the payment of the surcharge or convenience fee
shall be deemed voluntary by the person and shall be in no case refundable. If
a payment is made electronically by credit card, charge card, debit card or
electronic funds transfer as part of a system for providing or retrieving
information electronically, the city official shall be authorized but not
required to impose an additional surcharge or convenience fee upon the person
making a payment.
   (G)   For purposes of this section, electronic funds transfer means the
movement of funds by nonpaper means, usually through a payment system,
including, but not limited to, an automated clearinghouse or the Federal
Reserve’s Fedwire system.
(Prior Code, § 1-825)  (Ord. 4-03, passed 4-14-2003)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 13-609
§ 37.21  REVISION OF BUDGET.
   (A)   Unless otherwise prodded by law, the City Council may propose to
revise the previously adopted budget statement and shall conduct a public
hearing on such proposal whenever during the current fiscal year it becomes
apparent to the City Council that:
      (1)   There are circumstances which could not reasonably have been
anticipated at the time the budget for the current year was adopted;
      (2)   The budget adopted violated Neb. RS 13-518 to 13-522, such that the
revenue of the current fiscal year for any fund thereof will be insufficient,
additional expenses will be necessarily incurred or there is a need to reduce
the budget requirements to comply with Neb. RS 13-518 to 13-522; or
      (3)   The City Council has been notified by the Auditor of Public
Accounts of a mathematical or accounting error or noncompliance with the State
Budget Act.
   (B)   Notice of the time and place of the hearing shall be published at
least five days prior to the date set for hearing in a newspaper of general
circulation within the city. The published notice shall set forth:
      (1)   The time and place of the hearing;
      (2)   The amount in dollars of additional or reduced money required and
for what purpose;
      (3)   A statement setting forth the nature of the unanticipated
circumstances and, if the budget requirements are to be increased, the reasons
why the previously adopted budget of expenditures cannot be reduced during the
remainder of the current year to meet the need for additional money in that
manner;
      (4)   A copy of the summary of the originally adopted budget previously
published; and
      (5)   A copy of the summary of the proposed revised budget.
   (C)   At the hearing, any taxpayer may appear or file a written statement
protesting any application for additional money. A written record shall be kept
of all hearings.
   (D)   Upon conclusion of the public hearing on the proposed revised budget
and approval of the proposed revised budget by the City Council, the City
Council shall file with the County Clerk of the county or counties in which the
City Council is located and with the Auditor of Public Accounts, a copy of the
revised budget, as adopted. The City Council may then issue warrants in payment
for expenditures authorized by the adopted revised budget. The warrants shall
be referred to as registered warrants and shall be repaid during the next
fiscal year from funds derived from taxes levied therefor.
   (E)   Within 30 days after the adoption of the budget under Neb. RS 13-506,
a City Council may or within 30 days after notification of an error by the
Auditor of Public Accounts, a City Council shall, correct an adopted budget
which contains a clerical, mathematical or accounting error which does not
affect the total amount budgeted by more than 1% or increase the amount
required from property taxes. No public hearing shall be required for a
correction. After correction, the City Council shall file a copy of the
corrected budget with the County Cleric of the county or counties in which the
City Council is located and with the Auditor of Public Accounts. The City
Council may then issue warrants in payment for expenditures authorized by the
budget.
(Prior Code, § 1-826)  (Ord. 4-03, passed 4-14-2003)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 13-511
PROPOSED BUDGET STATEMENT
§ 37.35  CONTENTS; AVAILABILITY; CORRECTION.
   (A)   The City Council shall annually prepare a proposed budget statement on
forms prescribed and furnished by the Auditor of Public Accounts. The proposed
budget statement shall be made available to the public prior to publication of
the notice of the hearing on the proposed budget statement. A proposed budget
statement shall contain the following information, except as provided by state
law.
      (1)   For the immediately preceding fiscal year, the revenue from all
sources, including motor vehicle taxes, other than revenue received from
personal and real property taxation, allocated to the funds and separately
stated as to each source. The unencumbered cash balance at the beginning and
end of the year; the amount received by taxation of personal and real property;
and the amount of actual expenditures.
      (2)   For the current fiscal year, actual and estimated revenue from all
sources, including motor vehicle taxes, allocated to the funds and separately
stated as to each source: The actual unencumbered cash balance available at the
beginning of the year; the amount received from personal and real property
taxation; and the amount of actual and estimated expenditures, whichever is
applicable. The statement shall contain the cash reserve for each fiscal year
and shall note whether or not the reserve is encumbered. The cash reserve
projections shall be based upon the actual experience of prior years. The cash
reserve shall not exceed 50% of the total budget adopted exclusive of capital
outlay items.
      (3)   For the immediately ensuing fiscal year, an estimate of revenue
from all sources, including motor vehicle taxes, other than revenue to be
received from taxation of personal and real property, separately stated as to
each source. The actual or estimated unencumbered cash balances, whichever is
applicable, to be available at the beginning of the year; the amounts proposed
to be expended during the year; and the amount of cash reserve, based on actual
experience of prior years, which cash reserve shall not exceed 50% of the total
budget adopted exclusive of capital outlay items.
      (4)   A statement setting out separately the amount sought to be raised
from the levy of a tax on the taxable value of real property:
         (a)   For the purpose of paying the principal or interest on bonds
issued by the City Council; and
         (b)   For all other purposes.
      (5)   A uniform summary of the proposed budget statement, including each
proprietary function fund included in a separate proprietary budget statement
prepared pursuant to the City Proprietary Function Act and a grand total of all
funds maintained by the City Council.
      (6)   A list of the proprietary functions which are not included in the
budget statement. The proprietary functions shall have a separate budget
statement which is approved by the City Council as provided in the City
Proprietary Function Act.
   (B)   The actual or estimated unencumbered cash balance required to be
included in the budget statement by this section shall include deposits and
investments of the city as well as any funds held by the County Treasurer for
the city and shall be accurately stated on the proposed budget statement.
   (C)   The city shall correct any material errors in the budget statement
detected by the Auditor of Public Accounts or by other sources.
   (D)   The estimated expenditures plus the required cash reserve for the
ensuing fiscal year less all estimated and actual unencumbered balances at the
beginning of the year and less the estimated income from all sources, including
motor vehicle taxes, other than taxation of personal and real property shall
equal the amount to be received from taxes and such amount shall be shown on
the proposed budget statement pursuant to this section. The amount to be raised
from taxation of personal and real property, as determined above, plus the
estimated revenue from other sources, including motor vehicle taxes and the
unencumbered balances shall equal the estimated expenditures, plus the
necessary required cash reserve, for the ensuing year.
(Prior Code, § 1-802)  (Ord. 4-03, passed 4-14-2003)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 13-504, 13-505
§ 37.36  HEARING; ADOPTION; CERTIFICATION OF TAX AMOUNT.
   (A)   The City Council shall each year conduct a public hearing on its
proposed budget statement. Notice of the place and time of the hearing,
together with a summary of the proposed budget statement, shall be published at
least five days prior to the date set for the hearing in a newspaper of general
circulation within the city.
   (B)   After the hearing, the proposed budget statement shall be adopted or
amended and adopted as amended and a written record shall be kept of the
hearing. The amount to be received from personal and real property taxation
shall be certified to the levying board after the proposed budget statement is
adopted or is amended and adopted as amended. The certification of the amount
to be received from personal and real property taxation shall specify
separately:
      (1)   The amount to be applied to the payment of principal or interest on
bonds issued by the City Council; and
      (2)   The amount to be received for all other purposes.
   (C)   If the adopted budget statement reflects a change from that shown in
the published proposed budget statement, a summary of the changes shall be
published within 20 days after its adoption in the manner provided in this
section, but without provision for hearing, setting forth the items changed and
the reasons for the changes.
   (D)   When a levy increase has been authorized by vote of the electors, the
adopted budget statement shall indicate the amount of the levy increase.
(Prior Code, § 1-803)  (Ord. 4-03, passed 4-14-2003)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 13-504, 13-506, 13-507
CHAPTER 38:  ANNEXATIONS
Section
   
38.01   City Council; general powers
   
38.02   Unapproved subdivisions prohibited
   
38.03   Powers to vacate
   
38.04   Correction and reestablishment of corporate limits
§ 38.01  CITY COUNCIL; GENERAL POWERS.
   The City Council shall have the power, as provided by the laws of the state,
including, but not limited to, Neb. RS 17-405 through 17-413, inclusive, and
Neb. RS 19-5001, as amended or superceded, to annex territory to the corporate
limits of the city.. The City Council shall have the power as provided by the
laws of the state, including, but not limited to, Neb. RS 19-916 and 19-919, as
amended or superseded, to approve any addition, plot of land or instrument
subdividing land within the corporate limits of the city or contiguous thereto
and no addition shall have any validity, right or privileges as an addition,
nor shall any plot of land or instrument be recorded or have any force or
effect, without the approval having been given and endorsed thereon. The City
Council shall have the power, as provided by the laws of the state, including,
but not limited to, Neb. RS 19-916, 19-919 and 19-920, as amended or
superseded, to provide by ordinance the manner, plan or method by which land
within the corporate limits of the city or contiguous thereto, may be
subdivided, plotted or laid out, including a plan or system for the avenues,
streets or alleys to be laid out within or across the line, to compel the
owners of any land, in subdividing, plotting or laying out the same, to conform
to the requirements of the ordinance and lay out and dedicate the avenues,
streets and alleys in accordance for sale of and the construction of buildings
and other improvements upon, any lots or parts of real property within the
corporate limits of the city not subdivided, plotted or laid out as required by
ordinance and by the laws of the state.
(Prior Code, § 1-1001)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-405 through 17-413, 19-916, 19-919, 19-
920
§ 38.02  UNAPPROVED SUBDIVISIONS PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any owner of real estate within the corporate
limits of the city to subdivide, plot or lay out the real estate into blocks,
lots, streets or other portions of the same intended to be dedicated for public
use or for the use of the purchasers or owners of lots fronting thereon or
adjacent thereto, without first having obtained the approval thereof of the
City Council.
(Prior Code, § 1-1002)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 19-918
§ 38.03  POWERS TO VACATE.
   The City Council shall have the power, as provided by the laws of the state,
including, but not limited to, Neb. RS 19-917, by proper ordinance therefor
duly enacted, to vacate existing plots and additions to the city.
(Prior Code, § 1-1003)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 19-917
§ 38.04  CORRECTION AND REESTABLISHMENT OF CORPORATE LIMITS.
   The City Council shall have the power to direct the proper officers of the
city to make application for the correction and reestablishment of the
corporate limits of the city, as provided by the laws of the state, including,
but not limited to, Neb. RS 19-2201 through 19-2204, inclusive, as amended or
superseded.
(Prior Code, § 1-1004)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 19-2201 thru 19-2204
CHAPTER 39:  EMINENT DOMAIN
Section
   
39.01   General power
§ 39.01  GENERAL POWER.
   The City Council shall, after negotiations in good faith have failed, have
the power to bring condemnation actions and to acquire by the exercise of the
power of eminent domain, as provided by the laws of the state, including, but
not limited to, Neb. RS 19-701 through 19-709 and 76-701 thru 76-724,
inclusive, as amended or superseded, property located within the city, for the
public use of the city.
(Prior Code, § 1-1201)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-535, 19-701 through 19-709, 76-701 thru
76-724
CHAPTER 40:  INITIATIVES AND REFERENDUMS
Section
   
40.01   Purpose; definitions
   
40.02   Petitions, ballots
   
40.03   Petition form
   
40.04   Declaratory judgment
   
40.05   Signature sheets
   
40.06   Petitions, affidavit
   
40.07   Petitions, notifications
   
40.08   Frequency of occurrence
   
40.09   Direct vote
   
40.10   Elections
   
40.11   Ballots
   
40.12   Initiatives
   
40.13   Referendum, limitations
   
40.14   Referendum, passage
   
40.15   Applicability
   
40.99   Penalty
§ 40.01  PURPOSE; DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   The powers of initiative and referendum are reserved to the qualified
electors of the city by state law. This chapter shall govern the use of
initiative to enact and the use of referendum to amend or repeal measures
affecting the governance of the city.
   (B)   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      CIRCULATOR. Any person who solicits signatures for an initiative or
referendum petition.
      CITY. The City of Auburn, Nebraska.
      CITY COUNCIL. The legislative authority of the city.
      CLERK. The City Clerk or the city official in charge of elections.
      MEASURE. An ordinance, charter provision or resolution which is within
the legislative authority of the City Council to pass and which Is not excluded
from the operation of referendum by the exceptions in §
40.13.
      PETITION. A document authorized for circulation pursuant to §
40.02 or any copy of the document.
      PLACE OF RESIDENCE. The street and number of the residence; if there is
no street and number for the residence, place of residence shall mean the
mailing address.
      PROSPECTIVE PETITION. A sample document containing the information
necessary for a completed petition, including a sample signature sheet, which
has not yet been authorized for circulation.
      QUALIFIED ELECTORS. All persons registered to vote, at the time the
prospective petition is filed, in the jurisdiction governed or to be governed
by any measure sought to be enacted by initiative or altered or repealed by
referendum.
      RESIDENCE. The place at which a person has established his or her home,
where he or she is habitually present and to which, when he or she departs, he
or she intends to return.
      SIGNATURE SHEET. A sheet of paper which is part of a petition and which
is signed by persons wishing to support the petition effort.
(Prior Code, § 1-1301)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 18-2501 through 18-2511
§ 40.02  PETITIONS, BALLOTS.
   (A)   Before circulating an initiative or referendum petition, the
petitioner shall file with the Clerk a prospective petition. The Clerk shall
date the prospective petition immediately upon its receipt. The Clerk shall
verify that the prospective petition is in proper form and shall provide a
ballot title for the initiative or referendum proposal, as described below. If
the prospective petition is in proper form, the Clerk shall authorize the
circulation of the petition and the authorization shall be given within three
working days from the date the prospective petition was filed. If the form of
the prospective petition is incorrect, the Clerk shall, within three working
days from the date the prospective petition was filed, inform the petitioner of
necessary changes and request that those changes be made. When the requested
changes have been made and the revised prospective petition has been submitted
to the Clerk in proper form, the Clerk shall authorize the circulation of the
petition and the authorization shall be given within two working days from the
receipt of the properly revised petition. Verification by the Clerk that the
prospective petition is in proper form does not constitute an admission by the
Clerk, City Council or city that the measure is subject to referendum or
limited referendum or that the measure may be enacted by initiative.
   (B)   The ballot title of any measure to be initiated or referred shall
consist of:
      (1)   A briefly worded caption by which the measure is commonly known or
which accurately summarized the measure;
      (2)   A briefly worded question which plainly states the purpose of the
measure and is phrased so that an affirmative response to the question
corresponds to an affirmative vote on the measure; and
      (3)   A concise and impartial statement, of not more than 75 words, of
the chief purpose of the measure.
   (C)   The ballots used when voting on an initiative or referendum proposal
shall contain the entire ballot title. Proposals for initiative and referendum
shall be submitted on separate ballots and the ballots shall be printed in
lower case ten point type, except that the caption shall be in bold face type.
All initiative and referendum measures shall be submitted in a nonpartisan
manner without indicating or suggesting on the ballot that they have or have
not been approved or endorsed by any political party or organization.
(Prior Code, § 1-1302)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 18-2512, 18-2513
§ 40.03  PETITION FORM.
   (A)   The forms designed by the Secretary of State to be used for initiative
and referendum petitions shall be made available to the public by the City
Clerk and they shall serve as a guide for individuals preparing prospective
petitions. Substantial compliance with initiative and referendum forms is
required before authorization to circulate the petition shall be granted by the
City Clerk. Chief petitioners or circulators preparing prospective petitions
shall be responsible for making copies of the petition for circulation after
authorization for circulation has been granted.
   (B)   Each petition presented for signature must be identical to the
petition authorized for circulation by the City Clerk. Every petition shall
contain the name and place of residence of not more than three persons as chief
petitioners or sponsors of the measure. The chief petitioners or sponsors shall
be qualified electors of the city potentially affected by the initiative or
referendum proposal. Every petition shall contain the caption and the statement
specified to be part of the ballot title. When a special election is being
requested, the fact shall be stated on every petition.
(Prior Code, § 1-1303)  (Ord. 1-04, passed 4-12-2004)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 18-2514, 18-2515
§ 40.04  DECLARATORY JUDGMENT.
   (A)   The city or any chief petitioner may seek a declaratory judgment
regarding any questions arising under this chapter, as it may be from time to
time amended, including, but not limited to, determining whether a measure is
subject to referendum or limited referendum or whether a measure may be enacted
by initiative. If a chief petitioner seeks a declaratory judgment, the city
shall be served by personal, residence or certified mail service upon the chief
executive officer or City Clerk. If the city seeks a declaratory judgment, only
the chief petitioner or chief petitioners shall be required to be served.
   (B)   Any action brought for declaratory judgment for purposes of
determining whether a measure is subject to limited referendum or whether a
measure may be enacted by initiative, may be filed in the district court at any
time after the filing of a referendum or initiative petition with the City
Clerk for signature verification until 40 days from the date the City Council
received notification from the verifying official that the necessary signatures
have been obtained. If the city does not bring an action for declaratory
judgment to determine whether the measure is subject to limited referendum or
referendum or whether the measure may be enacted by initiative, until after it
has received the notification, it shall be required to proceed with the
initiative or referendum election in accordance with the provisions of this
chapter. If the city does file an action prior to receiving the notification,
it shall not be required to proceed to hold the election until a final decision
has been rendered in the action.
   (C)   Any action for a declaratory judgment shall be governed generally by
Neb. RS 25-21,149 through 25-21,164, except that only the city and each chief
petitioner shall be required to be made parties. The city, City Clerk, City
Council or any of the city’s officers shall be entitled to rely on any order
rendered by the court in any proceeding. Any action brought for declaratory
judgment pursuant to this section shall be given priority in scheduling
hearings and in disposition as determined by the court. When an action is
brought to determine whether the measure is subject to limited referendum or
referendum or whether a measure may be enacted by initiative, a decision shall
be rendered by the court no later than five days prior to the election.
   (D)   The provisions of this section relating to declaratory judgments shall
not be construed as limiting, but construed as supplemental and additional to
other rights and remedies conferred by law.
(Prior Code, § 1-1303.01)  (Ord. 1-04, passed 4-12-2004)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 18-2538
§ 40.05  SIGNATURE SHEETS.
   (A)   Every signature sheet shall:
      (1)   Contain the caption required in §
40.02;
      (2)   Be part of a complete and authorized petition when presented to
potential signatories;
      (3)   Provide space for signatories to write their names, places of
residence and the date of signing; and
      (4)   Contain a statement that anyone falsifying information on a
signature sheet shall be subject to penalties provided by law.
   (B)   No more than 25 signatures on each signature sheet shall be counted.
In order to be valid, a signature shall be that of an individual registered to
vote, at the time of signing, in the jurisdiction governed or to be governed by
the measure addressed in the petition. A signature shall include the
signatory’s full name, his or her place of residence and the date of signing.
No signatory shall use ditto marks as a means of affixing his or her place of
residence or date on any petition. A wife shall not use her husband’s Christian
or given name when she signs a petition and she shall sign her own Christian or
given name along with her surname.
(Prior Code, § 1-1304)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 18-2516
§ 40.06  PETITIONS, AFFIDAVIT.
   Included in the contents of every petition shall be: an affidavit, to be
signed by the circulator in the presence of a notary, which states that the
circulator is a qualified elector, that each person who signed the petition did
so in the presence of the circulator on the date indicated and that the
circulator believes that each signatory was registered to vote in the affected
jurisdiction at the time he or she signed the petition and that the circulator
believes that each signatory has stated his or her name and place of residence
correctly.
(Prior Code, § 1-1305)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 18-2517
§ 40.07  PETITIONS, NOTIFICATIONS.
   (A)   Signed petitions shall be filed with the Clerk for signature
verification. Upon the filing of a petition and passage of a resolution by the
City Council, the City and the County Clerk or Election Commissioner of the
county in which the city is located may be mutual agreement provide that the
County Clerk or Election Commissioner shall ascertain whether the petition is
signed by the requisite number of voters. The city shall reimburse the county
for any costs incurred by the County Clerk or Election Commissioner. When the
verifying official has determined that 100% of the necessary signatures
required by this chapter have been obtained, he or she shall notify the City
Council of that fact and shall immediately forward to the City Council a copy
of the petition.
   (B)   In order for an initiative or referendum proposal to be submitted to
the City Council and the voters, the necessary signatures shall be on file with
the Clerk within six months from the date the prospective petition was
authorized for circulation. If the necessary signatures are not obtained by the
date, the petition shall be void.
(Prior Code, § 1-1306)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see LB 807, 7-17-1982
§ 40.08  FREQUENCY OF OCCURRENCE.
   The same measure, either in form or in essential substance, may not be
submitted to the people by initiative petition either affirmatively or
negatively, more often than once every two years. No attempt to repeal or alter
an existing measure or portion of the measure by referendum petition may be
made within two years from the last attempt to do the sane. The prohibition
shall apply only when the subsequent attempt to repeal or alter is designed to
accomplish the same or essentially the same purpose as the previous attempt.
(Prior Code, § 1-1307)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see LB 807, 7-17-1982
§ 40.09  DIRECT VOTE.
   The Executive Officer and City Council of the city may at any time, by
resolution, provide for the submission to a direct vote of the electors of any
measure pending before it, passed by it, including an override of any veto, if
necessary or enacted by the electors under this chapter and may provide in the
resolution that the measure shall be submitted at a special election or the
next regularly scheduled primary or general election. Immediately upon the
passage of any resolution for submission, the Clerk shall cause the measure to
be submitted to a direct vote of the electors, at the time specified in the
resolution and in the manner provided in this chapter for submission of
measures upon proposals and petitions filed by voters. The matter shall become
law if approved by a majority of the votes cast.
(Prior Code, § 1-1308)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 18-2520
§ 40.10  ELECTIONS.
   (A)   The Clerk shall call elections under this chapter, either at a special
election or regularly scheduled primary or general election. He or she shall
cause notice of every election to be printed in one or more newspapers of
general circulation in the city at least once not less than 30 days prior to
the election and also posted in the office of the Clerk and in at least three
conspicuous places in the city at least 30 days prior to the election. The
notice shall be substantially as follows:
Notice is hereby given that on Tuesday, the                  day of            
             ,              , at                                              
                             (identify polling place or precinct) of the City
of                                  , Nebraska, an election will be held at
which there will be submitted to the electors of the city for their approval or
rejection, the following measures, propositions or issues:
                                                                               
                                                                               
                                                                               
          (naming measures, propositions or issues)
which election will be open at 8:00 a.m. and will continue open until 8:00
p.m., of the same day.
Dated this                                day of                              
                 ,                          .
                                                                               
                         
Clerk of the City/Village of                                                  
, Nebraska
   (B)   The Clerk shall make available for photocopying a copy in pamphlet
form of measures initiated or referred. The notice provided in this section
shall designate where a copy in pamphlet form may be obtained.
(Prior Code, § 1-1309)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 18-2521
§ 40.11  BALLOTS.
   All ballots for use in special elections under this chapter shall be
prepared by the Clerk and furnished by the City Council, unless the City
Council contract with the county for the service and shall be in form the same
as provided by law for election of the Executive Officer and City Council of
the city. When ordinances under the sections are submitted to the electors at a
regularly scheduled primary or general election they shall be placed upon the
official ballots as provided in this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 1-1310)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 18-2522
§ 40.12  INITIATIVES.
   (A)   The power of initiative allows citizens the right to enact measures
affecting the governance of the city. An initiative proposal shall not have as
its primary or sole purpose the repeal or modification of existing law, except
if the repeal or modification is ancillary to and necessary for the adoption
and effective operation of the initiative measure.
   (B)   An initiative shall not be effective if the direct or indirect effect
of the passage of the initiative measure shall be to repeal or alter an
existing law or portion thereof, which is not subject to referendum or subject
only to limited referendum pursuant to §
40.13.
   (C)   Whenever an initiative petition bearing signatures equal in number to
at least 15% of the qualified electors of a city has been filed with the Clerk
and verified, it shall be the duty of the City Council to consider passage of
the measure contained in the petition including an override of any veto, if
necessary. If the City Council fails to pass the measure without amendment,
including an override of any veto, if necessary, within 30 days from the date
it received notification, the Clerk shall cause the measure  to be submitted to
a vote of the people at the next regularly scheduled primary or general
election held within the city. If the City Council, shall, by resolution,
direct the Clerk to cause the measure to be submitted at a special election.
The resolution shall not be subject to referendum or limited referendum.
   (D)   Whenever an initiative petition bearing signatures equal in number to
at least 20% of the qualified electors which requests that a special election
be called to submit the initiative measure to a vote of the people, has been
filed with the Clerk and verified, pursuant to §
40.07, it shall be the duty of the City Council to consider passage of the
measure contained in the petition including an override of any veto, if
necessary. If the City Council fails to pass the measure, without amendment,
including an override of any veto, if necessary, within 30 days from the date
it received notification, the Clerk shall cause the measure to be submitted to
a vote of the people at a special election called for the purpose. The date of
the election shall not be less than 30, nor more than 60, days from the date
the City Council received notification pursuant to §
40.07.
   (E)   If a majority of voters voting on the initiative measure shall vote in
favor of the measure, it shall become a valid and binding measure of the city
30 days after certification of the election results, unless the City Council by
resolution orders an earlier effective date or the measure itself provides for
a later effective date, which resolution shall not be subject to referendum or
limited referendum. A measure passed by the method shall not be amended or
repealed except by two-thirds majority of the members of the City Council. No
attempt to amend or repeal shall be made within one year from the passage of
the measure by the electors.
(Prior Code, § 1-1311)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 18-2523 through 18-2526
§ 40.13  REFERENDUM, LIMITATIONS.
   (A)   The power of referendum allows citizens the right to repeal or amend
existing measures or portions thereof, affecting the governance of the city.
   (B)   The following measures shall not be subject to referendum or limited
referendum:
      (1)   Measures necessary to carry out contractual obligations including,
but not limited to, those relating to the issuance of or provided for in bonds,
notes, warrants or other evidences of indebtedness, for projects previously
approved by a measure which was or is, subject to referendum or limited
referendum or previously approved by a measure adopted prior to 7-17-1982;
      (2)   Measures relating to any industrial development projects,
subsequent to measures giving initial approval to the projects;
      (3)   Measures adopting proposed budget statements following compliance
with procedures set forth in the State Budget Act;
      (4)   Measures relating to the immediate preservation of the public
peace, health or safety which have been designated as urgent measures by
unanimous vote of those present and voting of the City Council and approved by
its Executive Officer;
      (5)   Measures relating to projects for which notice has been given as
provided for in division (F) of this section for which a sufficient referendum
petition was not filed within the time limit stated in the notice or which
received voter approval after the filing of the petition;
      (6)   Resolutions directing the City Clerk to cause measures to be
submitted to a vote of the people at a special election as provided in Neb. RS
18-2524 and 18-2529;
      (7)   Resolutions ordering an earlier effective date for measures enacted
by initiative as provided in Neb. RS 18-2526;
      (8)   Measures relating to any facility or system adopted or enacted
pursuant to the Integrated Solid Waste Management Act by the city and which are
necessary to carry out contractual obligations provided for in previously
issued bonds, notes, warrants or other evidence of indebtedness;
      (9)   Measures that amend, supplement, change, modify or repeal a zoning
regulation, restriction or boundary and are subject to protest as provided in
Neb. RS 19-905;
      (10)   Measures relating to personnel issues, including, but not limited
to, establishment, modification or elimination of any personnel position,
policy, salary or benefit and any hiring, promotion, demotion or termination of
personnel; and
      (11)   Measures relating to matters subject to the provisions of the City
Natural Gas System Condemnation Act.
   (C)   The following measures shall be subject to limited referendum:
      (1)   Measures in furtherance of a policy of the city or relating to
projects previously approved by a measure which was subject to referendum or
which was enacted by initiative or has been approved by the voters at an
election; except that, the measures shall not be subject to referendum or
limited referendum for a period of one year after any policy or project was
approved at a referendum election, enacted by initiative or approved by the
voters at an election;
      (2)   Measures relating to the acquisition, construction, installation,
improvement or enlargement, including the financing or refinancing of the costs
of public ways, public property, utility systems and other capital projects and
measures giving initial approval for industrial development projects;
      (3)   Measures setting utility system rates and charges, except for
measures necessary to carry out contractual obligations provided for in
previously issued bonds, notes, warrants or other evidences of indebtedness and
pay rates and salaries for city employees other than the members of the City
Council and the Executive Officer; and
      (4)   Measures relating to any facility or system adopted or enacted
pursuant to the Integrated Solid Waste Management Act by the city except for
measures necessary to carry out contractual obligations provided for in
previously issued bonds, notes, warrants or other evidence of indebtedness.
   (D)   Measures subject to limited referendum shall ordinarily take effect 30
days after their passage by the City Council, including an override of any
veto, if necessary. Referendum petitions directed at measures subject to
limited referendum shall be filed for signature verification pursuant to Neb.
RS 18-2518 within 30 days after the measure’s passage by the City Council,
including an override of any veto, if necessary or after notice is first
published pursuant to division (E)(3) of this section. If the necessary number
of signatures as provided in Neb. RS 18-2529 or 18-2530 has been obtained
within the time limitation, the effectiveness of the measure shall be suspended
unless approved by the voters.
   (E)   (1)   For any measure relating to the acquisition, construction,
installation, improvement or enlargement of public ways, public property,
utility systems or other capital projects or any measure relating to any
facility or system adopted or enacted pursuant to the Integrated Solid Waste
Management Act, the city may exempt all subsequent measures relating to the
same project from the referendum and limited referendum procedures provided for
in this chapter by the following procedure:
         (a)   By holding a public hearing on the project, the time and place
of the hearing being published at least once not less than five days prior to
the date set for hearing in a newspaper of general circulation within the city;
         (b)   By passage of a measure approving the project, including an
override of a veto, if necessary, at a meeting held on any date subsequent to
the date of hearing; and
         (c)   After passage of the measure, including an override of a veto,
if necessary, by giving notice as follows:
            1.   For those projects for which applicable statutes require an
ordinance or resolution of necessity, creating a district or otherwise
establishing the project, notice shall be given for the project by including
either as part of the ordinance or resolution or as part of any publicized
notice concerning the ordinance or resolution a statement that the project as
described in the ordinance or resolution is subject to limited referendum for a
period of 30 days after the first publication of the notice and that, after the
30-day period, the project and measures related to it will not be subject to
any further right of referendum; and
            2.   For projects for which applicable statutes do not require an
ordinance or resolution of necessity, notice shall be given by publication of a
notice concerning the projects stating in general terms the nature of the
project and the engineer’s estimate of costs of the project and stating that
the project described in the notice is subject to limited referendum for a
period of 30 days after the first publication of the notice and that, after the
30-day period, the project and measures related to it will not be subject to
any further right of referendum. The notice required by this division shall be
published in at least one newspaper of general circulation within the city and
shall be published not later than 15 days after passage by the City Council,
including an override of a veto, if necessary, of a measure approving the
project.
      (2)   The right of the city to hold a hearing prior to the passage of the
measure by the City Council and give the notice after passage of the measure by
the City Council to obtain exemption for any particular project in a manner
described in this division is optional and the city shall not be required to
hold a hearing or give the notice for any particular project.
   (F)   Nothing in divisions (C) and (E) of this section shall be construed as
subjecting to limited referendum any measure related to matters subject to the
provisions of the City Natural Gas System Condemnation Act.
   (G)   All measures, except as provided in divisions (B), (C) and (E) of this
section, shall be subject to the referendum procedure at any time after such
measure has been passed by the City Council, including an override of a veto,
if necessary or enacted by the voters by initiative.
(Prior Code, § 1-1312)  (Ord. 4-03, passed 4-14-2003)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 18-2527, 18-2528
§ 40.14  REFERENDUM, PASSAGE.
   (A)   Whenever a referendum petition bearing signatures equal in number to
at least 15% of the qualified electors of the city has been filed with the
Clerk and verified pursuant to §
40.07, it shall be the duty of the City Council to reconsider the measure or
portion of such measure which is the object of the referendum. If the City
Council fails to repeal or amend the measure or portion thereof in the manner
proposed by the referendum, including an override of any veto, if necessary,
within 30 days from the date the City Council receives notification pursuant to
§
40.07, the Clerk shall cause the measure to be submitted to a vote of the
people at the next regularly scheduled primary or general election held within
the city. If the City Council desires to submit the measure to a vote of the
people at a special election prior to the next regularly scheduled primary or
general election held within the city, the City Council shall, by resolution,
direct the Clerk to cause the measure to be submitted at a special election.
The resolution shall not be subject to referendum or limited referendum.
   (B)   Whenever a referendum petition bearing signatures equal in number to
at least 20% of the qualified voters of the city which requests that a special
election be called to submit the referendum measure to a vote of the people,
has been filed with the Clerk and verified, it shall be the duty of the City
Council to reconsider the measure or portion of the pleasure which is the
object of the referendum. If the City Council fails to repeal or amend the
measure or portion thereof, in the manner proposed by the referendum, including
an override of any veto, if necessary, the Clerk shall cause the measure to be
submitted to a vote of the people at a special election called for the purpose
within 30 days from the date the City Council received notification. The date
of the special election shall not be less than 30, nor more than 60, days from
the date the City Council received notification.
   (C)   If a majority of the electors voting on the referendum measure shall
vote in favor of the measure, the law subject to the referendum shall be
repealed or amended. A measure repealed or amended by referendum shall not be
reenacted or returned  to its original form except by a  two-thirds  majority
of the members of the City Council. No attempt to reenact or return the measure
to its original form shall be made within one year of the repeal or amendment
of the measure by the electors. If the referendum measure does not receive a
majority vote, the ordinance shall immediately become effective or remain in
effect.
(Prior Code, § 1-1313)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 18-2529 through 18-2531
§ 40.15  APPLICABILITY.
   (A)   The provisions of the statutes of the state relating to election
officers, voting places, election apparatus and blanks, preparation and form of
ballots, information to voters, delivery of ballots, calling of elections,
conduct of elections, manner of voting, counting of votes, records and
certificates of election and recounts of votes, so far as applicable, shall
apply to voting on ordinances by the electors pursuant to this chapter.
   (B)   Nothing in this chapter shall apply to procedures for initiative or
referendums provided in Neb. RS 18-412 and 18-412.02, relating to city light
and power plants, Neb. RS 70-504, 70-650.01 and 70-650.02, relating to public
power districts, and Neb. RS 80-203 to 80-205, relating to soldiers and sailors
monuments.
(Prior Code, § 1-1315)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see LB 807, 7-17-1982
§ 40.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Whoever knowingly or willfully makes a false affidavit or takes a
false oath regarding the qualifications of any person to sign petitions under
this chapter shall be guilty of a Class I misdemeanor with a limit of $300 on
the fine.
   (B)   Whoever falsely makes or willfully destroys a petition or any part
thereof or signs a false name thereto or signs or files any petition knowing
the same or any part thereof to be falsely made or suppresses any petition or
any part thereof, which has been duly filed, shall be guilty of a Class I
misdemeanor with a limit of $500 on the fine.
   (C)   Whoever signs any petition under Neb. RS 18-2501 through 18-2531
knowing that he or she is not a registered voter in the place where the
petition is made, aids or abets any other person in doing any of the acts
mentioned in this section, bribes or gives or pays any money or thing of value
to any person directly or indirectly to induce him or her to sign the petition
or engages in any deceptive practice intended to induce any person to sign a
petition, shall be guilty of a Class I misdemeanor with a limit of $300 on the
fine.
   (D)   Any Clerk who willfully refuses to comply with the provisions of Neb.
RS 18-2501 through 18-2531 or who willfully causes unreasonable delay in the
execution of his or her duties under the sections shall be guilty of a Class I
misdemeanor, but imprisonment shall not be included as part of the punishment.
(Prior Code, § 1-1314)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 18-2532 through 18-2535
CHAPTER 41:  INTERGOVERNMENTAL RISK MANAGEMENT
Section
   
41.01   Generally
§ 41.01  GENERALLY.
   (A)   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      PUBLIC AGENCY. Any county, city, village, school district, public power
district, rural fire district or other political subdivision of the state, the
state, the University of Nebraska and any corporation whose primary function is
to act as an instrumentality or agency of the state.
   (B)   The City Council and any one or more public agencies may make and
execute an agreement providing for joint and cooperative action in accordance
with the Intergovernmental Risk Management Act to form, become members of and
operate a risk management pool for the purpose of providing to members risk
management services and insurance coverages in the form of group self-insurance
or standard insurance, including any combination of group self-insurance and
standard insurance, to protect members against losses arising from any of the
following:
      (1)   General liability;
      (2)   Damage, destruction or loss of real or personal property,
including, but not limited to, loss of use or occupancy and loss of income or
extra expense resulting from loss of use or occupancy;
      (3)   Errors and omissions liability; and
      (4)   Workers’ compensation liability.
   (C)   The City Council and any one or more public agencies, other than
school districts and educational service units, may make and execute an
agreement providing for joint and cooperative action in accordance with the act
to form, become members of and operate a risk management pool for the purpose
of providing to members risk management services and insurance coverages in the
form of group self-insurance or standard insurance, including any combination
of group self-insurance and standard insurance, to provide health, dental,
accident and life insurance to member’s employees and officers.
(Prior Code, § 1-1401)  (Ord. 7-02, passed 7-8-2002)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 44-4303, 44-4304
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   DUMPING GROUNDS
      
51.   WATER REGULATIONS
      
52.   LAWN SPRINKLING SYSTEMS
      
53.   SEWER REGULATIONS
      
54.   ELECTRICITY
CHAPTER 50:  DUMPING GROUNDS
Section
   
50.01   Establishment
§ 50.01  ESTABLISHMENT.
   (A)   (1)   The City Council shall have the power to purchase, construct,
maintain and improve garbage disposal plants, systems or solid waste disposal
areas, and to purchase equipment for the operation thereof, for the use of the
city and the inhabitants thereof, and to lease or take land in fee, within or
without the corporate limits of the city, by donation, gift, devise, purchase
of appropriation for rights-of-way and for construction and operation of a
disposal plant, system or solid waste disposal area.
      (2)   The City Council shall, from time to time, by resolution or order,
designate the site of the municipal dumping grounds, either within or without
the corporate limits of the city, or outside of the city’s zoning jurisdiction,
the City Council shall first obtain approval of the proposed site and a license
to operate a solid waste disposal area, as required by the laws of the state.
      (3)   The City Council, for the purpose of defraying the cost of
purchasing, constructing, maintaining and improving garbage disposal plants,
systems or solid waste disposal areas, together with the cost of purchasing
equipment for the operation thereof, may levy a tax, not exceeding the maximum
limit prescribed by state law upon the assessed value of all the taxable
property in the city, except intangible property, in any one year, or may, when
the tax is insufficient for the purpose, issue bonds of the city, for the
purpose of defraying the costs, as provided by the laws of the state,
including, but not limited to, Neb. RS 19-2102 and 19-2103, as amended or
superseded.
   (B)   In any event, the City Council shall levy annually a sufficient tax to
maintain and operate the system, plant or solid waste disposal area and to
provide for the payment of the interest on and the principal of any bonds that
may have been issued as hereinabove provided.
   (C)   The City Council shall have the power to provide by ordinance for the
management and operation of municipal garbage disposal plants, systems and
solid waste disposal areas, the rates to be charged for the service, including
collection and disposal, the manner of payment and collection thereof and to
prescribe penalties for the violation of the ordinances, and to do whatever is
necessary to protect the general health in the matter of removal and disposal
of garbage.
(Prior Code, § 3-501)
Cross-reference:
   Garbage Disposal, see §§
99.35 through
99.40
   Health and Sanitation, see
Chapter 99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 19-2101 through 19-2113
CHAPTER 51:  WATER REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
51.001   Funding and operation
   
51.002   Water Service Districts
   
51.003   Water Main Districts; special assessments
   
51.004   Water Extension Districts; special assessments
   
51.005   Water contract
Use Regulations; Billing
   
51.020   Definitions
   
51.021   Consumer’s application
   
51.022   Installation procedure
   
51.023   Installation expense
   
51.024   Water connection fees
   
51.025   Repairs and maintenance
   
51.026   Rates
   
51.027   Water bills
   
51.028   Lien
   
51.029   Duration of liability
   
51.030   Single premise
   
51.031   Liability for restricted use or shutdown
   
51.032   Fire hydrants
   
51.033   Pollution
   
51.034   Water service contracts
   
51.035   Inspection
   
51.036   Permits
   
51.037   Restrictions
   
51.038   Discontinuance of service; notice and procedure
Cross-Connection Control
   
51.050   Generally
   
51.051   Definitions
   
51.052   Adopted standards
Conditions and Restrictions
   
51.065   Unsafe physical connection to system
   
51.066   Backflow and cross-connection surveys and investigations
   
51.067   Backflow prevention devices required
   
51.068   Type of backflow protection required
   
51.069   Customer booster pumps
   
51.070   Backflow preventer testing
   
51.071   Safety threat; disconnection
   
51.072   Approval standards
   
51.073   Wellhead protection areas
 
   
51.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 51.001  FUNDING AND OPERATION.
   (A)   The city owns and operates the City Water Department through the Board
of Public Works and the Manager of the Board of Public Works.
   (B)   The City Council, for the purpose of purchasing, construction and
maintaining waterworks, mains or any portions of extensions of waterworks or
water supply, may borrow money or issue bonds, as provided by the laws of the
state, including, but not limited to, Neb. RS 17-534, as amended or superseded,
and the city may levy and collect a general tax, in the same manner as other
municipal taxes are levied and collected, in an amount sufficient to pay the
interest and principal of the bonds, as the same mature, upon the assessed
value of all the taxable property within the city, except intangible property,
as shown upon the assessment rolls, in addition to the sum authorized to be
levied under Neb. RS 17-506, as amended or superseded. All taxes raised by a
levy shall be retained in a fund known as the Water Fund, and shall, at all
times, remain in the custody of the City Treasurer.
   (C)   In lieu of the issuance of general obligation bonds, or the levying of
taxes upon property, as by law provided, the city may construct, purchase or
otherwise acquire a waterworks plant or a water system, either within or
without the corporate limits of the city, and real and personal property needed
or useful in connection therewith, and pay the cost thereof by pledging and
hypothecating the revenue and earnings of any waterworks plant or water system
owned or to be owned by the city, and may issue and sell revenue bonds or
debentures, the revenue bonds or debentures to be a lien only upon the
waterworks plant or water system, and enter into the contracts in connection
therewith as may be proper and necessary; provided that, the city shall not
hypothecate the revenue and earnings of any waterworks plant or water system,
nor issue revenue bonds or debentures, as herein authorized, until the
proposition relating thereto has been submitted to and approved by the
qualified voters of the city as provided by the laws of the state, including,
but not limited to, Neb. RS 17-905, for a vote of the electors, however, shall
not apply when the city seeks to pledge or hypothecate the revenues and
earnings of any waterworks plant or water system owned or be to owned by the
city, or issue revenue bonds or debentures, solely for the maintenance,
extension or enlargement of any waterworks plant or water system owned by the
city.
   (D)   Pursuant to Neb. RS 18-1803, as amended or superseded, the city shall
have the power to issue revenue bonds for the purpose of acquiring,
constructing, reconstructing, improving, extending, equipping or operating any
city water facility, within or without its corporate limits, and for any
purpose necessary or incidental to any of the foregoing and for the purpose of
refunding any bonds and for the purpose of refunding any general obligation
bonds of the city issued to construct part or all of the city water facilities,
including refunding any general obligation bonds which may have been issued to
refund any bonds issued to construct part or all of the city water facilities.
General provisions relating to the form, sale, issuance and other matters
concerning revenue bonds issued pursuant to Neb. RS 18-1803, as amended or
superseded, shall be as provided by the laws of the state, including, but not
limited to, Neb. RS 18-1804, amended or superseded. Any ordinance authorizing
revenue bonds issued pursuant to Neb. RS 18-1803, may contain the covenants and
provisions to protect and safeguard the security of the holders of the bonds as
shall be deemed necessary to assure the prompt payment of the principal thereof
and the interest thereon. The covenants and provisions may establish or provide
for, but shall not be limited to, the payment of interest on the bonds from the
proceeds thereof for the period as the City Council deems advisable, the
creation of reserve funds from bond proceeds, revenue from the facility for or
with respect to which the bonds were issued; the operation, maintenance,
management, accounting and auditing procedures to be followed in the operation
of the facility; and the conditions under which any trustee or bondholders
committee shall be entitled to the appointment of a receiver to take possession
of the facility, to manage it, and receive and apply revenue from the facility.
Whenever, pursuant to Neb. RS 18-1803, as amended or superseded, the City
Council shall have issued any revenue bonds, the City Council shall establish,
maintain, revise and collect charges and rates, throughout the life of the
bonds, at least sufficient to provide for all costs associated with the
ownership, operation, maintenance, renewal and replacement of the facility for
or with respect to which the bonds were issued, the payment of the principal
and interest on all indebtedness incurred with respect thereto and to provide
adequate reserves therefore, to maintain the coverage for the payment of the
indebtedness as the City Council may deem advisable, to maintain other reserves
as provided in the ordinances authorizing the issuance of the bonds and to
carry out the provisions of the ordinances.
   (E)   The City Council for the purpose of paying for extensions and
improvements of any public utilities consisting of a waterworks plant, water
system, sanitary sewer system, gas plant, gas system, electric light and power
plant or electric distribution system, may, as provided by the laws of the
state, including, but not limited to, Neb. RS 19-1305 through 19-1307, as
amended or superseded, issue and sell combined revenue bonds, securing the
payment thereof by pledging and hypothecating the revenue and earnings of any
two or more of the public utilities, and may enter into the contracts in
connection therewith as may be necessary or proper.
   (F)   The City Council, for the purpose of paying the expense of maintaining
a system of hydrants in connection with the water plant and pumping and
supplying through them water for public purposes, is authorized and empowered
to provide a fund, upon the presentation to the City Council of a petition
signed by 60% of the legal voters of the city, in addition to the General Fund
of the city, by making a levy, at the time authorized by law, not exceeding the
maximum limits therefor as prescribed by state law upon the assessed value of
all the taxable property of the city, except intangible property, as provided
by the laws of the state, including, but not limited to, Neb. RS 17-545 and 17-
546, as amended or superseded.
   (G)   The expense of erecting, locating and constructing reservoirs and
hydrants for the purpose of fire protection, and the expense of constructing
and laying water mains, pipes or the parts thereof as may be just and lawful,
may be assessed upon and collected from the property and real estate especially
benefitted thereby, if any, in such manner as may be provided for the making of
special assessments for other public improvements in the city.
   (H)   The city shall have the right and power to tax, assess and collect
from the inhabitants thereof the tax, rent or rates for the use and benefit of
water used or supplied to them by the waterworks, mains, portion or extension
of any system of waterworks or water supply as the City Council shall deem just
or expedient.
   (I)   The City Water Department shall be under the complete control, charge
and management of the Board of Public Works. The Board of Public Works shall
have the power to operate the City Water Department and to exercise all powers
conferred by law upon the city for the operation and government of the
Department to the same extent, in the same manner and under the same
restrictions as the City Council could do, except, however, the Board of Public
Works shall not make any expenditure or contract any indebtedness, other than
for ordinary running expenses, exceeding in amount $20,000, without first
obtaining the approval of the City Council. The Manager of the Board of Public
Works shall have the immediate supervision and control over the City Water
Department and shall be primarily responsible for the economic management and
prudent operation thereof. No money shall be expended for improvements, repairs
or extensions of the city waterworks system, except upon recommendation of the
Manager of the Board of Public Works. All contracts for the construction of a
system of waterworks, water mains or extensions of any system of waterworks or
water supply owned by the city, or any portion thereof, shall be let to the
lowest responsible bidder therefore, and upon not less than 20 days published
notice of the terms and conditions upon which the contract is to be let having
been given by publication in a newspaper published in the city, and if no
newspaper is published therein, then in some newspaper published in the county;
provided, in all cases, the City Council shall have the right to reject any and
all bids that may not be satisfactory to them.
   (J)   Before any project is advertised for bids or approved for
construction, the plans and specifications shall first be approved by the Board
of Public Works, as well as any appropriate state agencies.
(Prior Code, § 3-701)  (Ord. 13-02, passed 9-9-2002)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-531, 17-533, 17-534, 17-538, 17-539, 17-
541, 17-543, 17-545, 17-546, 17-802, 17-905, 18-1803 through 18-1805, 19-1305
through 19-1307
§ 51.002  WATER SERVICE DISTRICTS.
   (A)   The City Council shall have power, by ordinance, to lay out the city
into suitable districts for the purpose of establishing a system of water
service districts, to provide the systems and regulate the construction, repair
and use of the same, to compel all proper connections therewith and branches
from other streets, avenues and alleys and from private property, and to
provide a penalty not to exceed $500 for any obstruction or injury to any water
main or part thereof, or for failure main or part thereof, or for failure to
comply with the regulations prescribed therefor.
   (B)   Whenever the City Council shall deem it necessary or desirable to make
improvements in a water service district, it may, by ordinance, create the
water service district and, after the passage, approval and publication of the
ordinance, shall publish notice of the creation of the district as provided by
the applicable laws of the state, including, but not limited to, Neb. RS 17-
971, as amended or superseded.
   (C)   If written objections to the creation of the water service district
are not filed within 20 days after the first publication of the notice in
sufficient numbers to cause the repeal of the ordinance, as provided by the
laws of the state, including, but not limited to, Neb. RS 17-971, as amended or
superseded, the City Council shall forthwith cause the work to be done or the
improvement to be made, shall contract therefor, and shall levy assessments on
the lots and parcels of land within the district of districts specially
benefitted thereby in proportion to the benefits in order to pay the cost of
the improvement in any water service district and the funding of any warrants
issued for the payments, may, by ordinance, cause the issuance of bonds as
provided by the laws, of the state, including, but not limited to, Neb. RS 17-
976j, as amended or superseded, and the City Council shall levy and collect
annually a tax upon all of the taxable property in the city, except intangible
property, sufficient in rate and amount to pay in full, when taken together
with the assessments hereinabove provided for, the principal and interest of
the bonds as the same become due, and the amount of the tax shall not be
included in the maximum amount of tax which the city is authorized by the laws
of the state to levy annually.
(Prior Code, § 3-702)
§ 51.003  WATER MAIN DISTRICTS; SPECIAL ASSESSMENTS.
   (A)   Pursuant to Neb. RS 18-401, as amended or superseded, the City Council
shall have the power and authority, whenever it deems it proper and necessary
so to do, to create, by ordinance, a water main district, either within or
without the corporate limits of the city, and to order and cause to be made
extensions or enlargements of water mains through the district. Upon the
passage of an ordinance creating a water main district, or ordering the
extension or enlargement of a water main district, it shall be the duty of the
City Council to cause a notice, addressed generally to the owners of the real
estate within the water main district, to be published as provided by the laws
of the state, including, but not limited to, Neb. RS 18-403, as amended or
superseded. If protests to the ordinance creating the water main district are
not filed as provided by the laws of the state, including, but not limited to,
Neb. RS 18-404, as amended or superseded, sufficient to operate as a repeal or
recession of the ordinance, then the power of the City Council shall be deemed
complete and it shall be the duty of the City Council to proceed to contract
for and in behalf of the city for the extension or enlargement of the water
main so ordered, or to make the extension or enlargement with its own forces.
   (B)   If a petition is filed, signed by the owners of a majority of the
front footage of real estate within a proposed district, which petition shall
contain the consent of the real estate for the installation of water mains of
sizes designated by the City Council and inserted in the petition, then the
water main district shall be created; and the entire cost of laying the water
main shall be assessed and collected as hereinafter provided.
   (C)   Upon the completion of an extension or enlargement of any water main
in any district, the actual cost thereof shall be duly certified to the City
Council, when done by utilizing the equipment and employees of the city, the
average cost, based on the average cost per foot to the city, in the previous
calendar year of installing water mains, shall be thus certified. Thereupon, it
shall be the duty of the City Council to assess, to the extent of special
benefit, the cost, not exceeding the actual cost or average cost, as the case
may be, of installing the water main upon all real estate, in the district, as
provided by the laws of the state, including, but not limited to, Neb. RS 18-
405, as amended or superseded. The cost of any extension or enlargement in
excess of the actual or average cost of installing the water main, heretofore
authorized to be addressed and levied against the real estate in the district,
shall be paid out of the Water Fund of the city, if there be a fund; and if the
city has no water fund, then the same shall be paid out of the General Fund;
provided that, no real estate in the city shall be subject to more than one
special tax assessment for the same extension or enlargement of water mains.
   (D)   The special assessments hereinabove provided for shall be collected
and shall draw interest as provided by the laws of the state, including, but
not limited to, Neb. RS 18-406, as amended or superseded. After the levy of the
special assessments and the extension of the same upon the tax record against
the real estate in the water main district, the City Council shall have the
power to issue, or cause to be issued, against the fund so created, special
warrants payable out of the fund, which shall be delivered to the contractor in
payment of the money due him or her under his or her contract for the extension
or enlargement of the water main to cover the cost for which the assessments
were levied.
(Prior Code, § 3-701)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 18-401 through 18-409, 18-411
§ 51.004  WATER EXTENSION DISTRICTS; SPECIAL ASSESSMENTS.
   (A)   Pursuant to Neb. RS 19-2402, as amended or superseded, the City
Council, whenever it shall deem it necessary and advisable to extend municipal
water service to territory beyond the existing systems, may, by ordinance,
create a district or districts to be known as water extension districts, for
the purposes, and the district or districts may include properties within the
corporate limits of the city and one mile beyond the same. The ordinance shall
state the size and kind of water mains proposed to be constructed in the
district and shall designate the location and terminal points thereof. The
ordinance shall also refer to the plans and specifications for the utility
extensions which shall have been made and filed with the City Clerk by the City
Engineer prior to the introduction of the ordinance, and the City Engineer, at
the time of filing the plans and specifications, shall make and file an
estimate of the total cost of the proposed utility extension. The ordinance
shall also state the outer boundaries of the district or districts in which it
is proposed to make special assessments.
   (B)   Unless sufficient owners of lots and lands abutting upon any street,
avenue or alley, or part thereof, within the extension district, shall petition
therefor, as provided by the laws of the state, including, but not limited to,
Neb. RS 19-2403, is amended or superseded, the improvement shall not be made
until not less than three-fourths of all of the members of the City Council, by
vote, assent to the making of the same. The City Council, upon the petitioner
by the vote, shall order the water extension main laid out and, to the extent
of special benefit, assess the cost thereof against the property abutting upon
the street, avenue or alley or part thereof, and which is located within the
utility district within which the water extension main has been so placed. The
assessment of special taxes for water extension mains so provided for and
constructed shall be levied at one time, shall be a lien on the real estate
from and after the date of the levy thereof, and shall be collected and shall
draw interest as provided by the laws of the state, including, but not limited
to, Neb. RS 19-2404 and 19-2405, as amended or superseded. For the purpose of
paying the cost of any water service extension, in any district, the City
Council may, by ordinance, cause to be issued bonds of the city, as provided by
the laws of the state, including, but not limited to, Neb. RS 19-2405, as
amended or superseded; provided that, if a sufficient written protest shall be
filed as provided by the laws of the state, including, but not limited to, Neb.
RS 19-2405, as amended or superseded, the ordinance shall not be passed. In
lieu of the general obligation bonds, the city may issue revenue bonds as
provided in Neb. RS 18-502, as amended or superseded, to pay all or part of the
cost of the construction of the improvement.
   (C)   Special taxes may be levied by the City Council for the purpose of
paying the cost of constructing extension water mains, as provided herein. The
special tax shall be levied on the real property lying and being within the
utility main district in which the extension mains may be situated to the
extent of benefits to the property by reason of the improvement, the benefits
to the property being determined by the City Council, sitting as a board of
equalization, after notice to property owners, as provided in other cases of
special assessment. After the City Council, sitting as the board of
equalization, shall find the levy may be made as provided by the laws of the
state, including, but not limited to, Neb. RS 19-2407, as amended or
superseded, and all taxes shall be collected in the same manner as general city
taxes and shall be subject to the same penalty.
   (D)   For the purpose of making partial payments as the work progresses,
warrants may be issued by the City Council, and the warrants shall be
registered, shall bear interest and shall be redeemed and paid as provided by
the laws of the state, including, but not limited to, Neb. RS 19-2406, is
amended or superseded.
(Prior Code, § 3-704)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 18-502, 19-2402 through 19-2405, 19-2406 19-
2407
§ 51.005  WATER CONTRACT.
   The city, through its Board of Public Works, shall furnish water to persons
within its corporate limits whose premises abut a street or alley in which a
commercial main new is or may hereafter be laid. The city may also furnish
water to persons whose premises are situated outside the corporate limits of
the city, as and when, according to law, the Board of Public Works may see fit
to do so. The rules, regulations and water rates hereinafter named in this
chapter, shall be considered a part of every application hereafter made for
water service and shall be considered a part of the contract between every
consumer now or hereafter served without further formality, the making of
application on the part of any applicant or the use or consumption of water
service by present consumers thereof and the furnishing of water service to the
consumer shall constitute a contract between the consumer and the city, to
which the contract both parties are bound. If the consumer shall violate any of
the provisions of the contract or any reasonable rules and regulations that the
Board of Public Works may hereafter adopt, the Manager of the Board of Public
Works, or his or her agent, may cut off or disconnect the water service from
the building or premise or place of violation. No further connection for water
service to the building, premise or place shall again be made save or except by
order of the Manager or his or her agent.
(Prior Code, § 3-705)
Cross-reference:
   Water service contracts, see §
51.034
USE REGULATIONS; BILLING
§ 51.020  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   MAIN. Any pipe other than a supply or service pipe that is used for the
purpose of carrying water to and disbursing the same in the city.
   SEPARATE PREMISE. More than one consumer procuring water from the same
service or supply pipe. The second premise may be a separate dwelling,
apartment, building or structure used for a separate business.
   SERVICE PIPE. Any pipe extending from the shut-off, stop box or curb cock at
or near the lot line to and beyond the property line of the consumer to the
location on the premise where the water is to be disbursed.
   SUPPLY PIPE. Any pipe tapped into a main and extending from there to a point
at or near the lot line of the consumer’s premise where the shut-off stop box
or curb cock is located.
(Prior Code, § 3-706)
§ 51.021  CONSUMER’S APPLICATION.
   Every person or persons desiring a supply of water must make application
therefor to the Manager upon the blanks to be furnished by him or her for that
purpose. The Manager may require any applicant to make a service deposit in an
amount as he or she deems necessary subject to the review of the Board of
Public Works. Water may not be supplied to any house or private service pipe,
except upon the written order of the Manager. The Department shall not supply
to any person outside the corporate limits water service without special
permission from the Board of Public Works; provided, the entire cost of laying
mains, service pipe and supply pipe shall be paid by the consumer. Nothing
herein shall be constructed to obligate the city to provide water service to
nonresidents.
(Prior Code, § 3-707)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-537
§ 51.022  INSTALLATION PROCEDURE.
   In making excavations in streets, alleys or sidewalks for the purpose of
installing pipe or making repairs, the paving, stones and earth must be removed
and deposited in a manner that will occasion the least inconvenience to the
public and provide for adequate drainage. No person shall leave an excavation
made in the street, alley or sidewalk open at any time without a barricade and,
during the night, warning lights. After service pipes are laid, the streets,
alleys and sidewalks shall be restored to good condition. If the excavation in
any street, alley or side walk is left open or unfinished for a period of 24
hours or more, the Manager shall have the duty to finish or correct the work,
and all expenses so incurred shall be charged to the consumer. All installation
shall be done under the supervision and strictly in accordance with the rules,
regulations and specifications prescribed for the installation by the Board of
Public Works; provided that, the rules, regulations and specifications have
been reviewed and approved by the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 3-708)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-142, 17-537
§ 51.023  INSTALLATION EXPENSE.
   (A)   The city shall pay the cost of tapping the main, installing the meter
and providing fixtures and labor up to and including the stop box at the lot
line of the customer. No person other than the Manager or his or her duly
authorized agent shall tap the water main. The customer shall pay a tap fee in
the sum as the Board of Public Works shall require in each case; provided that,
a tap for a three-quarter-inch pipe shall be deemed to be the minimum or base
tap fee. The customer shall, at his or her own expense, bring water service
from the stop box and upon his or her own premise and shall employ a licensed
plumber who shall install water service to the place of disbursement.
Nonresidents shall pay tap fees and installation charges in sums as the
Manager, pursuant to resolution of the Board of Public Works, shall in each
case fix. The extension of commercial mains into unsupplied territory within
the corporate limits may be made by means of water extension districts. If the
creation of a Water Extension District is not feasible or practical, the
applicant shall be supplied with water service on the basis as the Board of
Public Works shall determine.
   (B)   No applicant shall be entitled to water service on any plan or basis
which contemplates that the city shall extend its present commercial mains at
city expense. If, in the sound discretion of the City Council, it is neither
feasible or practical to create a Water Extension District, applicants may upon
resolution duly passed by the Board of Public Works be permitted and allowed to
connect with the nearest commercial main. The applicant may, under the
supervision of the Manager, install a water main in the unsupplied territory,
using the streets and alleys of the city, and shall pay for water service
furnished at the same rate as other customers for similar service; provided,
pursuant to the resolution permitting and allowing the residents to connect
with the city mains, the same shall be built and, constructed under the terms,
specifications and conditions as may be agreed upon by written contract,
executed by and between the owners and the city. Among other things, the
contract shall provide that the city shall repay the owners or applicants the
expense of constructing the water main in water service supplied to the owners
or applicant, but in no event exceeding the necessary, original cost of
construction of the mains.
   (C)   When the city shall have entered into the contract and the water is
supplied to the applicants, it shall be the duty of the Manager to keep, or
cause to be kept, a separate account of all water rents collected from the
owners or applicants and the same shall be deposited with and kept by the City
Treasurer as a separate fund for each owner or applicant and shall only be
drawn upon, from time to time, by claims filed to reimburse the owners or
applicants for moneys expended by them in constructing the water extension
mains. Whenever rentals for water supplied under the contracts shall be
collected in a sum equal to the amount expended by the private individuals and
shall have been credited to the parties entitled thereto, the mains extended in
the public streets and alleys shall become the property of the Water Department
of the city.
(Prior Code, § 3-709)
§ 51.024  WATER CONNECTION FEES.
   All applicants for connection to the water distribution system who seek to
connect to the system where a Water Extension District has been created and
whose property shall not have been charged by way of special assessments for
the water service, shall pay, in addition to the tap fee required by the code
of the city, a water connection fee to the City Clerk, which water connection
fee shall be based upon the same formula used to determine the amount of
special assessments charged in the original district; provided that, no
connection shall be made to the water distribution system until the tap fee and
appropriate water connection fee shall have been paid in full; and provided,
further, that, the water connection fee shall, when collected, be handled by
the City Clerk as follows.
   (A)   If the special assessments in the preexisting water district have been
paid in full and the resolution assessing special assessments in the district
provides that the assessment is subject to a conditional reduction which runs
with the land, the City Clerk shall reimburse the property owners in accordance
with the terms of the original resolution or agreement.
   (B)   If the special assessments in the preexisting district have not been
paid in full, and if the resolution assessing special assessments in the
district provides that the assessment is subject to a conditional reduction
which runs with the land, then the City Clerk shall first apply the payment to
the unpaid special assessments and if there are excess funds remaining, then
the City Clerk shall reimburse the property owners, or their assigns, in
accordance with the terms of the original resolution or agreement, to the
extent of the funds remaining after the payment.
   (C)   In the event that are no property owners entitled to reimbursement, as
provided in the original resolution or agreement, then the City Clerk shall
credit the payments to the General Fund.
(Prior Code, § 3-709.01)  (Ord. 7-08, passed 3-24-2008)
§ 51.025  REPAIRS AND MAINTENANCE.
   The city shall repair or replace, as the case may be, all supply pipe
between the commercial main and the stop box. The customer, at his or her own
expense, shall replace and keep in repair all service pipe from the stop box to
the place of disbursement. When leaks occur in service pipes, the Manager shall
shut off water service until the leak is repaired at the expense of the
customer to the satisfaction of the Manager. All water meters shall be kept in
repair by the city at the expense of the city. When meters are worn out, they
shall be replaced and reset by the city at the expense of the city: provided
that, if the customer permits or allows a water meter to be damage, injured or
destroyed through his or her own recklessness, carelessness or neglect so that
the meter must be repaired or replaced, the Manager shall bill and collect from
the customer the cost of the meter repair or replacement in the same manner as
water rent is collected. Permitting a water meter to be damaged or destroyed by
freezing shall always be considered negligence on the part of the customer. All
meters shall be tested at the customer’s request at the expense of the customer
any reasonable number of times; provided that, if the test shows the water
meter to be running 2% or more fast, the expense of the test shall be borne by
the city. The city reserves the right to test any water service meter at any
time and, if the meter is found to be beyond repair, the city shall always have
the right to place a new meter on the customer’s water service fixtures at city
expense. Should a consumer’s meter fail to register properly, the customer
shall be charged for water during the time the meter is out of repair on the
basis of the monthly consumption during the same month of the preceding year;
provided that, if no basis for comparison exists, the customer shall be charged
the amount as may be reasonably fixed by the Manager.
(Prior Code, § 3-710)
§ 51.026  RATES.
   The Board of Public Works has the power and authority to fix the rates to be
paid by the water consumers for the use of water from the Water Department. All
fees shall be on file for public inspection at the office of the Board of
Public Works. No flat rates for water service shall be quoted or allowed by the
Board of Public Works. No water service shall be furnished to any customer at a
rate that is different from other customers of the same class or type; provided
that, nonresident customers shall be charged a rate as the Board of Public
Works shall set in each individual case. Persons, firms or corporations
desiring to use water temporarily shall pay rates as the Manager, with the
approval of the Board of Public Works, shall set. Without respect to schedule
of rates for other customers, the Board of Public Works nay enter into special
contracts with large consumers of water, but never at a rate less than the cost
of production; provided that, the contract shall always provide that the large
consumer shall always pay the minimum rate for other customers and the contract
shall be made on the basis of water consumed in excess of the minimum. A meter
shall always be attached to the water service of the contract consumer and read
monthly as in the case of other classes of water consumers. Water service
furnished to the other departments of the city and to other governmental
subdivisions of the state shall be measured and billed for at rates as the
Board of Public Works shall set from time to time without respect to the
schedule of rates on file at the office of the Board of Public Works, but never
at rates that do not cover the cost of providing water. Whenever water service
is supplied to more than one customer through the same supply pipe, each
customer shall pay the minimum water service charge each month. In the event
that two or more customers are supplied through the same meter, the owner of
the premises shall pay for all water consumed thereon, plus separate minimums.
One bill only shall be computed for each meter.
(Prior Code, § 3-711)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-538, 17-542, 17-810
§ 51.027  WATER BILLS.
   Water bills shall be due and payable monthly at the office of the Board of
Public Works. The water meter shall be read one time each month. It shall be
the duty of the customers of the Water Department to pay their bills. The
Manager shall charge and collect from each customer for the amount of water
consumed since the last examination together with any other charges, properly
itemized, due the Water Department. Bills shall be sent out each month and
shall be due and payable the day they are placed in the mail. Bills not paid on
or before the delinquent date each month shall be deemed to be delinquent. In
case the delinquent date falls on a Saturday, Sunday or Board of Public Works
holiday, the next working day shall be considered the same as the delinquent
date. Bills not paid by the delinquent date each month shall have a percentage
penalty amount, to be determined by the Board of Public Works, added to the net
month bill (excluding sales tax). A notice will be sent to the delinquent
customer according to the service policies and conditions of the Board of
Public Works. The notice shall comply with the city code. The procedure for
discontinuance of service shall be in accordance with the city code. The
Manager shall assess an additional fee set by resolution of the Board of Public
Works and on file at the office of the Manager in the event that water is shut
off for the nonpayment of any water bill, to compensate the city for the
additional hookup necessary to again provide water service to the delinquent
customer.
(Prior Code, § 3-712)  (Ord. 1-07, passed 1-8-2007)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-538
§ 51.028  LIEN.
   (A)   In addition to all other remedies, if a customer shall for any reason
remain indebted to the city for water service furnished, the amount due,
together with any rents and charges in arrears, shall be considered a
delinquent water rent which is hereby declared to be a lien upon the real
estate for which the same was used.
   (B)   The Manager shall notify, in writing, or cause to be notified in
writing, all owners of premises or their agents whenever their tenants or
leasees are 60 days or more delinquent in the payment of water rent.
   (C)   (1)   It shall be the duty of the Manager to report to the City
Council a list of all unpaid accounts due for water that are 80 days delinquent
or more, together with a description of the premises upon which the same was
used.
      (2)   The list shall be examined and, if approved by the City Council,
shall be certified by the City Clerk to the County Clerk to be collected as a
special tax in the manner provided by law.
(Prior Code, § 3-713)  (Ord. 11-11, passed 4-25-2011)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-538
§ 51.029  DURATION OF LIABILITY.
   All water consumers shall be liable for the minimum rate provided by
resolution unless and until the consumer shall, by written order, direct the
Manager to shut off the water at the stop box, in which case he or she shall
not be liable thereafter for water rents until the water is turned on again.
(Prior Code, § 3-714)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-510, 17-538, 17-542
§ 51.030  SINGLE PREMISE.
   No consumer shall supply water to other families or suffer them to take
water from his or her premise, nor after water is supplied into a building
shall any person make or employ a plumber or other person to make a tap
connection with the pipe upon the premise for alteration, extension or
attachment without the written permission of the Manager. It shall further be
unlawful for any person to interfere with any water meter or by means of any
contrivance or device to divert the water from the service pipe so that the
water will not pass through the meter or while passing through the meter to
cause the meter to register inaccurately.
(Prior Code, § 3-715)  Penalty, see §
51.999
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-537
§ 51.031  LIABILITY FOR RESTRICTED USE OR SHUTDOWN.
   The city shall not be liable for any damages caused by shutting off the
supply of water of any customer while the system or any part thereof is
undergoing repairs or when there is a shortage of water due to circumstances
over which the city has no control.
(Prior Code, § 3-716)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-537
§ 51.032  FIRE HYDRANTS.
   All hydrants for the purpose of extinguishing fires are hereby declared to
be public hydrants and it shall be unlawful for any person other than the
Manager, his or her agent, or members of the City Fire Department under the
orders of the Fire Chief, or the Assistant Fire Chief, to open or attempt to
open any of the hydrants and draw water from the same, or in any manner to
interfere with the hydrants.
(Prior Code, § 3-717)  Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.033  POLLUTION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to pollute or attempt to pollute any
stream or source of water for the supply of the City Water Department. The
jurisdiction of the city, to prevent any pollution or injury to the stream or
source of water for the supply of the City Water Department, shall extend 15
miles beyond its corporate limits.
(Prior Code, § 3-718)  Penalty, see §
51.999
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-536
§ 51.034  WATER SERVICE CONTRACTS.
   Contracts for water service are not transferable. Any person wishing to
change from one location to another shall make a new application and sign a new
contract. If any consumer shall move from the premise where service is
furnished, or if the premise is destroyed by fire or other casualty, he or she
shall at once inform the Manager who shall cause the water service to be shut
off at the premise. If the consumer should fail to give notice, he or she shall
be charged for all water used on the premise until the Manager is otherwise
advised of the circumstances.
(Prior Code, § 3-719)
Cross-reference:
   Water contract, see §
51.005
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-537
§ 51.035  INSPECTION.
   The Manager, or his or her duly authorized agents, shall have free access,
between the hours of 7:00 a.m. and 6:00 p.m., to all parts of each premise and
building to, or in which, water is delivered for the purpose of examining the
pipes, fixtures and other portions of the system to ascertain whether there is
any disrepair or unnecessary waste of water.
(Prior Code, § 3-720)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-537
§ 51.036  PERMITS.
   (A)   Excavations in streets or alleys of the city shall be made only by
bonded plumbers after issuance to them of written permits by the Manager and
also after complying with all rules and regulations found in Chapters 92
through 95 of this code, relating to excavations into public property.
   (B)   Application shall be made to the Manager upon blanks to be supplied by
the city for the purpose. For each permit issued, the applicant shall pay to
the Manager a permit fee set by resolution of the Board of Public Works which
shall cover the entire post of all plumbing inspections and the issuance of
certificate of satisfactory, inspection of the work. Inspections shall be made
at as times may be prescribed by the Manager in each case.
(Prior Code, § 3-721)
§ 51.037  RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   The Manager of the Board of Public Works or Manager’s agent shall have
the authority to restrict water usage of any customer during times of water
shortage, including shortage caused by fire fighting. The Manager or Manager’s
agent shall have the authority to determine that a water shortage exists and to
limit the following: lawn watering; swimming pool operations including filling
of swimming pools; washing of vehicles including commercial car and truck
washes; watering of trees, bushes, shrubs, flowers and gardens; Fire Department
controlled burns; fire sprinkler system tests; sale of water; pumping of
surface water from streams in the zoning limits of the city that the Manager or
Manager’s agent believes may recharge the aquifer of the municipal wells; and/
or any other methods to conserve water including reducing pressure, shutting
down parts of the system and the like. Also, when a water shortage exists and
the Manager or Manager’s agent requests that a customer repair a leak, the
repairs must be immediate and to the satisfaction of the Manager or Manager’s
agent. If the water shortage is not critical, the Manager or Manager’s agent
may implement a program where certain activities may be staggered.
   (B)   When a restriction is in force, a water use violation or a leak that
is not immediately repaired may result in discontinuation of water service.
(Prior Code, § 3-722)
§ 51.038  DISCONTINUANCE OF SERVICE; NOTICE AND PROCEDURE.
   (A)   The Board of Public Works shall have the right to discontinue utility
services and remove its properties if the charges for the services are not paid
within seven working days after the date that the charges become delinquent.
Before any termination, the Board of Public Works shall first give notice by
first-class mail or in person to any domestic subscriber whose service is
proposed to be terminated. If notice is given by first-class mail, the mail
shall be conspicuously marked as to its importance. Service shall not be
discontinued for at least seven days, weekends and holidays excluded after
notice is sent or given. As to any subscriber who has previously been
identified as a welfare recipient to the city by the Department of Health and
Human Services, the notice shall be by certified mail and notice of the
proposed termination shall be given to the Department of Health and Human
Services.
   (B)   The notice shall contain the following information:
      (1)   The reason for the proposed disconnection;
      (2)   A statement of the intention to disconnect unless the domestic
subscriber either pays the bill or reaches an agreement with the Board of
Public Works regarding payment of the bill;
      (3)   The date upon which service will be disconnected if the domestic
subscriber does not take appropriate action;
      (4)   The name, address and telephone number of the employee or
department to whom the domestic subscriber may address any inquiry or
complaint;
      (5)   The domestic subscriber’s right, prior to the disconnection date,
to request a conference regarding any dispute over the proposed disconnection;
      (6)   A statement that the Board of Public Works may not disconnect
service pending the conclusion of the conference;
      (7)   A statement to the effect that disconnection may be postponed or
prevented upon presentation of a duly licensed physician’s certificate which
shall certify that the domestic subscriber of resident within the subscriber’s
household has an existing illness or handicap which would cause the subscriber
or resident to suffer an immediate and serious health hazard by the
disconnection of the utility’s service to that household. The certificate shall
be filed with the Board of Public Works within five days of receiving notice
under this section and will prevent the disconnection of the Board of Public
Works services for a period of 30 days from the filing. Only one postponement
of disconnection shall be allowed under this division (B)(7) for each incidence
of nonpayment of any due account;
      (8)   The cost that will be borne by the domestic subscriber for
restoration of service;
      (9)   A statement that the domestic subscriber may arrange with the Board
of Public Works for an installment payment plan;
      (10)   A statement to the effect that those domestic subscribers who are
welfare recipients may qualify for assistance in payment of their utility bill
and that they should contact their caseworker in that regard; and
      (11)   Any additional information not inconsistent with this section
which has received prior approval form the Board of Public Works.
   (C)   A domestic subscriber may dispute the proposed discontinuance of
service by notifying the Board of Public Works with a written statement that
sets forth the reasons for the dispute and the relief requested. If a statement
has been made by the subscriber, a conference shall be held before the Board of
Public Works may discontinue services.
   (D)   The procedures adopted by the Board of Public Works for resolving
utility bills, three copies of which are on file in the office of the Board of
Public Works, are hereby incorporated by reference in addition to any
amendments thereto and are made a part of this section as though set out in
full.
   (E)   This section shall not apply to any disconnections or interruptions of
services made necessary by the Board of Public Works for reasons of repair or
maintenance or to protect the health or safety of the domestic subscriber or of
the general public.
(Prior Code, § 3-723)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 70-1602 et seq.
CROSS-CONNECTION CONTROL
§ 51.050  GENERALLY.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to protect the public water supply of the
city from the possibility of contamination by isolating or preventing real or
potential sources of contamination or pollution which may backflow in the
public water supply.
(Prior Code, § 3-732)  (Ord. 13-98, passed 12-14-1998)
§ 51.051  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AIR GAP. The unobstructed vertical distance through the free atmosphere
between the lowest opening from a pipe or faucet supplying water to a tank,
plumbing fixture or other device and the flood rim of the receptor, or between
the lowest opening from any pipe and any contamination or pollution source.
   AWWA. American Water Works Association.
   BACKFLOW or BACK SIPHONAGE. The flow of water or other liquids, mixtures,
gases or substances into the municipal water distribution system from any other
source than the intended source of the potable water supply.
   BACKFLOW PREVENTER. An assembly or means that prohibits backflow into the
potable water supply.
   CROSS-CONNECTION. Any physical arrangement where the potable water supply is
connected, directly or indirectly, with any other water supply system, sewer,
drain, conduit, tank, pump, plumbing fixture, heat exchanger or other
mechanical equipment or device which contains or may contain, contaminated
water, sewage or other wastes, liquid or gas of unknown or unsafe quality which
may be capable of importing contamination or pollution to the potable water
supply as a result of backflow.
   DOUBLE CHECK VALVE ASSEMBLY. A backflow prevention device consisting of two
independently acting check valves, internally force loaded to a normally closed
position between two tightly closing shut-off valves and with means of testing
for tightness.
   DUAL CHECK VALVES. Two independent inline check valve modules installed in
one assembly.
   HEALTH HAZARD. An actual or potential threat of contamination of a physical
or toxic nature to the public potable water system or the customer’s potable
water system that would be a danger to health.
   MANAGER. The General Manager of the Board of Public Works.
   POLLUTION HAZARD. An actual or potential threat of severe damage to the
physical properties of the public water system or to the potability of the
public or the customer’s potable water system, but which would not constitute a
health or system hazard.
   REDUCE PRESSURE PRINCIPAL BACKFLOW PREVENTER. A backflow prevention device
consisting of two independently acting check valves, internally force loaded to
a normally closed position and separated by an intermediate chamber in which
there is an automatic relief means of venting to atmosphere, internally loaded
to a normally open position between two tightly closing shut-off valves and
with means for testing for tightness of checks and opening of relief means.
   SYSTEM HAZARD. An actual or potential threat of severe damage to the
physical properties of the public or the customer’s potable water system or
contamination which would have protracted effect on the quality of the potable
water in the system.
   VACUUM BREAKER, ATMOSPHERIC TYPE. A vacuum breaker which is not designed to
be subject to continuous static line pressure.
   VACUUM BREAKER, PRESSURE TYPE. A vacuum breaker which is designed to be
subject to static line pressure.
(Prior Code, § 3-733)  (Ord. 13-98, passed 12-14-1998)
§ 51.052  ADOPTED STANDARDS.
   (A)   The City Water Department Cross-Connection Control Program shall be
based on the following standards:
      (1)   Title 179, State Department of Health and Human Services, Chapter
2: Regulations Governing Public Water Supply Systems, which is hereby adopted
and incorporated by reference as if fully set forth here within;
      (2)   Manual Of Cross-Connection Control, latest edition, published by
the Foundation for Cross-Connection Control and Hydraulic Research, University
of Southern California, is hereby adopted and incorporated by reference as if
fully set forth here within; and
      (3)   AWWA Manual M-14, latest edition which is hereby adopted and
incorporated by reference as if fully set forth here within.
   (B)   One copy of each of the above documents is on file with the City Clerk
and is available for public inspection at any reasonable time.
(Prior Code, § 3-734)  (Ord. 13-98, passed 12-14-1998)
CONDITIONS AND RESTRICTIONS
§ 51.065  UNSAFE PHYSICAL CONNECTION TO SYSTEM.
   No customer or other person shall cause, allow or create any physical
connection between the municipal water distribution system and any pipes,
pumps, hydrants, tanks, steam condensate returns, engine jackets, heat
exchangers or other water supplies or any other connection whereby potentially
unsafe or contaminating materials may be discharged or drawn into the municipal
water distribution system.
(Prior Code, § 3-735)  (Ord. 13-98, passed 12-14-1998)  Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.066  BACKFLOW AND CROSS-CONNECTION SURVEYS AND INVESTIGATIONS.
   (A)   Periodically customers of the City Water Department shall be required
to access their water system for potential backflow and back siphonage hazards
and report any potential hazards to the City Water Department upon a form
supplied by the Department to the customer.
   (B)   The Manager, or his or her agent, shall have the right to enter a
premises served by the City Water Department at all reasonable times for the
purpose of making surveys and investigations of water use practices and the
water system within the premises. If the customer refuses to allow access to
the premises, water service shall be discontinued after due notice to the
customer thereof.
   (C)   The customer shall take any steps necessary for the protection of
public health and safety as determined by the Manager.
(Prior Code, § 3-736)  (Ord. 13-98, passed 12-14-1998)
§ 51.067  BACKFLOW PREVENTION DEVICES REQUIRED.
   (A)   A customer of the City Water Department shall install an approved
backflow prevention device at his or her expense appropriate to the potential
hazards as set forth in Title 179 State Department of Health and Human
Services, Chapter 2: Regulations Governing Public Water Supply Systems.
      (16)   Packing houses and rendering plants;
      (17)   Premises having radioactive materials;
      (18)   Multi-storied buildings greater than three stories;
      (19)   Temporary services;
      (20)   Other commercial or industrial facilities which may constitute
potential cross-connections;
      (21)   Premises having a repeated history of cross-connections being
established or reestablished;
      (22)   Premises where it is impossible or impractical to make a complete
cross-connection survey; and
      (23)   Premises having internal cross-connections that are not
correctable or where plumbing arrangements makes it impractical to determine
whether or not cross-connections exists.
(Prior Code, § 3-737)  (Ord. 13-98, passed 12-14-1998)
§ 51.068  TYPE OF BACKFLOW PROTECTION REQUIRED.
   (A)   An approved backflow prevention device, when required, shall be
installed at a location and in a manner approved by the Manager, or his or her
agent, depending upon the degree of hazard that exists as follows.
      (1)   Approved air gap separation or an approved reduce pressure backflow
prevention device shall be installed where the public water supply system may
be contaminated with any substance which could cause a system hazard or health
hazard.
      (2)   An approved double check valve assembly shall be installed where
the public water supply system may be contaminated with any substance which
could cause a pollution hazard.
      (3)   An approved anti-siphon vacuum breaker may be used on an individual
hazard where it is not subjected to back pressure.
      (4)   All yard hydrant or hose bib connections shall be protected by an
approved, non-removable or integral, anti-siphoning vacuum breaker where a
possibility exists for back siphonage from a tank, sink, tub, pool and the like
or where water is provided to mix pesticides, herbicides, fertilizer or other
chemicals.
      (5)   Fire protection systems shall be protected with backflow devices as
described in AWWA Manual M-14, latest edition.
      (6)   A vacuum breaker shall be installed on all underground lawn and
garden sprinkler systems unless another acceptable backflow preventer has been
installed on the water service line.
      (7)   All new or replaced services lines shall have an approved backflow
prevention device installed.
   (B)   When backflow prevention device is installed, it may create a sealed
system in part or all of the customer’s water system which will not allow for
thermal expansion, it is the customer’s duty to install any surge tanks or
pressure relief valves as may be necessary to prevent damage to the customer’s
water system.
   (C)   A backflow prevention device bypass may be installed for the sole
purpose of providing water service during backflow prevention device testing,
for services two inches and larger, provided the bypass is capable of being
locked closed and only opened for a minimum amount of time to facilitate
testing and keys are only available at the City Water Department. Except for
the above exception, no backflow prevention device may be bypassed by the
customer’s water system and any bypass must be removed.
(Prior Code, § 3-738)  (Ord. 12-89, passed 1-2-1990; Ord. 10-01, passed 9-10-
2001)
§ 51.069  CUSTOMER BOOSTER PUMPS.
   (A)   No person shall install or maintain a water service connection to a
premises where a booster pump has been installed on the service line to or
within the premises unless the booster pump is equipped with a low pressure
cut-off system designed to disable the booster pump when the pressure in the
service line on the suction side of the pump drops to 20 psi or less.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of every water customer with a booster pump to
maintain the low-pressure cut-off system in proper working order and to test
the system at least once per year.
(Prior Code, § 3-739)
§ 51.070  BACKFLOW PREVENTER TESTING.
   It shall be the duty of the customer at any premises where backflow
prevention devices are installed to certify to the City Water Department at
least one time annually, or at more frequent intervals if required by the
Manager, that the backflow prevention device has been tested by a State
Department of Health and Human Services Grade VI license holder if the device
is equipped with test ports. Certification shall be made on a form available
from the City Water Department. Testing shall be at the expense of the
customer. In the event the customer fails to certify the testing to the City
Water Department as required, the City Water Department will, after notice,
test any backflow prevention devices and bill the customer. The rate for
testing by the City Water Department shall be designated by resolution of the
Board of Public Works. If the customer fails to pay the City Water Department
for testing, water service shall be discontinued after due notice to the
customer.
(Prior Code, § 3-739)  (Ord. 13-98, passed 12-14-1998)
§ 51.071  SAFETY THREAT; DISCONNECTION.
   (A)   The Manager shall deny or discontinue water service to any premises
where no immediate safety threat exists 30 days after giving written notice by
first class mail to the customer thereof wherein:
      (1)   Any backflow prevention device required by these regulations is not
installed or maintained in a manner acceptable to the Manager;
      (2)   It is found that the backflow prevention device has been removed or
bypassed;
      (3)   An unprotected cross-connection exists on the premises; and
      (4)   The Manager, or his or her agent, is denied entry to determine
compliance with these regulations.
   (B)   The Manager shall immediately deny or discontinue, without written
notice to the customer thereof, the water service to any premises wherein a
severe cross-connection exists which constitutes an immediate threat to the
safety of the public water supply system. The water service to the premises
shall not be restored until the customer has corrected or eliminated the
condition in conformance with these regulations and to the satisfaction of the
Manager. The Manager, or his or her agent, shall notify the customer as soon as
practical that water service has been discontinued.
   (C)   The Board of Public Works shall act as the hearing board to hear
differences between the Manager and the customer on matters concerning
interpretation and execution of the provisions of this subchapter by the
Manager. The customer must make a written request to the Board setting forth
the specific reasons that relief is requested, within seven days of receipt of
the discontinuance notice. Failure of the customer to make written request as
stated above, waives all rights of appeal to the Manager’s decision.
(Prior Code, § 3-741)
§ 51.072  APPROVAL STANDARDS.
   Any backflow prevention device required herein shall be a model and size
approved by the Manager. To be approved, the device has to have been
manufactured in full conformance with AWWA’s Standards For Reduced Pressure
Principal and Double Check Valve Backflow Prevention Devices; and have met
completely the laboratory and performance specifications of the Foundation For
Cross-Connection Control and Hydraulic Research of the University of Southern
California of the latest edition of the Manual of Cross-Connection Control.
(Prior Code, § 3-742)  (Ord. 13-98, passed 12-14-1998)
§ 51.073  WELLHEAD PROTECTION AREAS.
   (A)   (1)   Neb. RS 17-536 provides that the jurisdiction of the city to
prevent pollution or injury to the source of its water supply shall extend 15
miles beyond its corporate limits.
      (2)   It is necessary to place limitations upon the location of potential
sources of pollution or injury to the municipal water supply within the
wellhead protection areas and to prescribe rules and regulations with respect
to the limitations and the enforcement thereof.
   (B)   The findings set forth above are hereby made a part of this section as
fully as if set out at length herein.
   (C)   Word or phrases used in this section shall be interpreted so as to
give them the same meaning as they have in common usage and so as to give this
section its most reasonable application.
   (D)   The two areas inside the bold lines on the map, attached to the
ordinance codified herein and made a part of this section, shall be the
official wellhead protection areas for the city.
   (E)   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, install, construct or
replace any of the following structures or conduct any of the following
activities within the wellhead protection area, except as may be provided
herein, to-wit:
Activity
Activity
(1) Absorption or disposal field for waste
(2) Cesspool
(3) Chemical or petroleum product storage
(4) Corral
(5) Dump
(6) Feedlot or feedlot runoff
(7) Non-potable water well
(8) Pit toilet
(9) Sanitary landfill
(10) Sanitary sewer connection
(11) Sanitary sewer line
(12) Sanitary sewer manhole
(13) Septic tank
(14) Sewage lagoon
(15) Sewage treatment plant
(16) Sewage wet well
 
   (F)   The placing, installing, constructing or replacing of any structure or
activity as set forth in division (E) above, hereinafter termed “wellhead
structure or activity”, within the wellhead protection areas shall not be
permitted after the effective date of this section unless a permit, approved by
the Administrator, has been obtained. The owner of any wellhead structure or
activity shall have the burden of establishing the existence and use of the
wellhead structure or activity at the time of the effective date of this
section.
   (G)   (1)   No permit shall be issued by the Administrator within the
following setback distances from any city municipal water well:
Activity Minimum Distance
         (measured in feet)
Activity                                          Minimum Distance
                                                  (measured in feet)
(a) Non-potable water well                        1,000
(b) Sewage lagoon                                 1,000
(c) Absorption or disposal field or waste         500
(d) Cesspool                                      500
(e) Dump                                          500
(f) Feedlot or feedlot runoff                     500
(g) Corral                                        500
(h) Pit toilet                                    500
(i) Sanitary landfill                             500
(j) Chemical or petroleum product storage         500
(k) Septic tank                                   500
(l) Septic tank (gallons per day exceeding 1,000) 1,000
(m) Sewage treatment plant                        1,000
(n) Sewage wet well                               1,000
(o) Sanitary sewer connection                     100
(p) Sanitary sewer manhole                        100
(q) Sanitary sewer line                           50
(r) Sanitary sewer line (water tight)             10
 
      (2)   Any activity described above located within the defined setback
distance shall be considered prima facie a hazard to the quality of the
municipal water supply.
   (H)   The Board of Public Works (BPW) shall be responsible implementation
and enforcement of the rules and regulations established by this section and
shall consider all applications filed pursuant hereto. All applications shall
be approved or rejected by roll call vote. BPW shall designate one of its
employees Administrator. This employee shall be charged with administration of
the rules and regulations.
   (I)   Any wellhead structure or activity, not prohibited by division (G)
above, shall be allowed upon determination by BPW that the activity does not
constitute a hazard or threat to the quality of the municipal water supply and
upon issuance of a permit by the Administrator.
   (J)   Prior to placing, installing, constructing, expanding or replacing any
wellhead structure or activity, the owner of real estate upon which the
structure or activity is proposed shall file with the Administrator an
application for a wellhead structure or activity permit. The application shall
be on a form furnished by the Administrator and shall include supporting
information indicating why approval would not adversely impact the city’s water
supply. The Administrator shall thereafter submit the application to BPW for
consideration at a Board meeting. Prior to acting upon the application, the BPW
may seek an engineering report, recommendations of the County Natural Resources
District, the State Department of Environmental Quality or any other party or
agency in evaluating the impact of the proposed structure or activity on the
city water supply. A permit shall be issued if BPW determines the structure or
activity is unlikely to contaminate or pollute the water supply.
   (K)   Wellhead structures or activities in existence and use in the wellhead
protection area as of the effective date of this section shall continue to be
permitted unless the continued existence or use, in the opinion of the BPW,
presents a hazard to the quality of the municipal water supply. If BPW
determines an existing wellhead structure or activity presents a hazard, BPW
shall authorize the Administrator to notify the owner of the structure or
activity to cease or desist the structure or activity. If the owner of the
wellhead structure or activity desires to continue operation of the structure
or activity, the owner may seek to procure a permit pursuant to this section.
If the owner does not cease and desist pursuant to the notice, the
Administrator may proceed pursuant to division (J) above against the owner and/
or the wellhead structure or activity.
(Prior Code, § 3-743)  (Ord. 13-98, passed 12-14-1998)  Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.999  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person found violating §
51.073 shall be subject to a fine not to exceed $500. The continuation of a
violation of §
51.073 shall be deemed an additional crime for every 24 hours of the continued
violation, in addition the city may obtain injunctive relief and sue for
damages and remediation, and pursue any other remedy available to it under the
laws of the state or other authority having jurisdiction over the matters.
(Prior Code, § 3-743)  (Ord. 13-98, passed 12-14-1998; Ord. 6-04, passed 4-12-
2004)
CHAPTER 52:  LAWN SPRINKLING SYSTEMS
Section
   
52.01   Generally
   
52.02   Permit required
   
52.03   Permit application
   
52.04   Permit fee
   
52.05   Contractor; license
   
52.06   License revocation
   
52.07   Insurance requirement
   
52.08   Enforcement
§ 52.01  GENERALLY.
   Provisions of this chapter shall apply to and govern the installation of
lawn sprinkling systems, the registration of law sprinkler contractors and the
issuance of permits and collection of fees thereof.
(Prior Code, § 3-724)  (Ord. 12-89, passed 1-2-1990)
§ 52.02  PERMIT REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to construct, install or make a major
revision of any lawn sprinkling system without first having obtained from the
City Clerk a building permit for the construction or installation within the
city limits or the one-mile zone surrounding the city. Any person who shall
construct, install or make a major revision of a lawn sprinkling system without
first having obtained the required permits shall pay permit fees which are
twice the amount of the applicable fees hereinafter prescribed and the person
shall not, in any way, be relieved from complying with all of the provisions of
the law applicable to the construction and installation of sprinkling systems.
An exemption from the permit requirement is made for sprinkler systems which
are not served or supplied by the public potable water system of the city.
(Prior Code, § 3-725)  (Ord. 12-89, passed 1-2-1990)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 52.03  PERMIT APPLICATION.
   Application for a permit shall be made in writing to the Building Inspector
on a form approved by the officer. All applications shall be accompanied by
plans and specifications in sufficient detail to show clearly the supply
piping, pipe sizes, depth of pipes below ground surface, location of valves,
vacuum breakers, adjacent curbs, sidewalks, property lines and other pertinent
information required or deemed necessary by the Building Inspector.
(Prior Code, § 3-726)  (Ord. 12-89, passed 1-2-1990)
§ 52.04  PERMIT FEE.
   A fee in the amount set forth in the schedule in §
150.17 per permit shall be paid to the City Clerk.
(Prior Code, § 3-727)  (Ord. 12-89, passed 1-2-1990)
§ 52.05  CONTRACTOR; LICENSE.
   (A)   Any person, firm, partnership or corporation engaging in the business
of installing, constructing, altering or repairing any lawn sprinkling system
within the corporate limits or within the one-mile zone adjacent to the
corporate limits of the city shall be licensed as lawn sprinkler contractors;
provided that, any person already licensed pursuant to §
117.01 shall not be required to obtain a lawn sprinkler contractor license.
   (B)   Application for a license as a lawn sprinkler contractor shall be made
to the City Council. This application shall include the name and address of the
applicant, the business location of the applicant, a statement of the practical
experience of the applicant and other relevant information as may be required
by the City Council.
   (C)   A lawn sprinkler contractor license fee of $10 shall be paid with the
application to the City Clerk. A license issued pursuant to this section shall
expire on December 31 of the year in which it was issued.
   (D)   Any person, firm, partnership or corporation engaging in the business
of installing, constructing, altering or repairing any lawn sprinkler system
without first having obtained the required license shall pay license fees twice
the amount of the applicable fees herein prescribed and the person shall not,
in any way, be relieved from complying with all of the provisions of the law
applicable to the construction and installation of water sprinkler systems.
(Prior Code, § 3-728)  (Ord. 12-89, passed 1-2-1990)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 52.06  LICENSE REVOCATION.
   The City council, by a majority vote, shall have the power to revoke the
license of any holder of a water sprinkler contractor license pursuant to this
chapter, upon recommendation of the Building Inspector, if the license was
obtained through error or fraud, or if the recipient thereof is shown to be
grossly incompetent or has a second time willfully violated any of the
provisions of this chapter. This penalty shall be cumulative and in addition to
the penalties prescribed for the violation of the provisions of this chapter.
Before a license issued pursuant to the chapter can be revoked, a licensee
shall have notice in writing enumerating the charges against him or her, and he
or she shall be entitled to a hearing before the City Council no later than 30
days from the date of receipt of the notice. The licensee shall be given an
opportunity to present testimony, oral or written, and shall have the right of
cross examination. All testimony before the City Council shall be given under
oath. The City Council shall have the power to administer oath, issue subpoenas
and compel the attendance of witnesses in such cases.
(Prior Code, § 3-729)  (Ord. 12-89, passed 1-2-1990)
§ 52.07  INSURANCE REQUIREMENT.
   The licensee shall furnish adequate liability insurance at least in the
amount of $50,000.
(Prior Code, § 3-730)  (Ord. 12-89, passed 1-2-1990)
§ 52.08  ENFORCEMENT.
   The Building Inspector shall be responsible for the enforcement and
administration of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 3-731)  (Ord. 12-89, passed 1-2-1990)
CHAPTER 53:  SEWER REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
53.01   Funding and operation
   
53.02   Sewer Districts; special assessments
   
53.03   Sanitary Sewer Service Districts; special assessments
   
53.04   Sanitary Sewer Extension Districts; special assessments
   
53.05   Sewer contract
Use Regulations; Billing
   
53.20   Definitions
   
53.21   Application for permit
   
53.22   Mandatory hook-up
   
53.23   Unlawful waste disposal
   
53.24   Installation procedure
   
53.25   Installation expense
   
53.26   Sewer connection fees
   
53.27   Repair and maintenance
   
53.28   Rate setting
   
53.29   Sewer rental bills
   
53.30   Lien
   
53.31   Service contracts
   
53.32   Unlawful use
   
53.33   Special equipment
   
53.34   Manholes
   
53.35   Inspections
   
53.36   Permits
   
53.37   Private sewers
   
53.38   Repairs and replacement
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 53.01  FUNDING AND OPERATION.
   (A)   The city owns and operates the city sewer system through the Board of
Public Works and the Manager of the Board of Public Works.
   (B)   The city, for the purpose of constructing sewers, shall have the power
to levy a tax not exceeding the maximum limits therefore as prescribed by the
laws of the state, including, but not limited to, Neb. RS 17-508.02, as amended
or superseded, upon the assessed value of all the taxable property, except
intangible property, within the limits of the city.
   (C)   The city, for the purpose of owning, operating, constructing,
maintaining and equipping the city sewage disposal plant and sewerage system,
including any storm sewer system or combination storm and sanitary sewer
system, and plant or plants for the treatment, purification and disposal, in a
sanitary manner, of the liquid and solid wastes, sewage and night soil of the
city, or for the purpose of improving or extending any existing storm or
sanitary sewer system or combination storm and sanitary sewer system, is
authorized and empowered to make a special levy, not exceeding the maximum
limits therefore as prescribed by the laws of the state, including, but not
limited to, Neb. RS 18-501(3), as amended or superseded, upon the assessed
value of all the taxable property, except intangible property within the city.
   (D)   In the event that the present or proposed sewage disposal system of
the city does not comply with the provisions of any other applicable law
relating to sewer systems, sewage disposal or water pollution, the city shall
levy each year a tax, not to exceed the maximum limits therefore as prescribed
by the laws of the state, including, but not limited to, Neb. RS 18-501(4), as
amended or superseded, until sufficient funds are available for the financing
of a system in compliance with law; provided that, in the event that the city
is otherwise raising funds for the purpose, equivalent to the maximum mill levy
limit thus prescribed for the tax, it shall not be required, in addition
thereto, to make the levy.
   (E)   The city, for the purpose of owning, operating, constructing and
equipping the sewage disposal plant or sewerage system or improving or
extending the existing system, may issue revenue bonds, as provided by the laws
of the state, including, but not limited to, Neb. RS 18-502, 18-504 and 18-
506.10, as amended or superseded, and it shall be the duty of the City Council
to establish and charge just and equitable rates or charges to be paid to the
city for the use of the sewage disposal plant and sewerage system by each
person, firm or corporation whose premises are served thereby which shall be
sufficient, at all times, to pay the cost of operation and maintenance thereof
and to pay the principal of and interest upon all revenue bonds issued pursuant
to those provisions and to carry out any covenants that may be provided in the
ordinance authorizing the issuance of any bonds.
   (F)   The city, for the purpose of owning, operating, constructing and
equipping the sewage disposal plant or sewerage system or improving or
extending the existing system, is also authorized and empowered to issue and
sell the general obligation bonds of the city, as provided by the laws of the
state, including, but not limited to, Neb. RS 18-506 and 18-506.01, as amended
or superseded.
   (G)   Pursuant to Neb. RS 18-1803, as amended or superseded, the city shall
have the power to issue revenue bonds for the purpose of acquiring,
constructing, reconstructing, improving, extending, equipping or operating any
city sewer facility, within or without its corporate limits, and for any
purpose necessary or incidental to any of the foregoing and for the purpose of
refunding any bonds and for the purpose of refunding general obligation bonds
of the city issued to construct part or all of the city sewer facilities,
including refunding any general obligation bonds which may have been issued to
refund any bonds issued to construct part or all of the city sewer facilities.
General provisions relating to the form, sale, issuance and other matters
concerning revenue bonds issued pursuant to Neb. RS 18-1803, as amended or
superseded, shall be as provided by the laws of the state, including, but not
limited to, Neb. RS 18-1804, may contain the covenants and provisions to
protect and safeguard the security of the holders of the bonds as shall be
deemed necessary to assure the prompt payment of the principal thereof and the
interest thereon. The covenants and provisions may establish or provide for,
but shall not be limited to, the payment of interest on the bonds from the
proceeds thereof for the period as the City Council deems advisable, the
creation of reserve funds from bond proceeds, revenue from the facility for or
with respect to which the bonds were issued or other available money, the
creation of trust funds and the appointment of trustees for the purpose of
receiving and disbursing bond proceeds or the collection and disbursement of
revenue from the facility for or with respect to which the bonds were issued;
the limitations or conditions upon the issuance of additional bonds payable
from the revenue of the facility for or with respect to which the bonds were
issued; the operation, maintenance, management, accounting and auditing
procedures to be followed in the operation of the facility; and the conditions
under which any trustee or bondholders committee shall be entitled to the
appointment of a receiver to take possession of the facility, to manage it and
receive and apply revenue from the facility. Whenever, pursuant to Neb. RS 18-
1803, as amended or superseded, the City Council shall have issued any revenue
bonds or notes, the City Council shall establish, maintain, revise and collect
charges and rates, throughout the life of the bonds, at least sufficient to
provide for all costs associated with the ownership, operation, maintenance,
renewal and replacement of the facility for or with respect to which the bonds
were issued, the payment of the principal and interest on all indebtedness
incurred with respect thereto and to provide adequate reserves therefor, to
maintain the coverage for the payment of the indebtedness as the City Council
may deem advisable, to maintain other reserves as provided in the ordinances
authorizing the issuance of the bonds and to carry out the provisions of the
ordinances.
   (H)   The City Council, for the purpose of paying for extensions and
improvements of any public utilities consisting of a waterworks plant, water
system, sanitary sewer system, gas plant, gas system, electric light and power
plant or electric distribution system, may, as provided by the laws of the
state, including, but not limited to, Neb. RS 19-1305 through 19-1307, as
amended or superseded, issue and sell combined revenue bonds and securing the
payment thereof by pledging and hypothecating the revenue and earnings of any
two or more of the public utilities, and may enter into contracts in connection
therewith as may be necessary or proper.
   (I)   The City Council, after the establishment of a system of sewerage and
at the time of levying other taxes for city purposes, is authorized to levy a
tax, not to exceed the maximum limits therefore as prescribed by the laws of
the state, including, but not limited to, Neb. RS 17-925.01, as amended or
superseded, upon the assessed value of all the taxable property in the city,
except intangible property, for the purpose of creating a fund to be used
exclusively for the maintenance and repairing of any sewers in the city;
provided that, in lieu of the levy of the tax, the City Council may establish,
by ordinance, the rates for the sewer service as may be deemed by them to be
fair and reasonable, to be collected from either the owner or the person, firm
or corporation requesting the services at the times, either monthly, quarterly
or otherwise, as may be specified in the ordinance. The charges thus made, when
collected, shall be placed in a separate fund and used exclusively for the
purpose of maintenance and repairs of any sewers in the city.
   (J)   In addition to such charges, the city may make rental charges for the
use of an established city sewerage system on a fair and impartial basis for
services rendered, the revenue from the charges to be used only for the
abatement or the reduction of ad valorem taxes being levied or to be levied for
the payment of bonds outstanding or to be issued for the construction of or
additions to the sewerage system.
   (K)   Pursuant to Neb. RS 18-509, as amended or superseded, the City Council
may, by ordinance, set up a rental or use charge, to be collected from the
users of the sewerage system, all money raised from the charges being used for
maintenance or operation of the existing system, for payment of principal and
interest on bonds issued as provided for herein, or to create a reserve fund
for the purpose of future maintenance or construction of a new sewer system for
the city, and any funds raised from the charge shall be placed in a separate
fund and not be used for any other purpose or diverted to any other fund.
   (L)   The City Sewer Department shall be under the active direction and
supervision of the Board of Public Works. The Board of Public Works shall have
the power to operate the City Sewer Department and to exercise all powers
conferred by law upon the city for the operation and government of the
Department to the same extent, in the same manner and under the same
restrictions as the City Council could do, except, however, the Board of Public
Works shall not make any expenditure or contract any indebtedness, other than
for ordinary running expenses, exceeding in amount $20,000, without first
obtaining the approval of the City Council. The Manager of the Board of Public
Works, hereinafter referred to as the Manager, shall have the direct management
and control of the City Sewer Department and shall faithfully carry out the
duties of his or her office. The Manager shall have the authority to adopt
rules and regulations for the sanitary and efficient management of the City
Sewer Department, subject to the supervision and review of the Board of Public
Works.
   (M)   Before any project is advertised for bids or approved for
construction, the plans and specifications shall first be approved by the Board
of Public Works, as well as any appropriate state agencies.
(Prior Code, § 3-801)  (Ord. 13-02, passed 9-9-2002)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-145, 17-149 through 17-151, 17-154, 17-
508, 17-508.02, 17-802, 17-925.01 through 17-925.04, 18-501(1), 18-501(2), 18-
501(3), 18-501(4), 18-502, 18-503, 18-504, 18-506, 18-506.01, 18-508, 18-509,
18-1803 through 18-1805, 19-1305 through 19-1307
§ 53.02  SEWER DISTRICTS; SPECIAL ASSESSMENTS.
   (A)   Whenever the City Council shall deem it advisable or necessary to
build, reconstruct, purchase or otherwise acquire a sanitary sewer system or a
sanitary or storm water sewer, or sewers or sewage disposal plant, or pumping
stations or sewer outlets for the city, constructed or to be constructed in
whole or in part inside or outside of the city, it may declare the advisability
and necessity therefor in a proposed resolution as provided by laws of the
state, including, but not limited to, Neb. RS 17-913, as amended or superseded.
Notice of the time when any resolution shall be set for consideration before
the City Council shall be given as provided by the laws of the state,
including, but not limited to, Neb. RS 17-914 and 17-915, as amended or
superseded. At the hearing at which the resolution shall be set for
consideration, the owners of the property which might become subject to
assessment for the contemplated improvement may appear and make objections to
the proposed improvement.
   (B)   Thereupon, the resolution may be amended and passed or passed as
proposed; provided that, if a petition, opposing the resolution, signed by
property owners representing a majority of the front footage which may become
subject to assessment for the cost in any proposed lateral sewer district, be
filed, as provided by the laws of the state, including, but not limited to,
Neb. RS 17-916, as amended or superseded, the resolution shall not be passed.
   (C)   Upon compliance with the laws of the state, including, but not limited
to, Neb. RS 17-913 through 17-916, as amended or superseded, the City Council
may, by resolution, order the making, reconstruction, purchase or otherwise
acquiring of the improvements. The vote upon any resolution shall be as
required by Neb. RS 17-616, as amended or superseded.
   (D)   The City Council shall have the power to assess, to the extent of
special benefits, the cost of the portions of the improvements as are local
improvements, upon properties found specially benefitted thereby. After the
completion of any work or purchase or otherwise acquiring the system, the City
Engineer, or the engineer who has been employed by the city for the purpose,
shall file with the City Clerk a certificate of acceptance, which acceptance
shall be approved by the City Council by resolution. The City Council shall
then require the engineer to make a complete statement of all the costs of any
improvement and a plot of the property in the district and a schedule of the
amount proposed to be assessed against each separate piece of property in the
district, which shall be filed with the City Clerk, as provided by the laws of
the state, including, but not limited to, Neb. RS 17-919, as amended or
superseded, and the City Council shall then order the City Clerk to give the
notice in relation thereto as shall be required by the laws of the state,
including, but not limited to, Neb. RS 17-919, as amended or superseded.
   (E)   Hearing on the proposed assessment shall be held by the City Council,
sitting as the Board of Adjustment and Equalization, as provided by the laws of
the state, including, but not limited to, Neb. RS 17-920, as amended or
superseded. At the meeting, the proposed assessment shall be adjusted and
equalized as provided by the laws of the state, including, but not limited to,
Neb. RS 17-920 and 17-922, as amended or superseded.
   (F)   After the equalization of the special  assessments, the same shall be
levied and collected as provided by the laws of the state, including, but not
limited to, Neb. RS 17-921 and 17-923, as amended or superseded. All special
assessments shall, when levied, constitute a sinking fund for the purpose of
paying the cost of the improvements with allowable interest thereon, and shall
be solely and strictly applied to the purpose to the extent required; but any
excess thereof may, after fully discharging the purposes for which levied, be
transferred by the City Council to other fund or funds as the City Council may
deem advisable. The City Council, for the purpose of paying the cost of
building, reconstructing, purchasing or otherwise acquiring a sanitary sewer
system or a sanitary or storm water sewer, or sewers or sewage or sewage
disposal plant; or pumping stations or sewer outlets for the city, as herein
provided, shall, after the improvements have been completed and accepted, have
the power to issue negotiable bonds, as provided by the laws of the state,
including, but not limited to, Neb. RS 17-925, as amended or superseded.
   (G)   No bonds thus issued shall be sold for less than par of face value.
   (H)   All special assessments which may be levied upon property specially
benefitted by the work or improvements shall, when completed, be set aside and
constitute a sinking fund for the payment if the interest and principal of the
bonds, and there shall be levied annually, upon all the taxable property in the
city, a tax, which together with the sinking fund derived from special
assessments, shall be sufficient to meet payments of interest and principal as
the same become due. The tax shall be known as the sewer tax, shall be payable
annually in money only and, except as otherwise provided by the laws of the
state, including, but not limited to, Neb. RS 17-153, as amended or superseded,
no money so obtained shall be used for any other purpose than the payment of
the interest or debt for the payment of which they shall have been raised.
(Prior Code, § 3-802)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-153 17-913 through17-917, 17-919 through
17-925
§ 53.03  SANITARY SEWER SERVICE DISTRICTS; SPECIAL ASSESSMENTS.
   (A)   Pursuant to Neb. RS 18-401, as amended or superseded, the City Council
shall have the power and authority, whenever it deems it proper and necessary
so to do, to create, by ordinance, a sanitary sewer district, either within or
without the corporate limits of the city, and to order and cause to be made
extensions or enlargements of sanitary sewer district, it shall be the duty of
the City Council to cause a notice, addressed generally to the owners of the
real estate within the sanitary sewer district, to be published as provided by
the laws of the state, including, but not limited to, Neb. RS 18-404, as
amended or superseded, sufficient to operate as a repeal or recision of the
ordinance, then the power of the City Council shall be deemed complete and it
shall be the duty of the City Council to proceed to contract for and in behalf
of the city for the extension or enlargement with its own forces.
   (B)   If a petition is filed, signed by the owners of a majority of the
front footage of real estate within a proposed district, which petition shall
contain the consent of the real estate for the installation of sewer lines of
sizes designated by the City Council and inserted in the petition, then the
sewer service district shall be created; and the entire cost of laying the
sewer lines shall be assessed and collected as hereinafter provided. Upon the
completion of an extension or enlargement of any sewer service in any such
district, the actual cost thereof shall be duly certified to the City Council,
when done by contract, but when done by utilizing the equipment and employees
of the city, the average cost, per foot to the city in the previous calendar
year of installing sewer service, shall be thus certified.
   (C)   Thereupon, it shall be the duty of the City Council to assess, to the
exceeding the actual cost or average cost, as the case may be, of installing
the sewer service upon all  real estate in the district, as provided by the
laws of the state, including, but not limited to, Neb. RS 18-405, as amended or
superseded. The cost of any extension or enlargement in excess of the actual or
average cost, of installing the sewer service, heretofore authorized to be
assessed and levied against the real estate in the district, shall be paid out
of the sewer fund of the city, if there be a fund; provided that, no real
estate in the city shall be subject to more than one special tax assessment for
the same extension or enlargement of sewer service. The special assessments
hereinabove provided for shall be collected and shall draw interest as provided
by the laws of the state, including, but not limited to, Neb. RS 18-406, as
amended or superseded. After the levy of the special assessments and the
extension of the same upon the tax record against the real estate in the sewer
service district, the City Council shall have the power to issue, or cause to
be issued, against the fund so created, special warrants payable out of the
fund; which shall be delivered to the contractor in payment of the money due
him or her under his or her contract for the extension or enlargement of the
sewer service to cover the cost for which the assessments were levied.
(Prior Code, § 3-803)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 18-401 through 18-409, 18-411
§ 53.04  SANITARY SEWER EXTENSION DISTRICTS; SPECIAL ASSESSMENTS.
   (A)   Pursuant to Neb. RS 19-2402, as amended or superseded, the City
Council, whenever it shall deem it necessary and advisable to extend municipal
sanitary sewer service to territory beyond the existing systems, may, by
ordinance, create a district or districts to be known as sanitary sewer
extension districts, for such purposes, and the district or districts may
include properties within the corporate limits of the city and one mile beyond
the same.
   (B)   The ordinance shall state the size and kind of sewer mains proposed to
be constructed, in the district and shall designate the location and terminal
points thereof. The ordinance shall also refer to the plans and specifications
for the utility extensions which shall have made and filed with the City Clerk
by the City Engineer prior to the introduction of the ordinance, and the City
Engineer, at the time of filing the plans and specifications, shall make and
file an estimate of the total cost of the proposed utility extension. The
ordinance shall also state the outer boundaries of the district or districts in
which it is proposed to make special assessments. Unless sufficient owners of
lots and lands abutting upon any street, avenue or alley, or part thereof,
within the extension district, shall petition therefor, as provided by the laws
of the state, including, but not limited to, Neb. RS 19-2403, as amended or
superseded, the improvement shall not be made until not less than three-fourths
of all the members of the City Council, by vote, assent to the making of the
same.
   (C)   The City Council, upon the petition or by the vote, shall order the
sewer extension main laid out and, to the extent of special benefit, assess the
cost thereof against the property abutting upon the street, avenue or alley or
part thereof, and which is located within the utility district within which the
sewer extension main has been so placed. The assessment of special taxes for
sanitary sewer extension mains so provided for and constructed shall be levied
at one time, shall be a lien on the real estate from and after the date of the
levy thereof, and shall be collected and shall draw interest as provided by the
laws of the state, including, but not limited to, Neb. RS 19-2404 and 19-2405,
as amended or superseded.
   (D)   For the purpose of paying the cost of any sanitary sewer service
extension, in any district, the City Council may, by ordinance cause to be
issued bonds of the city, as provided by the laws of the state, including, but
not limited to, Neb. RS 19-2405, as amended or superseded, the ordinance shall
not be passed. In lieu of the general obligation bonds, the city may issue
revenue bonds as provided in Neb. RS 18-502, as amended or superseded, to pay
all or part of the cost of the construction of the improvement.
   (E)   Special taxes may be levied by the City Council for the purpose of
paying the cost of constructing extension sanitary service connections, as
provided herein. The special tax shall be levied on the real property lying and
being within the utility main district in which the extension mains may be
situated to the extent of benefits to such property by reason of the
improvement, the benefits to the property being determined by the City Council,
sitting as a board of equalization, after notice to property owners, as
provided in other cases of special assessment. After the City Council, sitting
as the Board of Equalization, shall find the benefits to be equal and uniform,
the levy may be made as provided by the laws of the state, including, but not
limited to, Neb. RS 19-2407, as amended or superseded, and all taxes shall be
collected in the same manner as general city taxes and shall be subject to the
same penalty.
   (F)   For the purpose of making partial payments as the work progresses,
warrants may be issued by the City Council, and the warrants shall be
registered, shall bear interest and shall be redeemed and paid as provided by
the laws of the state, including, but not limited to, Neb. RS 19-2406, as
amended or superseded.
(Prior Code, § 3-804)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 18-502, 19-2402 through 19-2405, 19-2406,
19-2407
§ 53.05  SEWER CONTRACT.
   (A)   The city through the City Sewer Department shall furnish sewer
services to persons within its corporate limits whose premises abut a street or
alley in which a commercial main is now or may hereafter be laid. The city may
also furnish sewer service to persons whose premises are situated outside the
corporate limits of the city, as and when, according to law, the Board of
Public Works may see fit to do so. The rules, regulations and sewer rental
rates, hereinafter named in this chapter, shall be considered a part of every
application hereafter made for sewer service and shall be considered a part of
the contract between every customer now or hereafter served.
   (B)   Without further formality, the making of the application on the part
of any applicant or the use of sewer service by present customers thereof shall
constitute a contract between the customer and the city to which the contract,
both parties are bound. If the customer shall violate any of the provisions of
the contract or any reasonable rules and regulations that the Board of Public
Works may hereafter adopt, the Manager of the Board of Public Works, or his or
her agent, may cut off or disconnect the sewer service from the building or
premise of the violation. No further connection for sewer service to the
building or premise shall again be made save or except by order of the Manager
or his or her agent.
(Prior Code, § 3-805)
Cross-reference:
   Service contracts, see §
53.31
USE REGULATIONS; BILLING
§ 53.20  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BIOLOGICAL OXYGEN DEMAND. The quantity of oxygen utilized in the biochemical
oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory procedure in five days at
20°C, expressed in parts per million by weight.
   BUILDING OR HOUSE DRAIN. The part of the lowest horizontal piping of a house
or building drainage system which receives the discharge from soil, waste or
other drainage pipes inside the walls of any building or house.
   BUILDING OR HOUSE SEWER. The part of a house or building drainage system
extending from the house or building drain to its connection with the main
sewer.
   GARBAGE. Solid wastes form the preparation of cooking and dispensing of food
and produce.
   LOCAL VENTILATING PIPE. Any pipe through which foul air is removed from a
room or fixture.
   pH. The logarithm of the reciprocal of the weight of hydrogen ions in grams
per liter of solution.
   PROPERLY SHREDDED. Shredding to a degree that all particles will be carried
freely under the flow conditions normally prevailing in public sewers with no
particle larger than one-half inch in diameter.
   SANITARY SEWER. A sewer which carried sewage and to which storm, surface and
ground waters are not intentionally admitted.
   SEWAGE. A combination of the water-carried wastes from residences, business
buildings, institutions and industrial establishments together with the ground,
surface and storm waters as may be present.
   SEWER SYSTEM. All facilities for collecting, pumping, treating and disposing
of sewage.
   SOIL PIPE. Any pipe which conveys the discharge of water closets with or
without the discharge from other fixtures to the house or building drain.
   STORM SEWER. A sewer which carries storm and surface drainage, but excludes
sewage and polluted industrial wastes.
   SUSPENDED SOLIDS. Solids that either float on the surface of, or are in
immersion in water, sewage or other liquids, and are removable by filtering.
   TRAP. A fitting or device so constructed as to prevent the passage of air or
gas through a pipe without materially affecting the flow of sewage or waste
through it.
   TRAP SEAL. The vertical distance between the crown weir and the dip of the
trap.
   VENT PIPE. Any pipe provided to ventilate a house or building drainage
system and to prevent trap siphonage and back pressure.
   WASTE PIPE. Any pipe which receives the discharge of any fixture, except
water closets and conveys the same to the house drain, soil pipe or waste
stack.
(Prior Code, § 3-806)
§ 53.21  APPLICATION FOR PERMIT.
   (A)   Any person wishing to connect with the sewer system shall make an
application therefore to the Manager, upon the blanks to be furnished by him or
her for that purpose. He or she may require any applicant to make a service
deposit in an amount as he or she deems necessary subject to the review of the
Board of Public Works. Sewer service may not be supplied to any house or
building, except upon the written order of the Board of Public Works. The
Department shall not supply sewer service to any person outside the corporate
limits without special permission from the Board of Public Works; provided
that, the entire cost of pipe and other installation charges shall be paid by
the consumers.
   (B)   Nothing herein shall be construed to obligate the city to provide
sewer service to nonresidents.
(Prior Code, § 3-807)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-145, 17-149, 18-503
§ 53.22  MANDATORY HOOK-UP.
   Upon written notice by the Board of Public Works the property owner,
occupant or lessee shall, without delay, cause the building to be connected
with the sewer system and equipped with inside sewerage facilities. Every
building hereafter erected shall be connected with the sewer system at the time
of its construction. In the event that any property owner, occupant or lessee
shall neglect, fail or refuse, within a period of ten days after notice, has
been given to him or her to do so by registered mail or by publication in a
newspaper in or of general circulation in the city, to make the connection, the
Board of Public Works shall have the power to cause the same to be done, to
assess the cost thereof against the property, and to turn the certified cost of
the work over to the City Council the assessment thus made in the manner
provided for collection of other special taxes and assessments.
(Prior Code, § 3-808)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-149, 17-149.01
§ 53.23  UNLAWFUL WASTE DISPOSAL.
   Privies, cesspools or septic tanks for the reception of sewage or waste from
a drain from any building shall only be permitted or allowed when the sewerage
system is not available to the premise on which the privy, cesspool or septic
tank is located. The sewerage system shall be considered available for the
purposes of this section when the system abuts the premise on which the privy,
cesspool or septic tank is located. Cesspools and septic tanks when permitted
or allowed, and all plumbing connected therewith, shall be constructed and
installed by licensed plumbers subject to the same regulations applicable to
connections with the city sewerage system. In case an available city sewer is
provided later, the existing privy, cesspool or septic tank used on the premise
must be abandoned forthwith when the sewer is installed, and the drain from any
building shall be connected to the city sewer and the abandoned cesspool,
septic tank or privy must then be cleaned and filled with fresh earth, tamped
in properly.
(Prior Code, § 3-809)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-121
§ 53.24  INSTALLATION PROCEDURE.
   In making excavations in streets, alleys or sidewalks for the purpose of
installing pipe, or making repairs, the paving, stones and earth must, be
removed and deposited in a manner that will occasion the least inconvenience to
the public and provide for adequate drainage. No person shall leave an
excavation made in the street, alley or sidewalk open at any time without a
barricade, and during the night, warning lights. After the house sewer is laid,
the public ways and property shall be restored to good condition. If the
excavation in the public ways and property is left open or unfinished for a
period of 24 hours or more, the Manager shall have the duty to finish or
correct the work, and all expenses so incurred shall be charged to the owner,
occupant or lessee of the property. All installation shall be done under the
supervision and strictly in accordance with the rules, regulations and
specifications for the installation prescribed by the Manager; provided that,
the rules, regulations and specifications have been reviewed and approved by
the Board of Public Works.
(Prior Code, § 3-810)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-141, 17-142
§ 53.25  INSTALLATION EXPENSE.
   The Manager shall charge each customer a tap fee, set by resolution of the
Board of Public Works, which shall compensate the city for the cost of tapping
the sewer main. The customer shall pay the entire cost of procuring materials
and the services of a licensed plumber to bring service from the main to the
structure to be served.
(Prior Code, § 3-811)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-810
§ 53.26  SEWER CONNECTION FEES.
   All applicants for connection to the sewer distribution system who seek to
connect to the system where a sewer extension district has been created and
whose property shall not have been charged by way of special assessments for
the sewer service, shall pay, in addition to the tap fee required by the code
of the city, a sewer connection fee to the City Clerk, which sewer connection
fee shall be based upon the same formula used to determine the amount of
special assessments charged in the original district; provided that, no
connection shall be made to the sewer distribution system until the tap fee and
appropriate sewer connection fee shall have been paid in full; and provided,
further, that, the sewer connection fee shall, when collected, be handled by
the City Clerk as follows.
   (A)   If the special assessments in the preexisting sewer district have been
paid in full and the resolution assessing special assessments in the district
provides that the assessment is subject to a conditional reduction which runs
with the land, the City Clerk shall reimburse the property owners in accordance
with the terms of the original resolution or agreement.
   (B)   If the special assessments in the preexisting district have not been
paid in full and if the resolution assessing special assessments in the
district provides that the assessment is subject to a conditional reduction
which runs with the land, then the City Clerk shall first apply the payment to
the unpaid special assessments and if there are excess funds remaining, then
the City Clerk shall reimburse the property owners, or their assigns, in
accordance with the terms of the original resolution or agreement, to the
extent of the funds remaining after the payment.
   (C)   In the event that are no property owners entitled to reimbursement, as
provided in the original resolution or agreement, then the City Clerk shall
credit the payments to the General Fund.
(Prior Code, § 3-811.01)  (Ord. 6-08, passed 3-24-2008)
§ 53.27  REPAIR AND MAINTENANCE.
   The city shall repair or replace, as the case may be, all pipe constituting
major sewer mains. It shall be the responsibility of the customer to repair or
replace all other sewer pipe and appurtenances from the main to and including
the customer’s property. All replacements and repairs made by the customer
shall be done in the manner and with the materials approved by the Manager;
provided that, the same have been previously approved by the Board of Public
Works.
(Prior Code, § 3-812)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-149
§ 53.28  RATE SETTING.
   The Board of Public Works shall set sewer rates based upon water usage,
except as hereafter provided. Nonresident customers shall pay the rate or
charge as may be agreed upon between the customer and the Board of Public
Works. All rates shall be on file at the office of the Board of Public Works
for public inspection.
(Prior Code, § 3-813)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-810
§ 53.29  SEWER RENTAL BILLS.
   Sewer rental bills shall be due and payable monthly at the office of the
Board of Public Works. The Manager shall compute or cause to be computed sewer
bills based upon water usage. It shall be the duty of the customers of the
Sewer Department to pay their bills. The Manager shall charge and collect from
each customer the computed sewer rental bill based upon water usage, which
shall include all other charges, properly itemized, due the Sewer Department.
Bills shall be sent out each month and shall be due and payable the day they
are placed in the mail. Bills not paid on or before the delinquent date each
month shall be deemed to be delinquent. In case the delinquent date falls on a
Saturday, Sunday or Board of Public Works holiday, the next working day shall
be considered the same as the delinquent date. Bills not paid by the delinquent
date each month shall have a percentage penalty amount, to be determined by the
Board of Public Works, added to the net monthly bill (excluding sales tax). A
notice will be sent to the delinquent customer according to the service
policies and conditions of the Board of Public Works. The notice shall comply
with the city code. The procedure for discontinuance of service shall be in
accordance with the city code. The Manager shall assess an additional fee set
by resolution of the Board of Public Works and on file at the office of the
Manager in the event that sewer service is shut off for the nonpayment of any
sewer rental bills to compensate the city for the additional hook-up necessary
to again provide sewer service to the delinquent customer.
(Prior Code, § 3-814)  (Ord. 1-07, passed 1-8-2007)
§ 53.30  LIEN.
   In addition to all other remedies, if a customer shall, for any reason,
remain indebted to the city for sewer service furnished, the amount due,
together with any rents and charges in arrears shall be considered a delinquent
sewer rent which is hereby declared to be a lien upon the real estate for which
the same was furnished. The Manager shall notify in writing or cause to be
notified in writing, all owners of premises or their agents whenever the
tenants or lessees are 60 days or more delinquent in the payment of sewer rent.
It shall be the duty of the Manager to report to the City Council a list of all
unpaid accounts due for sewer service that are 80 days or more delinquent,
together with a description of the premises upon which the service was used or
provided. The list shall be certified by the City Clerk to the County Clerk to
be collected as a special tax in the manner provided by law.
(Prior Code, § 3-815)  (Ord. 12-11, passed 4-25-2011)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-925.01, 18-509(1)
§ 53.31  SERVICE CONTRACTS.
   (A)   Contracts for sewer service are not transferable. Any person wishing
to change from one location to another shall make a new application and sign a
new contract. If any customer shall move from the premise where service is
furnished, or if the premise is destroyed by fire or other casualty, he or she
shall, at once, inform the Manager who shall cause the sewer service to be shut
off from the premise.
   (B)   If the customer should fail to give notice, he or she shall be charged
for that period of time until the official in charge of sewers is otherwise
advised of the circumstances.
(Prior Code, § 3-816)  Penalty, see §
10.99
Cross-reference:
   Sewer contract, see §
53.05
§ 53.32  UNLAWFUL USE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to discharge or cause to be
discharged any storm water, surface water, ground water, roof runoff, surface
drainage or unpolluted industrial process waters into the sanitary sewer. It
shall be unlawful to construct any drain tile system which causes storm water,
surface water, ground water, roof runoff or surface drainage to flow into the
sanitary sewer by gravity, siphon or by mechanical pumping.
   (B)   Except as hereinafter provided, no persons shall discharge or cause to
be discharged any of the following described waters or wastes into the
municipal sewer system:
      (1)   Liquids or vapors having a temperature higher than 150°F;
      (2)   Water or waste which may contain more than 100 parts per million by
weight of fat, oil or grease;
      (3)   Gasoline, benzene, naphtha, fuel oil or other flammable or
explosive liquid, solid or gas;
      (4)   Garbage that has not been properly shredded;
      (5)   Sand, mud, metal, rags, paper or other solid or viscous substance
capable of causing obstruction to the flow in the sewer system;
      (6)   Toxic or poisonous substances in sufficient quantity to interfere
with or injure the sewage treatment process, constitute a hazard to humans,
animals or fish, or create any hazard in the receiving area of the sewage
treatment plant;
      (7)   Suspended solids of a character and quantity that unusual attention
or expense is required to handle the materials;
      (8)   Waters or wastes having a pH lower than 5.5 or higher than 9.0 or
having other corrosive properties capable of causing damage to the structures,
equipment and personnel of the City Sewer Department; and/or
      (9)   Any noxious or malodorous gas or substance capable of creating a
public nuisance.
(Prior Code, § 3-817)  (Ord. 02-93, passed 11-1-1993)  Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-145
§ 53.33  SPECIAL EQUIPMENT.
   (A)   In the event a customer of the City Sewer Department discharges an
unusually large amount of waste daily, an unusually large amount of grease or
oil, or waste with an unusually high biochemical oxygen demand the chief sewer
official may require the customer to install interceptors or other preliminary
treatment equipment to reduce the objectionable characteristics of the waste to
within the maximum limits as he or she shall prescribe subject to the review of
the Board of treatment facilities shall continuously in satisfactory customer’s
expense.
   (B)   Nothing shall prohibit a special agreement for public works. All
preliminary be purchased and maintained and efficient operation at the herein
shall be construed to arrangement between the Board of Public Works and an
industrial concern whereby an industrial  waste of unusual strength or
character may be accepted by the city for treatment subject to additional
rental fees or other charges.
(Prior Code, § 3-818)
§ 53.34  MANHOLES.
   Entrance into a manhole or opening for any purpose, except by authorized
persons is hereby prohibited. It shall be unlawful to deposit or cause to be
deposited in any receptacle connected with the sewer system any substance which
is not the usual and natural waste carried by the sewer system.
(Prior Code, § 3-819)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 53.35  INSPECTIONS.
   The chief sewer official, or his or her authorized agents, shall have free
access between the hours of 7:00 a.m. and 6:00 p.m. to all parts of each
premise and building which is connected with the sewer system to ascertain
whether there is any disrepair or violations of this chapter therein.
(Prior Code, § 3-820)
§ 53.36  PERMITS.
   Excavations in streets or alleys of the city shall be made only by bonded
plumbers after issuance to them of written permits by the Manager and also
after complying with all rules and regulations found in
Chapters 92 through
95 of this code relating to excavations into public property. Application shall
be made to the Manager upon blanks to be supplied by the city for that purpose.
For each permit issued, the applicant shall pay to the Manager a permit fee set
by resolution of the Board of Public Works which shall cover the entire cost of
all plumbing inspections and the issuance of certificates of satisfactory
inspection of the work. Inspections shall be made at times as may be prescribed
by the Manager in each case.
(Prior Code, § 3-821)
§ 53.37  PRIVATE SEWERS.
   In the event that the City Council determines it is in the best interest of
the city not to create a sewer district for the extension of any sewer main, a
private sewer may be authorized by the City Council under the terms and
conditions prescribed herein. No private sewer shall be built by any person
without first making application therefor to the City Council and a resolution
authorizing the construction thereof by a majority of the members elected to
the City Council has been passed. No resolution shall be adopted unless the
applicant agrees to construct a sewer main in a manner as to be available and
feasible for use by all property owners within the area where the private sewer
is to be constructed. The private sewer shall be constructed in accordance with
the plans and specifications provided by the City Engineer and the construction
shall be at all times under the direct supervision and control of the Manager
of the Board of Public Works.
(Prior Code, § 3-822)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 53.38  REPAIRS AND REPLACEMENT.
   (A)   The Board of Public Works may require the owner of any property which
is within the city and connected to the public sewers or drains to repair or
replace any connection line which serves the owner’s property and is broken,
clogged or otherwise in need of repair or replacement. The property owner’s
duty to repair or replace a connection line shall include those portions upon
the owner’s property and those portions upon public property or easements up to
and including the point of junction with the public main.
   (B)   The Board of Public Works shall give the property owner notice by
registered letter or certified mail, directed to the last-known address of the
owner or the agent of the owner, directing the repair or replacement of the
connection line. If, within 30 days of mailing the notice, the property owner
fails or neglects to cause the repairs or replacements to be made, the Board of
Public Works may cause the work to be done and assess the cost upon the
property served by the connection.
(Prior Code, § 3-823)
CHAPTER 54:  ELECTRICITY
Section
   
54.01   Funding and operation
   
54.02   Contracts and terms
   
54.03   Consumer’s application
   
54.04   Installation expense
   
54.05   Rate and bills
   
54.06   Meter in disrepair
   
54.07   Duration of liability
   
54.08   Restricted use
   
54.09   Service contracts nontransferable
   
54.10   Building moving
   
54.11   Posting signs
   
54.12   Trimming trees
   
54.13   Inspections
   
54.14   Diversion of services
§ 54.01  FUNDING AND OPERATION.
   (A)   The city owns and operates the city electrical system through the
Board of Public Works and the Manager of the Board of Public Works.
   (B)   The city shall have the power to purchase, construct, maintain and
improve lighting systems for the use of the city and the inhabitants thereof.
The cost of the lighting systems may be defrayed by the levy of a tax, not
exceeding the maximum limits therefore as prescribed by the laws of the state,
including, but not limited to, Neb. RS 19-1402, as amended or superseded, upon
the assessed value of all the taxable property, except intangible property,
within the city, or, when the tax is insufficient for the purpose, by the
issuance of bonds of the city, as provided by the laws of the state, including,
but not limited to, Neb. RS 19-1402 and 19-1403, as amended or superseded, and
the City Council shall levy annually a sufficient tax to maintain, operate and
extend any systems or plant, and to provide for the payment of the interest on,
and principal of, any bonds that may have been or shall be issued as herein
provided.
   (C)   In lieu of the issuance of general obligation bonds, or the levy of
taxes upon property, as by law provided, the city may construct, purchase or
otherwise acquire, maintain, extend or enlarge an electric light and power
plant, distribution system and transmission lines, and real and personal
properly needed or useful in connection therewith and pay the cost thereof by
pledging and hypothecating the revenue and earnings of any electric light and
power plant, distribution system and transmission lines owned or to be owned by
the city. In the exercise of the authority, the city may issue and sell revenue
bonds or debentures and enter into contracts in connection therewith as may be
proper and necessary. No revenue bonds shall be issued until notice of the
proposition relating thereto shall have been given, and where necessary, the
issuance thereof shall have been approved by a vote of the electors of the
city, as provided by the laws of the state; provided that, no publication of
notice shall be required when revenue bonds are issued solely for the
maintenance, extension or enlargement of any electrical generating plant,
distribution system and transmission lines owned by the city. The revenue bonds
or debentures shall be a lien only upon the revenues and earnings of the
electric light and power plant, distribution system and transmission lines
owned or to be owned by the city.
   (D)   Pursuant to Neb. RS 18-412.06, as amended or superseded, the city may
enter into contracts for the purchase of electric energy, power and energy, or
capacity, or any combination thereof, upon terms and conditions and for periods
as the City Council may, by ordinance, authorize; provided that, the city owns
or operates electric generation or transmission facilities. The obligation and
liability of the city under the contracts shall be limited to the electric
revenue of the city, unless prior to the execution of the contracts by the city
the contracts shall have been approved as provided by the laws of the state,
including, but not limited to, Neb. RS 18-412.06, as amended or superseded.
   (E)   Pursuant to Neb. RS 17-902, as amended or superseded, the city may
enter into a contract for the furnishing of electricity, power, steam or other
product to the city or to any electric, power, steam or other system or plant
owned and operated by the city; provided that, before the city shall make any
contract, the question shall be submitted to the electors as provided by the
laws of the state, including, but not limited to, Neb. RS 17-903. The city may,
by a majority vote at the election, vote bonds or taxes for the purpose of
defraying the cost of the transmission line and connection with any person,
firm, corporation or other city or village with which it may enter into a
contract for the purchasing of electricity, power, steam or other product, and
the City Council shall levy annually a sufficient tax to maintain, operate and
extend any system or plant, and to provide for the payment of the interest on,
and the principal of any bonds.
   (F)   Pursuant to Neb. RS 17-828, as amended or superseded, the city may
make contracts, for a period of not to exceed five years, for the furnishing of
light for the streets, lanes, alleys and other public places and property of
the city, and the inhabitants thereof, the furnishing of electricity to pump
water or similar services for the city and may levy a tax for the purpose of
paying the costs of the lighting the streets, lanes, alleys and other public
places and property of the city.
   (G)   The city shall have the power to grant a franchise to any person,
company, corporation or association, whether publicly or privately owned, to
furnish light and power to the residents, citizens and corporations doing
business in the city, as provided by the laws of the state, including, but not
limited to, Neb. RS 17-528 and 17-528.03, as amended or superseded.
   (H)   Where the city is generating its own electrical current for all or the
major portion of its electric requirements, no public service company, whether
publicly or privately owned, shall sell to the city unless first authorized to
do so by a vote of the electors of the city provided by the laws of the state,
including, but not limited to, Neb. RS 17-528 and 17-528.03, as amended or
superseded; provided that, if no tax or issuance of bonds is required, the city
may, by resolution of the City Council, contract for the furnishing of
electricity at retail to the city, or to any electric plant within the city,
with any public power district or an electric cooperative which cooperative has
an approved retail service area adjoining the city.
   (I)   The city is authorized to contract, lease or rent the plant from any
person, firm or corporation, furnishing electricity, within the city, for power
or the lighting of streets, lanes, alleys and public places of the city, as
provided by the laws of the state, including, but not limited to, Neb. RS 17-
528.03, as amended or superseded, and city may levy a tax for the purpose of
paying the cost of the lighting of streets, lanes, alleys or public places of
the city or to pay the rent under the lease.
   (J)   Any public power district or public power and irrigation district,
formed after 5-4-1945, and providing electrical service at retail to a city of
the metropolitan class, owning a distribution system in the city and also
owning generating plants and transmission lines or both, shall, at the request
of the city, inform the city of the minimum price at which the district is
permitted to sell that portion of its district within the corporate limits of
the city to the city under the agreements of the district entered into with the
holders of obligations issued by the district, and shall, at the request of the
city, sell and convey that portion of the distribution system which is within
the corporate limits to the city upon payment of the minimum price, and the
city shall contract to continue to purchase all of its power and energy
requirements from the district, at least until the time as all obligations of
the district outstanding on the date of the sale and conveyance shall have been
fully paid and retired or reserves sufficient for the redemption thereof shall
have been accumulated, but the transaction shall not be consummated, nor become
effective, until notice of the transaction shall have been given, and where
necessary, until the transaction has been approved by a vote of the electors of
the city, as provided by the laws of the state, including, but not limited to,
Neb. RS 18-412.02, as amended or superseded.
   (K)   The City Council, for the purpose of paying for extensions and
improvements of any public utilities consisting of a waterworks plant, water
system, sanitary sewer system, gas plant, gas system, electric light and power
plant or electric distribution system, may, as provided by the laws of the
state, including, but not limited to, Neb. RS 19-1305 through 19-1307, as
amended or superseded, issue and sell combined revenue bonds securing the
payment thereof by pledging and hypothecating the revenue and earnings of any
two or more of the public utilities, and may enter into the contracts in
connection therewith as may be necessary or proper.
   (L)   The city electrical system shall be under the active direction and
supervision of the Board of Public Works. The Board of Public Works shall have
the power to operate the city electrical system and to exercise all powers
conferred by law upon the city for the operation and government of the
Department to the same extent, in the same manner and under the same
restrictions as the City Council could do, except, however, the Board of Public
Works shall not make any expenditure or contract any indebtedness, other than
for ordinary running expenses, exceeding in amount of $40,000, without first
obtaining the approval of the City Council. The Manager of the Board of Public
Works, hereinafter referred to as the Manager, shall have the direct management
and control of the city electrical system and shall faithfully carry out the
duties of his or her office. The Manager shall have the authority to adopt
rules and regulations for the safe and efficient management of the electrical
system subject to the supervision and review of the Board of Public Works.
(Prior Code, § 3-901)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-528, 17-528.03, 17-802, 17-902, 17-903,
17-906 through 17-909, 18-412, 18-412.02 through 18-412.05, 18-412.06, 19-1305
through 19-1404, 19-1307, 19-1401 through 19-1403, 19-1405
§ 54.02  CONTRACTS AND TERMS.
   The city, through its Board of Public Works, shall furnish electric current
for light and power purposes to persons whose premises abut on any supply wire
of the distribution system and may furnish electric current to the other
persons within or without its corporate limits, as and when, according to law,
its Board of Public Works may see fit to do so. The rules, regulations and
rates for electric service, hereinafter named, in this chapter, shall be
considered a part of every application hereafter made for electric service and
shall be considered a part of the contract between every consumer now served by
the Board of Public Works. Without further formality, the making of application
on the part of any applicant or the use or consumption of electric energy by
present customers and the furnishing of electric service to the applicant or
customer shall constitute a contract between applicant or customer and the
city, to which both parties are bound. If a customer should violate any of the
provisions of the contract or any reasonable rules and regulations that the
Board of Public Works may hereafter adopt, the Manager of the Board of Public
Works, or his or her agent, shall cut off or disconnect the electric service
from the building or place of the violation and no further connection of
electric service for the building or place shall again be made save or except
by order of the Manager or his or her agent.
(Prior Code, § 3-902)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-901
§ 54.03  CONSUMER’S APPLICATION.
   (A)   Every person or persons desiring electrical service must make
application therefor to the Manager upon the blanks to be furnished for that
purpose.
   (B)   Any applicant may be required to make a security deposit in an amount
as deemed necessary as provided for by resolution of the Board of Public Works
and found in its service policies and conditions.
   (C)   Electricity may not be supplied to any house or building, except upon
the written order of the Manager. The system shall not supply to any person
outside the corporate limits electrical service without special permission from
the Board of Public Works.
   (D)   Nothing herein shall be construed to obligate the city to supply
electrical service to nonresidents.
(Prior Code, § 3-903)  (Ord. 3-98, passed 5-11-1998)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-901
§ 54.04  INSTALLATION EXPENSE.
   The city, through its Board of Public Works, shall establish a uniform line
extension policy, treating all customers in a class in the same manner.
(Prior Code, § 3-904)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-901
§ 54.05  RATE AND BILLS.
   The Board of Public Works shall have the authority to set, by resolution,
the rates to be charged for services rendered by the city electrical system.
All rates shall be on file for public inspection in the office of the Board of
Public Works. Electrical bills shall be due and payable monthly at the Board of
Public Works’ office. The electric meter shall be read one time each month. It
shall be the duty of the customers of the electrical system to pay their bills.
The Manager shall charge and collect from each customer for the amount of
electricity used since the last examination, together with any other charges,
properly itemized, due the electric system. Bills shall be sent out each month
and shall be due and payable the day they are placed in the mail. Bills not
paid on or before the delinquent date each month shall be deemed to be
delinquent. In case the delinquent date falls on a Saturday, Sunday or Board of
Public Works holiday, the next working day shall be considered the same as the
delinquent date. Bills not paid by the delinquent date each month shall have a
percentage penalty amount, to be determined by the Board of Public Works, added
to the net month bill (excluding sales tax). A notice will be sent to the
delinquent customer according to the service policies and conditions of the
Board of Public Works. The notice shall comply with the city code. The
procedure for discontinuance of service shall be in accordance with the city
code. Nonresidents shall pay a rate as may be agreed to by the customer and the
Board of Public Works. The Manager shall assess an additional fee set by
resolution of the Board of Public Works and on file at the office of the
Manager in the event that electricity is shut off for the nonpayment of any
electric bill, to compensate the city for the additional hook-up necessary to
again provide electrical service to the delinquent customer.
(Prior Code, § 3-905)  (Ord. 3-98, passed 5-11-1998; Ord. 1-07, passed 1-8-
2007)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-810, 19-1404
§ 54.06  METER IN DISREPAIR.
   In the event that any customer’s meter falls out of repair or fails to
register properly, the Manager shall charge the customer the same amount billed
one year previous to the disrepair. In the event that there is no basis for
comparison, the Manager shall charge the customer an amount as he or she deems
is fair both to the customer and the city.
(Prior Code, § 3-907)
§ 54.07  DURATION OF LIABILITY.
   All electrical customers shall be liable for the minimum rate provided by
resolution unless and until the consumer shall, by written order direct the
Manager to shut off the electricity in which case he or she shall not be liable
thereafter for electrical service until the electricity is turned on again.
(Prior Code, § 3-908)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-901
§ 54.08  RESTRICTED USE.
   The city electrical system does not guarantee the delivery of electric
current over the lines of the distribution system, except when it has
sufficient power, current, equipment and machinery to do so. The Manager has
the power and authority to disconnect or discontinue the service for any good
and sufficient reason without liability. The city shall use due care and
reasonable diligence to provide and supply uninterrupted service to consumers,
but shall not be liable for damages resulting from interruption of service due
to causes over which the city has no control and the city expressly reserves
the right to discontinue or disconnect any consumer’s service without
preliminary notice.
(Prior Code, § 3-909)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-901
§ 54.09  SERVICE CONTRACTS NONTRANSFERABLE.
   Contracts for electrical service are not transferable. Any person wishing to
change from one location to another shall make a new application and sign a new
contract. If any consumer shall sell, dispose or remove from the premise where
service is furnished in his or her name, or if the premise is destroyed by fire
or other casualty, he or she shall at once inform the Manager who shall cause
the electrical service to be shut off from the premise. If the consumer should
fail to give notice, he or she shall be charged for all electricity used on the
premise until the Manager is otherwise advised of the circumstances.
(Prior Code, § 3-910)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-901
§ 54.10  BUILDING MOVING.
   (A)   Should any house or building moving occur or be necessary and it
becomes necessary in the work to remove or disturb any of the property or wires
of the city electrical system, the same should not be done, except upon written
permission received from the Manager, who shall then order paid in advance the
actual cost of moving the wires and the cost shall be paid by the applicant
prior to the moving of the building or house.
   (B)   All expense of removing, changing and replacing the wires or apparatus
of the electrical system shall be paid out of the deposit made prior to moving
and any surplus remaining after all expenses are paid shall be returned to the
applicant; provided that, if in the course of moving the building or house, it
becomes apparent that additional expense will be incurred, the additional
deposit as deemed necessary may be demanded.
(Prior Code, § 3-911)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-142
§ 54.11  POSTING SIGNS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to post, tack or fasten to the poles,
structures, fixtures or equipment of the city electrical system any sign,
poster, advertisement or banner without written permission from the Manager.
(Prior Code, § 3-912)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 54.12  TRIMMING TREES.
   (A)   Any person desiring to cut or remove trees or branches thereof in
close proximity to the lines of the city electrical system shall, before doing
the work, give reasonable written notice to the Manager and shall follow any
and all rules and regulations which he or she may prescribe for doing the work.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person felling or removing the trees or
branches to disrupt or damage the lines without first giving proper notice and
receiving permission in writing to do so.
   (C)   Whenever it becomes necessary to protect the lines or property of the
electrical system, the Board of Public Works shall have the power to order cut
and removed any overhanging branches or limbs of trees, using proper pruning
techniques, so that the lines will be free and safe.
(Prior Code, § 3-913)  (Ord. 8-04, passed 7-12-2004)  Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-555
§ 54.13  INSPECTIONS.
   The Manager, or his or her duly authorized agents, shall have free access
between the hours of 7:00 a.m. and 6:00 p.m. to each premise and building to or
in which electricity is supplied; provided that, in the event of any emergency,
the inspections may take place at any time.
(Prior Code, § 3-914)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-902
§ 54.14  DIVERSION OF SERVICES.
   (A)   (1)   For purposes of this section, the definitions found in Neb. RS
25-21,275 shall apply.
      (2)   (a)   The city may bring a civil action for damages against any
person who commits, authorizes, solicits, aids, abets or attempts bypassing;
tampering or unauthorized metering when the act results in damages to a
municipal utility. The city may bring a civil action for damages pursuant to
this section against any person receiving the benefit of utility service
through means of bypassing, tampering or unauthorized metering.
         (b)   In any civil action brought pursuant to this section, the city
shall be entitled, upon proof of willful or intentional bypassing, tampering or
unauthorized metering to recover as damages:
            1.   The amount of actual damage or loss if the amount of the
damage or loss is susceptible of reasonable calculation; or
            2.   Liquidated damages of $750 if the amount of actual damage or
loss is not susceptible of reasonable calculation.
         (c)   In addition to damage or loss under divisions (A)(2)(a) or (b)
above, the city may recover all reasonable expenses and costs incurred on
account of the bypassing, tampering or unauthorized metering including, but not
limited to, disconnection, reconnection, service calls, equipment, costs of the
suit and reasonable attorneys’ fees in cases within the scope of Neb. RS 25-
1801.
      (3)   (a)   There shall be a rebuttable presumption that a tenant or
occupant at any premises where bypassing, tampering or unauthorized metering is
proven to exist caused or had knowledge of the bypassing, tampering or
unauthorized metering if the tenant or occupant:
            1.   Had access to the part of the utility supply system on the
premises where the bypassing, tampering or unauthorized metering is proven to
exist; and
            2.   Was responsible or partially responsible for payment, either
directly or indirectly, to the utility or to any other person for utility
services to the premises.
         (b)   There shall be a rebuttable presumption that a customer at any
premises where bypassing, tampering or unauthorized metering is proven to exist
caused or had knowledge of the bypassing, tampering or unauthorized metering if
the customer controlled access to the part of the utility supply system on the
premises where the bypassing, tampering or unauthorized metering was proven to
exist.
      (4)   The remedies provided by this section shall be deemed to be
supplemental and additional to powers conferred by existing laws. The remedies
provided in this section are in addition to and not in limitation of any other
civil or criminal statutory or common-law remedies.
(Prior Code, § 3-915)
   (B)   (1)   It is an offense for any person:
         (a)   To connect any instrument, device or contrivance with any wire
supplying or intended to supply electricity or electric current or to connect
any pipe or conduit supplying gas or water, without the knowledge and consent
of the city, in a manner that any portion thereof may be supplied to any
instrument by or at which electricity, electric current, gas or water may be
consumed without passing through the meter made or provided for measuring or
registering the amount or quantity thereof passing through it;
         (b)   To knowingly use or knowingly permit the use of electricity,
electric current, gas or water obtained unlawfully pursuant to this section;
         (c)   To reconnect electrical, gas or water service without the
knowledge and consent of the city if the service has been disconnected pursuant
to Neb. RS 70-1601 to 70-1615 or §
51.038; or
         (d)   To willfully injure, alter or by any instrument, device or
contrivance in any manner interfere with or obstruct the action or operation of
any meter made or provided for measuring or registering the amount or quantity
of electricity, electric current, gas or water passing through it, without the
knowledge and consent of the city.
      (2)   Proof of the existence of any wire, pipe or conduit connection or
reconnection or of any injury, alteration, interference or obstruction of a
meter is prima facie evidence of the guilt of the person in possession of the
premises where the connection, reconnection, injury, alteration, interference
or obstruction is proved to exist.
(Prior Code, § 3-916)
(Ord. 4-03, passed 4-14-2003)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 25-21,276, 25-21,277, 25-21,278, 28-515.02
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
71.   TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES
      
72.   OPERATOR AND VEHICLE QUALIFICATIONS
      
73.   TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
      
74.   PARKING RULES
      
75.   RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
      
76.   PEDESTRIANS
CHAPTER 70:  GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
70.001   Definitions
   
70.002   Police enforcement; street traffic management; arrest authorization
   
70.003   Obedience to law enforcement officers; obligation to exhibit
operator’s license
   
70.004   Traffic summons; lawful complaint; form
   
70.005   Truck routes
Driving under the Influence
   
70.020   Generally
   
70.021   Persons under 21 years of age
   
70.022   Chemical test results; competent evidence
Prohibitions
   
70.035   Consumption of liquor on public property, alleys and the like
   
70.036   Possession of alcoholic liquor in unsealed container
   
70.037   Rubbish on highways prohibited
   
70.038   Following fire apparatus in response to an alarm
   
70.039   Driving over fire house
   
70.040   Engine brakes
   
70.041   Loads; spilling or shifting
   
70.042   Clinging to motor vehicles
   
70.043   Negligent driving
   
70.044   Unnecessary noise with tires
Obstructions
   
70.055   Loading obstructing driver’s view
   
70.056   Animals and slow-moving vehicles
   
70.057   Opening and closing vehicle doors
Vehicle Lights
   
70.070   Parking lights; unlawful use
   
70.071   Back-up lights; unlawful use
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 70.001  DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   The words and phrases used in this title, pertaining to motor vehicles
and traffic regulations, shall be construed as defined in Neb. RS Chapter 60,
Article 6, as now existing or hereafter amended.
   (B)   If not defined in the designated statutes, the word or phrase shall
have its common meaning.
(Prior Code, § 5-101)  (Ord. 11-94, passed 12-19-1994)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 60-606 through 60-676
§ 70.002  POLICE ENFORCEMENT; STREET TRAFFIC MANAGEMENT; ARREST AUTHORIZATION.
   (A)   The city police are hereby authorized, empowered and ordered to
exercise all powers and duties with relation to the management of street
traffic and to direct, control, stop, restrict and regulate, when necessary,
temporarily divert or exclude, in the interest of public safety, health and
convenience the movement of pedestrian, animal and vehicular traffic of every
kind in streets, parks and on bridges.
   (B)   The city police are hereby authorized, empowered and ordered to
undertake the enforcement of the ordinances of this title and are hereby
particularly empowered to arrest persons for the violation of the ordinances of
this title.
(Prior Code, § 5-201)
§ 70.003  OBEDIENCE TO LAW ENFORCEMENT OFFICERS; OBLIGATION TO EXHIBIT
OPERATOR’S LICENSE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to knowingly fail or refuse obey
any lawful order of any law enforcement officer who is controlling or directing
traffic.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person operating a motor vehicle upon the
streets or public highways within the jurisdiction of the city to fail or
refuse to exhibit his or her operator’s license when directed to do so by a law
enforcement officer.
(Prior Code, § 5-202)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 70.004  TRAFFIC SUMMONS; LAWFUL COMPLAINT; FORM.
   (A)   (1)   Whenever any person shall be charged with a violation of any
provision of this title, the officer making the charge shall, take the name and
address of the person and the license number of the motor vehicle the person
shall have been driving if any license is assigned. The officer shall then
issue a summons or otherwise notify the person in writing to appear at a
specific time and place to answer the charge.
      (2)   The time specified shall be at least five days after service of the
summons or notice, unless the person shall demand an earlier hearing.
      (3)   Upon the demand, the person shall have a right to a hearing within
24 hours at a convenient hour before the court having jurisdiction over the
matter, whenever any person shall be charged with a violation of any provision
of this title and is issued a summons, as herein provided, which summons meets
the requirements prescribed by the Supreme Court and is sworn to as required by
the laws of the state, then the summons when filed with a court having
jurisdiction, shall be deemed a lawful complaint for the purpose of
prosecution.
(Prior Code, § 5-203)
   (B)   (1)   The City Clerk may provide, in appropriate form, traffic summons
containing notices to appear which shall be issued in books with summons in
triplicate.
      (2)   The City Clerk shall be responsible for the issuance of the books,
shall maintain a record of every book and each summons number therein issued to
the city police shall require and retain a receipt for every book so issued.
(Prior Code, § 5-204)
§ 70.005  TRUCK ROUTES.
   (A)   The City Council may, by resolution, designate certain streets in the
city that trucks shall travel upon and it shall be unlawful for persons
operating the tracks to travel on other streets than those designated for
trucks, unless to pick up or deliver goods, wares or merchandise and in that
event, the operator of the truck shall return to the truck routes as soon as
possible in traveling through or about the city.
   (B)   The City Council shall cause notices to be posted or shall erect signs
indicating the streets so designated as truck routes.
(Prior Code, § 5-205)
DRIVING UNDER THE INFLUENCE
§ 70.020  GENERALLY.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate or be in the actual
physical control of any motor vehicle:
      (1)   While under the influence of alcoholic liquor or of any drug;
      (2)   When the person has a concentration of 0.08 of one gram or more by
weight of alcohol per 100 milliliters of his or her blood; or
      (3)   When the person has a concentration of 0.08 of one gram or more by
weight of alcohol per 210 liters of his or her breath.
   (B)   Any person who operates or has in his or her actual physical control a
motor vehicle in the city shall be deemed to have given his or her consent to
submit to a chemical test or tests of his or her blood, breath or urine for the
purpose of determining the concentration of alcohol or the presence of drugs in
the blood, breath or urine.
   (C)   Any peace officer who has been duly authorized to make arrests for
violations of traffic laws of the state or of ordinances of the city may
require any person arrested for any offense arising out of acts alleged to have
been committed while the person was driving or was in actual physical control
of a motor vehicle while under the influence of alcoholic liquor or drugs to
submit to a chemical test or tests of his or her blood, breath or urine for the
purpose of determining the concentration of alcohol or the presence of drugs in
the blood, breath or urine when the officer has reasonable grounds to believe
that the person was driving or was in the actual physical control of a motor
vehicle in the city while under the influence of alcoholic liquor or drugs in
violation of division (A) of this section.
   (D)   (1)   Any peace officer who has been duly authorized to make arrests
for violation of traffic laws of this state or ordinances of the city may
require any person who operates or has in his or her actual physical control a
motor vehicle in the city to submit to a preliminary test of his or her breath
for alcohol concentration if the officer has reasonable grounds to believe that
the person has alcohol in his or her body, has committed a moving traffic
violation or has been involved in a traffic accident.
      (2)   Any person who refuses to submit to the preliminary breath test or
whose preliminary breath test results indicate an alcohol concentration in
violation of division (A) of this section shall be placed under arrest. Any
person who refuses to submit to the preliminary breath test shall be guilty of
an offense.
   (E)   (1)   Any person arrested as provided in this section may, upon the
direction of a peace officer, be required to submit to a chemical test or tests
of his or her blood, breath or urine for a determination of the concentration
of alcohol or the presence of drugs.
      (2)   If the chemical test discloses the presence of a concentration of
alcohol in violation of division (A) of this section or if any person, refuses
to submit to the test or tests required pursuant to this section, the person
shall be subject to the administrative revocation procedures provided in Neb.
RS 60-498.01 to 60-498.04 and shall be guilty of an offense.
   (F)   Upon the conviction of any person for violation of this section, there
shall be assessed as part of the court costs the fee charged by any physician
or any agency administering tests pursuant to a permit issued in accordance
with Neb. RS 60-6,201 for the test administered and the analysis thereof if the
test was actually made.
(Prior Code, § 5-241)  (Ord. 7-02, passed 7-8-2002)  Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 60-6,196(1), 60-6,197(1), 60-6,197(2), 60-
6,197(3), 60-6,197(4), 60-6,203
§ 70.021  PERSONS UNDER 21 YEARS OF AGE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person under 21 years of age to operate
or be in the actual physical control of any motor vehicle:
      (1)   When the person has a concentration of two-hundredths of one gram
or more by weight of alcohol per 100 milliliters of his or her blood but less
than the concentration prescribed under Neb. RS 60-6,196(1)(b); or
      (2)   When the person has a concentration of two-hundredths of one gram
or more by weight of alcohol per 210 liters of his or her breath but less than
the concentration prescribed under Neb. RS 60-6,196(1)(c).
   (B)   Enforcement of this section shall be accomplished only as a secondary
action when the driver of a motor vehicle has been cited for a violation of
some other offense.
   (C)   Any person who operates or has in his or her actual physical control a
motor vehicle in the state shall be deemed to have given his or her consent to
submit to a chemical test or tests of his or her blood or breath for the
purposes of determining the concentration of alcohol in the blood or breath.
   (D)   (1)   Any peace officer who has been duly authorized to make arrests
for violations of traffic laws of the state or of ordinances of the city may
require any person under 21 years of age who has been cited for some offense to
submit to a chemical test or tests of his or her blood or breath for the
purpose of determining the concentration of alcohol in the blood or breath when
the officer has reasonable grounds to believe that the person was driving or
was in actual physical control a motor vehicle in the city in violation of this
section.
      (2)   The peace officer may require the person to submit to a preliminary
breath test.
      (3)   Any person who refuses to submit to a preliminary breath test or
whose preliminary breath test results indicate an alcohol concentration in
violation of this section shall be placed under arrest.
   (E)   (1)   Any person arrested as provided in this section may, upon the
direction of a peace officer, be required to submit to a chemical test or tests
of his or her blood or breath for a determination of the concentration of
alcohol.
      (2)   If the chemical test discloses the presence of a concentration of
alcohol in violation of this section or the person refuses to submit to the
test or tests required pursuant to this section shall be guilty or an offense.
   (F)   Upon the conviction of any person for the violation of this section,
there shall be assessed as part of the court costs the fee charged by any
physician or any agency administering tests pursuant to a permit issued in
accordance with Neb. RS 60-6,201, for the test administered and the analysis
thereof if the test was actually made.
(Prior Code, § 5-241.1)  (Ord. 11-94, passed 12-19-1994)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 60-6,211.01, 60-6,211.02, 60-6,203
§ 70.022  CHEMICAL TEST RESULTS; COMPETENT EVIDENCE.
   Any test made under the provisions of §
70.021 shall be competent evidence in any prosecution under a state statute or
city or village ordinance involving operating a motor vehicle while under the
influence of alcoholic liquor or involving driving or being in actual physical
control of a motor vehicle with an amount of alcohol in the blood in violation
of a statute or a city or village ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 5-243)
PROHIBITIONS
§ 70.035  CONSUMPTION OF LIQUOR ON PUBLIC PROPERTY, ALLEYS AND THE LIKE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to consume alcoholic liquors, as defined
by
Chapter 114 of this code, in the city parks, public streets, alleys, parking
areas, roads or highways or inside vehicles while upon the city parks, public
streets, alleys, parking areas, roads or highways.
(Prior Code, § 5-244)  Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 53-186
§ 70.036  POSSESSION OF ALCOHOLIC LIQUOR IN UNSEALED CONTAINER.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to carry, transport or possess any
alcoholic liquors, as defined by
Chapter 114 of this code, in any unsealed or open container upon the city
parks, public sidewalks, streets, alleys, parking areas, roads or highways;
provided, however, that, nothing herein shall be construed to prohibit the
carrying or transportation of alcoholic liquors in unsealed or open containers
by motor vehicle, so long as the container is not carried or transported within
the passenger compartment of the vehicle; or within any compartment of the
vehicle designed for the carrying of passengers or at any location, either in
or upon the vehicle, where the container would be immediately available to any
passenger or occupant thereof.
(Prior Code, § 5-245)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 70.037  RUBBISH ON HIGHWAYS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person shall throw or deposit upon any highway:
      (1)   Any glass bottle, glass, nails, tacks, wire, cans or any other
substance likely to injure any person or animal or damage any vehicle upon the
highway;
      (2)   Materials that may make the highway unsightly, such as rubbish
sewage, garbage, paper or any other material of the nature; or
      (3)   Any burning material.
   (B)   Any person who deposits or permits to be deposited, upon any highway
any destructive or injurious material shall immediately remove it or cause it
to be removed.
   (C)   Any person who removes a wrecked or damaged vehicle from a highway
shall remove any glass or other injurious substance deposited on the highway
from the vehicle.
   (D)   (1)   The City Council may procure and place at reasonable intervals
on the side of highways within the jurisdiction of the city appropriate signs
showing the penalty for violating this section.
      (2)   The signs, shall be of the size and design as to be easily read by
persons on the highways, but the absence of a sign shall not excuse a violation
of divisions (A), (B) and (C) of this section.
   (E)   It shall be the duty of all city police officers to enforce the
provisions of this section and to make prompt investigation of any violations
of the provisions of this section reported by any person.
(Prior Code, § 5-246)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 70.038  FOLLOWING FIRE APPARATUS IN RESPONSE TO AN ALARM.
   The driver of any vehicle other than one on official business shall not
follow any fire apparatus traveling in response to a fire alarm closer than 500
feet or drive into or park the vehicle within the block where fire apparatus
has stopped in answer to a fire alarm.
(Prior Code, § 5-250)  Penalty, see §
10.99
Cross-reference:
   Operation of vehicles upon the approach of emergency vehicles, see §
73.005
§ 70.039  DRIVING OVER FIRE HOSE.
   No vehicle shall be driven over an unprotected hose of the Fire Department
when laid down on any highway or private road or driveway, in use or to be used
at any fire or alarm of fire, without the consent of the Fire Department
official in command.
(Prior Code, § 5-254)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 70.040  ENGINE BRAKES.
   The use of engine brakes is prohibited within the corporate limits of the
city.
(Prior Code, § 5-261)  (Ord. 1-00, passed 1-10-2000)  Penalty, see §
10.99
Cross-reference:
   Brakes, see §
72.07
§ 70.041  LOADS; SPILLING OR SHIFTING.
   (A)   No vehicle shall be driven or moved on any highway unless the vehicle
is so constructed or loaded as to prevent its contents from dropping, sifting,
leaking or otherwise escaping from the vehicle.
   (B)   No person shall transport any sand, gravel, rock less than two inches
in diameter or refuse in any vehicle on any hard-surfaced highway if the
material protrudes above the sides of that part of the vehicle in which it is
being transported unless the material is enclosed or completely covered with
canvas or similar covering.
   (C)   No person shall drive or move a motor vehicle, trailer or semi-trailer
upon any highway unless the cargo or contents carried by the motor vehicle,
trailer or semi-trailer are properly distributed and adequately secured to
prevent the falling of cargo or contents from the vehicle. The tailgate, doors,
tarpaulins and any other equipment used in the operation of the motor vehicle,
trailer or semi-trailer or in the distributing or securing of the cargo or
contents carried by the motor vehicle, trailer or semi-trailer shall be secured
to prevent cargo or contents falling from the vehicle. The means of securement
to the motor vehicle, trailer or semi-trailer must be either tie-downs and tie-
down assemblies of adequate strength or sides, sideboards or stakes and a rear
endgate, endboard or stakes strong enough and high enough to assure that cargo
or contents will not fall from the vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 5-262)  (Ord. 4-03, passed 4-14-2003)  Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 60-6,304
§ 70.042  CLINGING TO MOTOR VEHICLES.
   No person riding upon any bicycle, coaster, roller skates, sled, skis or toy
vehicle shall attach himself, herself or the bicycle, coaster, roller skates,
sled, skis or toy vehicle to any vehicle upon a roadway and it shall be
unlawful for the driver of any vehicle to suffer or permit any person riding
upon any bicycle, coaster, roller skates, sled, skis or toy vehicle to cling to
or attach himself, herself or the bicycle to the vehicle driven and operated by
him or her.
(Prior Code, § 5-326)  (Ord. 11-94, passed 12-19-1994)  Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 60-6,316, 60-6,354
§ 70.043  NEGLIGENT DRIVING.
   Any person, who shall drive, use, operate, park or stop a vehicle in a
negligent manner or shall interfere with the moving traffic or use of the
streets, shall be deemed guilty of negligent driving.
(Prior Code, § 5-421)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 70.044  UNNECESSARY NOISE WITH TIRES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person in the operation of a motor vehicle to
intentionally cause the tires of the motor vehicle to make any loud or unusual
noise unnecessary in the normal and lawful operation of the motor vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 5-256)  Penalty, see §
10.99
OBSTRUCTIONS
§ 70.055  LOADING OBSTRUCTING DRIVER’S VIEW.
   (A)   No person shall drive a motor vehicle when it is so loaded or when
there is in the front seat a number of persons, exceeding three, as to obstruct
the view of the driver to the front or sides of the vehicle or to interfere
with the driver’s control over the driving mechanism of the vehicle.
   (B)   No passenger in a vehicle shall ride in a position as to interfere
with the driver’s view ahead or to the sides or to interfere with the driver’s
control over the driving mechanism of the vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 5-247)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 70.056  ANIMALS AND SLOW-MOVING VEHICLES.
   Whenever an animal, animal-drawn vehicle, farm tractor or implement of
husbandry being ridden or driven upon the streets or highway is obstructing the
normal flow of traffic, the rider or driver thereof shall drive to the nearest
available shoulder of the street or highway and allow traffic to pass.
(Prior Code, § 5-248)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 70.057  OPENING AND CLOSING VEHICLE DOORS.
   No person shall open the door of a motor vehicle on the side available to
moving traffic unless and until it is reasonably safe to do so and it can be
done without interfering with the movement of other traffic, nor shall any
person leave a door open on the side of a vehicle available to moving traffic
for a period of time longer than necessary to load or unload property or
passengers.
(Prior Code, § 5-249)  Penalty, see §
10.99
VEHICLE LIGHTS
§ 70.070  PARKING LIGHTS; UNLAWFUL USE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to drive on any of the highways of this
state with parking lights in lieu of head lamps, as defined herein.
(Prior Code, § 5-251)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 70.071  BACK-UP LIGHTS; UNLAWFUL USE.
   No vehicle shall be operated while proceeding in a forward motion with the
back-up lights on when the vehicle is being operated on the streets and public
highways.
(Prior Code, § 5-252)  Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 71:  TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES
Section
   
71.01   Placement and maintenance; noncompliance prohibited
   
71.02   Interference prohibited; liability in civil action
   
71.03   Defacement or interference prohibited
   
71.04   Automatic lights and signals
§ 71.01  PLACEMENT AND MAINTENANCE; NONCOMPLIANCE PROHIBITED.
   The City Council may, by resolution, provide for placing and maintaining
traffic-control devices upon or in association with any highway, street or
alley within the jurisdiction of the city for the purpose of regulating,
warning or guiding traffic or for the purpose of otherwise carrying out the
provisions of this chapter. The resolution shall describe the portion of the
highway, street or alley wherein traffic is to be regulated, warned, guided or
otherwise controlled; the nature of the regulation, warning, guiding or
control; the location where the traffic-control device shall be placed; and the
hours when the regulation, warning, guide or control shall be effective. All
traffic-control devices shall conform with the Manual on Uniform Traffic
Control Devices for Streets and Highways and with the Department of Roads
supplements and specifications. It shall be unlawful for any person to fail,
neglect or refuse to comply with the traffic-control devices.
(Prior Code, § 5-206)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 71.02  INTERFERENCE PROHIBITED; LIABILITY IN CIVIL ACTION.
   (A)   No person shall, without lawful authority, attempt to or in fact
alter, deface, injure, knock down or remove any traffic-control device or any
railroad sign or signal or any part thereof.
   (B)   Any person who moves, alters, damages or destroys warning devices
placed upon roads which the City Council or its representative has closed in
whole or in part for the protection of the public or for the protection of the
highway from damage during construction, improvement or maintenance operation
and thereby causes injury or death to any person or damage to any property,
equipment or material thereon shall be liable, subject to the provisions of
Neb. RS 25-21,185, as amended or superseded, for the full amount of the death,
injury or damage and the amount may be recovered by the injured or damaged
party or his or her legal representative in a civil action brought in any court
of competent jurisdiction.
(Prior Code, § 5-207)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 71.03  DEFACEMENT OR INTERFERENCE PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to willfully or maliciously deface,
injure, remove, obstruct, knock down or interfere with any official traffic
sign or signal, traffic-control device or traffic-control surveillance device.
(Prior Code, § 5-207.01)  (Ord. 11-89, passed 1-2-1990)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 71.04  AUTOMATIC LIGHTS AND SIGNALS.
   (A)   At each intersection where an automatic signal system is in operation,
all vehicular and pedestrian traffic crossing the street intersection shall be
governed by the automatic signal system.
   (B)   Whenever traffic is controlled by traffic-control signals exhibiting,
different colored lights, the lights shall indicate and apply to drivers of
vehicles and pedestrians as follows:
      (1)   (a)   Vehicular traffic facing a circular green signal may proceed
straight through or turn right or left unless a sign at the place prohibits
either the turn, but vehicular traffic, including vehicles turning right or
left, shall yield the right-of-way to other vehicles and to pedestrians
lawfully within the intersection or an adjacent crosswalk at the time the
signal is exhibited;
         (b)   Vehicular traffic facing a green arrow signal, shown alone or in
combination with another indication, may cautiously enter the intersection only
to make the movement indicated by the arrow or other movement as is permitted
by other indications shown at the same time and the vehicular traffic shall
yield the right-of-way to pedestrians lawfully within as adjacent crosswalk and
to other traffic lawfully using the intersection; and
         (c)   Unless otherwise directed by a pedestrian-control signal,
pedestrians facing any green signal, except when the sole green signal is a
turn arrow, may proceed across the roadway within any marked or unmarked
crosswalk.
      (2)   (a)   Vehicular traffic facing a steady yellow signal is thereby
warned that the related green movement is being terminated or that a red
indication will be exhibited immediately thereafter when vehicular traffic
shall not enter the intersection and upon display of a steady yellow signal
vehicular traffic shall stop before entering the nearest crosswalk at the
intersection, but if the stop cannot be made in safety a vehicle may be driven
cautiously through the intersection; and
         (b)   Pedestrians facing a steady yellow signal, unless otherwise
directed by a pedestrian-control signal, are thereby advised that there is
insufficient time to cross the roadway before a red indication is shown and no
pedestrian shall then start to cross the roadway.
      (3)   (a)   Vehicular traffic facing a steady red signal alone shall stop
at a clearly-marked stop line, but, if there is no line, then before entering
the crosswalk on the near side of the intersection and shall remain standing
until an indication to proceed is shown except as provided in division (B)(3)
(b) below;
         (b)   Except where a traffic-control device is in place prohibiting a
turn, vehicular traffic facing a steady red signal may cautiously enter the
intersection to make a right turn after stopping as required by division (B)(3)
(a) above. The vehicular traffic shall yield the right-of-way to pedestrians
lawfully within an adjacent crosswalk and to other traffic lawfully using the
intersection; and
         (c)   Unless otherwise directed by a pedestrian-control signal,
pedestrians facing a steady red signal alone shall not enter the roadway.
      (4)   If a traffic-control signal is erected and maintained at a place
other than an intersection, the provisions of this section shall be applicable,
except as to those provisions which by their nature can have no application.
Any stop required shall be made at a sign or marking on the pavement indicating
where the stop shall be made, but in the absence of any sign or marking the
stop shall be made at the signal.
(Prior Code, § 5-208)  Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 72:  OPERATOR AND VEHICLE QUALIFICATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
72.01   Number plates to be kept clean
   
72.02   Trailer usage
   
72.03   Equipment maintenance
   
72.04   Safety glass
   
72.05   Tires; cleats or projections prohibited
   
72.06   Towing; draw bars and other connections
   
72.07   Brakes
   
72.08   Trailers; brakes; safety chains
   
72.09   Horns
   
72.10   Load projecting to rear; red flag, red light required
   
72.11   Muffler; cut-out prohibited; escaping of load
   
72.12   Objects placed or hung to obstruct or interfere with view of operator
   
72.13   Rearview mirror required; unobstructed view; windshield and windows;
posters prohibited; windshield equipment
   
72.14   Splash aprons
   
72.15   Child passengers; use of restraint systems or occupant protection
system
   
72.16   Occupant protection systems; requirements
Registration
   
72.30   Operator and vehicle license
   
72.31   Trailers
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 72.01  NUMBER PLATES TO BE KEPT CLEAN.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate any motor vehicle upon any
street or public highway, unless all letters, numbers, printing, writing and
other identification marks upon the registration number plates and certificate
in or upon the motor vehicle are clear and distinct and free from grease, dust
or other blurring matter, so that they shall be plainly visible at all times
during daylight and under artificial light in the nighttime.
(Prior Code, § 5-404)  Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 60-324
§ 72.02  TRAILER USAGE.
   When any trailer shall be attached to any motor vehicle in use upon the city
streets, the trailer shall carry a duplicate registration number and rear
lights as required of any other motor vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 5-405)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 72.03  EQUIPMENT MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   Every motor vehicle, while in use on the streets, alleys or highways
of the city shall be equipped with efficient brakes adequate to control the
movement of, to stop and to hold the vehicle, including two separate means of
applying the brakes and shall be further equipped with a good and sufficient
horn in good working order or other efficient signal devices.
   (B)   From sunset to sunrise and any other time when there is not sufficient
light to render clearly discernible persons or vehicles upon the street, alley
or highway at a distance of 500 feet, every motor vehicle shall be equipped
with lighted headlights and every motor vehicle and trailer shall be equipped
with one or more taillights, at the rear of the motor vehicle or trailer,
exhibiting a red light visible from a distance of at least 500 feet to the rear
of the vehicle. No person shall operate any vehicle which is equipped with an
electric light or lights that confuse travelers or pedestrians on streets or
crosswalks within the city. Every motor vehicle having a width of 80 inches or
more shall display clearance lights as required by state law.
   (C)   All vehicle brakes shall be maintained in good working order;
provided, motorcycles need only be equipped with one brake.
   (D)   All horns on motor vehicles shall be capable of emitting sound audible
under normal conditions from a distance of not less than 200 feet; provided, no
vehicle except as herein provided, shall be equipped with, nor shall any person
use upon a vehicle, any siren or horn otherwise than as reasonable warning; nor
shall any person use any horn or warning device upon a vehicle to make any
unnecessary, loud or harsh sound; and provided, further, that, every Police and
Fire Department vehicle, ambulance or other authorized emergency vehicle used
for emergency calls shall be equipped with a bell, siren or whistle of the type
approved by the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 5-406)  (Ord. 9-96, passed 1-8-1996)  Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 60-6,219, 60-6,220, 60-6,224, 60-6,235, 60-
6,244, 60-6,285
§ 72.04  SAFETY GLASS.
   It shall be unlawful to operate on any street or public highway any motor
vehicle manufactured or assembled after 1-1-1935, designed or used for the
purpose of carrying passengers, unless the vehicle is equipped in all doors,
windows and windshields with safety glass. The term SAFETY GLASS, as used
herein, shall be construed to mean any product composed of glass or other or
similar products as will successfully withstand discoloration due to exposure
to sunlight or abnormal temperatures over an extended period of time and is so
manufactured, fabricated or treated as substantially to prevent or reduce in
comparison with ordinary sheet glass or plate glass, when struck or broken, the
likelihood of injury to persons.
(Prior Code, § 5-410)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 72.05  TIRES; CLEATS OR PROJECTIONS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Every solid rubber tire on a vehicle moved on any highway shall have
rubber on its entire traction surface at least one inch thick above the edge of
the flange of the entire periphery.
   (B)   No tire on a vehicle moved on a highway shall have on its periphery
any clock, stud, flange, cleat or spike or any other protuberance of any
material other than rubber which projects beyond the tread of the traction
surface of the tire, except that:
      (1)   This prohibition shall not apply to pneumatic tires with metal or
metal-type studs not exceeding five-sixteenths of an inch in diameter inclusive
of the stud-casing with an average protrusion beyond the tread surface of not
more than seven sixty-fourths of an inch between October 1 and April 15;
provided that, school buses, mail carrier vehicles and emergency vehicles shall
be permitted to use metal or metal-type studs between April 15 and October 1;
      (2)   It shall be permissible to use farm machinery with tires having
protuberances which will not injure the highway; and
      (3)   It shall be permissible to use tire chains of reasonable
proportions upon any vehicle when required for safety because of snow, ice or
other condition tending to cause a vehicle to slide or skid.
(Prior Code, § 5-411)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 72.06  TOWING; DRAW BARS AND OTHER CONNECTIONS.
   (A)   The draw bar or other connection between any two vehicles, one of
which is towing or drawing the other on a highway, shall not exceed 15 feet in
length from one vehicle to the other.
   (B)   Whenever the connection consists of a chain, rope or cable, there
shall be displayed upon the connection a red flag or other signal or cloth not
less than 12 inches both in length and width.
(Prior Code, § 5-412)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 72.07  BRAKES.
   (A)   Every motor vehicle when operated upon a highway shall be equipped
with brakes adequate to control the movement of and to stop and to hold the
vehicle, including two separate means of applying the brakes, each of which
means shall be effective to apply the brakes to at least two wheels and so
constructed that no part which is liable to failure shall be common to the two,
except that a motorcycle need be equipped with only one brake. All brakes shall
be maintained at all times in good working order.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any owner or operator of any motor vehicle to
operate the motor vehicle upon highway unless the brake equipment thereon
qualifies in the following respects with regard to maximum stopping distances
from a speed of 20 mph on dry asphalt or concrete pavement free from loose
materials as hereinafter set forth:
      (1)   Two wheel brakes, maximum stopping distance: 40 feet;
      (2)   Four or more wheel brakes, vehicles up to 7,000 pounds, gross
weight, maximum stopping distance: 30 feet;
      (3)   Four or more wheel brakes, vehicles over 7,000 pounds gross weight,
maximum stopping distance: 35 feet;
      (4)   All hand, parking or emergency brakes, vehicles up to 7,000 pounds
gross weight, maximum stopping distance: 55 feet; and
      (5)   All hand, parking or emergency brakes, vehicles over 7,000 pounds
gross-weight, maximum stopping distance: 65 feet.
   (C)   All braking distances specified in division (B) above shall apply to
all vehicles whether unloaded or loaded to the maximum capacity permitted by
law.
   (D)   The retarding force of one side of the vehicle shall not exceed the
retarding force on the opposite side so as to prevent the vehicle stopping in a
straight line.
(Prior Code, § 5-413)
Cross-reference:
   Engine brakes, see §
70.040
§ 72.08  TRAILERS; BRAKES; SAFETY CHAINS.
   (A)   All commercial trailers with a carrying capacity of more than 10,000
pounds and semi-trailers shall be equipped on each wheel with brakes that can
be operated from the driving position of the towing vehicle.
   (B)   Travel trailers and recreational trailers having a gross loaded weight
of 2,000 pounds or more shall be equipped with brakes on each wheel and the
brakes shall be operable from the driving position of the towing vehicle. The
trailers shall also be equipped with a breakaway, surge or impulse switch on
the trailer so that the trailer brakes are activated should the trailer become
disengaged from the towing vehicle.
   (C)   Each trailer, as defined herein, with a gross loaded weight of 3,000
pounds or more shall be equipped with two safety chains, which shall have a
breaking load strength of 3,000 pounds each. A trailer shall be attached to the
towing vehicle so that the tongue of the trailer will not touch the roadway
should the trailer become disengaged from the towing vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 5-414)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 72.09  HORNS.
   (A)   Every motor vehicle when operated upon a street or public highway
shall be equipped with a horn in good working order capable of emitting sound
audible under normal conditions from a distance of not less than 200 feet; and
it shall be unlawful, except as otherwise provided in this section, for any
vehicle to be equipped with or for any person to use upon a vehicle any siren,
exhaust, compression or spark plug whistle or for any person at any time to use
a horn otherwise than as a reasonable warning or to make any unnecessary or
unreasonably loud or harsh sound by means of a horn or other warning device.
   (B)   Every Police and Fire Department and fire patrol vehicle and every
ambulance used for emergency calls shall be equipped with a bell, siren or
exhaust whistle of a type approved by the Department of Motor Vehicles.
(Prior Code, § 5-415)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 72.10  LOAD PROJECTING TO REAR; RED FLAG, RED LIGHT REQUIRED.
   Whenever the load on any vehicle shall extend more than four feet beyond the
rear of the bed or body thereof, there shall be displayed at the end of the
load in the position as to be clearly visible at all times from the rear of the
load a red flag not less than 12 inches both in length and width, except that
between one-half hour after sunset and one-half hour before sunrise there shall
be displayed at the end of any load a red light plainly visible under normal
atmospheric conditions at least 200 feet from the rear of the vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 5-416)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 72.11  MUFFLER; CUT-OUT PROHIBITED; ESCAPING OF LOAD.
   No person shall drive a motor vehicle on a highway or street unless the
motor vehicle is equipped with a muffler in good working order and in constant
operation to prevent excessive or unusual noise or annoying smoke. It shall be
unlawful to use a muffler cut-out on any motor vehicle upon a highway. No
vehicle shall be driven or moved on any highway or street, unless the vehicle
is so constructed or loaded as to prevent its contents from dropping, sifting,
leaking or otherwise escaping therefrom.
(Prior Code, § 5-417)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 72.12  OBJECTS PLACED OR HUNG TO OBSTRUCT OR INTERFERE WITH VIEW OF OPERATOR.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a motor vehicle with any
object placed or hung in or upon the vehicle, except required or permitted
equipment of the vehicle, in a manner as to obstruct or interfere with the view
of the operator through the windshield or to prevent him or her from having a
clear and full view of the road and condition of traffic behind the vehicle;
provided, any sticker or identification authorized or required by the federal
government or any agency thereof or the state or any political subdivision
thereof may be placed upon the windshield without violating the provisions of
this section.
(Prior Code, § 5-418)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 72.13  REARVIEW MIRROR REQUIRED ; UNOBSTRUCTED VIEW; WINDSHIELD AND WINDOWS;
POSTERS PROHIBITED; WINDSHIELD EQUIPMENT.
   No person shall drive a motor vehicle on a highway which motor vehicle is so
constructed or loaded as to prevent the driver from obtaining a view of the
highway to the rear by looking backward from the driver’s position, unless the
vehicle is equipped with a right and left side outside mirror so located as to
reflect to the driver a view of the highway for a distance of at least 200 feet
to the rear of the vehicle. Temporary outside mirrors and attachments used when
towing a cabin trailer shall be removed from the motor vehicle or retracted
within the outside dimensions thereof when it is operated upon the public way
without the trailer. Each truck shall be equipped with a rearview mirror which
shall be kept clean, repaired and installed according to the official highway
rules. It shall be unlawful for any person to drive any vehicle upon a highway
with any sign, poster or other nontransparent material upon the front
windshield, side wings, side or rear windows of the motor vehicle other than a
certificate or other paper required to be so displayed by law. Every windshield
on a motor vehicle shall be equipped with a device for cleaning rain, snow or
other moisture from the windshield, which device shall be so constructed as to
be controlled or operated by the driver of the vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 5-419)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 72.14  SPLASH APRONS.
   Every new motor vehicle or semi-trailer purchased after 1-1-1956 and
operated upon any street or highway within the city shall be equipped with
fenders, covers or devices, including flaps or splash aprons, unless the body
of the vehicle affords adequate protection to effectively minimize the spray or
splash of water or mud to the rear of the motor vehicle or semi-trailer.
(Prior Code, § 5-420)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 72.15  CHILD PASSENGERS; USE OF RESTRAINT SYSTEM OR OCCUPANT PROTECTION
SYSTEM.
   (A)   For purposes of this section, occupant protection system has the
meaning in Neb. RS 60-6,265.
   (B)   (1)   Any person who drives any motor vehicle which has or is required
to have an occupant protection system shall ensure that:
         (a)   All children up to six years of age being transported by the
vehicle use a child passenger restraint system of a type which meets Federal
Motor Vehicle Safety Standard 213 as developed by the National Highway Traffic
Safety Administration, as the standard existed on 1-1-2004 and which is
correctly installed in the vehicle; and
         (b)   All children six years of age and less than 18 years of age
being transported by the vehicle use an occupant protection system.
      (2)   Division (B)(1) shall apply to every motor vehicle which is
equipped with an occupant protection system or is required to be equipped with
restraint systems pursuant to Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standard 208, as the
standard existed on 1-1-2004, except taxicabs, mopeds, motorcycles and any
motor vehicle designated by the manufacturer as a 1963 year model or earlier
which is not equipped with an occupant protection system.
   (C)   Whenever any licensed physician determines, through accepted medical
procedures, that use of a child passenger restraint system by a particular
child would be harmful by reason of the child’s weight, physical condition or
other medical reason, the provisions of division (B) shall be waived. The
driver of any vehicle transporting a child shall carry on his or her person or
in the vehicle a signed written statement of the physician identifying the
child and stating the grounds for the waiver.
   (D)   The drivers of authorized emergency vehicles shall not be subject to
the requirements of division (B) above when operating the authorized emergency
vehicles pursuant to their employment.
   (E)   A driver of a motor vehicle shall not be subject to the requirements
of division (B) if the motor vehicle is being operated in a parade or
exhibition and the parade or exhibition is being conducted in accordance with
applicable state law and local ordinances and resolutions.
   (F)   (1)   A person violating any provision of division (B) is guilty of an
offense. The failure to provide a child restraint system for more than one
child in the same vehicle at the same time, as required in division (B) above,
shall not be treated as a separate offense.
      (2)   Enforcement of division (B)(1)(b) shall be accomplished only as a
secondary action when an operator of a motor vehicle has been cited or charged
with a violation of some other offense unless the violation involved a person
under the age of 18 years riding in or on any portion of the vehicle not
designed or intended for the use of passengers when the vehicle is in motion.
(Prior Code, § 5-422)  (Ord. 1-05, passed 1-10-2005)  Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 60-6,267, 60-6,268
§ 72.16  OCCUPANT PROTECTION SYSTEMS; REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      MOTOR VEHICLE. A vehicle required by Neb. RS 60-6,266 to be equipped with
an occupant protection system.
      OCCUPANT PROTECTION SYSTEM. The meaning provided in Neb. RS 60-6,265.
   (B)   (1)   Except as provided in division (B)(2) below, no driver shall
operate a motor vehicle upon a highway or street unless the driver and each
front-seat occupant in the vehicle are wearing occupant protection systems and
all occupant protection systems worn are properly adjusted and fastened.
      (2)   The following persons shall not be required to wear an occupant
protection system:
         (a)   A person who possesses written verification from a physician
that the person is unable to wear an occupant protection system for medical
reasons;
         (b)   A rural letter carrier of the United States Postal Service while
performing his or her duties as a rural letter carrier between the first and
last delivery points; and
         (c)   A member of an emergency medical service while involved in
patient care.
   (C)   All persons being transported in a motor vehicle operated by a holder
of a provisional operator’s permit or a school permit shall use the motor
vehicle’s occupant protection system.
   (D)   Enforcement of divisions (B) and (C) above shall be accomplished only
as a secondary action when an operator of a motor vehicle has been cited or
charged with a violation of some other offense.
   (E)   Regardless of the number of persons in the vehicle not wearing an
occupant protection, system pursuant to division (B), only one violation shall
be assessed against the driver of the motor vehicle for each time the motor
vehicle is stopped and a violation of the section is found.
(Prior Code, § 5-423)  (Ord. 4-03, passed 4-14-2003)  Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 60-6,267, 60-6,268, 60-6,270, 60-6,271, 60-
6,272
REGISTRATION
§ 72.30  OPERATOR AND VEHICLE LICENSE.
   (A)   No person shall  operate or  park a  motor vehicle  upon any street,
alley or public highway within the city without having first registered the
same in accordance with Neb. RS Chapter 60, Article 3 and 60-321, except as
provided in this section. A person may operate a motor vehicle without
registration for a period not to exceed 30 days from the date of purchase. Upon
registration, the vehicle shall have the required number plates displayed upon
the vehicle in the manner and places provided for by Neb. RS 60-323. If a
citation is issued to an owner or operator of a vehicle for a violation of this
division (A) and the owner properly registers and licenses the vehicle not in
compliance and pays all taxes and fees due and the owner or operator provides
proof of the registration to the prosecuting attorney within ten days after the
issuance of the citation, no prosecution for the offense cited shall occur.
   (B)   No person shall operate a motor vehicle upon any street, alley or
public highway without having obtained a motor vehicle operator’s license in
accordance with Neb. RS Chapter 60, Article 4. It shall be unlawful for any
person to operate a motor vehicle upon any street, alley or public highway
during the period that his or her operator’s license has been revoked or
canceled.
(Prior Code, § 5-401)  (Ord. 7-96, passed 1-8-1996)  Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 60-302, 60-320, 60-321, 60-323, 60-4,186
§ 72.31  TRAILERS.
   No trailer, semi-trailer or cabin trailer shall be operated or parked on any
street, alley or public highway within the city without having first registered
the same in accordance with Neb. RS Chapter 60, Article 3 and 60-321, except as
provided in this section. A person may pull the trailer, semi-trailer or cabin
trailer without registration for a period not to exceed 30 days from the date
of purchase. Upon registration, the trailer, semi-trailer or cabin trailer
shall have the required number plate displayed upon the trailer as provided for
by Neb. RS 60-311. If a citation is issued to an owner or operator of a vehicle
for a violation of this section and the owner properly registers and licenses
the vehicle not in compliance and pays all taxes and fees due and the owner or
operator provides proof of the registration to the prosecuting attorney within
ten days after the issuance of the citation, no prosecution for the offense
cited shall occur.
(Prior Code, § 5-402)  (Ord. 7-96, passed 1-8-1996)  Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 60-302, 60-320, 60-321
CHAPTER 73:  TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
Section
General Rules of the Road
   
73.001   Stopping for approaching train
   
73.002   Preferential right-of-way; stop and yield signs
   
73.003   Right-of-way
   
73.004   Moving a stopped, standing or parked vehicle; yield right-of-way
   
73.005   Operation of vehicles upon the approach of emergency vehicles
   
73.006   Funeral processions
   
73.007   Driving on right half of roadway required
   
73.008   Vehicles proceeding in opposite direction; passing
   
73.009   Backing a vehicle; limitations
   
73.010   Driving on sidewalk prohibited
   
73.011   Careless driving
   
73.012   Reckless, willful reckless driving prohibited
   
73.013   Coasting downgrade
   
73.014   Driving on shoulders of highway
   
73.015   Bicycles
Overtaking and Passing
   
73.030   Vehicles proceeding in same direction
   
73.031   Upon the right; when permitted
   
73.032   On the left; precautions required
   
73.033   Passing or driving to the left of center of the roadway
   
73.034   No passing zones; exception
Turning Movements and Restrictions
   
73.045   “U” turns
   
73.046   Required position and method of turning
   
73.047   Turning or moving right or left upon a roadway; required, prohibited
signals
   
73.048   Signals given by hand and arm; signal lights required
   
73.049   Hand and arm signals
Speed Limits
   
73.060   Generally
   
73.061   Speed detecting devices; prima facie evidence
   
73.062   Racing on streets or highways prohibited
   
73.063   Radar devices
School Zones
   
73.075   Designation
   
73.076   Overtaking and passing
GENERAL RULES OF THE ROAD
§ 73.001  STOPPING FOR APPROACHING TRAIN.
   (A)   Whenever any person driving a vehicle approaches a railroad grade
crossing under any of the circumstances set forth in this section, the driver
of the vehicle shall stop within 50 feet, but not less than 15 feet, from the
nearest rail of the railroad and shall not proceed until he or she can do so
safely.
   (B)   The requirements of this section shall apply when:
      (1)   A clearly visible electric or mechanical signal device gives
warning of the immediate approach of a railroad train;
      (2)   A crossing gate is lowered or a human flagger gives or continues to
give a signal of the approach or passage of a railroad train;
      (3)   A railroad train approaching within approximately one quarter mile
of the highway crossing, is an immediate hazard; or
      (4)   An approaching railroad train is plainly visible and in hazardous
proximity to the crossing.
   (C)   No person shall drive any vehicle through, around or under any
crossing gate or barrier at a railroad crossing while the gate or barrier is
closed or is being opened or closed.
(Prior Code, § 5-209)
§ 73.002  PREFERENTIAL RIGHT-OF-WAY; STOP AND YIELD SIGNS.
   (A)   The City Council may provide for preferential right-of-way at an
intersection and indicate such by stop signs or yield signs erected by the city
authorities.
   (B)   Except when directed to proceed by a police officer or traffic control
signal, every driver of a vehicle approaching an intersection where a stop is
indicated by a stop sign shall stop at a clearly marked stop line, but if there
is no line, before entering the crosswalk on the near side of the intersection
or, if no crosswalk is indicated, then at the point nearest the intersecting
roadway where the driver has a view of approaching traffic on the intersecting
roadway before entering the intersection. After having stopped, the driver
shall yield the right-of-way to any vehicle which has entered the intersection
from another highway or which is approaching so closely on the highway as to
constitute an immediate hazard if the driver moved across or into the
intersection.
   (C)   The driver of a vehicle approaching a yield sign shall slow to a speed
reasonable under the existing conditions and, if required for safety to stop,
shall stop at a clearly marked stop line, but if there is no line, before
entering the crosswalk on the near side of the intersection or, if no crosswalk
is indicated, then, at the point nearest the intersecting roadway where the
driver has a view of approaching traffic on the intersecting roadway. After
slowing or stopping, the driver shall yield the right-of-way to any vehicle in
the intersection or approaching on another highway so closely as to constitute
an immediate hazard if the driver moved across or into the intersection.
(Prior Code, § 5-210)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 73.003  RIGHT-OF-WAY.
   (A)   When two vehicles approach or enter an intersection at approximately
the same time, the driver of the vehicle on the left shall yield the right-of-
way to the vehicle on the right when the paths of the vehicles intersect and
there is danger of a collision, unless otherwise directed by a city police
officer stationed at the intersection.
   (B)   The driver of a vehicle intending to turn to the left within an
intersection or into an alley, private road or driveway shall yield the right-
of-way to any vehicle approaching from the opposite direction which is within
the intersection or so close thereto as to constitute an immediate hazard.
   (C)   The driver of a vehicle on any street shall yield the right-of-way to
a pedestrian crossing the street within any clearly marked crosswalk or at any
regular pedestrian crossing at the end of a block where the movement of traffic
is being regulated by traffic officers or traffic direction devices. Every
pedestrian crossing a street at any point other than a pedestrian crossing,
crosswalk or intersection shall yield the right-of-way to vehicles upon the
street.
   (D)   The driver of a vehicle emerging from or entering an alley, building,
private road or driveway shall yield the right-of-way to any pedestrian
approaching on any sidewalk.
   (E)   The driver of a vehicle entering a city street from a private road or
drive shall yield the right-of-way to all vehicles approaching on the streets.
   (F)   The driver of a vehicle upon a street shall yield the right-of-way to
authorized emergency vehicles when the latter are operated upon official
business and the drivers thereof make proper use of visual or audible signals.
(Prior Code, § 5-211)  (Ord. 11-94, passed 12-19-1994)  Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 60-6,146 through 60-6,154
§ 73.004  MOVING A STOPPED, STANDING OR PARKED VEHICLE; YIELD RIGHT-OF-WAY.
   No person shall move a vehicle which is stopped, standing or parked without
yielding the right-of-way to all other vehicles and pedestrians affected by the
movement and in no event until the movement can be made with reasonable safety.
(Prior Code, § 5-215)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 73.005  OPERATION OF VEHICLES UPON THE APPROACH OF EMERGENCY VEHICLES.
   (A)   Upon the immediate approach of an authorized emergency vehicle which
makes use of proper audible or visual signals:
      (1)   The driver of any other vehicle shall yield the right-of-way and
shall immediately drive to a position parallel to and as close as possible to
the right-hand edge or curb of the roadway or to either edge or curb of a one-
way roadway, clear of any intersection and shall stop and remain in the
position until the emergency vehicle passes, unless otherwise directed by any
police or traffic officer; and
      (2)   Any pedestrian using the roadway shall yield the right-of-way until
the emergency vehicle passes, unless otherwise directed by any police or
traffic officer.
   (B)     This section shall not relieve the driver of an authorized emergency
vehicle from the duty to drive with due regard for the safety of all persons
using the highway.
(Prior Code, § 5-216)  Penalty, see §
10.99
Cross-reference:
   Following fire apparatus in response to an alarm, see §
70.038
§ 73.006  FUNERAL PROCESSIONS.
   No vehicle, except police vehicles, Fire Department vehicles, when
responding to emergency calls or orders in their several department,
ambulances, responding to emergency calls or vehicles carrying the United
States mail shall be driven through a funeral procession or cortege, except
with the permission of a police officer.
(Prior Code, § 5-217)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 73.007  DRIVING ON RIGHT HALF OF ROADWAY REQUIRED.
   (A)   Upon all roadways of sufficient width, a vehicle shall be driven upon
the right half of the roadway, except as follows:
      (1)   When overtaking and passing another vehicle proceeding in the same
direction under the rules governing the movement;
      (2)   When an obstruction exists making it necessary to drive to the left
of the center of the highway; provided that, any person so doing shall yield
the right-of-way to all vehicles traveling in the proper direction upon the
unobstructed portion of the highway within the distance as to constitute an
immediate hazard;
      (3)   Upon a roadway divided into three marked lanes for traffic under
the rules applicable thereon; or
      (4)   Upon a roadway restricted to one-way traffic.
   (B)   Upon all roadways any vehicle proceeding at less than the normal speed
of traffic at the time and place and under the conditions then existing shall
be driven in the right-hand lane then available for traffic or as close as
practicable to the right-hand curb or edge of the roadway, except when
overtaking and passing another vehicle proceeding in the same direction or when
preparing for a left turn at an intersection or into a private road or
driveway.
   (C)   Upon any roadway having four or more lanes for moving traffic and
providing for two-way movement of traffic, no vehicle shall be driven to the
left of the centerline of the roadway, except when authorized by traffic-
control devices designating certain lanes to the left side of the center of the
roadway for use by traffic not otherwise permitted to use the lanes or except
as permitted under division (A)(2) above. This section shall not be construed
to prohibit the crossing of the centerline in making a left turn into or from
an alley, private road or driveway, unless the movement is otherwise prohibited
by signs.
(Prior Code, § 5-221)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 73.008  VEHICLES PROCEEDING IN OPPOSITE DIRECTION; PASSING.
   Passing vehicles proceeding in opposite directions shall each keep to the
right side of the roadway, passing left to left and upon roadways having width
for not more than one lane of traffic in each direction, each driver shall
leave to the other, as nearly as possible, at least one half of the main-
traveled portion of the roadway.
(Prior Code, § 5-222)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 73.009  BACKING A VEHICLE; LIMITATIONS.
   The driver of a vehicle shall not back the vehicle on any roadway, unless
the movement can be made with safety and without interfering with other
traffic.
(Prior Code, § 5-228)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 73.010  DRIVING ON SIDEWALK PROHIBITED.
   No person shall drive any vehicle upon a sidewalk or sidewalk area, except
upon a permanent or duly authorized temporary driveway.
(Prior Code, § 5-229)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 73.011  CARELESS DRIVING.
   Any person who drives any motor vehicle in the city carelessly or without
due caution so as to endanger a person or property shall be guilty of careless
driving.
(Prior Code, § 5-238)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 73.012  RECKLESS, WILLFUL RECKLESS DRIVING PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Any person who drives any motor vehicle in a manner as to indicate an
indifferent or wanton disregard for the safety of persons or property shall be
deemed to be guilty of reckless driving.
(Prior Code, § 5-239)
   (B)   Any person who drives any motor vehicle in a manner as to indicate a
willful disregard for the safety of persons or property shall be deemed to be
guilty of willful reckless driving.
(Prior Code, § 5-240)
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 73.013  COASTING DOWNGRADE.
   The driver of a motor vehicle when traveling upon a downgrade upon any
highway shall not coast with the gears of the vehicle in neutral.
(Prior Code, § 5-253)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 73.014  DRIVING ON SHOULDERS OF HIGHWAY.
   No person shall drive on the shoulders of highways, except that:
   (A)   Vehicles may be driven onto the shoulders of roadways:
      (1)   By federal mail carriers while delivering the United States mail;
or
      (2)   To safely remove a vehicle from traffic lanes.
   (B)   Implements of husbandry may be driven onto the shoulders of roadways.
(Prior Code, § 5-257)  (Ord. 7-88, passed 11-7-1988)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 73.015  BICYCLES.
   (A)   No person shall operate a bicycle on a street or highway within the
city with another person on the handlebars or in any position in front of the
operator.
   (B)   No bicycle shall be operated faster than is reasonable and proper, but
every bicycle shall be operated with reasonable regard to the safety of the
operator and any other persons upon the streets and highways.
   (C)   Persons operating bicycles shall observe all traffic signs and stop at
all stop signs.
   (D)   (1)   No bicycle shall be operated on any street or highway from
sunset to sunrise without a headlight visible from the front thereof for not
less than 500 feet on a clear night and a red reflector on the rear of a type
which shall be visible on a clear night from all distances between 100 feet and
600 feet to the rear when directly in front of lawful lower beams of headlights
on a motor vehicle.
      (2)   A red light visible from a distance of 500 feet to the rear may be
used in addition to the red reflector.
   (E)   Any person who operates a bicycle upon a street or highway shall not
ride more than single file, except on parts of streets or highways set aside
for the exclusive use of bicycles.
   (F)   Any person who operates a bicycle upon a roadway at less than the
normal speed of traffic at the time and place and under conditions then
existing shall ride as near to the right-hand curb or right-hand edge of the
roadway as practicable, except when:
      (1)   Overtaking and passing another bicycle or vehicle proceeding in the
same direction;
      (2)   Preparing for a left turn onto a private road or driveway or at an
intersection;
      (3)   Reasonably necessary to avoid conditions that make it unsafe to
continue along the right-hand curb or right-hand edge of the roadway, including
fixed or moving objects, stopped or moving vehicles, bicycles, pedestrians,
animals or surface hazards;
      (4)   Riding upon a lane of substandard width which is too narrow for a
bicycle and a vehicle to travel safely by side within the lane; or
      (5)   Lawfully operating a bicycle on the paved shoulders of a highway
included in the state highway system as provided in Neb. RS 60-6,142.
   (G)   Any person who operates a bicycle upon a roadway with a posted speed
limit of 35 mph or less on which traffic is restricted to one direction of
movement and which has two or more marked traffic lanes may ride as near to the
left-hand curb or left-hand edge of the roadway as practicable, whenever a
person operating a bicycle leaves the roadway to ride on the paved shoulder or
leaves the paved shoulder to enter the roadway, the person shall clearly signal
his or her intersection and yield the right-of-way to all other vehicles.
   (H)   A fee of $0.00 shall be charged for bicycle registration. Bicycle
registration is not mandatory.
(Prior Code, § 5-258)  (Ord. 11-94, passed 12-19-1994)  Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 60-6,315, 60-6,317, 60-6,318
OVERTAKING AND PASSING
§ 73.030  VEHICLES PROCEEDING IN SAME DIRECTION.
   Except where overtaking and passing on the right is permitted, the following
rules shall govern the overtaking and passing of vehicles proceeding in the
same direction.
   (A)   The driver of a vehicle overtaking another vehicle proceeding in the
same direction shall first give a visible signal of his or her intention and
shall pass to the left of the other vehicle at a safe distance and shall not
again drive to the right side of the roadway until safely clear of the
overtaken vehicle.
   (B)   The driver of an overtaken vehicle shall give way to the right in
favor of the overtaking vehicle and shall not increase the speed of his vehicle
until completely passed by the overtaking vehicle.
   (C)   The driver of a vehicle overtaking bicycles, animals, animal-drawn
vehicles or farm vehicles proceeding in the same direction shall give an
audible signal of his or her intention to pass from 100 to 300 feet from the
vehicle or animal and then pass without giving another audible signal.
(Prior Code,§ 5-223)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 73.031  UPON THE RIGHT; WHEN PERMITTED.
   (A)   The driver of a vehicle may overtake and pass upon the right of
another vehicle only under the following conditions:
      (1)   When the vehicle to be overtaken is making or about to make a left
turn;
      (2)   Upon a street or highway with unobstructed roadway not occupied by
parked vehicles of sufficient width for two or more lanes of moving vehicles in
each direction; and
      (3)   Upon a one-way street or upon any roadway on which traffic is
restricted to one direction of movement, where the roadway is free from
obstructions and of sufficient width for two or more lanes of moving vehicles.
   (B)   In no event shall the driver of a vehicle overtake and pass another
vehicle upon the right unless the movement may be made in safety and upon the
pavement or main-traveled portion of the roadway.
(Prior Code,§ 5-224)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 73.032  ON THE LEFT; PRECAUTIONS REQUIRED.
   (A)   No vehicle shall overtake another vehicle proceeding in the same
direction on an undivided two-way roadway when the overtaking shall require the
overtaking vehicle to be driven on the left side of the center of the roadway
unless the left side is clearly visible for a distance sufficient to accomplish
the overtaking and is free from oncoming traffic for a distance sufficient to:
      (1)   Permit the overtaking vehicle to return to an authorized lane of
traffic before coming within 200 feet of any approaching vehicle; and
      (2)   Permit the overtaking vehicle to be safely clear of the overtaken
vehicle while returning to the authorized lane of travel as provided in this
chapter.
   (B)   After completing the overtaking, the overtaking vehicle shall return
to the authorized lane of travel as soon as practicable.
   (C)   Any overtaking shall be subject to the provisions of this chapter.
   (D)   The provisions of this section shall not permit the crossing of the
centerline of an undivided highway providing for two or more lanes of traffic
in each direction for the purpose of overtaking and passing another vehicle.
(Prior Code,§ 5-225)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 73.033  PASSING OR DRIVING TO THE LEFT OF CENTER OF THE ROADWAY.
   (A)   No driver shall overtake and pass another vehicle or drive to the left
of the center of the roadway whenever:
      (1)   He or she approaches the crest of a grade or upon a curve in the
highway where the driver’s view is obstructed within the distance as to create
a hazard in the event another vehicle might approach from the opposite
direction;
      (2)   He approaches within 100 feet of or traverses any intersection or
railroad grade crossing;
      (3)   The view is obstructed when he or she approaches within 100 feet of
any bridge, viaduct or tunnel; or
      (4)   The section of roadway is designated as a no-passing zone as
provided by this chapter.
   (B)   The limitations imposed by division (A) of this section shall not
apply upon a one-way roadway, nor when an obstruction exists which requires a
driver to drive to the left of the center of the highway nor to the driver of a
vehicle turning left into or from an alley, private road or driveway unless
otherwise prohibited by signs.
(Prior Code,§ 5-226)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 73.034  NO-PASSING ZONES; EXCEPTION.
   (A)   The City Council may determine those portions of any highway within
the city where overtaking and passing or driving to the left of the center of
the roadway would be especially hazardous and may be appropriate signs or
markings on the roadway indicate the beginning and end of the zones and, when
the signs or marking are in place and clearly visible to an ordinarily
observant person, every driver of a vehicle shall obey the indications.
   (B)   Where signs or markings are in place to define a no-passing zone as
set forth in division (A) of this section, no driver shall at any time drive on
the left side of the roadway within the no-passing zone or on the left side of
any pavement striping designed to mark the no-passing zone throughout its
length.
   (C)   This section shall not apply when an obstruction exists which requires
a driver to drive to the left of the center of the highway nor to the driver of
a vehicle turning left into or from an alley, private road or driveway unless
otherwise prohibited by signs.
(Prior Code,§ 5-227)  Penalty, see §
10.99
TURNING MOVEMENTS AND RESTRICTIONS
§ 73.045  “U” TURNS.
   No vehicle shall be turned so as to proceed in the opposite direction except
at a street intersection. The City Council may, by resolution, prohibit “U”
turns at any intersection. Where the turns are prohibited, signs shall be
posted indicating the prohibition. No vehicle shall be turned so as to proceed
in the opposite direction at any intersection where an automatic signal is in
operation.
(Prior Code, § 5-230)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 73.046  REQUIRED POSITION AND METHOD OF TURNING.
   (A)   Both the approach for a right turn and a right turn shall be made as
close as practicable to the right-hand curb or edge of the roadway.
   (B)   The driver of a vehicle intending to turn left at any intersection
shall approach the intersection in the extreme left-hand lane lawfully
available to traffic moving in the direction of travel of the vehicle and,
after entering the intersection, the left turn shall be made so as to leave the
intersection, as nearly as practicable, in the extreme left-hand lane lawfully
available to traffic moving in the direction upon the roadway being entered.
Whenever practicable, the left turn shall be made in that portion of the
intersection to the left of the center of the intersection.
   (C)   In the event that the City Council causes traffic-control devices to
be placed within or adjacent to any intersection within the city, requiring and
directing thereby that a different course from that specified in this section
be traveled by vehicles turning at the intersection, no driver of a vehicle
shall turn a vehicle at the intersection other than as directed and required by
the devices.
(Prior Code, § 5-231)
§ 73.047  TURNING OR MOVING RIGHT OR LEFT UPON A ROADWAY; REQUIRED, PROHIBITED
SIGNALS.
   (A)   No person shall turn a vehicle or move right or left upon a roadway
unless and until the movement can be made with reasonable safety nor without
giving an appropriate signal in the manner provided in this chapter.
   (B)   A signal of intention to turn or move right or left when required
shall be given continuously during not less than the last 100 feet traveled by
the vehicle before turning.
   (C)   No person shall stop or suddenly decrease the speed of a vehicle
without first giving an appropriate signal in the manner provided in this
subchapter to the driver of any vehicle immediately to the rear when there is
opportunity to give the signal.
   (D)   The signals required on vehicles as provided for in this subchapter
shall not be flashed on one side only on a disabled vehicle, flashed as a
courtesy or to pass signal to operators of other vehicles approaching from the
rear, nor be flashed on one side only of a parked vehicle, except as may be
necessary for compliance with this section.
(Prior Code, § 5-232)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 73.048  SIGNALS GIVEN BY HAND AND ARM; SIGNAL LIGHTS REQUIRED.
   (A)   Any stop or turn signal when required by the provisions of this title
shall be given either by means of the hand and arm or by signal lights, except
otherwise provided in this subchapter.
   (B)   Any motor vehicle having four or more wheels manufactured or assembled
after 1-1-1954, designed or used for the purpose of carrying passengers or
freight, in use on a highway shall be equipped with signal lights and any
required signal shall be given by signal lights when the distance from the
center of the top of the steering post to the left outside limit of the body,
cab or load of the motor vehicle exceeds 24 inches or when the distance from
the center of the top of the steering post to the rear limit of the body or
load thereof exceeds 14 feet. The latter measurement shall apply to any single
vehicle and to any combination of vehicles.
   (C)   Under any condition when a hand and arm signal would not be visible
both to the front and rear of the vehicle of the signaling driver for 100 feet,
the required signals shall be given by the a light or device as required by
this section.
   (D)   Motorcycles, motor-driven cycles, motor scooters, bicycles, vehicles
used solely for agricultural purposes and vehicles not designed and intended
primarily for use on a highway shall not be required to have or maintain in
working order signal lights but they may be so equipped. The operator thereof
shall comply with the requirements for utilizing hand and arm signals or for
utilizing signal lights if the vehicle is so equipped.
(Prior Code, § 5-233)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 73.049  HAND AND ARM SIGNALS.
   All hand and arm signals required by the provisions of this title shall be
given from the left side of the vehicle in the following manner and the signals
shall indicate as follows:
   (A)   Left turn: hand and arm extended horizontally;
   (B)   Right turn: hand and arm extended upward; and
   (C)   Stop or decrease speed: hand and arm extended downward.
(Prior Code, § 5-234)
SPEED LIMITS
§ 73.060  GENERALLY.
   (A)   No person shall operate a motor vehicle on any street, alley or other
place within the corporate limits at a rate of speed greater than 25 mph unless
a greater rate of speed is specifically permitted by ordinance. The greater
speed has been designated as follows: U.S. Highway 73-75 (“J” Street) and U.S.
Highway 136 (Central Street) shall have the speed limits as the Nebraska
Department of Roads shall deem appropriate with the consent of the City
Council. Any determination shall be posted on “speed limit signs” throughout
the special speed area.
   (B)   In no case shall these speed limits apply to emergency vehicles in the
process of responding to an emergency; provided, the driver of the vehicle
shall operate the vehicle with due regard for the safety and well being of
those using the streets and highways.
(Prior Code, § 5-235)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 73.061  SPEED DETECTING DEVICES; PRIMA FACIE EVIDENCE.
   (A)   The speed of any motor vehicle may be determined by the use of radio
microwaves or other electronic device. The results of the determinations shall
be accepted as prima facie evidence of the speed of the vehicle in any court or
legal proceedings when the speed of the vehicle is at issue.
   (B)   The driver of any motor vehicle found by use of radio microwaves or
other electronic device to be driving in excess of the applicable speed limit
may be apprehended:
      (1)   If the apprehending officer has observed the recording of the speed
of the motor vehicle by the radio microwaves or other electronic device;
      (2)   If the apprehending officer has received a radio message from an
officer who observed the speed recorded and the radio message:
         (a)   Has been dispatched immediately after the speed of the motor
vehicle was recorded; and
         (b)   Gives a description of the vehicle and its recorded speed.
      (3)   If the apprehending officer is in uniform or displays his or her
badge of authority.
(Prior Code, § 5-236)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 73.062  RACING ON STREETS OR HIGHWAYS PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to drive any vehicle on any street or
highway in any race, speed competition or contest, drag race or acceleration
contest, test of physical endurance, exhibition of speed or acceleration or far
the purpose of making a speed record and no person shall, in any manner,
participate in any race, competition, contest, test or exhibition.
(Prior Code, § 5-237)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 73.063  RADAR DEVICES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate or possess any radar
transmission device while operating a motor vehicle on any road, street,
highway or interstate highway in the city; except that, this section shall not
apply to any device which has been lawfully licensed by the Federal
Communications Commission or is being used by law enforcement officials in
their official duties.
   (B)   For purposes of this section unless the context otherwise requires;
      POSSESSION. To have a device defined above in a motor vehicle if the
device is not:
         (a)   Disconnected from all power sources; and
         (b)   In the rear trunk, which shall include the spare tire
compartment or any other compartment which is not accessible to the driver or
any other person in the vehicle while the vehicle is in operation. If no
compartment exists in a vehicle, then the device must be disconnected from all
power sources and be placed in a position not readily accessible to the driver
or any other person in the vehicle.
      RADAR TRANSMISSION DEVICE. Any mechanism designed to interfere with the
reception of radio microwaves in the electromagnetic spectrum, which
microwaves, commonly referred to as radar, are employed by law enforcement
officials to measure the speed of motor vehicles.
      TRANSCEIVER. An apparatus contained in a single housing, functioning
alternately as a radio transmitter and receiver.
(Prior Code, § 5-242)  (Ord. 32, passed 2-8-1982)
SCHOOL ZONES
§ 73.075  DESIGNATION.
   (A)   Neb. RS 60-682.01 provides fines for operating a motor vehicle in
violation of authorized speed limits and states that the fines are doubled if
the violation occurs within a school crossing zone.
   (B)   Neb. RS 60-6,134.01 makes it unlawful for a person operating a motor
vehicle to overtake and pass another vehicle in a school crossing zone in which
the roadway has only one lane of traffic in each direction and provides fines
for violation of that prohibition.
   (C)   The City Council may, by resolution, designate to the public any area
of a roadway, other than a freeway as a school crossing zone through the use of
a sign or traffic-control device as specified by the City Council in conformity
with the Manual on Uniform Traffic Control Devices. Any school crossing zone so
designated starts at the location of the first sign or traffic control device
identifying the school crossing zone and continues until a sign or traffic
control device indicates that the school crossing zone has ended.
(Prior Code, § 5-259)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 60-658.01
§ 73.076  OVERTAKING AND PASSING.
   A person operating a motor vehicle may not overtake and pass another vehicle
in any school crossing zone designated by the City Council in which the roadway
has only one lane of traffic in each direction.
(Prior Code, § 5-260)  Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 60-6,134.01
CHAPTER 74:  PARKING RULES
Section
General Provisions
   
74.01   Generally
   
74.02   Congested area; angle parking
   
74.03   Standing, stopping; where prohibited
   
74.04   Guest and visitor parking
   
74.05   Alleys
   
74.06   Loading zones
   
74.07   Fire hydrants
   
74.08   Obstructing traffic
   
74.09   Curb parking
   
74.10   Painting curbs
   
74.11   Display
   
74.12   Private property
   
74.13   Owner’s responsibility
   
74.14   Mobile homes, trailers and the like
   
74.15   Private lots
   
74.16   Removal of illegally parked vehicles
Handicapped, Disabled Parking
   
74.30   Definitions
   
74.31   Designation of on-street parking spaces and access aisles; permit
display
   
74.32   Designation of off-street parking stalls, spaces and access aisles
   
74.33   Personal permit; issuance; renewal
   
74.34   Motor vehicle permit; issuance; renewal
   
74.35   Prohibited issuance; duplicate permits
   
74.36   Permits; period valid; renewal of temporary permits
   
74.37   Permits nontransferable; violations; suspension
   
74.38   Removal of unauthorized vehicle; penalty
 
   
74.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 74.01  GENERALLY.
   No person shall park any vehicle or approach the curb with a vehicle, except
when headed in the direction of the traffic. Vehicles, when parked shall stand
parallel with and adjacent to the curb or edge of the roadway, in the manner as
to have both right wheels within 12 inches of the curb or edge of the roadway
and so as to leave at least four feet between the vehicle so parked and any
other parked vehicles, except where the City Council designates that vehicles
shall be parked at an angle so as to have the front right wheel at the curb or
edge of the roadway. Where stalls are designated either on the curb or
pavement, vehicles shall be parked within the stalls. No vehicle shall be
parked upon a roadway when there is a shoulder adjacent to the roadway which is
available for parking.
(Prior Code, § 5-301)  (Ord. 11-94, passed 12-19-1994)  Penalty, see §
74.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 60-680, 60-6,167
§ 74.02  CONGESTED AREA; ANGLE PARKING.
   The City Council may, by resolution, designate any street or portion
thereof, within the “congested district” or where vehicles shall be parked at
an angle. Where the parking is designated, vehicles shall be parked with the
right front wheel of the vehicle at the curb. Where stalls are designated
either on the curb or pavement in the congested district, vehicles shall be
parked within the stalls.
(Prior Code, § 5-302)
§ 74.03  STANDING, STOPPING; WHERE PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Except when necessary to avoid conflict with other traffic or in
compliance with the directions of a law enforcement officer or traffic-control
device or except in places where, pursuant to the designation of the City
Council, the stopping, standing or parking of vehicles has been authorized, no
person shall:
      (1)   Stop, stand or park any vehicle:
         (a)   On the roadway side of any vehicle stopped or parked at the edge
or curb of a street;
         (b)   On a sidewalk;
         (c)   Within an intersection;
         (d)   On a crosswalk;
         (e)   Between a safety zone and the adjacent curb or within 30 feet of
points on the curb immediately opposite the ends of a safety zone, unless the
City Council indicates a different length by signs or markings;
         (f)   Alongside or opposite any street excavation or obstruction when
stopping, standing or parking would obstruct traffic;
         (g)   Upon any bridge or other elevated structure upon a highway or
within a highway tunnel;
         (h)   On any railroad track; or
         (i)   At any place where official signs prohibit stopping.
      (2)   Stand or park a vehicle, whether occupied or not, except
momentarily to pick up or discharge a passenger or passengers:
         (a)   In front of a public or private driveway;
         (b)   Within 15 feet of a fire hydrant;
         (c)   Within 20 feet of a crosswalk at an intersection;
         (d)   Within 30 feet of any flashing signal, stop sign, yield sign or
other traffic-control device located at the side of a roadway;
         (e)   Within 20 feet of the driveway entrance to any fire station and
on the side of a street opposite the entrance to any fire station within 75
feet of the entrance when properly sign-posted;
         (f)   At any place where official signs prohibit standing; or
         (g)   Between the curb lines of any street, avenue, road or public
highway, as platted and dedicated, as shown by the official records of the city
and the county, within the corporate limits of the city, unless the same has
been otherwise posted as provided for in this chapter.
      (3)   Park a vehicle, whether occupied or not, except temporarily for the
purpose of and while actually engaged in loading or unloading merchandise or
passengers:
         (a)   Within 50 feet of the nearest rail of a railroad crossing; or
         (b)   At any place where official signs prohibit parking.
   (B)   No person shall move a vehicle not lawfully under his or her control
into any prohibited area or away from a curb a distance as shall be unlawful.
(Prior Code, § 5-303)  Penalty, see §
74.99
§ 74.04  GUEST AND VISITOR PARKING.
   Bona fide guests and visitors of residents of the city may park a vehicle at
the curb fronting upon the residence or other premise being visited for up to
24 hours without penalty. The guests and visitors may park for a longer period
if, prior to the expiration of the initial 24-hour period, application is made
for permission from the Police Department. The Police Department shall not
refuse the permission unless it appears that to grant the permission would
impede the normal flow of traffic or be hazardous to other vehicles or
pedestrians.
(Prior Code, § 5-304)
§ 74.05  ALLEYS.
   No vehicle, while parked, shall have any portion thereof projecting into any
alley entrance. No vehicle shall be parked in any alley in a manner as to leave
less than ten feet of the width of the alley available for the free movement of
vehicular traffic.
(Prior Code, § 5-305)  Penalty, see §
74.99
§ 74.06  LOADING ZONES.
   It shall be unlawful for the driver of a vehicle to stand a passenger
vehicle for a period of time longer than is necessary for the loading or
unloading of passengers, not to exceed three minutes and for the driver to
stand any freight-carrying vehicles for a period of time longer than is
necessary to load, unload and deliver materials, not to exceed 60 minutes in
any place designated by the City Council as loading zone and marked as such.
The driver of a freight-carrying vehicle may, however, request and receive
permission from the Police Department to stand his or her vehicle in a loading
zone for a period in excess of 60 minutes. The Police Department shall not
refuse the permission unless it appears that to grant the permission would
impede the normal flow of traffic or be hazardous to other vehicles or
pedestrians.
(Prior Code, § 5-306)  Penalty, see §
74.99
§ 74.07  FIRE HYDRANTS.
   No vehicle shall be parked within 15 feet in either direction of any fire
hydrant. The curb space within the area of 15 feet in either direction of the
fire hydrant shall be painted red to indicate the prohibition.
(Prior Code, § 5-307)  Penalty, see §
74.99
§ 74.08  OBSTRUCTING TRAFFIC.
   No vehicle shall, except in the case of accident or emergency, stop within
any street intersection, alley entrance or any location as to obstruct any
street, crosswalk or alley entrance.
(Prior Code, § 5-308)  Penalty, see §
74.99
§ 74.09  CURB PARKING.
   No vehicle shall park on any street with its left side to the curb, unless
the street has been designated to be a “one-way” street by the City Council.
Vehicles must not be parked at any curb in a position as to prevent another
vehicle already parked at the curb from moving away.
(Prior Code, § 5-309)  Penalty, see §
74.99
§ 74.10  PAINTING CURBS.
   It shall be the duty of the City Council to cause the curb space to be
painted and keep the same painted as in this subchapter provided. No person,
firm or corporation shall paint the curb of any street or, in any manner, set
aside or attempt to prevent the parking of vehicles in any street or part
thereof except at places where the parking of vehicles is prohibited by the
provisions of this subchapter. The marking or designating of portions of
streets or alleys where the parking of vehicles is prohibited or limited shall
be done only by the city through its proper officers, at the direction of the
City Council.
(Prior Code, § 5-310)  Penalty, see §
74.99
§ 74.11  DISPLAY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to park upon any street, alley or public
highway within the jurisdiction of the city any vehicle displayed for sale.
(Prior Code, § 5-311)  Penalty, see §
74.99
§ 74.12  PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   It shall be unlawful to park any vehicle upon any private property without
the consent of the owner of the property.
(Prior Code, § 5-312)  Penalty, see §
74.99
§ 74.13  OWNER’S RESPONSIBILITY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to cause, allow, permit or suffer, with
or without his or her knowledge, any vehicle registered in the name of the
person to stop, stand or be parked in any manner in violation of any section of
this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 5-313)  Penalty, see §
74.99
§ 74.14  MOBILE HOMES, TRAILERS AND THE LIKE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to park any mobile home, travel trailer,
camper or converted bus upon any street, avenue, road, alley or highway within
the corporate limits of the city at any time of any day other than during the
hours of the day between sunrise and sunset, commonly known as the daylight
hours. It shall be unlawful for any person to park any mobile home, travel
trailer, camper or converted bus upon any street, avenue, road, alley or
highway within the corporate limits of the city for a period of time in excess
of two hours. Nothing herein shall be construed to exempt mobile homes, travel
trailers, campers or converted buses from the application of the other
provisions of this subchapter. As used herein, the term MOBILE HOME  shall mean
any vehicle or structure so designed and constructed in a manner as will permit
occupancy thereof as sleeping quarters for one or more persons or the conduct
of any business or profession, occupation or trade (or use as a selling or
advertising device) and so designed that it is or may be mounted on wheels and
used as a conveyance on highways or city streets, propelled or drawn by its own
or other motive power, excepting a device used exclusively upon stationary
rails or tracks. As used herein, the terms TRAVEL TRAILER and CAMPER and
CONVERTED BUS shall mean any portable structure or vehicle supported upon its
own axle or axles used or so constructed as to permit its being used as a
conveyance upon the public streets or highways and duly licensable as such and
constructed in a manner as will permit occupancy thereof as a dwelling or
sleeping place for one or more persons for a limited or temporary time or
basically designed for travel or camping purposes, propelled or drawn by its
own or other motive power.
(Prior Code, § 5-314)  Penalty, see §
74.99
§ 74.15  PRIVATE LOTS.
   (A)   Any person parking a motor vehicle in a properly posted, restricted
parking lot without the consent of the owner or tenant authorized to give
permission shall be guilty of an infraction and the vehicle shall be subject to
being towed away at the request of the lot owner or tenant.
   (B)   Signs designating a restricted parking lot shall be readily visible
and shall state the purpose or purposes for parking on the restricted parking
lot, state the hours for restricted parking and state who to contact for
information regarding a towed vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 5-315)  Penalty, see §
74.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 60-2402
§ 74.16  REMOVAL OF ILLEGALLY PARKED VEHICLES.
   (A)   Whenever any police officer shall find a vehicle standing upon a
street or alley in violation of any of the provisions of this chapter, the
individual may remove or have the vehicle removed or require the driver or
other person in charge of the vehicle to move the vehicle, to a position off
the roadway of the street or alley or from the street or alley.
   (B)   The owner or other person lawfully entitled to the possession of any
vehicle towed or stored shall be charged with the reasonable cost of towing and
storage fees. Any towing or storage fee shall be a lien upon the vehicle prior
to all other claims. Any person towing or storing a vehicle shall be entitled
to retain possession of the vehicle until the charges are paid. The lien
provided for in this section shall not apply to the contents of any vehicles.
(Prior Code, § 5-316)  (Ord. 7-88, passed 11-7-1988)  Penalty, see §
74.99
HANDICAPPED, DISABLED PARKING
§ 74.30  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACCESS AISLE. A space adjacent to a handicapped parking space or passenger
loading zone which is constructed and designed in compliance with the federal
Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990 and the federal rules and regulations
adopted and promulgated in response to the act.
   HANDICAPPED OR DISABLED PERSON. Any individual with a severe visual or
physical impairment which limits personal mobility and results in an inability
to travel unassisted more than 200 feet without the use of a wheelchair,
crutch, walker or prosthetic, orthotic or other assistant device, any
individual whose personal mobility is limited as a result of respiratory
problems, any individual who has a cardiac condition to the extent that his or
her functional limitations are classified in severity as being Class III or
Class IV, according to standards set by the American Heart Association and any
individual who has permanently lost all or substantially all the use of one or
more limbs.
   HANDICAPPED PARKING INFRACTION. The violation of any section of this
subchapter regulating:
      (1)   The use of parking spaces, including access aisles, designated for
use by handicapped or disabled persons;
      (2)   The unauthorized possession, use or display of handicapped or
disabled parking permits; or
      (3)   The obstruction of any wheelchair ramps constructed or created in
accordance and in conformity with the federal Americans with Disabilities Act
of 1990.
   TEMPORARILY HANDICAPPED OR DISABLED PERSON. Any handicapped or disabled
person whose personal mobility is expected to be limited in a manner for no
longer than one year.
(Prior Code, § 5-319)  (Ord. 7-02, passed 7-8-2002)  Penalty, see §
74.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 18-1736, 18-1738, 18-1741.01
§ 74.31  DESIGNATION OF ON-STREET PARKING SPACES AND ACCESS AISLES; PERMIT
DISPLAY.
   (A)   (1)   The City Council may designate parking spaces, including access
aisles, for the exclusive use of:
         (a)   Handicapped or disabled persons whose motor vehicles display the
distinguishing license plates issued to handicapped or disabled persons
pursuant to Neb. RS 60-3,113;
         (b)   Handicapped or disabled persons whose motor vehicles display a
distinguishing license plate issued to a handicapped or disabled person by
another state;
         (c)   Other handicapped or disabled persons or temporarily handicapped
or disabled persons, as certified by the city, whose motor vehicles display the
permit specified in Neb. RS 18-1739; and
         (d)   Other motor vehicles, as certified by the city, which display
the permit.
      (2)   All permits shall be displayed by hanging the permit from the motor
vehicle’s rearview mirror so as to be clearly visible through the front
windshield. The permit shall be displayed on the dashboard only when there is
no rearview mirror.
   (B)   If the City Council so designates a parking space or access aisle, it
shall be indicated by posting aboveground and immediately adjacent to and
visible from each space or access aisle a sign as described in Neb. RS 18-1737.
In addition to the sign, the space or access aisle may also be indicated by
blue paint on the curb or edge of the paved portion of the street adjacent to
the space or access aisle.
(Prior Code, § 5-317)  (Ord. 7-02, passed 7-8-2002)  Penalty, see §
74.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 18-1736
§ 74.32  DESIGNATION OF OFF-STREET PARKING STALLS, SPACES AND ACCESS AISLES.
   (A)   The city and any person in lawful possession of any off-street parking
facility may designate stalls or spaces, including access aisles, in the
facility owned or operated by the city or person for the exclusive use of:
      (1)   Handicapped or disabled persons whose motor vehicles display the
distinguishing license plates issued to the individuals pursuant to Neb. RS 60-
3,113;
      (2)   The other handicapped or disabled persons or temporarily
handicapped or disabled persons, as certified by the city, whose motor vehicles
display the permit specified in Neb. RS 18-1739; and
      (3)   Other motor vehicles, as certified by the city, which display the
permit.
   (B)   The designation shall be made by posting aboveground and immediately
adjacent to and visible from each stall or space, including access aisles, a
sign which is in conformance with the requirements in Neb. RS 18-1737.
(Prior Code, § 5-318)  (Ord. 7-02, passed 7-8-2002)  Penalty, see §
74.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 18-1737
§ 74.33  PERSONAL PERMIT; ISSUANCE; RENEWAL.
   (A)   The City Clerk shall take an application, on a form provided by the
Department of Motor Vehicles, from a handicapped or disabled person or
temporarily handicapped or disabled person or his or her parent, legal guardian
or foster parent for a permit which will entitle the holder thereof or a person
driving a motor vehicle for the purpose of transporting the holder to park in
those spaces or access aisles provided for by this subchapter when the holder
of the permit will enter or exit the motor vehicle while it is parked in the
spaces or access aisles. For purposes of this section, the handicapped or
disabled person or temporarily handicapped or disabled person shall be
considered the holder of the permit.
   (B)   A person applying for a permit or for the renewal of a permit shall
complete an application, shall provide proof of identity and shall submit a
completed medical form containing the statutory criteria for qualification and
signed by a physician, physician assistant or advanced practice registered
nurse certifying that the person who will be the holder meets the definition of
handicapped or disabled person or temporarily handicapped or disabled person.
No applicant shall be required to provide his or her Social Security number. In
the case of a temporarily handicapped or disabled person, the certifying
physician, physician assistant or advanced practice registered nurse shall
indicate the estimated date of recovery or that the temporary handicap or
disability will continue for a period of six months, whichever is less.
   (C)   A person may hold only one permit under this section and may hold
either a permit under this section or a permit under §
74.34, but not both.
   (D)   A copy of the completed application form shall be given to each
applicant. The City Clerk shall submit to the Department of Motor Vehicles the
name, address and license number of all persons applying for a permit pursuant
to this section.
   (E)   An application for the renewal of a permit under this section may be
filed within 30 days prior to the expiration of the permit. The existing permit
shall be invalid upon receipt of the new permit.
   (F)   The City Clerk shall not accept the application for a permit of any
person making application contrary to the provisions of Neb. RS 18-1738.02.
(Prior Code, § 5-320)  (Ord. 7-02, passed 7-8-2002)  Penalty, see §
74.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 18-1738, RS 18-1738.02
§ 74.34  MOTOR VEHICLE PERMIT; ISSUANCE; RENEWAL.
   (A)   The City Clerk shall take an application from any person for a motor
vehicle permit which will entitle the holder thereof or a person driving the
motor vehicle for the purpose of transporting, handicapped or disabled persons
or temporarily handicapped or disabled persons to park in those spaces or
access aisles provided for by this subchapter if the motor vehicle is used
primarily for the transportation of handicapped or disabled persons or
temporarily handicapped or disabled persons. The parking permit shall be used
only when the motor vehicle for which it was issued is being used for the
transportation of a handicapped or disabled person or temporarily handicapped
or disabled person and the person will enter or exit the motor vehicle while it
is parked in the designated spaces or access aisles.
   (B)   A person applying for a permit or for the renewal of a permit pursuant
to this section shall apply for a permit for each motor vehicle used for the
transportation of handicapped or disabled persons or temporarily handicapped or
disabled persons, shall complete forms as are provided to the City Clerk by the
Department of Motor Vehicles and shall demonstrate to the City Clerk that each
motor vehicle is used primarily for the transportation of handicapped or
disabled persons or temporarily handicapped or disabled persons. A copy of the
completed application form shall be given to each applicant.
   (C)   No more than one permit shall be issued for each motor vehicle. A
person may hold either a permit under this section or a permit under §
74.33, but not both.
   (D)   An application for the renewal of a permit under this section may be
filed within 30 days prior to the expiration of the permit. The existing permit
shall be invalid upon receipt of the new permit.
   (E)   The City Clerk shall submit to the Department of Motor Vehicles the
name, address and license number of all persons applying for a permit pursuant
to this section.
   (F)   The City Clerk shall not accept the application for a permit of any
person making application contrary to Neb. RS 18-1738.02.
(Prior Code, § 5-321)  (Ord. 7-02, passed 7-8-2002)  Penalty, see §
74.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 18-1738.02
§ 74.35  PROHIBITED ISSUANCE; DUPLICATE PERMITS.
   (A)   No permit shall be issued to any person or for any motor vehicle if
any parking permit has been issued to the person or for the motor vehicle and
the permit has been suspended pursuant to §
74.37. At the expiration of the suspension, a permit may be renewed in the
manner provided for renewal in this subchapter.
   (B)   A duplicate permit may be provided without cost if the original permit
is destroyed, lost or stolen. The duplicate permit shall be issued in the same
manner as the original permit, except that a newly completed medical form need
not be provided if a completed medical form submitted at the time of the most
recent application for a permit or its renewal is on file with the City Clerk
or the Department of Motor Vehicles. A duplicate permit shall be valid for the
remainder of the period for which the original permit was issued.
(Prior Code, § 5-322)  (Ord. 7-02, passed 7-8-2002)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 18-1739
§ 74.36  PERMITS; PERIOD VALID; RENEWAL OF TEMPORARY PERMITS.
   (A)   All permanently issued permits for handicapped or disabled parking
authorized by this subchapter shall be issued for a period ending on September
30 of the third year after the date of issuance and shall expire on that date.
   (B)   All permits authorized under this subchapter for temporarily
handicapped or disabled parking shall be issued for a period ending not more
than six months after the date of issuance, but may be renewed one time for a
period not to exceed six months. For the renewal period, there shall be
submitted an additional application with proof of a handicap or disability.
(Prior Code, § 5-323)  (Ord. 7-02, passed 7-8-2002)  Penalty, see §
74.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 18-1740
§ 74.37  PERMITS NONTRANSFERABLE; VIOLATIONS; SUSPENSION.
   (A)   Permits issued under this subchapter shall not be transferable and
shall be used only by the party to whom issued or for the motor vehicle for
which issued and only for the purpose for which it is issued. No person shall
alter or reproduce in any manner a permit issued pursuant to this subchapter.
No person shall knowingly hold more than one permit or knowingly provide false
information on an application for a permit.
   (B)   No person who is not the holder of a handicapped or disabled parking
permit issued to him or her as a handicapped or disabled person shall display a
handicapped or disabled parking permit and park in a space or access aisle
designated for the exclusive use of a handicapped or disabled person.
   (C)   No person who is the holder of a handicapped or disabled parking
permit issued for the use of the person when transporting a handicapped or
disabled person shall display his or her handicapped or disabled parking permit
and park in a space or access aisle designated for the exclusive use of a
handicapped or disabled person unless a handicapped or disabled person is
actually in the vehicle displaying the permit at the time it is parked, has
left the vehicle while it was parked and will return to the vehicle before it
leaves the designated space or access aisle.
   (D)   No person who is not the holder of a handicapped or disabled parking
permit issued for use when a vehicle is transporting a handicapped or disabled
person shall display a handicapped or disabled parking permit and park in a
space or access aisle designated for the exclusive use of a handicapped or
disabled person unless a handicapped or disabled person is actually in the
vehicle displaying the permit at the time it is parked, has left the vehicle
while it was parked and will return to the vehicle before it leaves the
designated space or access aisle.
(Prior Code, § 5-324)  (Ord. 7-02, passed 7-8-2002)  Penalty, see §
74.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 18-1741
§ 74.38  REMOVAL OF UNAUTHORIZED VEHICLE; PENALTY.
   (A)   The owner or person in lawful possession of an off-street parking
facility, after notifying the city police and the city, if it provides on-
street parking or owns, operates or provides an off-street parking facility,
may cause the removal, from a stall or space, including access aisles,
designated exclusively for handicapped or disabled persons or temporarily
handicapped or disabled persons or motor vehicles for the transportation of
handicapped or disabled persons or temporarily handicapped or disabled persons,
of any vehicle not displaying the proper permit or the distinguishing license
plates specified in this subchapter if there is posted aboveground and
immediately adjacent to and visible from the stall or space, including access
aisles, a sign which clearly and conspicuously states the area so designated as
a tow-in zone.
   (B)   A person who parks a vehicle in any on-street parking space or access
aisle which has been designated exclusively for handicapped or disabled persons
or temporarily handicapped or disabled persons or motor vehicles for the
transportation of handicapped or disabled persons or temporarily handicapped or
disabled persons or in any so exclusively designated parking space or access
aisle in any off-street parking facility, without properly displaying the
proper permit or when the handicapped or disabled person to whom or for whom,
as the case may be, the license plate or permit is issued will not enter or
exit the vehicle while it is parked in the designated space or access aisle
shall be guilty of a handicapped parking infraction and shall be subject to the
penalties and procedures set forth in §
74.99. The display on a motor vehicle of a distinguishing license plate or
permit issued to a handicapped or disabled person by and under the duly
constituted authority of another state shall constitute a full and complete
defense in any action for a handicapped parking infraction. If the identity of
the person who parked the vehicle in violation of this section cannot be
readily determined, the owner or person in whose name the vehicle is registered
shall be held prima facie responsible for the violation and shall be guilty and
subject to the penalties and procedures described in this section.
   (C)   In the case of a privately owned off-street parking facility, the city
shall not require the owner or person in lawful possession of the facility to
inform the city of a violation of this section prior to the city issuing the
violator a handicapped parking infraction citation.
(Prior Code, § 5-325)  (Ord. 7-02, passed 7-8-2002)  Penalty, see §
74.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 18-1737
§ 74.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   (1)   For any offense classified as a handicapped parking infraction,
a handicapped parking citation may be issued by any peace officer or by any
person designated by ordinance by the City Council to exercise the authority to
issue a citation for any handicapped parking infraction.
      (2)   When a handicapped parking citation is issued for a handicapped
parking infraction, the person issuing the handicapped parking citation shall
enter thereon all required information, including the name and address of the
cited person or, if not known, the license number and description of the
offending motor vehicle, the offense charged and the time and place the person
cited is to appear in court. Unless the person cited requests an earlier date,
the time of appearance shall be a least three days after the issuance of the
handicapped parking citation. One copy of the handicapped parking citation
shall be delivered to the person cited or attached to the offending motor
vehicle.
      (3)   At least 24 hours before the time set for the appearance of the
cited person, either the City Attorney or other person authorized by law to
issue a complaint for the particular offense shall issue and file a complaint
charging the person with a handicapped parking infraction or the person shall
be released from the obligation to appear as specified.
      (4)   The trial of any person for a handicapped parking infraction shall
be by the court without a jury. A person cited for a handicapped parking
violation may waive his or her right to trial.
      (5)   For any handicapped parking citation issued for a handicapped
parking infraction by reason of the failure of a vehicle to display a
handicapped parking permit issued pursuant to Neb. RS 18-1738 or 18-1738.01,
the complaint shall be dismissed if, within seven business days after the date
of issuance of the citation, the person cited files with the court the
affidavit included on the citation, signed by a peace officer certifying that
the recipient is the lawful possessor in his or her own right of a handicapped
parking permit issued under Neb. RS 18-1738 or 18-1738.01 and that the peace
officer has personally viewed the permit.
(Prior Code, § 5-327)
   (B)   Any person found guilty under §
74.15 shall be subject to a fine of not more than $100 for each offense. If the
identity of the operator of a motor vehicle in violation of this section cannot
be determined, the owner or person in whose name the vehicle is registered
shall be held prima facie responsible for the fine. When any law enforcement
officer observes or is advised that a motor vehicle may be in violation of this
section, he or she shall make a determination as to whether a violation has in
fact occurred and if so shall personally serve or attach to the motor vehicle a
citation directed to the owner or operator of the vehicle, which shall set
forth the nature of the violation. Any person who refuses to sign the citation
or otherwise comply with the command of the citation shall be punished as
provided by Neb. RS 29-426.
(Prior Code, § 5-315)
   (C)   Any violation of §
74.37 shall constitute a handicapped parking infraction and shall be cause for
suspension of the permit for a period of six months and imposition of the
penalty provided for violation of this chapter. In addition, the trial court
shall impose a fine of not more than $2.50 which may be waived by the court if,
at the time of sentencing, all handicapped parking permits issued to or in the
possession of the offender are returned to the court. At the expiration of the
six-month period, a suspended permit may be renewed in the manner provided for
renewal, in this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 5-324)
(Ord. 11-97, passed 8-4-1997; Ord. 7-02, passed 7-8-2002)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 18-1741, 18-1741.01, 18-1741.04, 18-1741.06
CHAPTER 75:  RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
Section
Motorcycles
   
75.01   Lights
   
75.02   Helmet required
Mopeds
   
75.15   Defined
   
75.16   Operator’s license required
   
75.17   Traffic regulations applicable
   
75.18   Operation
   
75.19   Use of traffic lanes
   
75.20   Equipment
Minibikes
   
75.35   Unlawful operation
All-Terrain Vehicles
   
75.50   Definition
   
75.51   Operation
   
75.52   Headlights
   
75.53   Equipment; requirement
   
75.54   Prohibitions
   
75.55   Competition
   
75.56   Accident report
 
   
75.99   Penalty
MOTORCYCLES
§ 75.01  LIGHTS.
   No person shall operate a motorcycle upon the streets, alleys or highways
within the city from sunset to sunrise unless the same is equipped with at
least one and not more than two headlights and a taillight exhibiting a red
light visible from a distance of at least 500 feet to the rear of the
motorcycle. The headlights shall comply with the requirements and limitations
set forth in the Nebraska Rules of the Road.
(Prior Code, § 5-407)  (Ord. 11-94, passed 12-19-1994)  Penalty, see §
75.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 60-6,219
§ 75.02  HELMET REQUIRED.
   A person shall not operate or be a passenger on a motorcycle or moped on any
highway unless the person is wearing a protective helmet of the type and design
manufactured for use by operators of the vehicles and unless the helmet is
secured property on his or her head with a chin strap while the vehicle is in
motion. All protective helmets shall be designed to reduce injuries to the user
resulting from head impacts and shall be designed to protect the user by
remaining on the user’s head, deflecting blows, resisting penetration and
spreading the force of impact. Each helmet shall consist of lining, padding and
chin strap and shall meet or exceed the standards established in the United
States Department of Transportation’s Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standard No.
218, 49 C.F.R. § 571.218, for motorcycle helmets.
(Prior Code, § 5-408)  (Ord. 11-94, passed 12-19-1994)  Penalty, see §
75.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 60-6,275 through 60-6,282
MOPEDS
§ 75.15  DEFINED.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   MOPED. A bicycle with fully operative pedals for propulsion by human power,
an automatic transmission and a motor with a cylinder capacity not exceeding 50
cubic centimeters, which produces no more than two brake horsepower and is
capable of propelling the bicycle at a maximum design speed of no more than 30
mph on level ground. MOPEDS, their owners and their operators, shall be subject
to Neb. RS Chapter 60, Article 4, and amendments thereto, but shall be exempt 
from the  requirements of Neb. RS Chapter 60, Articles 1, 3, 5 and 17, and
amendments thereto.
(Prior Code, § 5-501)
§ 75.16  OPERATOR’S LICENSE REQUIRED.
   No person shall operate a moped upon the streets, alleys or highways within
the city unless the person has a valid Class O operator’s license or a valid
school or learner’s permit.
(Prior Code, § 5-502)  (Ord. 11-94, passed 12-19-1994)  Penalty, see §
75.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 60-6,310
§ 75.17  TRAFFIC REGULATIONS APPLICABLE.
   (A)   Any person who rides a moped upon a roadway shall have all the rights
and shall be subject to all of the duties applicable to the driver of a motor
vehicle under the Nebraska Rules of the Road, except for special moped
regulations in the rules and except for those provisions of the rules which, by
their nature, can have no application.
   (B)   The regulations applicable to mopeds shall apply whenever a moped is
operated upon any street, alley or highway within the city or upon any path set
aside by the Department of Roads or the city for the use of mopeds.
   (C)   Notwithstanding any established maximum speed limits in excess of 25
mph, no person shall operate any moped at a speed in excess of 30 mph.
(Prior Code, § 5-503)  (Ord. 11-94, passed 12-19-1994)  Penalty, see §
75.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 60-6,311, 60-6,313
§ 75.18  OPERATION.
   (A)   Any person who operates a moped shall ride only upon a permanent and
regular seat attached to the moped. A person operating a moped shall not carry
any other person nor shall any other person ride on a moped unless the moped is
designed by the manufacturer to carry more than one person.
   (B)   A person shall ride upon a moped only while sitting astride the seat,
facing forward.
   (C)   No person shall operate a moped while carrying any package, bundle or
other article which prevents him or her from keeping both hands on the
handlebars.
   (D)   No operator shall carry any person, nor shall any person ride, in a
position that interferes with the operation or control of the moped or the view
of the operator.
   (E)   Any moped which carries a passenger shall be equipped with footrests
for the passenger.
(Prior Code, § 5-504)  (Ord. 11-94, passed 12-19-1994)  Penalty, see §
75.99
Cross-reference:
   Helmut required, see §
75.02
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 60-6,312
§ 75.19  USE OF TRAFFIC LANES.
   (A)   A moped shall be entitled to full use of a traffic lane of any highway
with an authorized speed limit of 45 mph or less and no vehicle shall be
operated in a manner as to deprive any moped of the full use of the lane,
except that mopeds and motorcycles may be operated two abreast in a single
lane.
   (B)   No person shall operate a moped between lanes of traffic or between
adjacent lines or rows of vehicles.
   (C)   Mopeds shall not be operated more than two abreast in a single lane.
   (D)   Any person who operates a moped on a roadway with an authorized speed
limit of more than 45 mph shall ride as near to the right side of the roadway
as practicable and shall not ride more than single file.
   (E)   No person who rides upon a moped shall attach himself, herself or the
moped to any other vehicle on a roadway.
   (F)   Mopeds shall not be operated on the sidewalks.
(Prior Code, § 5-505)  (Ord. 11-94, passed 12-19-1994)  Penalty, see §
75.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 60-6,213
§ 75.20  EQUIPMENT.
   (A)   Any moped which carries a passenger shall be equipped with footrests
for the passenger.
   (B)   No person shall operate any moped with handlebars more than 15 inches
above the mounting point of the handlebars.
(Prior Code, § 5-506)  Penalty, see §
75.99
MINIBIKES
§ 75.35  UNLAWFUL OPERATION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a minibike upon any street or
highway within the corporate limits of the city. For purposes of this
subchapter, MINIBIKE shall mean a two-wheel motor vehicle which has a total
wheel and tire diameter of less than 14 inches or an engine rated capacity of
less than 45 cubic centimeters displacement or any other two-wheel motor
vehicle primarily designed by the manufacturer for off-road use only.
(Prior Code, § 5-507)  Penalty, see §
75.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 60-2101.01
ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLES
§ 75.50  DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLE. Any motorized off-highway vehicle which:
      (1)   Is 50 inches or less in width;
      (2)   Has a dry weight of 900 pounds or less;
      (3)   Travels on three or more low pressure tires;
      (4)   Is designed for operator use only with no passengers or is
specifically designed by the original manufacturer for the operator and one
passenger;
      (5)   Has a seat or saddle designed to be straddled by the operator; and
      (6)   Has handlebars or any other steering assembly for steering control.
(Prior Code, § 5-508)  (Ord. 1-04, passed 4-12-2004)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 60-6,355
§ 75.51  OPERATION.
   (A)   Except as provided in divisions (B) through (D) of this section, an
all-terrain vehicle shall not be operated on any street, road or highway within
the city. The crossing of any controlled-access highway shall not be permitted.
   (B)   The crossing of a street, road or highway shall be permitted only if:
      (1)   The crossing is made at any angle of approximately 90 degrees to
the direction of the street, road or highway and at a place where no
obstruction prevents a quick and safe crossing;
      (2)   The vehicle is brought to a complete stop before crossing the
shoulder or roadway of the street, road or highway;
      (3)   The operator yields the right-of-way to all oncoming traffic that
constitutes an immediate potential hazard;
      (4)   In crossing a divided street, road or highway, the crossing is made
only at an intersection of the street, road or highway with another street,
road or highway; and
      (5)   Both the headlight and taillight of the vehicle are on when the
crossing is made.
   (C)   (1)   An all-terrain vehicle may be operated on a street, road or
highway when the operation occurs only between the hours of sunrise and sunset
and the operation is incidental to the vehicle’s use for agricultural purposes.
      (2)   Any person operating an all-terrain vehicle on a street, road or
highway shall have a valid Class O operator’s license or a farm permit as
provided in Neb. RS 60-4,126 and shall not operate the vehicle at a speed in
excess of 30 mph.
      (3)   When operated on a street, road or highway, the headlight and
taillight of the vehicle shall be on and the vehicle shall be equipped with a
bicycle safety flag which extends no less than five feet above the ground
attached to the rear of the vehicle.
      (4)   The bicycle safety flag shall be triangular in shape with an area
of not less than 30 square inches and shall be day-glow in color.
   (D)   All-terrain vehicles may be operated on streets, roads or highways in
parades which have been authorized by the state or the city.
(Prior Code, § 5-509)  (Ord. 11-94, passed 12-19-1994)  Penalty, see §
75.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 60-6,356
§ 75.52  HEADLIGHTS.
    Every all-terrain vehicle shall display a lighted headlight and taillight
during the period of time from one-half hour after sunset to one-half hour
before sunrise and at any time when visibility is reduced due to insufficient
sight or unfavorable atmospheric conditions.
(Prior Code, § 5-510)  (Ord. 1-04, passed 4-12-2004)  Penalty, see §
75.99
§ 75.53  EQUIPMENT; REQUIREMENT.
   Every all-terrain vehicle shall be equipped with:
   (A)   A brake system maintained in good operating condition;
   (B)   An adequate muffler system in good working condition; and
   (C)   A United States Forest Service qualified spark arrester.
(Prior Code, § 5-511)  Penalty, see §
75.99
§ 75.54  PROHIBITIONS.
   No person shall:
   (A)   Equip the exhaust system of an all-terrain vehicle with a cutout, by
pass or similar device;
   (B)   Operate an all-terrain vehicle with an exhaust system so modified; or
   (C)   Operate an all-terrain vehicle with the spark arrester removed or
modified, except for use in closed-course competition events.
(Prior Code, § 5-512)  Penalty, see §
75.99
§ 75.55  COMPETITION.
   All-terrain vehicles participating in competitive events may be exempted
from this subchapter at the discretion of the Director of Motor Vehicles.
(Prior Code, § 5-513)
§ 75.56  ACCIDENT REPORT.
   If an accident results in the death of any person or in the injury of any
person which requires the treatment of the person by a physician, the operator
of each all-terrain in vehicle involved in the accident shall give notice of
the accident.
(Prior Code, § 5-514)
§ 75.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any violation of§§
75.50 through
75.56 which is also a violation under Neb. RS Chapters 39 or 60 may be punished
under the penalty provisions of division (B) below.
(Prior Code, § 5-515)
   (B)   Any peace officer of the state or of any political subdivision,
including conservation officers or the Parks Commission shall be charged with
the enforcement of the provisions of §§
75.50 through
75.56.
(Prior Code, § 5-516)
CHAPTER 76:  PEDESTRIANS
Section
   
76.01   Pedestrians’ right-of-way in crosswalk
   
76.02   Crossing at other than crosswalk
   
76.03   Drivers to exercise due care with pedestrian; audible signal
   
76.04   Soliciting rides or business prohibited
§ 76.01  PEDESTRIANS’ RIGHT-OF-WAY IN CROSSWALK.
   (A)   Except at a point where a pedestrian tunnel or overhead pedestrian
crossing has been provided, when traffic-control signals are not in place or
not in operation the driver of a vehicle shall yield the right-of-way, slowing
down or stopping if need be to so yield, to a pedestrian crossing the roadway
within a crosswalk when the pedestrian is upon the half of the roadway upon
which the vehicle is traveling or when the pedestrian is approaching so closely
from the opposite half of the roadway as to be in danger.
   (B)   No pedestrian shall suddenly leave a curb or other place of safety and
walk or run into the path of a vehicle which is so close that it is impossible
for the driver to yield.
   (C)   Whenever any vehicle is stopped at a marked crosswalk or at any
unmarked crosswalk at an intersection to permit a pedestrian to cross the
roadway, the driver of any other vehicle approaching from the rear shall not
overtake and pass the stopped vehicle.
   (D)   The City Council may designate unmarked crosswalk locations where
pedestrian crossing is prohibited or where pedestrians shall yield the right-
of-way to vehicles. Traffic-control devices indicating the restrictions shall
be appropriately placed. It shall be unlawful for any pedestrian to cross the
roadway where crossing has been designated by the City Council to be prohibited
as herein provided. It shall be unlawful for any pedestrian to fail, neglect or
refuse to yield the right-of-way to vehicles at those locations where the City
Council has designated that pedestrians so yield, as herein provided.
(Prior Code, § 5-218)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 76.02  CROSSING AT OTHER THAN CROSSWALK.
   (A)   Every pedestrian, who crosses a roadway at any point other than within
a marked crosswalk or within an unmarked crosswalk at an intersection, shall
yield the right-of-way to all vehicles upon the roadway.
   (B)   Any pedestrian who crosses a roadway at a point where a pedestrian
tunnel or overhead pedestrian crossing has been provided shall yield the right-
of-way to all vehicles upon the roadway.
   (C)   Between adjacent intersections at which traffic-control signals are in
operation, pedestrians shall not cross at any place, except in a marked
crosswalk.
   (D)   No pedestrian shall cross a roadway intersection diagonally unless
authorized by traffic-control devices and, when authorized to cross diagonally,
pedestrians shall cross only in accordance with the traffic-control devices
pertaining to the crossing movements.
   (E)   Local authorities and the Department of Roads, by erecting appropriate
official traffic-control devices, may, within their respective jurisdictions,
prohibit pedestrians from crossing any roadway in a business district or any
designated highway, except in a crosswalk.
(Prior Code, § 5-219)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 76.03  DRIVERS TO EXERCISE DUE CARE WITH PEDESTRIAN; AUDIBLE SIGNAL.
   Notwithstanding the other provisions of this chapter, every driver of a
vehicle shall exercise due care to avoid colliding with any pedestrian upon any
roadway and shall give an audible signal when necessary and shall exercise
proper precaution upon observing any child or obviously confused or
incapacitated person upon a roadway.
(Prior Code, § 5-220)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 76.04  SOLICITING RIDES OR BUSINESS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person shall stand in a roadway for the purpose of soliciting a
ride, employment, contributions or business from the occupant of any vehicle.
   (B)   No person shall stand on or in proximity to a street or highway for
the purposes of soliciting the watching or guarding of any vehicle while parked
or about to be parked on a street or highway.
(Prior Code, § 5-255)  Penalty, see §
10.99
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   PARKS AND RECREATION
      
91.   LIBRARIES
      
92.   CITY PROPERTY
      
93.   SIDEWALKS
      
94.   STREETS
      
95.   CURBS AND GUTTERS
      
96.   COMBINED IMPROVEMENTS
      
97.   FIRE PREVENTION; REGULATIONS
      
98.   ANIMALS
      
99.   HEALTH AND SANITATION
CHAPTER 90:  PARKS AND RECREATION
Section
   
90.01   Funding and operation
§ 90.01  FUNDING AND OPERATION.
   (A)   The city owns and operates the city parks, swimming pool, recreational
complex and other recreational areas through the Board of Park and Recreation
Commissioners. The City Council, for the purpose of laying out, improving and
beautifying the city parks and for the purpose of maintaining, improving,
managing and beautifying the swimming pool and recreational complex, and for
the payment of salaries and wages of persons employed in the performance of the
labor, may each year make and levy a tax upon the assessed value of all the
taxable property in the city, except intangible property, which levy shall be
collected and put into the City Treasury and shall, together with all gifts,
grants, deeds of conveyance, bequests or other valuable income-producing
property and real estate from any source for the purpose of endowing the city
parks, swimming pool and recreation complex, constitute the Park and Recreation
Fund of the city.
   (B)   The Park and Recreation Fund shall, at all times, be in the custody of
the City Treasurer. The Board of Park and Recreation Commissioners shall have
charge of all city parks, the swimming pool, recreation complex and all city
recreational facilities and shall have the power to establish rules for the
management, care and use of the same. All accounts against the Park and
Recreation Fund shall be audited by the Board of Park and Recreation
Commissioners, and warrants against the fund shall be paid by the City
Treasurer out of the Park and Recreational Fund. The Board of Park and
Recreation Commissioners shall not enter into a contract of any nature which
involves an expenditure of funds, except for ordinary operating expenses,
unless the contract has been approved by resolution or majority of the members
of the City Council prior to the making of the contract.
(Prior Code, § 3-301)  (Ord. 11-04, passed 8-9-2004)
Cross-reference:
   Closing city parks, see §
92.10
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-948 through 17-952
CHAPTER 91:  LIBRARIES
Section
   
91.01   Funding and operation
   
91.02   General powers and duties
   
91.03   Grounds and building
   
91.04   Sale and conveyance of real estate
   
91.05   Mortgages; release or renewal
   
91.06   Cost of use
   
91.07   Discrimination prohibited
   
91.08   Library Board; annual report
   
91.09   Penalties; recovery; disposition
   
91.10   Donations
   
91.11   Improper book removal
§ 91.01  FUNDING AND OPERATION.
   (A)   The city owns and manages the city library through the Library Board.
   (B)   The City Council, for the purpose of defraying the cost of the
management, purchases, improvements and maintenance of the library may each
year levy a tax not exceeding the maximum limit prescribed by state law, on the
taxable value of all the taxable property within the city. The amount collected
from the levy shall be known as the Library Fund.
   (C)   The Fund shall also include all gifts, grants, deeds of conveyance,
bequests or other valuable income-producing personal property and real estate
from any source for the purpose of endowing the city library.
   (D)   (1)   All taxes levied or collected and all funds donated or in any
way acquired for the erection, maintenance or support of the city library shall
be kept for the use of the library separate and apart from all other funds of
the city, shall be drawn upon and paid out by the City Treasurer upon vouchers
signed by the President of the Library Board and authenticated by the Secretary
of the Board, and shall not be used or disbursed for any other purpose or in
any other manner.
      (2)   The City Council may establish a Public Library Sinking Fund for
major capital expenditures.
   (E)   Any money collected by the library shall be turned over monthly by the
Librarian to the City Treasurer along with a report of the sources of the
revenue.
(Prior Code, § 3-601)  (Ord. 7-02, passed 7-8-2002)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 51-201, 51-209
§ 91.02  GENERAL POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   The Library Board shall have the power to make and adopt bylaws, rules
and regulations for its own guidance and for the government of the library and
reading room as it may deem expedient, not inconsistent with Neb. RS 51-201
through 51-219.
   (B)   The Library Board shall have exclusive control of expenditures, of all
money collected or donated to the credit of the Library Fund, of the renting
and construction of any library building, and the supervision, care and custody
of the grounds, rooms or buildings constructed, leased or set apart for that
purpose.
   (C)   The Library Board shall have the power to appoint a suitable librarian
and assistants, to fix their compensation and to remove appointees at pleasure.
It shall have the power to establish rules and regulations for the government
of the library as may be deemed necessary for its preservation and to maintain
its usefulness and efficiency. It shall have the power to fix and impose, by
general rules, penalties and forfeitures for trespasses upon or injury to the
library grounds, rooms, books or other property, for failure to return any book
or for violation of any bylaw, rule or regulation. The Board shall have and
exercise power as may be necessary to carry out the spirit and intent of Neb.
RS 51-201 through 51-219 in establishing and maintaining the library and
reading room.
(Prior Code, § 3-602)  (Ord. 7-02, passed 7-8-2002)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 51-205, 51-207, 51-211
§ 91.03  GROUNDS AND BUILDING.
   (A)   (1)   The Library Board may purchase or lease grounds, exercise the
power of eminent domain and condemn real estate for the purpose of securing a
site for a library building.
      (2)   The procedure to condemn property shall be exercised in the manner
set forth in Neb. RS 76-704 through 76-724.
   (B)   The Board may erect, lease or occupy an appropriate building for the
use of the library.
(Prior Code, § 3-603)  (Ord. 7-02, passed 7-8-2002)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 51-210, 51-211
§ 91.04  SALE AND CONVEYANCE OF REAL ESTATE.
   The Library Board may, by resolution, direct the sale and conveyance of any
real estate owned by the Board or by the city library, which is not used for
library purposes, or of any real estate so donated or devised to the Board or
to the library upon terms as the Board may deem best and as otherwise provided
in Neb. RS 51-216.
(Prior Code, § 3-604)  (Ord. 7-02, passed 7-8-2002)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 51-216
§ 91.05  MORTGAGES; RELEASE OR RENEWAL.
   The President of the Library Board shall have the power to release, upon
full payment, any mortgage constituting a credit to the Library Fund and
standing in the name of the Library Board. The signature of the President on
any release shall be authenticated by the Secretary of the Board. The President
and Secretary in like manner, upon resolution duly passed and adopted by the
Board, may renew any mortgage.
(Prior Code, § 3-605)  (Ord. 7-02, passed 7-8-2002)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 51-206
§ 91.06  COST OF USE.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (B) of this section, the city library
and reading room shall be forever free to the use of the inhabitants of the
city, subject always to reasonable regulations as the Library Board may adopt
to render the library of the greatest use to the inhabitants. The Library Board
may exclude from the use of the library and reading rooms any person who
willfully violates or refuses to comply with rules and regulations established
for the government thereof.
   (B)   The library shall make its basic services available without charge to
all residents of the city. The Library Board may fix and impose reasonable
fees, not to exceed the library’s actual cost, for nonbasic services.
   (C)   For purposes of this section:
      (1)   BASIC SERVICES shall include, but not be limited to, free loan of
circulating print and nonprint materials from the local collection and general
reference and information services; and
      (2)   NONBASIC SERVICES shall include, but not be limited to, use of:
         (a)   Photocopying equipment;
         (b)   Telephones, facsimile equipment and other telecommunications
equipment;
         (c)   Media equipment;
         (d)   Personal computers; and
         (e)   Videocassette recording and playing equipment.
(Prior Code, § 3-606)  (Ord. 7-02, passed 7-8-2002)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 51-201.01, 51-211, 51-212
§ 91.07  DISCRIMINATION PROHIBITED.
   No library service shall be denied to any person because of race, sex,
religion, age, color, national origin, ancestry, physical handicap or marital
status.
(Prior Code, § 3-607)  (Ord. 7-02, passed 7-8-2002)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 51-211
§ 91.08  LIBRARY BOARD; ANNUAL REPORT.
   The Library Board shall, on or before the second Monday in February in each
year, make a report to the City Council of the condition of its trust on the
last day of the prior fiscal year. The report shall show all money received and
credited or expended; the number of materials held, including books, video and
audio materials, software programs and materials in other formats; the number
of periodical subscriptions on record, including newspapers; the number of
materials added and the number withdrawn from the collection during the year;
the number of materials circulated during the year; and other statistics,
information, and suggestions as the Library Board may deem of general interest
or as the City Council may require. The report shall be verified by affidavit
of the President and Secretary of the Library Board.
(Prior Code, § 3-608)  (Ord. 7-02, passed 7-8-2002)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 51-213
§ 91.09  PENALTIES; RECOVERY; DISPOSITION.
   Penalties imposed or accruing by any bylaw or regulation of the Library
Board and any court costs and attorney’s fees may be recovered in a civil
action before any court having jurisdiction, the action to be instituted in the
name of the Library Board. Money, other than any court costs and attorney’s
fees, collected in the actions shall be placed in the Treasury of the city to
the credit of the Library Fund. Attorney’s fees collected pursuant to this
section shall be placed in the Treasury of the city and credited to the budget
of the City Attorney’s office.
(Prior Code, § 3-609)  (Ord. 7-02, passed 7-8-2002)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 51-214
§ 91.10  DONATIONS.
   Any person may make donation of money, lands or other property for the
benefit of the city library. The title to property so donated may be made to
and shall vest in the Library Board and its successors in office and the Board
shall thereby become the owners thereof in trust to the uses of the city
library.
(Prior Code, § 3-610)  (Ord. 7-02, passed 7-8-2002)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 51-215
§ 91.11  IMPROPER BOOK REMOVAL.
   It shall be unlawful for any person not authorized by the regulations made
by the Library Board to take a book or any other material from the library,
without the consent of the Librarian or an authorized employee of the library.
Any person removing a book or other material from the library without properly
checking it out shall be deemed to be guilty of an offense.
(Prior Code, § 3-611)  (Ord. 7-02, passed 7-8-2002)  Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 92:  CITY PROPERTY
Section
   
92.01   Maintenance and control
   
92.02   Parking and storage of certain vehicles
   
92.03   Injury to property
   
92.04   Unlawful obstructions
   
92.05   Permitted obstructions
   
92.06   Weeds
   
92.07   Signs and canopies
   
92.08   Sale and conveyance of real and personal property
   
92.09   Acquisition of property; construction; elections; when required
   
92.10   Closing city parks
   
92.11   Special Improvement District; assessment and creation procedure
   
92.12   Improvement District; land adjustment
   
92.13   Acquisition of property; appraisal
   
92.14   Public works involving architecture or engineering; requirements
   
92.15   Vehicles; unregistered, wrecked and the like; hobbyist permit
§ 92.01  MAINTENANCE AND CONTROL.
   The City Council shall have the care, supervision and control of all public
highways, bridges, streets, alleys, public squares and commons within the city
and shall cause the same to be kept open and in repair and free from nuisances.
(Prior Code, § 8-101)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-567
§ 92.02  PARKING AND STORAGE OF CERTAIN VEHICLES.
   Motor vehicles including pick-up campers and coaches, motorized dwellings,
buses, boats and recreational equipment including boat and tent trailers of any
kind or type without current license plates shall not be parked or stored on
any city street, street right-of-way, sidewalk space or alley.
(Prior Code, § 8-101.05)  (Ord. 12-99, passed 12-13-1999)
§ 92.03  INJURY TO PROPERTY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to maliciously and willfully and without
lawful authority cut down, injure or destroy any tree, plant or shrub located
upon city property. It shall be unlawful for any person to maliciously or
willfully injure or destroy any sodded or planted area, building, structure,
equipment, fence, bench, table or any other property either real or personal,
belonging to the city. It shall be unlawful for any person to litter or commit
any waste upon the city parks or other city property.
(Prior Code, § 8-102)  Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 28-580, 28-565 through 28-568, 28-378.01,
28-586, 28-590 through 28-593
§ 92.04  UNLAWFUL OBSTRUCTIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to obstruct
or to otherwise encumber, by fences, gates, buildings, structures or otherwise,
any of the streets, alleys, sidewalks or improvements of the city.
   (B)   Any hedge, shrubbery, bush or similar growth located within two feet
adjacent to any lot line abutting any public property, whether there is a
sidewalk abutting or adjoining the premise or not, shall be deemed to be an
obstruction within the meaning of this chapter. Any tree or shrub that is
growing upon the lot line, being partially on public ground and partially upon
abutting private property, and any tree or shrub growing wholly upon private
property abutting any public property, shall, when the tree or shrub is located
in a fashion that the tree or shrub, or the roots thereof, interferes with the
use or construction of any public improvement, be deemed to be an obstruction
within the meaning of this chapter. Every owner of any tree, bush or shrub
within the city shall prune the branches thereof in the manner and to the
extent necessary to prevent the branches from interfering with the light
emitted from any traffic-control device or the view of the intersection of any
streets, avenue, alley, sidewalk or other public thoroughfares, from within
eight feet above the surface thereof, and from otherwise interfering with any
public improvement and any branches of any tree, bush or shrub that are not
pruned in a manner and to an extent shall be deemed to be an obstruction within
the meaning of this chapter.
   (C)   The city shall have the right, power and authority, without notice, to
prune the branches of any trees, bushes or shrubs, constituting an obstruction
as herein provided, in the manner and to the extent necessary to accomplish the
removal of the obstruction. It shall be the duty of any owner or occupant
engaged in the construction of any building or improvement upon or near the
public ways or property to have all excavations or exposures of any kind
protected and guarded by suitable guards or barricades by day and by warning
lights at night and any excavations or exposures not protected or guarded as
herein provided shall be deemed to be an obstruction within the meaning of this
chapter. It shall be the duty of the City Street Commissioner or any police
officer to stop all work upon any building or improvement upon or near the
public ways or property until all excavations or exposures of any kind caused
by the work are protected and guarded by suitable guards or barricades by day
and by warning lights at night. The city shall have the rights, power and
authority to cause the removal and disposal of any and all trees, bushes and
shrubs on private property within the city, or any parts or portions thereof,
which are injurious to sewer, gas, electricity, water, telephone or other
utility wires, lines or mains, or any other, of different, public improvements,
or which are dangerous, unsafe or hazardous to persons or property as a
consequence of being dead, diseased, broken or decayed, in whole or in part, or
which are infected with, or harbor, any fungus, disease, insect or other pest
or pestilence which constitutes a potential threat to other trees, bushes or
shrubs within the city.
   (D)   The City Tree Board shall cause to be served upon each and every owner
of each and every tree, bush or shrub, either personally, by mail, or by
publication one time in a legal newspaper of the city, a written notice that
removal and disposal of the tree, bush or shrub is to be accomplished and
performed at the cost and expense of the owner within 60 days after service of
the notice. Upon the expiration of the 60-day period, if removal and disposal
of the tree, bush or shrub has not then been accomplished and performed, the
city shall cause the same to be done and all costs and expenses of the removal
and disposal, together with the cost of the aforementioned notice, shall be
assessed against the property of the owner, certified by the City Clerk to the
County Treasurer and collected in the manner prescribed by law and shall be a
lien upon the property until paid.
   (E)   The city shall have the power to prevent and remove all other
obstructions, including snow, ice and mud, into and upon all sidewalks,
streets, avenues, alleys and other city property and improvements. The city
shall cause any person, firm or corporation which owns or is otherwise
responsible for other obstruction to be served, either personally or by
publication, with written notice that removal of the other obstruction is to be
accomplished and performed at the cost and expense of the person, firm or
corporation within five days after service of the notice. Upon the expiration
of the five-day period, if the removal of the other obstruction has not been
accomplished and performed, the city, through the proper officers, may cause
the other obstruction to be removed and the cost of the removal to be paid out
of the city fund devoted to streets. The City Council shall then assess the
cost of the removal of the other obstruction together with the cost of the
aforementioned notice, against the person, firm or corporation which owned or
was otherwise responsible for the other obstruction and the special assessment
shall be levied and collected as special taxes, in addition to the general
revenue taxes, and subject to the same penalties, shall draw interest from the
date of the assessment and shall, upon payment thereof, be credited to the city
fund out of which the cost of the removal of the other obstruction was paid.
   (F)   It shall be unlawful for any person to obstruct, delay, impede or
otherwise interfere with any officers, agents, servants or employees of the
city while engaging in or performing any duties or activities authorized,
empowered, ordered or directed by, under or pursuant to this chapter of any
part or portion thereof.
(Prior Code, § 8-103)  Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-141, 17-142, 17-555, 17-557.01, 39-703,
39-704
§ 92.05  PERMITTED OBSTRUCTIONS.
   Persons engaged in the erection, construction, reconstruction, wrecking or
repairing of any building, or the construction, or repair, of a sidewalk along
any street, may occupy the public street space with the building material and
equipment as long as is necessary if the persons shall make application to and
receive a permit in writing from, the City Council to do so; provided, no
permit for the occupancy of the sidewalk space, or more than one-third of the
roadway of the public space adjacent to the real estate on which the building
is to be constructed, erected, reconstructed, wrecked or repaired shall be
granted; and provided further, a suitable passageway for pedestrians shall be
maintained within the public space included in the permit, which shall be
protected and lighted in the manner required by the Street Commissioner.
(Prior Code, § 8-104)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-142
§ 92.06  WEEDS.
   The city may provide for, appropriate money for and make the necessary
expenditures for noxious weed control and eradication. It is hereby the duty of
the City Street Commissioner, or his or her duly authorized agent, to
periodically view and inspect all lands within the city and if weeds or other
worthless vegetation are found to be growing upon any lot, or lots or lands
within the city, or upon the streets and alleys abutting upon any lot, lots or
lands within the city, then he or she shall notify the owner of the lot, lots
or lands, by publication or by personal service, to remove and destroy the
weeds and worthless vegetation located upon the lot, lots, lands, streets or
alleys. If the owner fails, neglects or refuses, after five-days’ notice, by
publication or by personal service, to destroy or remove the same, then the
city, through its proper officers, shall destroy and remove the same, or cause
the same to be destroyed and removed, from the lot, lots or lands, and streets
and alleys abutting thereon, and shall assess the cost thereof against the lot,
lots or lands as a special tax thereon, which shall be collected as are other
taxes of the city or may be recovered by civil suit brought by the city against
the owner of the parcel of land. The City Street Commissioner, or his or her
duly authorized agent, shall also periodically view and inspect the right-of-
way of all railroads within the corporate limits of the city and if weeds or
other worthless vegetation are found to be growing within the right-of-way,
then he or she shall notify, in writing, the owner or owners of the right-of-
way to destroy and remove the same therefrom. If the owner or owners of the
right-of-way fails, neglects or refuses, after ten days’ written notice, to
remove the same, then the city, by its proper officers, shall destroy and
remove the same, or cause the same to be destroyed and removed, and shall
assess the cost thereof against the property.
(Prior Code, § 8-105)  Penalty, see §
10.99
Cross-reference:
   Weeds, litter, stagnant water, see §
99.59
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 2-946.02, 2-963, 18-1719
§ 92.07  SIGNS AND CANOPIES.
   No person or corporation shall erect or maintain any sign, signboard, poster
or rigid canopy over any street, sidewalk, alley or on other public property
without having first obtained a permit therefor. Permits for signs, canopies,
posters and signboards shall be issued by City Clerk, subject to the approval
of the City Council. All signs and canopies extending over any public sidewalk,
street, alley or other public place must be securely fastened and constructed
so that there will be no danger of the same being dislodged by ordinary winds,
or falling from other causes. All awnings and signs shall be elevated at least
six and one-half feet at their lowest part from the top of the sidewalk and
shall not project over the sidewalk space to exceed three-fourths of the width
thereof. No sign, or canopy shall be erected, or maintained, which extends over
any public sidewalk, street, alley or other public place in a location as to
obstruct the view of any traffic light, sign or signal. Upon the written order
of the City Council, any person owning, or occupying the premises where a sign,
canopy, poster or signboard is located, shall cause the same to be removed
within the time limit specified on the notice.
(Prior Code, § 8-107)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-140, 17-555
§ 92.08  SALE AND CONVEYANCE OF REAL AND PERSONAL PROPERTY.
   (A)   (1)   Except as provided in division (A)(7) of this section, the power
of the city to convey any real property owned by it, including land used for
park purposes and public squares, except real property used in the operation of
public utilities, shall be exercised by resolution, directing the sale at
public auction or by sealed bid of the property and the manner and terms
thereof, except that the property shall not be sold at public auction or by
sealed bid when:
         (a)   The property is being sold in compliance with the requirements
of federal or state grants or programs;
         (b)   The property is being conveyed to another public agency; or
         (c)   The property consists of streets and alleys.
      (2)   The City Council may establish a minimum price for real property at
which bidding shall begin or shall serve as a minimum for a sealed bid.
      (3)   After the passage of the resolution directing the sale, notice of
all proposed sales of property described in division (A) of this section and
the terms thereof shall be published once each week for three consecutive weeks
in a legal newspaper published in or of general circulation in the city.
      (4)   (a)   If, within 30 days after the third publication of the notice,
a remonstrance against the sale is signed by registered voters of the city
equal in number to 30% of the registered voters of the city voting at the last
regular city election held therein and is filed with the City Council, the
property shall not then, nor within one year thereafter, be sold. If the date
for filing the remonstrance falls upon a Saturday, Sunday or legal holiday, the
signatures shall be collected within the 30-day period, but the filing shall be
considered timely if filed or postmarked on or before the next business day.
         (b)   Upon the receipt of the remonstrance, the City Council, with the
aid and assistance of the Election Commissioner or County Clerk, shall
determine the validity and sufficiency of signatures on the remonstrance. The
City Council shall deliver the remonstrance to the Election Commissioner or
County Clerk by hand carrier, by use of law enforcement officials, or by
certified mail, return receipt requested.
         (c)   Upon receipt of the remonstrance, the Election Commissioner or
County Clerk shall issue to the City Council a written receipt that the
remonstrance is in the custody of the Election Commissioner or County Clerk.
The Election Commissioner or County Clerk shall compare the signature of each
person signing the remonstrance with the voter registration records to
determine if each signer was a registered voter on or before the date on which
the remonstrance was filed with the City Council. The Election Commissioner or
County Clerk shall also compare the signer’s printed name, street and number or
voting precinct, and city or post office address with the voter registration
records to determine whether the signer was a registered voter. The signature
and address shall be presumed to be valid only if the Election Commissioner or
County Clerk determines that the printed name, street and number or voting
precinct, and city or post office address matches the registration records and
that the registration was received on or before the date on which the
remonstrance was filed with the City Council. The determinations of the
Election Commissioner or County Clerk may be rebutted by any credible evidence
which the City Council finds sufficient. The express purpose of the comparison
of names and addresses with the voter registration records, in addition to
helping to determine the validity of the remonstrance, the sufficiency of the
remonstrance and the qualifications of the signer, shall be to prevent fraud,
deception and misrepresentation in the remonstrance process.
         (d)   Upon completion of the comparison of names and addresses with
the voter registration records, the Election Commissioner or County Clerk shall
prepare in writing a certification under seal setting forth the name and
address of each signer found not to be a registered voter and the signature
page number and line number where the name is found, and if the reason for the
invalidity of the signature or address is other than the nonregistration of the
signer, the Election Commissioner or County Clerk shall set forth the reason
for the invalidity of the signature. If the Election Commissioner or County
Clerk determines that a signer has affixed his or her signature more than once
to the remonstrance and that only one person is registered by that name, the
Election Commissioner or County Clerk shall prepare in writing a certification
under seal setting forth the name of the duplicate signature and shall count
only the earliest dated signature.
         (e)   The Election Commissioner or County Clerk shall certify to the
City Council the number of valid signatures necessary to constitute a valid
remonstrance. The Election Commissioner or County Clerk shall deliver the
remonstrance and the certifications to the City Council within 40 days after
receipt of the remonstrance from the City Council. The delivery shall be by
hand carrier, by use of law enforcement officials, or by certified mail, return
receipt requested. Not more than 20 signatures on one signature page shall be
counted.
         (f)   The City Council shall, within 30 days after the receipt of the
remonstrance and certifications from the Election Commissioner or County Clerk,
hold a public hearing to review the remonstrance and certifications and receive
testimony regarding them. The City Council shall, following the hearing, vote
on whether or not the remonstrance is valid and shall uphold the remonstrance
if sufficient valid signatures have been received.
      (5)   Real estate now owned or hereafter owned by the city may be
conveyed without consideration to the state for state armory sites or, if
acquired for state armory sites, shall be conveyed strictly in accordance with
the conditions of Neb. RS 18-1001 to 18-1006.
      (6)   Following passage of the resolution directing a sale, publishing of
the notice of the proposed sale and passing of the 30-day right-of-remonstrance
period, the property shall then be sold. The sale shall be confirmed by passage
of an ordinance stating the name of the purchaser and terms of the sale.
      (7)   Divisions (A)(1) through (6) of this section shall not apply to the
sale of real property if the authorizing resolution directs the sale of real
property, the total fair market value of which is less than $5,000. Following
passage of the resolution directing the sale of the property, notice of the
sale shall be posted in three prominent places within the city for a period of
not less than seven days prior to sale of the property. The notice shall give a
general description of the property offered for sale and state the terms and
conditions of sale. Confirmation of the sale by passage of an ordinance may be
required.
(Prior Code, § 8-108)
   (B)   The power of the city to convey any personal property owned by it
shall be exercised by resolution directing the sale and the manner and terms
thereof. Following passage of the resolution directing the sale of the
property, notice of the sale shall be posted in three prominent places within
the city for a period of not less than seven days prior to the sale of the
property. If the fair market value of the property is greater than $5,000,
notice of the sale shall also be published once in a legal newspaper published
in or of general circulation in the city at least seven days prior to the sale
of the property. The notice shall give a general description of the property
offered for sale and state the terms and conditions of sale.
(Prior Code, § 8-108.01)
(Ord. 1-04, passed 4-12-2004)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-503, 17-503.01, 17-503.02
§ 92.09  ACQUISITION OF PROPERTY; CONSTRUCTION; ELECTIONS; WHEN REQUIRED.
   (A)   The city is authorized and empowered to purchase, accept by gift or
devise, purchase real estate upon which to erect and erect a building or
buildings for an auditorium, fire station, city building or community house for
housing city enterprises and social and recreation purposes, and other public
buildings, and maintain, manage and operate the same for the benefit of the
inhabitants of the city.
   (B)   Except as provided in division (C) of this section, before any
purchase can be made or building erected, the question shall be submitted to
the electors of the city at a general city election or at an election duly
called for that purpose, or as set forth in Neb. RS 17-954, and be adopted by a
majority of the electors voting on the question.
   (C)   If the funds to be used to finance the purchase or construction of a
building pursuant to this section are available other than through a bond
issue, then either:
      (1)   Notice of the proposed purchase or construction shall be published
in a newspaper of general circulation in the city and no election shall be
required to approve the purchase or construction unless within 30 days after
the publication of the notice, a remonstrance against the purchase or
construction is signed by registered voters of the city equal in number to 15%
of the registered voters of the city voting at the last regular city election
held therein and is filed with the City Council. If the date for filing the
remonstrance falls upon a Saturday, Sunday or legal holiday, the signatures
shall be considered timely if filed or postmarked on or before the next
business day. If a remonstrance with the necessary number of qualified
signatures is timely filed, the question shall be submitted to the voters of
the city at a general city election or a special election duly called for that
purpose. If the purchase or construction is not approved, the property involved
shall not then, nor within one year following the election, be purchased or
constructed; or
      (2)   The City Council may proceed without providing the notice and right
of remonstrance required in division (C)(1) of this section if the property can
be purchased below the fair market value as determined by an appraisal, there
is a willing seller, and the purchase price is less than $25,000. The purchase
shall be approved by the City Council after notice and public hearing as
provided in Neb. RS 18-1755.
(Prior Code, § 8-109)  (Ord. 20-96, passed 1-8-1996)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see  Neb. RS 17-953, 17-953.01
§ 92.10  CLOSING CITY PARKS.
   All of the city parks shall be closed between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 6:
00 a.m., during central daylight savings time and shall be closed between the
hours of 8:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m. central standard time; provided that, this
chapter shall not apply to activities sanctioned and organized with the
approval of the City Recreation Committee, and providing further that these
limitations shall not apply to the baseball diamonds, basketball courts, tennis
courts and swimming pool. Signs shall be posed at the parks indicating the
hours during which the parks are closed.
(Prior Code, § 8-110)
§ 92.11  SPECIAL IMPROVEMENT DISTRICT; ASSESSMENT AND CREATION PROCEDURE.
   (A)   The City Council may, by ordinance, create a Special Improvement
District for the purpose of replacing, reconstructing or repairing an existing
street, alley, water line, sewer line or any other improvements.
   (B)   Except as provided in Neb. RS 19-2428 to 19-2431, the City Council
shall have power to assess, to the extent of the benefits, the costs of the
improvements upon the properties found especially benefitted thereby, whether
or not the properties were previously assessed for the same general purpose. In
creating the Special Improvement District, the City Council  shall allow
procedures applicable to the creation and assessment of the same type of
Improvement District as otherwise provided by law.
(Prior Code, § 8-111)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 18-1751
§ 92.12  IMPROVEMENT DISTRICT; LAND ADJACENT.
   Supplemental to any existing law on the subject, the city may include land
adjacent to the city when creating an Improvement District, such as a sewer,
paving, water, water extension or sanitary sewer extension district. The City
Council shall have power to assess, to the extent of special benefits, the
costs of the improvements upon the properties found especially benefitted
thereby, except as provided in §
92.11.
(Prior Code, § 8-112)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 19-2427
§ 92.13  ACQUISITION OF PROPERTY; APPRAISAL.
   (A)   When acquiring an interest in real property by purchase or eminent
domain, the city shall do so only after the City Council has authorized the
acquisition by action taken in a public meeting after notice and public
hearing.
(Prior Code, § 8-113)
   (B)   The city shall not purchase, lease-purchase or acquire for
consideration real property having an estimated value of $100,000 or more
unless an appraisal of the property has been performed by a certified real
estate appraiser.
(Prior Code, § 8-114)
(Ord. 17-95, passed 8-7-1995; Ord. 18-95, passed 8-7-1995)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 13-403, 18-1755
§ 92.14  PUBLIC WORKS INVOLVING ARCHITECTURE OR ENGINEERING; REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this section and Neb. RS 81-3449
and 81-3453, the municipality shall not engage in the construction of any
public works involving architecture or engineering unless the plans,
specifications, and estimates have been prepared and the construction has been
observed by an architect, a professional engineer, or a person under the direct
supervision of an architect, professional engineer, or those under the direct
supervision of an architect or professional engineer.
      (2)   This division (A) shall not apply to any public work in which the
contemplated expenditure for the complete project does not exceed $100,000 or
the adjusted dollar amount set by the Board of Engineers and Architects.
   (B)   The provisions of division (A) of this section regulating the practice
of architecture do not apply to the following activities or the other
activities specified in Neb. RS 81-3449:
      (2)   A public service provider who employs a design professional
performing professional services for itself;
      (3)   The practice of any other certified trade or legally recognized
profession;
      (4)   Earthmoving and related work associated with soil and water
conservation practices performed any land owned by the municipality that is not
subject to a permit from the Department of Natural Resources; and
      (5)   The work of employees and agents of the municipality performing, in
accordance with other requirements of law, their customary duties in the
administration and enforcement of codes, permit programs, and land-use
regulations and their customary duties in utility and public works
construction, operation, and maintenance.
   (C)   The provisions of division (A) of this section regulating the practice
of engineering do not apply to the following activities, the activities
specified in division (B) of this section, or the other activities specified in
Neb. RS 81-3453:
      (1)   Those services ordinarily performed by subordinates under direct
supervision of a professional engineer or those commonly designated as
locomotive, stationary, marine operating engineers, power plant operating
engineers, or manufacturers who supervise the operation of or operate machinery
or equipment or who supervise construction within their own plant; and
      (2)   The construction of water wells as defined in Neb. RS 46-1212, the
installation of pumps and pumping equipment into water wells, and the
decommissioning of water wells, unless such construction, installation, or
decommissioning is required by the municipality to be designed or supervised by
an engineer or unless legal requirements are imposed upon the municipality as a
part of a public water supply.
   (D)   For the purpose of this section, the municipality is considered a
public service provider if it appoints a Municipal Engineer or employs a full-
time person licensed under the Engineers and Architects Regulation Act who is
in responsible charge of architectural or engineering work.
(Prior Code, § 8-115)  (Ord. 1-05, passed 1-10-2005; Ord. 41-11, passed 11-27-
2011)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 81-3423, 81-3445, 81-3449 and 81-3453
§ 92.15  VEHICLES; UNREGISTERED, WRECKED AND THE LIKE; HOBBYIST PERMIT.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person in charge or control of any
property within the city, whether as owner, tenant, occupant, lessee or
otherwise, to allow any nonoperating, wrecked, junked or partially dismantled
vehicle, including pickup campers and coaches, tractors, motorized dwellings,
buses, boats and recreational equipment including boat and tent trailers,
utility trailers, stock trailers, enclosed trailers, trailers used to haul
recreational equipment and any other kind or type of trailer, to remain on the
property longer than 30 days. It shall be unlawful for any person in charge or
control of any property within the city, whether as owner, tenant, occupant,
lessee or otherwise, to allow any vehicle, including pickup campers and
coaches, motorized dwellings, buses, boats and recreational equipment including
boat and tent trailers, utility trailers, stock trailers, enclosed trailers,
trailers used to haul recreational equipment and any other kind or type of
trailer, for which licensing and registration is required by law, which has
been unregistered for more than 30 days to remain on the property. This section
shall not apply to a vehicle in an enclosed building, or a vehicle in a salvage
or storage business operated in accordance with law, or a vehicle on the
premises of a person who has obtained a hobbyist permit for the restoration of
the vehicle. A vehicle on the premises of a vehicle salvage business, new or
used automobile dealer business, a vehicle repair business or a vehicle body
repair business, operated in a lawful place and manner, when necessary to the
lawful operation of the business enterprise, may have an additional 30 days to
comply with this chapter. Each day that a violation of any of the provisions of
this section continues shall constitute a distinct offence and shall be
punishable as such.
   (B)   A hobbyist permit for the restoration or repair of up to two
nonoperating, wrecked, junked or partially dismantled vehicles on any premises
used for residential purposes may be granted to the resident of the premises as
follows.
      (1)   Application for the hobbyist permit shall be filed in writing with
the City Clerk on a form provided by the city and shall contain the name and
address of the applicant and the make, model, year and vehicle identification
number of each vehicle to be restored or repaired.
      (2)   The vehicle(s) to be restored or repaired shall be owned by the
applicant.
      (3)   The application fee for the hobbyist permit shall be $25 per
vehicle payable at the time of filing the application and shall not be
refundable.
      (4)   Upon the filing of the application with the City Clerk, the City
Clerk shall thereupon set the same for hearing before the City Council by
causing a notice to be published in a legal newspaper of general circulation in
the city, at least ten days prior to the hearing. At the hearing, any persons
having objections to the issuance of a permit shall be heard by the City
Council. Following the hearing, the City Council shall approve or disapprove
the application. Upon approval of the application, the City Clerk shall
thereupon issue a permit to the applicant.
      (5)   All permits shall expire on the one hundred eightieth day following
the date of issuance thereof and shall be nonrenewable.
      (6)   Any person may request review of the permit by the City Council.
Any permit issued hereunder may be revoked by the City Council if the City
Council shall find upon hearing that the holder of the permit has allowed the
premise to become injurious to the public health, safety or welfare. Notice of
the hearing for revocation of a permit shall be given in writing by first class
mail to the holder at least ten days prior to the hearing. If a permit is
revoked, no new permit may be issued to the holder or for the property for a
period of one year from the date of revocation.
(Ord. 8-06, passed 12-26-2006)  Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 93:  SIDEWALKS
Section
   
93.01   Definition
   
93.02   Cleaning and maintenance
   
93.03   Private construction
   
93.04   Construction, replacement and repair
   
93.05   Construction by petition
§ 93.01  DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   SIDEWALK SPACE. The portion of a street between curb lines and adjacent
property lines.
(Prior Code, § 8-201)
§ 93.02  CLEANING AND MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the owner or occupant of any lot, lots or
lands within the city to allow snow, sleet, ice, mud or other substances to
accumulate or remain upon the sidewalks, upon or abutting the lot, lots or
lands, except as herein provided.
   (B)   All sidewalks shall be cleaned within five hours after the cessation
of a storm, unless the storm shall have occurred or continued after sunset, in
which case sidewalks shall be cleaned before 8:30 a.m. of the following day.
   (C)   In the event that sidewalks are not cleaned as herein provided, the
City Street Commissioner may, without notice, clean the sidewalks or cause the
sidewalks to be cleaned. Every owner of any lot, lots or lands within the city
shall, at all times, keep and maintain the sidewalks abutting and contiguous to
the lot, lots or lands in good and proper repair and in a condition reasonably
safe for the use of the sidewalks and the Street Commissioner may require
sidewalks of the city to be repaired by the owner of the lot, lots or lands
which the sidewalks abutting and contiguous to any lot, lots or lands within
the city are not in good and proper repair and in a condition reasonably safe
for the use of the sidewalks, the City Street Commissioner shall notify and
order the owner of the land to repair the sidewalks within seven days of the
issuance of the notice and order and it shall be unlawful for any owner so
notified and ordered to fail, refuse or neglect to repair the sidewalks in the
manner and within the time prescribed by the order.
(Prior Code, § 8-202)  Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-141
§ 93.03  PRIVATE CONSTRUCTION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to construct a sidewalk within the
sidewalk space of the city without first having obtained a permit and survey as
herein provided. Application for a permit to construct a sidewalk within the
sidewalk space of the city shall be made in writing and filed in the office of
the City Clerk along with the survey fee set by resolution of the City Council,
which shall be paid to the city official in charge of making sidewalk surveys.
The permit shall give a description of the lot or piece of land along which the
sidewalk is to be constructed. The Street Commissioner shall issue the desired
permit, unless good cause shall appear why the permit should be denied;
provided, if it is desired to construct the sidewalk at any other than the
regularly prescribed location, grade or elevation, the city official in charge
of sidewalks shall submit the application to the City Council who shall
determine whether the permit should be granted or denied. When a permit is
issued for the construction of a sidewalk, the city official in charge of
sidewalks shall make a survey and set stakes indicating the location, grade and
elevation of the sidewalk. It shall be unlawful for any person to construct, or
cause to be constructed, the sidewalk at any other location, grade or elevation
than so designated. All sidewalks shall be built and constructed on the
established grade or elevation and if there is no established grade, then on
the grade or elevation survey shall be made within ten days after the permit
has been issued. All sidewalks shall be constructed in accordance with the
plans and specifications prepared by the City Engineer, as approved by the City
Council. In the event that any person constructs, or attempts to construct,
sidewalks within the sidewalk space not in accordance with this chapter or with
the specifications provided by the City Engineer, the Street Commissioner shall
have the authority to order the work stopped and to order that the work already
done shall be changed to conform to legal requirements.
(Prior Code, § 8-203)  Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-141
§ 93.04  CONSTRUCTION, REPLACEMENT AND REPAIR.
   (A)   The City Council shall have the power to construct, replace, repair or
otherwise improve sidewalks within the city. Whenever the City Council shall,
by resolution passed by a three-fourths vote of all members of the City
Council, determine the necessity for sidewalk improvements, the City Council
shall, by ordinance, create a sidewalk district and shall cause the
improvements to be made, and shall contract therefor. The City Council shall
levy assessments on the lots and parcels of land abutting or adjacent to the
sidewalk improvements especially benefitted thereby in the district, in
proportion to the benefits, to pay the cost of the improvement and all
assessments shall be a lien on the property on which levied from the date of
the levy until paid.
   (B)   The assessment of the special tax for the sidewalk improvement, as
hereinabove provided, shall be levied at one time and shall become delinquent
and draw interest as provided by the laws of the state, including, but not
limited to, Neb. RS 19-2418, as amended or superseded.
   (C)   For the purpose of paying the cost of sidewalk improvements in any
sidewalk district, the City Council shall have the power and may, by ordinance,
cause to be issued bonds of the city, as provided by the laws of the state,
including, but not limited to, Neb. RS 19-2419, as amended or superseded. The
bonds shall be general obligations of the city, with principal and interest
payable from a fund made up of the special assessments collected and
supplemented by transfers from the general fund to make up any deficiency in
the collection of the special assessments. For the purpose of making partial
payments as the work progresses, warrants bearing interest may be issued by the
City Council, upon certificate of the engineer in charge showing the amount of
the work completed, in a sum not exceeding 80% of the cost thereof, which
warrants shall be redeemed and paid upon the sale of the bonds issued and sold
as aforesaid.
   (D)   After having given notice, as provided by the laws of the state,
including, but not limited to, Neb. RS 17-522, as amended or superseded, of the
intention to do so, the city shall have the power to construct and to repair
sidewalks, and assess the expense thereof on the property in front of which the
construction or repairs are made, without creating an improvement district
therefor as hereinabove provided. The city shall have the power to provide for
the laying of temporary sidewalks as provided by the laws of the state,
including, but not limited to, Neb. RS 17-523, as amended or superseded.
(Prior Code, § 8-204)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-522, 17-523
§ 93.05  CONSTRUCTION BY PETITION.
   (A)   If the owners of the record title representing more than 60% of the
front footage of the directly abutting property, subject to assessment for
sidewalk improvements, petition the City Council to make the same, the City
Council shall proceed in all things as though the construction had been ordered
by it.
   (B)   Upon the petition of any freeholder who is an abutting owner in fee
simple of the property subject to assessment for sidewalk improvements, the
City Council may order permanent sidewalks built in accordance with this
chapter upon the freeholder making, executing and delivering to the city an
agreement to the effect that the petitioning freeholder will pay the
engineering service fee and all other incidental construction costs until paid
shall be a perpetual lien upon the real estate along which the freeholder
desires the sidewalk to be constructed and that the petitioner gives and grants
to the city the right to assess and levy the costs of the construction against
the freeholder’s real estate abutting the sidewalk improvement and promises to
pay the costs with interest.
   (C)   The total cost of the improvement shall be levied, allocated, financed
and specially assessed as provided by law. In the event the property owner is a
nonresident of the county in which the property lies, the city shall, before
levying any special assessment against that property, send a copy of any notice
required by law to be published by means of certified mail, return receipt
requested to the last known address of the nonresident property owner. The last
known address shall be that address listed on the current tax rolls at the time
the required notice was first published.
(Prior Code, § 8-205)
CHAPTER 94:  STREETS
Section
   
94.01   Names and numbers
   
94.02   Excavation
   
94.03   Damage; concrete and harmful liquids
   
94.04   Eave and gutter spouts
   
94.05   Heavy equipment; studded tires
   
94.06   Pipe lines and wires
   
94.07   Consulting engineer
   
94.08   Opening, widening, improving or vacating
   
94.09   Improvement on corporate limits
   
94.10   Petition for improvements
   
94.11   Improvement district; objections
   
94.12   Deferral from special assessments
   
94.13   Driveway approaches
   
94.14   Vacating public ways
§ 94.01  NAMES AND NUMBERS.
   The City Council may at any time, by ordinance, rename any street or provide
a name for any new street. Buildings used for residence or business purposes
and located along the streets shall retain the numbers. It shall be the duty of
the Street Commissioner, upon the erection of any new building or buildings, to
assign the proper numbers to the building, or buildings, and give notice to the
owner, or owners and occupant or occupants, of the same.
(Prior Code, § 8-301)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-567(1)
§ 94.02  EXCAVATION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to make an excavation in any street, or
streets, for any purpose whatsoever, unless a written permit is issued by the
City Street Commissioner authorizing the excavation.
(Prior Code, § 8-303)  Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-142
§ 94.03  DAMAGE; CONCRETE AND HARMFUL LIQUIDS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to mix any concrete or plastering
material directly on the street pavement or to use the pavement as a mixing
board for the material. It shall be unlawful  for any person to willfully place
or permit to leak in the gutter or any street, waste gasoline, kerosene or high
lubricating oils which damage, or act as a solvent upon the streets.
(Prior Code, § 8-304)  Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-567(1)
§ 94.04  EAVE AND GUTTER SPOUTS.
   It is hereby declared unlawful for any person to erect, or maintain any
dwelling house, or business building, within the limits of the city where the
dwelling, or building, abuts on any sidewalk, or street, without providing
proper guttering and eave spouts to receive the waste waters that collect on
the sidewalks and streets. All eave spouts erected on any dwelling house, or
business building, shall be constructed to drain into the alleys, or shall be
burled beneath the sidewalks, and drain into the streets where it is found to
be impossible to drain the eave spouts into the alley.
(Prior Code, § 8-305)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 94.05  HEAVY EQUIPMENT; STUDDED TIRES.
   (A)   It shall hereafter be unlawful for any person, or persons, to move or
operate, heavy equipment across any curb, gutter, bridge, culvert, sidewalk,
crosswalk or crossing, on any unpaved street without first having protected the
curb, gutter, bridge, culvert, sidewalks, crosswalks or crossing, with heavy
plank sufficient in strength to warrant against the breaking, or damaging, of
the curb, gutter, bridge, culvert, sidewalk, crosswalk or crossing. Hereafter,
it shall be unlawful to run, drive, move, operate or convey over, or across,
any paved street a vehicle, machine or implement, with sharp discs, or sharp
wheels, that bear upon the pavement, with wheels having cutting edges; with
wheels having lugs, or any protruding parts, or bolts thereon that extend
beyond a plain tire so as to cut, mark, mar, indent or otherwise injure, or
damage, any pavement, gutter or curb; provided, where heavy vehicles,
structures and machines move along paved, or unpaved, streets the city police
are hereby authorized and empowered to choose the route over which the moving
of the vehicles, structures or machines will be permitted and allowed.
   (B)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to apply to pneumatic tires
with metal, or metal-type, studs not exceeding five-sixteenths of an inch in
diameter inclusive of the stud-casting with an average protrusion beyond the
tread surface of not more than seven sixty-fourths of an inch between October 1
and April 15; provided:
      (1)   School buses, mail carrier vehicles and emergency vehicles shall be
permitted to use metal or metal-type studs all year;
      (2)   It shall be permissible to use farm machinery with tires having
protuberances which will not injure the streets; and
      (3)   It shall be permissible to use tire chains or reasonable
proportions upon any vehicle when required for safety, because of snow, ice or
other condition tending to cause vehicle to slide or skid.
(Prior Code, § 8-306)  Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 39-6,131
§ 94.06  PIPE LINES AND WIRES.
   (A)   Poles, wires, gas mains, pipe lines and other appurtenances of public
service companies shall be located or erected over, upon, or under the streets,
alleys and common grounds of the city. Application for location of the above
shall be made to the City Council in writing. Approval by that body shall be
issued in writing. Any public service company granted a right-of-way for the
erection and maintenance of poles, conduits, gas mains, pipe lines and wires
shall at all times erect and locate their poles, wires, gas mains, pipe lines
and other appurtenances at places and in a manner as shall be designated by the
City Council. The poles, wires, gas mains, pipe lines and other appurtenances,
shall be removed, or relocated by the companies at their own expense when
requested to do so by the City Council. Any relocation shall be ordered by
resolution of the City Council and the City Clerk shall notify any and all
companies affected. The companies shall, within 24 hours after receiving
notice, at their own expense, cause the poles, wires, gas mains, pipe lines or
other appurtenances to be removed. The City Council shall designate another
location, as closely as possible, where the poses, wires, gas mains, pipe lines
or other appurtenances, may be reset or placed. All poles, wires, gas mains,
pipe lines or other appurtenances shall be reset, placed or erected in a manner
that they will not interfere with the water system; sewerage system; poles,
wires and mains of any public utility; adjacent buildings; or with travel on
the public ways and property.
   (B)   Whenever possible, all pole lines, wires, gas mains, pipe lines or
appurtenances shall be confined to the alleys of the city.
(Prior Code, § 8-307)  Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-140
§ 94.07  CONSULTING ENGINEER.
   The city shall be empowered to contract with any consulting engineer or
engineering firm or with any other city or county for the employment of a
qualified City Street Superintendent; provided that, the engineer, engineering
firm or City Street Superintendent shall be capable of performing, and shall,
pursuant to the contract, actually perform, the following duties:
   (A)   Developing and annually updating a long-range plan based on the needs
of the city with regard to city streets and coordinated with adjacent local
governmental units;
   (B)   Developing an annual program for design, construction and maintenance;
   (C)   Developing an annual budget based on programmed projects and
activities;
   (D)   Submitting the plans, programs and budgets to the City Council for
approval;
   (E)   Implementing the capital improvements and maintenance activities
provided in the approved plans, programs and budgets; and
   (F)   Preparing and submitting annually to the Auditor of Public Accounts
and to the Department of Roads a report showing the actual receipts,
expenditures and accomplishments compared with those budgeted and programmed in
the subdivision’s annual plans.
(Prior Code, § 8-308)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 39-2512, 39-2514
§ 94.08  OPENING, WIDENING, IMPROVING OR VACATING.
   (A)   The city shall have power to open, widen or otherwise improve or
vacate any street, avenue, alley or lane within the limits of the city and also
to create, open and improve any new street, avenue, alley or lane. All damages
sustained by the citizens of the city, or by the owners of the property
therein, shall be ascertained in a manner as shall be provided by ordinance.
Whenever any street or alley is vacated, the same shall revert to the owners of
the abutting real estate, one-half on each side thereof and become a part of
the property. When a portion of a street, avenue, alley or lane is vacated only
on one side of the center thereof, the title to the land shall vest in the
owner of the abutting property and become a part of the property. When the city
vacates all or any portion of a street, avenue, alley or lane, the city shall,
within 30 days after the effective date of the vacation, file a certified copy
of the vacating ordinance with the Register of Deeds for the county in which
the vacated property is located to be indexed against all affected lots.
   (B)   The city shall have power to create, open, widen or extend any street,
avenue, alley, off-street parking area, or other public way, or annul, vacate
or discontinue the same.
(Prior Code, § 8-309)  (Ord. 7-02, passed 7-8-2002)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-558, 17-559
§ 94.09  IMPROVEMENT ON CORPORATE LIMITS.
   The Mayor and Council shall have the power to improve any street or part
thereof which divides the city corporate area and the area adjoining the city.
When creating an improvement district including land adjacent to the city, the
Council shall have power to assess, to the extent of special benefits, the
costs of the improvements upon the properties found especially benefitted
thereby.
(Prior Code, § 8-310)
§ 94.10  PETITION FOR IMPROVEMENTS.
   Whenever a petition signed by the owners of the record title representing
more than 60% of the front footage of the property directly abutting upon the
street, streets, alley, alleys, public way or the public grounds proposed to be
improved, shall be presented and filed with the City Clerk, petitioning
therefor, the City Council shall by ordinance create a paving, graveling or
other improvement district or districts, and shall cause the work to be done or
the improvement to be made, and shall contract therefor, and shall levy
assessments on the lots and parcels of land abutting on or adjacent to the
street, streets, alley or alleys, especially benefitted thereby in the district
in proportion to the benefits, to pay the cost of the improvement. The City
Council shall have the discretion to deny the formation of the proposed
district when the area has not previously been improved with a water system,
sewer system and grading of streets. If the City Council should deny a
requested improvement district formation, it shall state the grounds for the
denial in a written letter to interested parties.
(Prior Code, § 8-311)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-510
§ 94.11  IMPROVEMENT DISTRICT; OBJECTIONS.
   Whenever the City Council deems it necessary to make any improvements
allowed by  statute which are to be funded by a levy of special assessment on
the property especially benefitted, the City Council shall, by ordinance,
create a paving, graveling or other improvement district and, after the
passage, approval and publication or posting of the ordinance, shall publish
notice of the creation of any district for six days in a legal newspaper of the
city, if a daily newspaper, or for two consecutive weeks if it is a weekly
newspaper. If no legal newspaper is published in the city, the publication
shall be in a legal newspaper of general circulation in the city. If the owners
of the record title representing more than 50% of the front footage of the
property directly abutting on the street or alley to be improved file with the
City Clerk within 20 days after the first publication of the notice written
objections to the creation of the district, the improvement shall not be made
as provided in the ordinance, but the ordinance shall be repealed. If
objections are not filed against the district in the time and manner prescribed
in this section, the City Council shall immediately cause the work to be done
or the improvement to be made, shall contract for the work or improvement and
shall levy assessments on the lots and parcels of land abutting on or adjacent
to the street or alley especially benefitted in the district in proportion to
the benefits to pay the cost of the improvement.
(Prior Code, § 8-312)  (Ord. 19-96, passed 1-8-1996)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-511
§ 94.12  DEFERRAL FROM SPECIAL ASSESSMENTS.
   (A)   Whenever the City Council creates an Improvement District as specified
in §
92.11 which includes land adjacent to the city which is within an agricultural
use zone and is used exclusively for agricultural use, the owners of record
title of the adjacent land may apply for a deferral from special assessments.
For purposes of this section, the terms AGRICULTURAL USE and AGRICULTURAL USE
ZONE shall have the meaning specified in Neb. RS 77-1343.
   (B)   Any owner of record title eligible for the deferral granted by this
section shall, to secure the assessment, make application to the City Council
within 90 days after creation of an improvement district as specified in §
92.11. Any owner of record title who makes application for the deferral
provided by this section shall notify the County Register of Deeds of the
application in writing prior to approval by the City Council. The City Council
shall approve the application of any owner of record title upon determination
that the property:
      (1)   Is within an agricultural use zone and is used exclusively for
agricultural use; and
      (2)   The owner has met the requirements of this section.
   (C)   The deferral provided for in this section shall be terminated upon any
of the following events:
      (1)   Notification by the owner of record title to the City Council to
remove the deferral;
      (2)   Sale or transfer to a new owner who does not make a new application
within 60 days of the sale or transfer, except as provided in division (C)(3)
below;
      (3)   Transfer by reason of death of a former owner to a new owner who
does not make application within 125 days of the transfer;
      (4)   The land is no longer being used as agricultural land; or
      (5)   Change of zoning to other than an agricultural zone.
   (D)   Whenever property which has received a deferral pursuant to this
section becomes disqualified for the deferral, the owner of record title of the
property shall pay to the city an amount equal to:
      (1)   The total amount of special assessments which would have been
assessed against the property, to the extent of special benefits, had the
deferral not been granted; and
      (2)   Interest upon  the special assessments not paid each year at the
rate of 6% from the dates at which the assessments would have been payable if
no deferral had been granted.
   (E)   In cases where the deferral provided by this section is terminated as
a result of a sale or transfer described in divisions (B) or (C) of this
section the lien for assessments and interest shall attach as of the day
preceding, the sale or transfer.
(Prior Code, § 8-313)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 19-2428 through 19-2431
§ 94.13  DRIVEWAY APPROACHES.
   (A)   The Street Commissioner may require the owner of property served by a
driveway approach constructed or maintained upon the street right-of-way to
repair or replace any driveway approach which is cracked, broken or otherwise
deteriorated to the extent that it is causing or is likely to cause damage to
or interfere with any street structure including pavement or sidewalks.
   (B)   The City Clerk shall give the property owner notice by registered
letter or certified mail, directed to the last-known address of the owner or
the agent of the owner, directing the repair or replacement of the driveway
approach. If, within 30 days of mailing the notice, the property owner fails or
neglects to cause the repairs or replacements to be made, the Street
Commissioner may cause the work to be done and assess the cost upon the
property served by the approach.
(Prior Code, § 8-314)
§ 94.14  VACATING PUBLIC WAYS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      SPECIAL DAMAGES. Only those losses or damages or injuries which a
property owner suffers that are peculiar or special or unique to his or her
property and which result from the City Council vacating a street, avenue,
alley, lane or similar public way. SPECIAL DAMAGES shall not mean those losses
or damages or injuries that a property owner suffers that are in common with
the rest of the city or public at large, even though those losses or damages or
injuries suffered by the property owner are greater in degree than the rest of
the city or public at large.
   (B)   Whenever the City Council decides that it would be in the best
interests of the city to vacate a street, avenue, alley, lane or similar public
way, the City Council shall comply with the following procedure.
      (1)   Notice. Notice shall be given to all abutting property owners
either by first class mail to their last known address or if there is no known
address then by publishing the notice in a newspaper that is of general
circulation in the city. The content of the notice shall advise the abutting
property owners that the City Council will consider vacating the street,
avenue, alley, lane or similar public way at its next regular meeting or, if a
special meeting is scheduled for the discussion, then the date, time and place
of the meeting.
      (2)   Consent; waiver. The City Council may have all the abutting
property owners sign a form stating that they consent to the action being taken
by the City Council and waive their right of access. The signing of the form
shall have no effect on claims for special damages by the abutting property
owners, but shall create the presumption that the City Council’s action was
proper. If the abutting property owners do not sign the consent/waiver form,
the City Council may still proceed with vacating the street, avenue, alley,
lane or similar public way under the authority granted by Neb. RS 17-558 and
17-559.
      (3)   Ordinance. The City Council shall pass an ordinance that includes
essentially the following provisions:
         (a)   A declaration that the action is expedient for the public good
or in the best interests of the city;
         (b)   A statement that the city will have an easement for maintaining
all utilities; and
         (c)   A method or procedure for ascertaining special damages to
abutting property owners.
   (C)   The Mayor shall appoint three or five or seven disinterested residents
of the city to a special commission to ascertain the amount of special damages
that the abutting property owners are entitled to receive and which resulted
from the City Council vacating the street, avenue, alley, lane or similar
public way. The appointees of the special commission shall be approved by the
City Council. Only special damages shall be awarded to the abutting property
owners.
   (D)   In determining the amount of compensation to award the abutting
property owners as special damages, the commission shall use the following
rule: An abutting property owner is entitled to recover as compensation the
difference between the value of the property immediately before and immediately
after the vacating of the street, avenue, alley, lane or similar public way. If
no difference in value exists, the abutting property owner is entitled to no
compensation.
(Prior Code, § 8-316)  (Ord. 7-02, passed 7-8-2002)  Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 95:  CURBS AND GUTTERS
Section
   
95.01   City construction; curbing and guttering districts
   
95.02   Cutting the curb
§ 95.01  CITY CONSTRUCTION; CURBING AND GUTTERING DISTRICTS.
   The City Council may, by ordinance, create a limited street improvement
district for the sole purpose of curbing and guttering any paved or unpaved
street or streets in the city, as provided by the laws of the state, including,
but not limited to, Neb. RS 19-2416, as amended or superseded.
(Prior Code, § 8-401)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 19-2416
§ 95.02  CUTTING THE CURB.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to cut into any paving or curb for
the purpose of constructing a driveway, or for any other purpose whatsoever,
without first having obtained a written permit from the City Street
Commissioner therefore.
   (B)   When the permit is requested, the applicant shall inform the City
Clerk of the exact location where the cutting is proposed to be done, and it
shall be the duty of the City Street Commissioner to inspect the place of entry
into the paving or curb before the same is cut and approve or disapprove the
permit. The permit may include provisions regarding the manner and time of the
cutting, the manner and time of any replacing, repaving or closing of the
paving or curb that may be necessary, and such other matters as may be
necessary and proper in relation to the cutting and repaving or closing. It
shall be unlawful for any person, to whom a permit has been issued pursuant to
this chapter to willfully fail, neglect or refuse to adhere to, execute and
obey the terms of the permit. Before any permit is issued as herein provided,
the applicant for the permit, except the Board of Public Works, shall pay a fee
to the City Clerk, set by resolution of the City Council for the permit. If the
cement sinks, breaks up or otherwise deteriorates within two years, the person
or entity who received the permit must replace it to the satisfaction of the
City Street Commissioner.
(Prior Code, § 8-402)  (Ord. 9-07, passed 5-14-2007)  Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-141, 17-142, 17-567(1)
CHAPTER 96:  COMBINED IMPROVEMENTS
Section
   
96.01   Districts
   
96.02   Combinations authorized by separate ordinances
§ 96.01  DISTRICTS.
   (A)   The city may pave, repave, macadamize, gravel, curb and gutter
streets, avenues or alleys and do any grading or work incidental in connection
therewith and install water mains and sewer lines, either sanitary or storm or
a combination sewer, in any improvement district or make any one, or a
combination of the above improvements, as a single project, pursuant to Neb. RS
19-2408 through 19-2415, as amended or superseded, if the total estimated cost
of any single improvement does not exceed $15,000, subject to a limitation of
$50,000 of all improvements in a single project.
   (B)   Whenever a petition, as provided by the laws of the state, including,
but not limited to, Neb. RS 19-2410, as amended or superseded, proposing the
improvements is presented to the City Council, the City Council shall cause the
petition to be examined and the estimate of cost of the improvement verified,
and if the petition is found to be correct, then, the City Council shall, by
ordinance, create an improvement district and cause the improvements to be
made, if it can be done within the $50,000 limitation as provided herein. The
City Council may, by ordinance, create an improvement district without
petition, and cause one or more of the improvements specified herein to be made
in the district; provided that, the ordinance shall designate the property
included within the district or the outer boundaries thereof, the improvement
or improvements to be made in the district and the total estimated cost of the
improvements, which shall not exceed $15,000 for any single improvement or
$50,000 for any single project; and, provided further, that, after passage,
approval and publication of the ordinance, the City Clerk shall cause notice of
the creation of the district to be published or served as provided by the laws
of the state, including, but not limited to, Neb. RS 19-2411, as amended or
superseded.
   (C)   If no objections are filed sufficient to cause the repeal of the
ordinance as provided by the laws of the state, including, but not limited to,
Neb. RS 19-2411, as amended or superseded, the city shall proceed with making
the improvements. The contract shall be let and the improvements made in the
same manner as required for street improvements. The City Council may direct
the improvements to be made under a single contract or that separate bids be
taken for the street improvement, installation of water mains and installation
of sewers, but the aggregate of the contracts shall not exceed the estimate as
shown in the ordinance creating the district.
   (D)   For the purpose of making partial payment as the work progresses,
warrants may be issued by the City Council upon certificate of the engineer in
charge showing the amount of the completed in an amount not exceeding 85% of
the cost of the project as provided in Neb. RS 19-2414, as amended or
superseded.
   (E)   On the completion or acceptance of the improvement or improvements,
the City Council may cause special assessments to be levied against the
property in the district specially benefitted by the improvement or
improvements to the extent that the property is specially benefitted in the
manner and form provided for levying special assessments for street
improvements under the provisions of Neb. RS 17-509 to 17-515, as amended or
superseded, and the special assessments shall mature and bear interest the same
as provided for special assessments for paving. All money collected from the
special assessments shall be placed in a sinking fund to pay the cost of the
improvement or improvements and the bonds issued pursuant to this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 8-501)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 19-2408 through 19-2415
§ 96.02  COMBINATIONS AUTHORIZED BY SEPARATE ORDINANCES.
   (A)   The city, when constructing any city improvement or public works, may
combine two or more similar pending projects, although authorized by separate
ordinances and located in separate improvement districts, for the purpose of
advertising for bids for the construction of the projects, and for the further
purpose of awarding one contract for the construction of two or more similar
pending projects. The published notice may set forth the engineer’s lump sum
estimate of the total cost for the aggregate of all work to be performed in the
combined districts and shall enumerate the estimated quantities of work to be
done in each separate district and call for an aggregate bid on all work to be
performed in the combined districts, broken down in a manner as will accurately
reflect unit prices for the estimated quantities, so that, notwithstanding that
a submitted aggregate or alternate aggregate bid may be accepted, the actual
cost of the construction of each of the projects may be allocated by the city
to the improvement district in which it is located for the purpose of levying
any authorized special assessments to defray, in whole or in part, the cost of
construction of the projects.
   (B)   The city may also request alternate aggregate bids for the project.
(Prior Code, § 8-502)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 19-2401
CHAPTER 97:  FIRE PREVENTION; REGULATIONS
Section
Fires and Fire Alarms
   
97.01   False alarms
   
97.02   Movement of traffic following fire alarm
   
97.03   Movement of pedestrians following fire alarm
Fire Prevention
   
97.15   Life Safety Code incorporated by reference
   
97.16   Fire Prevention Code incorporated by reference
   
97.17   Duty to allow inspection of buildings
   
97.18   Inspection of public buildings
   
97.19   Fires regulated
   
97.20   School fire drills; school exits unlocked
   
97.21   Fire limits defined
   
97.22   Building permits; buildings and materials not allowed within fire
limits
   
97.23   Minor repairs; no building permit required
   
97.24   Structures not sanctioned by building permit; structures in violation
of code; structures for the distribution of petroleum products; nuisance;
abatement; assessment
   
97.25   Removal of damaged structures required
   
97.26   Ironclads prohibited
   
97.27   Lumber yards within fire limits prohibited
   
97.28   Open burning ban; waiver
Explosives and Flammables
   
97.40   Operation of petroleum business within fire limits prohibited
   
97.41   Blasting permit
   
97.42   Storage of petroleum products; permits
   
97.43   Poisonous and flammable gases
   
97.44   Storage and registration
   
97.45   Poisonous and flammable gases and explosives storage registration
FIRES AND FIRE ALARMS
§ 97.01  FALSE ALARMS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to intentionally and without good and
reasonable cause raise any false alarm of fire.
(Prior Code, § 7-101)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 97.02  MOVEMENT OF TRAFFIC FOLLOWING FIRE ALARM.
   (A)   Every motor vehicle that is not in operation at the time when the fire
alarm shall have been sounded must remain so for a period of five minutes after
the sounding of the fire alarm. No vehicle, except by the specific direction of
the Fire Chief or Assistant Fire Chief, shall follow, approach or park closer
than 500 feet to any fire vehicle, or to any fire hydrant to which a hose is
connected.
   (B)   Nothing herein shall be construed to apply to vehicles carrying
doctors, members of the Fire Department or emergency vehicles.
(Prior Code, § 7-102)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 97.03  MOVEMENT OF PEDESTRIANS FOLLOWING FIRE ALARM.
   It shall be unlawful for any pedestrian to enter or remain in any street,
after a fire alarm shall have sounded, until the fire trucks shall have
completely passed.
(Prior Code, § 7-103)  Penalty, see §
10.99
FIRE PREVENTION
§ 97.15  LIFE SAFETY CODE INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE.
   The standards recommended by the National Fire Protection Association, known
as the Life Safety Code, 2009 Edition, are hereby incorporated into this code
by reference thereto and shall, to the extent that the same are applicable to
the city and together with all subsequent amendments thereto, have the same
force and effect as if set out verbatim herein. One copy of the standards are
on file at the office of the City Clerk and shall there be available for the
use and examination of the public. It shall be the duty of all city officials,
agents and employees to assist in the enforcement of the herein incorporated
standards and to bring all infractions thereof to the immediate attention of
the City Fire Chief.
(Prior Code, § 7-201)  (Ord. 6-90, passed 8-6-1990)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 18-132
§ 97.16  FIRE PREVENTION CODE INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE.
   The rules and regulations promulgated by the Office of the State Fire
Marshal relating to fire prevention are hereby incorporated into this code by
reference thereto and shall, to the extent that the same are applicable to the
city, and together with all subsequent amendments thereto, have the same force
and effect as if set out verbatim herein, one copy of the standards is on file
at the office of the City Clerk and shall there be available for the use and
examination of the public. It shall be the duty of all city officials, agents
and employees to assist in the enforcement of the herein incorporated standards
and to bring all infractions thereof to the immediate attention of the City
Fire Chief.
(Prior Code, § 7-202)  (Ord. 6-90, passed 8-6-1990)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 18-132
§ 97.17  DUTY TO ALLOW INSPECTION OF BUILDINGS.
   It shall be the duty of the owner, lessee or occupant of any building or
structure, except the interiors of private dwellings, to allow the Fire Chief
to inspect, or cause to be inspected, as often as necessary, the structure for
the purpose of ascertaining and enumerating all conditions therein that are
likely to cause fire, or any other violations of the provisions of the city
ordinances affecting the hazard of fire.
(Prior Code, § 7-203)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 81-512
§ 97.18  INSPECTION OF PUBLIC BUILDINGS.
   The City Fire Chief, or an officer of the City Fire Department authorized by
the City Fire Chief, shall make regular inspection of all buildings of the city
open to the public. Two inspections per year shall be made of all buildings
within the fire limits of the city and one inspection shall be made each year
for all other buildings within the city. The Fire Chief, upon complaint of any
person, shall inspect any buildings and premises, except private dwellings, and
make any order necessary so that the building or premise adheres to the
provisions of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 7-204)
§ 97.19  FIRES REGULATED.
   It shall be lawful to build or set out certain fires; provided that, the
person building the fires shall have the substance to be burned in a fireproof
trash burner or incinerator with a metal fireproof screen of not more than one-
inch mesh, and located at least 20 feet from any building. The incinerator
shall be built in a way as to not permit the escape of burning paper or other
substance. If any person shall require a fire in the course of his or her trade
as a blacksmith or mechanic, the fire shall be and maintained in the manner
prescribed by the Fire Chief. All fires shall be built, after 7:00 a.m. and
completely extinguished by 4:00 p.m., except the aforesaid fires used in the
course of a trade which shall be allowed during the hours as the Fire Chief
shall prescribe. It shall be unlawful for any person to set fire to, burn or
cause to be burned any garbage, animal matter or vegetable matter. The burning
of straw, hay, leaves or brush in the open air is hereby permitted and allowed;
provided that, the person setting out the same request permission and receive
an open burning permit in writing, signed by the local Fire Chief, on a form
provided by the State Fire Marshal; and, provided further, that any burning
shall be done while the fire is attended by the person setting out the same at
all times, and further provided that the fire shall be located at least 20 feet
from any building.
(Prior Code, § 7-205)  Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-549, 17-556, 81-520.01
§ 97.20  SCHOOL FIRE DRILLS; SCHOOL EXITS UNLOCKED.
   It shall be the duty of the officials and teachers of all the schools in the
city to cooperate with the City Fire Department in conducting fire drills in a
number and at times as the Fire Chief shall prescribe; provided that, at least
one  fire drill shall be held each month. All doors and exits leading to the
outside of the schools within the city shall be kept unlocked and free from
obstruction at all times during school hours.
(Prior Code, § 7-206)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 97.21  FIRE LIMITS DEFINED.
   The following described territory within the city shall be and constitute
the fire limits of the city:
      Block One (1), the south one-half (S 1/2) and the northeast one-quarter
(NE 1/4) of Block Two (2), Block Fourteen (14), the south one-half (S 1/2) and
the northeast one-quarter (NE, 1/4) of Block Fifteen (15), the east one-half (E
1/2) of Block Twenty-eight (28), the east one-half (E 1/2) of Block Twenty-nine
(29), the east one-half (E 1/2) of Block Forty-two (42), in the Town of
Sheridan, now Auburn; the west one-half (W 1/2) of Block Six (6), Block
Fourteen (14), Block Nineteen (19), Block Twenty (20), the north one-half (N 1/
2) and the southwest one-quarter (SW 1/4) of Block Twenty-one (21) in Howe and
Nixon’s First Addition; Block One (1), the north one-half (N 1/2) and the
southeast one-quarter (SE 1/4) of Block Two (2), Lots One (1) and Twelve (12)
of Block Seven (7), Block Eight (8), the north one-half (N 1/2) of Block Nine
(9), Lots One (1) and Twelve (12) of Block Ten (10), Lot Twelve (12) of Block
Nineteen (19), and Block Twenty-eight (28), in Howe, Nixon and Wilson’s
Addition; Block Twenty-two (22), Block Twenty-three (23), the east one-half (E
1/2) and southwest one-quarter (SW 1/4) of Block Twenty-four (24), in Reed and
Gilmore’s Addition; Block Four (4), the northeast one-quarter (NE 1/4) of Block
Nine (9), in the First Addition to Calvert, now Auburn; Block One (1), Block
Two (2), [except the west 130 feet of Block Two (2)], the east one-half (E 1/2)
and the northwest one-quarter (NW 1/4) of Block Four (4), the west one-half (W
1/2) and Lots One (1) and Two (2) of Block Five (5) in Courthouse Addition; Lot
One (1) of Seventeen (17) and the west 200 feet of Lot Two (2) of Seventeen
(17), in Section Fifteen (15), Township Five (5), north of Range Fourteen (14),
East of Sixth (6th) P.M., Nemaha County, Nebraska; and that part of Sage’s
Reserve laying west of Summet (now H) Street all as shown on the recorded plat
thereof; provided, however, that, any real estate owned by the City of Auburn,
Nebraska, shall be and is hereby excluded from the fire limits and any real
estate owned by the city shall in no wise be affected by, or come within any of
the provisions of this chapter relating to real estate within the fire limits
as herein designated and defined.
(Prior Code, § 7-207)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 17-550
§ 97.22  BUILDING PERMITS; BUILDINGS AND MATERIALS NOT ALLOWED WITHIN FIRE
LIMITS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person owning or controlling any lot,
lots or lands within the fire limits of the city to cause any structure to be
built, altered, enlarged or moved upon the lot, lots or lands unless the person
shall have first made application therefor to the City Council and shall have
received, from the City Council, a building permit authorizing the person to
build, alter, enlarge or move the structure. Printed applications for the
permits shall be issued by the City Clerk and shall require, in writing,
information as the City Council shall deem necessary in order to determine
whether or not to grant and issue the building permit.
   (B)   The City Council shall not hereafter approve or authorize the
building, alteration, enlargement or moving of any structure upon any lot, lots
or lands within the fire limits of the city, unless the structure is designed
to be enclosed with the incombustible materials as shall, to the satisfaction
of the City Fire Chief cause the structure to be reasonably fire proof. The
City Council shall not hereafter approve or authorize the building or
construction of any buildings, sheds or structures, known as ironclads,
constructed of wood and covered with sheet iron or tin attached to the wooden
frame upon any lot, lots or lands within the fire limits of the city. The City
Council shall not hereafter approve or authorize the building, alteration,
enlargement or moving of any structure upon any lot, lots or lands within the
fire limits of the city for the purpose of selling, at wholesale or at retail,
any gasoline, oil, grease distillate or petroleum products.
   (C)   No building permit approving or authorizing the building, alteration,
enlargement or moving of any structure upon any lot, lots or lands within the
fire limits of the city shall be granted or issued until the City Council shall
have determined that the structure will be in full compliance with the
provisions of all ordinances of this code, including the provisions of all
standards, rules and regulations incorporated therein, and that the structure
will be otherwise reasonably fire proof.
   (D)   The City Council, when granting or issuing a building permit approving
or authorizing the building, alteration, enlargement or moving of any structure
upon any lot, lots or lands within the fire limits of the city, may include in
the permit, as a precondition to the validity thereof, any specifications or
requirements regarding the construction or final condition of the structure
after the completion of the building, alteration, enlargement or moving, to the
extent that the specifications or requirements shall be useful in ensuring that
the structure will be in full compliance with the provisions of all ordinances
of this code, including the provisions of all standards, rules and regulations
incorporated therein, and that the structure will be otherwise reasonably fire
proof.
   (E)   It shall be unlawful for any person granted or issued a building
permit, approving or authorizing the building, alteration, enlargement or
moving of any structure upon any lot, lots or lands within the fire limits of
the city, which building permit includes therein, as a precondition to the
validity thereof, any specifications or requirements regarding the construction
or final condition of the structure after the completion of the building,
alteration, enlargement or moving, to fail, neglect or refuse to comply with
the specifications or requirements. It shall be unlawful for any person
preparing an application for a building permit approving or authorizing the
building, alteration, enlargement or moving of any structure upon any lot, lots
or lands within the fire limits of the city, to willfully misrepresent or
misstate thereon any material fact, plan or intention. It shall be unlawful for
any person granted or issued a building permit, approving or authorizing the
building, alteration, enlargement or moving of any structure upon any lot, lots
or lands within the fire limits of the city, to cause or allow the structure to
deviate in any material way from its manner of construction or final condition
as represented in the application submitted by the person seeking the granting
or issuance of the permit.
(Prior Code, § 7-208)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 97.23  MINOR REPAIRS; NO BUILDING PERMIT REQUIRED.
   No person shall be required to apply for or obtain a building permit
authorizing the repair of any structure where the repair shall consist solely
of patching and other similar minor repairs which do not materially alter the
structure as regards the compliance of the structure with the provisions of all
ordinances of this code, including the provisions of all standards, rules and
regulations incorporated therein.
(Prior Code, § 7-209)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 97.24  STRUCTURES NOT SANCTIONED BY BUILDING PERMIT; STRUCTURES IN VIOLATION
OF CODE; STRUCTURES FOR THE DISTRIBUTION OF PETROLEUM PRODUCTS; NUISANCE;
ABATEMENT; ASSESSMENT.
   (A)   Any building or structure that is built, altered, enlarged or moved
upon any lot, lots or lands within the fire limits of the city without a
building permit having been granted or issued approving or authorizing the
building, alteration, enlargement or moving of the building or structure is
hereby declared to be a public nuisance to the extent that the building or
structure does not comply with the provisions of any ordinance of this
subchapter, including the provisions of any standards, rules and regulations
incorporated therein, and to the extent that the building or structure is not
otherwise reasonably fire proof. Any building or structure located, constructed
or maintained upon any lot, lots or lands within the jurisdiction of the city
which fails to comply with the provisions of any ordinances of this subchapter,
including the provisions of any standards, rules and regulations incorporated
therein, is hereby declared to be a public nuisance to the extent of the
noncompliance. Any building or structure hereafter located, constructed or
maintained upon any lot, lots or lands within the fire limits of the city for
the purpose of selling, at wholesale or retail, gasoline, oil, grease,
distillate or petroleum products is hereby declared to be a public nuisance.
   (B)   (1)   Whenever a public nuisance exists, as herein provided, the City
Council shall cause notice to be served, by publication and by certified mail,
upon the person owning or controlling the lot, lots or lands whereupon the
nuisance is located, constructed or maintained. The notice shall include:
         (a)   A statement that the building or structure, or a condition of
the building or structure, has been declared to be a public nuisance;
         (b)   A directive that the building or structure must be repaired,
rehabilitated or demolished and removed, or that the condition must be
remedied, at once; and
         (c)   A description of the measures that must be taken to effectuate
the repair, rehabilitation or remedy.
      (2)   If the person receiving the notice has not complied therewith or
taken an appeal from the determination that a nuisance exists within five days
after receipt of certified mail or within five days after date of publication,
whichever is later, the City Fire Chief shall notify the City Council of the
noncompliance and the City Council shall, upon receipt of the notice, cause a
hearing date to be fixed and notice thereof to be served upon the person owning
or controlling the lot, lots or lands whereupon the nuisance is located,
constructed or maintained.
      (3)   The notice shall be by personal service or certified mail and shall
require the person to appear before the City Council to show cause why the
condition should not be found to be a public nuisance and remedied. A return of
service shall be required by the City Council. The notice shall be given not
less than five days prior to the time of hearing; provided that, whenever the
person owning or controlling the lot, lots or lands whereupon the nuisance is
located, constructed or maintained is a nonresident or cannot be found in the
state, then the City Clerk shall publish, in a newspaper of general circulation
in the city, the notice of hearing for two consecutive weeks, the last
publication to be at least one week prior to the date set for the hearing.
   (C)   Upon the date set for hearing, and pursuant to notice, the City
Council shall hear all objections made by interested parties and shall hear
evidence submitted by the City Fire Chief. If, after consideration of all of
the evidence, the City Council shall find that the building or structure, or
the condition of the building or structure, is a public nuisance, then it
shall, by resolution, order and direct the person owning or controlling the
lot, lots or lands whereupon the nuisance is located, constructed or maintained
to repair, rehabilitate or demolish and remove, the building or structure, or
to remedy the condition at once; provided that, the party so ordered and
directed may appeal the decision to the appropriate court for adjudication,
during which proceedings the decision of the City Council shall be stayed.
   (D)   Should the person owning or controlling the lot, lots or lands
whereupon the nuisance is located, constructed or maintained refuse or neglect
to promptly comply with the order of the City Council, the City Council shall
proceed to cause the abatement of the described public nuisance. A statement of
the cost of the abatement shall be transmitted to the City Council, which shall
thereupon levy the cost as a special assessment against the lot, lots or lands.
The special assessment shall be a lien upon the lot, lots or lands and shall be
collected in the manner provided for special assessments.
(Prior Code, § 7-210)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-123, 17-556, 18-1720, 18-1722
§ 97.25  REMOVAL OF DAMAGED STRUCTURES REQUIRED.
   In the event that any wooden or combustible building or structure within the
jurisdiction of the city, or any noncombustible building which stands within
the fire limits, is damaged to the extent of 50% or more of its value,
exclusive of the foundation, it shall not be repaired or rebuilt, but shall be
taken down and removed within 60 days from the date of the fire or other
casualty. Any building or structure as herein provided that is not taken down
and removed within 60 days from the date of the fire or other casualty causing
the damage to the building or structure shall be deemed to be maintained in a
manner which fails to comply with the provisions of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 7-211)
§ 97.26  IRONCLADS PROHIBITED.
   No buildings, sheds or structures, known as ironclads, which are constructed
of wood and covered with sheet iron or tin attached to the wooden frame shall
hereafter be permitted to be located, constructed or maintained within the
jurisdiction of the city. Any structure constructed as herein provided which
shall be located, constructed or maintained within the jurisdiction of the city
shall be deemed to be located, constructed or maintained in a manner which
fails to comply with the provisions of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 7-212)
§ 97.27  LUMBER YARDS WITHIN FIRE LIMITS PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to locate, establish or maintain any
lumber yard or place for the piling, storing, keeping or selling any lumber, or
to keep any lime, lath, shingles, hay, straw or other combustible materials on
any lot or parcel of ground within the fire limits, unless the same is securely
kept in a building constructed of brick, stone, concrete or other incombustible
material; provided, the foregoing shall not apply to lumber yards now built and
in use. Any lumber yard or place located, established or maintained in any
manner which does not strictly adhere to the requirements therefor as provided
by the foregoing sentence of this subchapter shall be deemed to be located,
constructed or maintained in a manner which fails to comply with the provisions
of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 7-213)  Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-550
§ 97.28  OPEN BURNING BAN: WAIVER.
   (A)   There shall be a statewide open burning ban on all bonfires, outdoor
rubbish fires and fires for the purpose of clearing land.
   (B)   The Fire Chief of the City Fire Department or his or her designee may
waive an open burning ban under division (A) above for an area under his or her
jurisdiction by issuing an open burning permit to a person requesting
permission to conduct open burning. The permit issued by the Fire Chief or his
or her designee to a person desiring to conduct open burning shall be in
writing, signed by the Fire Chief or his or her designee, and on a form
provided by the State Fire Marshal.
   (C)   The City Fire Chief or his or her designee may waive the open burning
ban in his or her jurisdiction when conditions are acceptable to the Chief or
his or her designee. Anyone burning in the jurisdiction when the open burning
ban has been waived shall notify the Fire Department of his or her intention to
burn.
   (D)   The City Fire Chief may adopt and promulgate rules and regulations
listing the conditions acceptable for issuing a permit to conduct open burning
under division (B) of this section.
   (E)   The City Fire Department may charge a fee, not to exceed $10, for each
permit issued. This fee shall be remitted to the City Council for inclusion in
the general funds allocated to the Fire Department. The funds shall not reduce
the tax requirements for the Fire Department. No fee shall be collected from
any state or political subdivision to which a permit is issued to conduct open
burning under division (B) of this section in the course of the state’s or
political subdivision’s official duties.
(Prior Code, § 7-215)  (Ord. 16-95, passed 8-7-1995)  Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 81-520.01
EXPLOSIVES AND FLAMMABLES
§ 97.40  OPERATION OF PETROLEUM BUSINESS WITHIN FIRE LIMITS PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, persons, firm, co-partnership,
corporation or association to erect any building or structure, and to install
therein any machinery or appliances, for the purpose of selling, at either
wholesale or retail, gasoline, oil, grease, distillate or petroleum products
within the fire limits of the city.
(Prior Code, § 7-214)  Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-550
§ 97.41  BLASTING PERMIT.
   In addition to notifying the City Fire Department pursuant to Neb. RS 28-
1233(3), any person desiring to discharge explosive materials, as defined in
Neb. RS 28-1213, within the city, shall apply for and secure a permit from the
City Council 24 hours prior to the discharge, and shall discharge the explosive
materials in conformance with the conditions specified in the permit. In no
case shall any person perform blasting operations unless operating under the
direct supervision of a person in possession of a valid user’s permit issued by
the State Patrol.
(Prior Code, § 7-216)  (Ord. 11-94, passed 12-19-1994)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-549, 17-556, 28-1229, 28-1233
§ 97.42  STORAGE OF PETROLEUM PRODUCTS; PERMITS.
   Any person, firm or corporation desiring to have or keep a storage tank
either above ground or below ground for the purpose of storing over ten gallons
of gasoline, oil, grease, distillate or petroleum products must first get
permission from the City Council. The City Council shall require the name of
the product to be stored, the place of storage and the amount of product
stored. If permission is granted, the City Council shall prescribe rules,
regulations and precautionary actions as it may deem necessary. The provisions
of this section shall apply to all property zoned residential within the city
limits. A storage tank is different from a usage tank. A usage tank is a tank
that is directly connected to the item that uses the product, such as a tank
that is directly connected to a furnace or a tank that is directly connected to
a generator. A storage tank is a tank that is not directly connected to the
ultimate machine or device that uses the product. This section shall not apply
to the storage of ten gallons or less of gasoline.
(Prior Code, § 7-217)  (Ord. 9-90, passed 8-13-1990)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 97.43  POISONOUS AND FLAMMABLE GASES.
   (A)   Any person, firm, or corporation desiring to store or keep in the
residential zone of the city for any period of time, any form of poisonous or
flammable gas of liquefied petroleum gas of add to enlarge or replace any
facility used for the storage of the gases, must first get permission from the
City Council.
   (B)   The City Council shall require the name of the gas, the place of
storage, and the amount of gas stored.
   (C)   If permission is granted, the City Council shall prescribe rules,
regulations and precautionary actions as it may deem necessary.
   (D)   The provisions of section shall be controlling throughout the
residential zone in the city limits.
(Prior Code, § 7-218)  (Ord. 9-90, passed 8-13-1990)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 97.44  STORAGE AND REGISTRATION.
   (A)   In addition to notifying the City Fire Department pursuant to Neb. RS
28-1233(3), any person desiring to store or keep for any period of time
explosive materials, as defined in Neb. RS 28-1213, shall register such
information with the City Clerk 24 hours prior to the storage. The transfer of
explosive materials to another person within the city shall require the person
receiving the explosive materials to register the transfer and the new location
of the explosive materials with the City Clerk. The transfer of explosive
materials to a new location by the owner shall require registration of the new
location with the City Clerk.
   (B)   All explosive materials shall be stored in a proper receptacle made of
cement, metal or stone and be closed at all times, except when in actual use.
The receptacles shall not be located in any room where there are flames or
flammable materials. The area surrounding storage facilities shall be kept
clear of rubbish, brush, dry grass or trees not less than 25 feet in all
directions. Any other combustible materials shall be kept a distance of not
less than 50 feet from outdoor storage facilities.
(Prior Code, § 7-219)  (Ord. 11-94, passed 12-19-1994)  Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-549, 17-556, 28-1229, 28-1233
§ 97.45  POISONOUS AND FLAMMABLE GASES AND EXPLOSIVES STORAGE REGISTRATION.
   In addition to notifying the City Fire Department pursuant to Neb. RS 23-
1233(3), any person desiring to store or keep for any period of time explosive
materials, as defined in Neb. RS 28-1213, or any form of poisonous or flammable
gases or liquefied petroleum gases within the city shall register the
information with the City Clerk 24 hours prior to the storage. The transfer of
the explosives or gases to another person within the city shall require the
person receiving the explosives or gases to register the transfer and the new
location of the explosives and gases with the City Clerk. The transfer of
explosive materials and gases to a new location by the owner shall require
registration of the new location with the City Clerk. This section shall not
apply to the storage of five gallons or less of gasoline.
(Prior Code, § 7-220)  (Ord. 11-94, passed 12-19-1994)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-549, 17-556, 28-1229, 28-1233
CHAPTER 98:  ANIMALS
Section
General Provisions
   
98.001   Animals banned
   
98.002   Unlawful to permit animals to run at large
   
98.003   Special permit
   
98.004   Unusual animals
   
98.005   Enclosures
   
98.006   Rabies; impoundment
   
98.007   Killing of animals by authorities
   
98.008   Pitting
   
98.009   Abandonment, neglect, and mistreatment
Dogs and Cats
   
98.020   Definition
   
98.021   Liability for damages; allowing dog or cat to injure or destroy
property unlawful
   
98.022   Dog and cat waste
   
98.023   Live traps
   
98.024   License and tax required; tags
   
98.025   Dog guides, hearing aid dogs and service dogs; exempt from license tax
   
98.026   Presumption of age
   
98.027   Impounding
   
98.028   Maintenance of control by owner, keeper, harborer; impoundment; fees
   
98.029   Vicious dogs and cats; unlawful to not be held by chain; Mayor may
direct dogs and cats be restrained or confined
   
98.030   Rabies; impoundment
   
98.031   Bitten by rabid animal; disposition
   
98.032   Continuous barking, howling and the like
   
98.033   Killing, poisoning and injuring unlawful
   
98.034   Collection of fees, fines, penalties and funding
   
98.035   License fees
Dangerous Dogs
   
98.050   Definitions
   
98.051   Restraint
   
98.052   Confinement
   
98.053   Failure to comply
Pit Bulls
   
98.065   Keeping prohibited
   
98.066   Registered keeping
   
98.067   Leash and muzzle
   
98.068   Confinement
   
98.069   Signs
   
98.070   Insurance
   
98.071   Microchip
   
98.072   Spaying and neutering
   
98.073   Reporting requirements
   
98.074   Sale or transfer of ownership prohibited
   
98.075   Animals born of registered dogs
   
98.076   Irrebuttable presumptions
   
98.077   Failure to comply
   
98.078   Determination of breed; confiscation of animal; failure to surrender
animal
 
   
98.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 98.001  ANIMALS BANNED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to keep or maintain, within the
corporate limits of the city, any horse, mule, sheep, cow, goat, swine,
poultry, chickens, turkeys, geese or any other fowl or livestock.
(Prior Code, § 6-201)  Penalty, see §
98.999
§ 98.002  UNLAWFUL TO PERMIT ANIMALS TO RUN AT LARGE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person who is the owner, keeper or harborer of
any horse, mule, sheep, cow, goat, swine, poultry, chickens, turkeys, geese or
any other fowl or livestock, or for any person having the charge, custody or
control of the aforementioned animals, to permit the animals to be driven or to
run at large within the corporate limits of the city.
(Prior Code, § 6-202)  Penalty, see §
98.999
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-547
§ 98.003  SPECIAL PERMIT.
   Notwithstanding any language in §
98.001 to the contrary, the City Council may grant a special permit to an
individual to keep or maintain within the corporate limits of the city a
Vietnamese pig. Only one Vietnamese pig shall be allowed per individual. Only
one Vietnamese pig shall be allowed per property location. If any complaint is
received by the City Council or the City Clerk with regard to the Vietnamese
pig for which a license has been issued, the City Council may, upon notice and
hearing, cancel the special permit. The receipt of a complaint shall be
sufficient cause for the cancellation of a permit. The Vietnamese pig shall be
maintained at all times in a manner so that it does not annoy or disturb
individuals in the neighborhood, does not create offensive odor, and does not
damage the property of any individual other than its owner. The Vietnamese pig
when outside shall, at all times, be kept in the actual physical control of its
owner or handler.
(Prior Code, § 6-202.01)  (Ord. 10-90, passed 12-3-1990)  Penalty, see §
98.999
§ 98.004  UNUSUAL ANIMALS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to own, keep, or harbor
any unusual animal within the corporate limits of the city, unless the animals
are registered with the City Clerk, except that this section shall not be
construed to prohibit a public zoo, circus, humane society or a carnival from
displaying unusual animals as exhibits, or to prohibit primary and secondary
schools or colleges and universities from using the unusual animal for research
and teaching, or to prohibit any wildlife rescue organizations with appropriate
permits from the State Game and Parks Commission from rehabilitating or
sheltering unusual animals or authorized individuals from sheltering animals
belonging to a public zoo which require extensive care or rehabilitation.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to sell, give away, transfer or
import into the city any unusual animals as defined in this chapter, unless
registered, excluding a public zoo doing business with another zoo.
   (C)   In the event that a city police officer determines an unusual animal
is being owned, kept or harbored by any person in violation of this chapter,
the city may have the person prosecuted for the violation.
   (D)   Unusual animal shall mean any poisonous or potentially dangerous
animal not normally considered domesticated and shall include animals
prohibited by the city, state or federal requirements, and also:
      (1)   Class mammalia; order carnivora, family felidae (such as lions,
tigers, jaguars, leopards and cougars) except commonly accepted domesticated
cats and hybrids involving same; family canidae (such as wolves, coyotes and
fox) except domesticated dogs and hybrids involving same; family mustehdae
(such as weasels, martins, fishers, skunks, wolverines, mink and badgers)
except ferrets; family procyonidae (such as raccoon); family ursidae (such as
bears); order primate (such as monkeys and chimpanzees); and order chiroptera
(such as bats);
      (2)   Class reptilia:
         (a)   Poisonous reptiles; cobras and their allies (elapidae,
hydrophiidae); vipers and their allies (crotiladae, viperidae); boonslang and
kirtland’s tree snake; and gila monster (heleodermatidae); and
         (b)   Non-poisonous reptiles; reptiles large enough to inflict serious
injury or death by biting or constriction including boa constrictors and
pythons.
      (3)   Amphibious reptiles and aquatic reptiles such as alligators and
crocodiles, but not including, small chameleons and lizards.
(Prior Code, § 6-202.02)  (Ord. 2-97, passed 7-7-1997)  Penalty, see §
98.999
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-526
§ 98.005  ENCLOSURES.
   All pens, cages, sheds, yards or any other item or area of enclosure for the
confinement of animals, not specifically barred from the corporate limits of
the city, shall be kept in a clean and orderly manner and condition so as not
to become a menace or nuisance to the neighborhood in which the enclosure is
located.
(Prior Code, § 6-203)  Penalty, see §
98.999
§ 98.006  RABIES; IMPOUNDMENT.
   Any animal suspected of being afflicted with rabies and which has bitten any
person and caused an abrasion of the skin of the person shall be seized by the
city police and impounded under the supervision of a licensed veterinarian or a
representative of the Board of Public Health for a period of not less than ten
days. If, upon examination by a veterinarian, the animal is found to exhibit no
clinical signs of rabies at the end of the impoundment, the animal may be
released to the owner or, in the case of a stray, it shall be disposed of in
accordance with applicable law. Any animal which has bitten any person shall be
confined by the owner or other responsible person for a period of at least ten
days, at which time the animal shall be examined by a licensed veterinarian and
if, no signs of rabies are then observed by the veterinarian, then the animal
may be released from confinement. It shall be unlawful for any person who owns,
keeps or harbors any animal that has bitten any person to fail, neglect or
refuse to confine the animal or to submit the animal to confinement as
hereinabove provided.
(Prior Code, § 6-204)  Penalty, see §
98.999
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 71-4406
§ 98.007  KILLING OF ANIMALS BY AUTHORITIES.
   The city police shall have the authority to kill any animals showing vicious
tendencies or characteristics of rabies, whenever it appears that the capture
of the animal cannot be accomplished without unreasonably endangering persons
or property.
(Prior Code, § 6-205)
§ 98.008  PITTING.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      BEARBAITING. The pitting of any animal against a bear.
      COCKFIGHTING. The pitting of a fowl against another fowl.
      DOGFIGHTING. The pitting of a dog against another dog.
      PITTING. Bringing animals together in combat.
(Prior Code, § 6-206)
   (B)   (1)   No person shall knowingly:
         (a)   Promote, engage in, or be employed at dogfighting, cockfighting,
bearbaiting, or pitting an animal against another;
         (b)   Receive money for the admission of another person to a place
kept for such purpose;
         (c)   Own, use, train, sell, or possess an animal for such purpose; or
         (d)   Permit any act as described in this division (B)(1) to occur on
any premises owned or controlled by him or her.
      (2)   No person shall knowingly and willingly be present at and witness
as a spectator dogfighting, cockfighting, bearbaiting, or the pitting of an
animal against another as prohibited in division (B)(1) of this section.
   (C)   (1)   No person shall knowingly or intentionally own or possess animal
fighting paraphernalia with the intent to commit a violation of this section.
      (2)   (a)   For purposes of this section, except as provided in
subdivision (C)(2)(b) of this subsection, ANIMAL FIGHTING PARAPHERNALIA means
equipment, products, and materials of any kind that are used, intended for use,
or designed for use in the training, preparation, conditioning, or furtherance
of the pitting of an animal against another as defined in division (A) of this
section. ANIMAL FIGHTING PARAPHERNALIA includes, but is not limited to, the
following:
            1.   A breaking stick, which means a device designed for insertion
behind the molars of a dog for the purpose of breaking the dog's grip on
another animal or object;
            2.   A cat mill, which means a device that rotates around a central
support with one arm designed to secure a dog and one arm designed to secure a
cat, rabbit, or other small animal beyond the grasp of the dog;
            3.   A treadmill, which means an exercise device consisting of an
endless belt on which the animal walks or runs without changing place;
            4.   A fighting pit, which means a walled area designed to contain
an animal fight;
            5.   A springpole, which means a biting surface attached to a
stretchable device, suspended at a height sufficient to prevent a dog from
reaching the biting surface while touching the ground;
            6.   A heel, which means any edged or pointed instrument designed
to be attached to the leg of a fowl;
            7.   A boxing glove or muff, which means a fitted protective
covering for the spurs of a fowl; and
            8.   Any other instrument commonly used in the furtherance of
pitting an animal against another.
      (b)   ANIMAL FIGHTING PARAPHERNALIA does not include equipment, products,
or materials of any kind used by a veterinarian licensed to practice veterinary
medicine and surgery in this state.
   (3)   Any person violating division (C)(1) of this section is guilty of a
Class I misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, §§  6-206, 6-208)  (Ord. 7-88, passed 11-7-1988; Ord. 1-91, passed
2-4-1991; Ord. 15-11, passed  6-27-2011)   Penalty, see §
98.999
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 28-1004, 28-1005, 28-1005.04
§ 98.009  ABANDONMENT, NEGLECT, AND MISTREATMENT.
   (A)   Definitions.  For the purpose of this chapter, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
   ABANDON.  To leave any animal in one's care, whether as owner or custodian,
for any length of time without making effective provision for its food, water,
or other care as is reasonably necessary for the animal's health.
   ANIMAL.  Any vertebrate member of the animal kingdom. ANIMAL does not
include an uncaptured wild creature or a livestock animal as defined in this
section.
   BOVINE.  A cow, an ox, or a bison.
   CRUELLY MISTREAT.  To knowingly and intentionally kill, maim, disfigure,
torture, beat, mutilate, burn, scald, or otherwise inflict harm upon any
animal.
   CRUELLY NEGLECT.  To fail to provide any animal in one's care, whether as
owner or custodian, with food, water, or other care as is reasonably necessary
for the animal's health.
   HUMANE KILLING.  The destruction of an animal by a method which causes the
animal a minimum of pain and suffering.
   LAW ENFORCEMENT OFFICER.  Any member of the Nebraska State Patrol, any
county or deputy sheriff, any member of the police force of the municipality or
any other city or village, or any other public official authorized by the
municipality or any other city or village to enforce state or local animal
control laws, rules, regulations, or ordinances. 
   LIVESTOCK ANIMAL. Any bovine, equine, swine, sheep, goats, domesticated
cervine animals, ratite birds, or poultry.
   (B)  Enforcement powers; immunity.
      (1)   Any law enforcement officer who has reason to believe that an
animal has been abandoned or is being cruelly neglected or cruelly mistreated
may seek a warrant authorizing entry upon private property to inspect, care
for, or impound the animal.
      (2)   Any law enforcement officer who has reason to believe that an
animal has been abandoned or is being cruelly neglected or cruelly mistreated
may issue a citation to the owner as prescribed in Neb. RS 29-422 to 29-429.
      (3)   Any law enforcement officer acting under this section shall not be
liable for damage to property if such damage is not the result of the officer's
negligence.
   (C)  Violation.  A person who intentionally, knowingly, or recklessly
abandons, cruelly neglects, or cruelly mistreats an animal is guilty of an
offense.
(Prior Code, §§  6-209, 6-210, 6-211)  (Ord. 1-91, passed 2-4-1991; Ord. 14-11,
passed 6-27-2011)   Penalty, see §
98.999
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 28-1008, 28-1009, 28-1012
DOGS AND CATS
§ 98.020  DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CONTROL. (The following definition shall apply for purposes of §§
98.028,
98.029 and
98.069.) To exercise a dominating influence over, either by verbal or visual
command. To CONTROL, the owner, keeper or harborer of the animal must be
physically present and exercising control over the animal.
   IMMEDIATE CONTROL. (The following definition shall apply for purposes of §§
98.028,
98.029 and
98.069.) A higher degree of control than the word “control”. To hold in
physical restraint. To have IMMEDIATE CONTROL, the owner, keeper or harborer of
the animal must be physically present and exercising physical restraint on the
animal.
(Prior Code, § 6-102)
   OWNER. Any person possessing, keeping, harboring or having charge or control
of, or permitting any dog or cat to habitually be or remain on, or be lodged or
fed within, the person’s house, yard or premises. A dog or cat shall be deemed
to be “harbored” if it is fed or sheltered five consecutive days or more.
(Prior Code, § 6-101)
(Ord. 4-95, passed 11-6-1995)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-526, 71-4410
§ 98.021  LIABILITY FOR DAMAGES; ALLOWING DOG OR CAT TO INJURE OR DESTROY
PROPERTY UNLAWFUL.
   Dogs and cats are hereby declared to be personal property for all intents
and purposes, and the owner or owners of any dog or cat shall be liable for any
and all damages that may accrue to any person, other than a trespasser, by
reason of having been chased, bitten or mauled by any dog or cat. If two or
more dogs owned by different persons shall kill, wound or chase any domestic
animal, the persons shall be jointly and severally liable for all damage done
by the dogs. It shall be unlawful for any person to allow a dog or cat owned,
kept or harbored by him or her, to destroy any real or personal property of any
description belonging to another person. The owner or keeper of every dog and
cat shall be liable to the owner of any real or personal property whose
property is damaged, altered or defaced by his or her dog or cat.
(Prior Code, § 6-103)  (Ord. 4-95, passed 11-6-1995)  Penalty, see §
98.999
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS  17-526, 54-601, 54-602
§ 98.022  DOG AND CAT WASTE.
   (A)   The owner or keeper of every dog or cat shall be responsible for the
removal of any excreta deposited on public walks, recreation area or private
property by his or her dog or cat, or deposited as a result of the owner’s
cleaning of a dog or cat cage, pen or other dog or cat facility.
   (B)   The owner or keeper of every dog or cat shall be responsible for the
removal of any trash or garbage that is scattered or removed from its rightful
place by his or her dog or cat.
(Prior Code, § 6-104)  Penalty, see §
98.999
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-526
§ 98.023  LIVE TRAPS.
   All live traps within the city limits shall be set and operated by the Dog
Catcher or set and operated under the supervision of the Dog Catcher. A LIVE
TRAP is defined, for purposes of this section, as a trap used for the purpose
of catching a cat inside it without injuring the cat.
(Prior Code, § 6-105)  (Ord. 4-95, passed 11-6-1995)  Penalty, see §
98.999
§ 98.024  LICENSE AND TAX REQUIRED; TAGS.
   (A)   Any owner of a dog or cat over the age of seven months within the
municipality shall within 30 days after acquisition of the dog or cat acquire a
license for each dog or cat. The owner shall renew the license annually for
each dog or cat on or before January 2 of each year. It shall be the duty of
the City Clerk to administer the issuance of dog and cat licenses and to issue
license certificates and license tags, as herein provided. The licenses and
tags may be obtained from the Police Department or any veterinarian who
practices in the county and agrees to issue the licenses. In applying for a dog
or cat license, the owner of the dog or cat shall state, in writing, upon
printed forms provided for the purpose of the application, his or her own name,
current address, and telephone number, together with the name, breed, color and
sex of the dog or cat being licensed.
   (B)   (1)   At the time of making the application, the owner of the dog or
cat shall also present to the City Clerk, Police Department or veterinarian a
certificate proving that the dog or cat to be licensed had be vaccinated
against rabies, effective for the ensuing year of the license, in accordance
with Nebraska law. No license or tag shall be issued until the rabies
vaccination certificate is shown.
      (2)   Application having been made and a certificate of rabies
vaccination having been presented, as hereinabove provided, the City Clerk,
Police Department or veterinarian shall issue to the owner a license
certificate and a metallic tag for each dog or cat licensed, upon the payment
of the owner of a license tax of $10 for each neutered or spayed dog or cat, or
$50 for each unneutered or unspayed dog or cat. In addition to and collected
with the license tax, the owner shall pay the $1 fee required under Neb. RS 54-
603(3) for each dog or cat licensed.
      (3)   The license tax shall be considered delinquent and an additional
$10 shall be assessed for each dog or cat licensed after January 30. The City
Clerk shall issue metallic tags of a suitable design that are different in
appearance each year.
   (C)   The issuance of the license certificate and metallic tag, as
hereinabove provided, shall entitle the owner to keep or harbor the dog or cat
within the jurisdiction of the city until the day of December 31 following the
issuance. As an alternative to a license tag, a dog or cat may be identified as
licensed  by being tattooed on its right ear or on its inside right thigh or
groin with a license number approved or issued by the city, or may have a
microchip (issued by a company approved by the City Council) that includes a
license number approved or issued by the city inserted under its skin. The
license certificate shall not be transferable and no refund will be allowed in
the case of death, sale or other disposition of the licensed dog or cat. The
cost of the tattoo or microchip shall be paid by the owner.
   (D)   (1)   All dogs or cats within the jurisdiction of the city shall wear
a collar or harness and the metallic license tag shall be properly attached to
such collar or harness (or shall be tattooed or have a microchip) at all times.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful for the owner of any dog or cat to permit or
allow such dog or cat to wear any licensing identification other than the
metallic tag, tattoo or microchip issued in accordance with this section.
      (3)   In the event that a metallic license tag is lost, and upon
satisfactory evidence that the original license tag was issued in accordance
with the provisions herein, the City Clerk shall issue a duplicate or new
metallic license tag, which shall be valid for the balance of the year for
which the license tax was paid. The City Clerk shall charge and collect a fee
of $1 for each duplicate or new tag so issued.
   (E)   All money collected in payment of the license tax and other fees
provided herein shall be immediately credited to the Fund for Animal Welfare
and Control, except as otherwise provided by Neb. RS 54-603.
(Prior Code, § 6-106)  (Ord. 4-95, passed 11-6-1995; Ord. 16-11, passed 6-27-
2011)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-526, 54-603, 71-4412
§ 98.025  DOG GUIDES, HEARING AID DOGS AND SERVICE DOGS; EXEMPT FROM LICENSE
TAX.
   Every dog guide for a blind or visually impaired person, hearing aid dog for
a deaf or hearing-impaired person, and service dog for a physically limited
person shall be licensed as required by the city code, but no license tax shall
be charged upon a showing by the owner that the dog is a graduate of a
recognized training school for dog guides, hearing aid dogs or service dogs.
Upon the retirement or discontinuance of the dog as a dog guide, hearing aid
dog or service dog, the owner of the dog shall be liable for the payment of the
required license tax.
(Prior Code, § 6-106.01)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 54-603
§ 98.026  PRESUMPTION OF AGE.
   All dogs and cats found roaming at large without proper proof of date of
birth shall be regarded as animals at least seven months old and therefore
shall be subject to the licensing requirement.
(Prior Code, § 6-107)  (Ord. 4-95, passed 11-6-1995)
§ 98.027  IMPOUNDING.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the city police and Dog Catcher to capture,
secure, and remove in a humane manner to an appropriate Animal Shelter, any dog
or cat violating any of the provisions of this subchapter. The dogs and cats so
impounded shall be treated in a humane manner and shall be provided with a
sufficient supply of food and fresh water each day. Each impounded dog or cat
shall be kept and maintained for a period of not less than ten days, after
public notice has been given, unless reclaimed earlier by the owner. Notice of
impoundment of all animals, including any significant marks or identifications,
shall be posted at the office of the City Clerk within 24 hours after
impoundment, as public notification of the impoundment. If the dog or cat is
licensed and wearing the license, the owner shall, within 24 hours, be notified
that his or her dog or cat has been impounded. Notice shall be by an attempt to
call the owner by telephone followed by written notice.
   (B)   (1)   Any dog or cat may be reclaimed by its owner during the period
of impoundment by payment of a general impoundment fee as herein set forth, and
daily board fee of $10 for each day of impoundment. The owner shall also be
required to comply with  the licensing and rabies vaccination requirements
prior to release of the dog or cat.  The general impoundment fee shall be as
follows:
         (a)   For the first time any animal(s) licensed to an owner is
impounded in a 12-month period: $20;
         (b)   For the second time any animal(s) licensed to an owner is
impounded in a 12-month period:  $60; and
         (c)   For the third and subsequent times any animal(s) licensed to an
owner is impounded in a 12-month period: $100.
      (2)   If the dog or cat is not claimed at the end of required ten-day
waiting period after public notice has been given, the city police, Dog Catcher
or contracted Animal Shelter may dispose of the dog or cat in accordance with
the applicable rules and regulations pertaining to the same; provided that, if,
in the judgment of the city police, Dog Catcher or contracted Animal Shelter, a
suitable home (for adoption) or shelter (to be put up for adoption) can be
found for any dog or cat, the dog or cat shall be turned over to that person or
organization and the new owner or shelter shall then be required to pay all
fees and meet all licensing and vaccinating requirements provided in this
subchapter.
      (3)   The adoption procedure set forth in this section shall be in lieu
of destruction of the dog or cat pursuant to Neb. RS 17-256. All dogs and cats
shall be destroyed in the summary and humane manner as prescribed by the Board
of Health, unless a suitable home or shelter can be found for the dog or cat.
(Prior Code, § 6-108)  (Ord. 4-95, passed 11-6-1995; Ord. 28-11, passed 8-22-
2011)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-548, 71-4408
§ 98.028  MAINTENANCE OF CONTROL BY OWNER, KEEPER, HARBORER; IMPOUNDMENT; FEES.
   (A)   All dogs within the jurisdiction of the city, other than those upon
the premises of the owner, keeper or harborer thereof, or upon the premises of
someone duly authorized by the owner, keeper or harborer thereof to have
possession, custody or control of, or over the same, are required to be
securely leashed and under the immediate control of the owner, keeper or
harborer thereof or of someone duly authorized by the owner, keeper or harborer
thereof to have immediate control over the same. Any dog observed by any city
police officer or by the City Dog Catcher to be in violation of this section
shall be impounded by the police officer or by the Dog Catcher, as the case may
be, and shall, upon the impoundment, be dealt with in accordance with, as
provided by and set forth in §
98.027.
(Prior Code, § 6-109)
   (B)   All cats within the jurisdiction of the city, other than those upon
the premises of the owner, keeper or harborer thereof, or upon the premises of
someone duly authorized by the owner, keeper or harborer thereof to have
possession, custody or control of, or over the same, are required to be under
the control of the owner, keeper or harborer thereof or of someone duly
authorized by the owner, keeper or harborer thereof or someone duly authorized
by the owner, keeper or harborer thereof to have control over the same. Any cat
observed by any city police officer or by the City Dog Catcher to be in
violation of this section shall be impounded by the police officer or by the
Dog Catcher, as the case may be, and shall, upon the impoundment, be dealt with
in accordance with, as provided by and set forth in §
98.027.
(Prior Code, § 6-110)
(Ord. 4-95, passed 11-6-1995)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-547, 17-548, 71-4408
§ 98.029  VICIOUS DOGS AND CATS; UNLAWFUL TO NOT BE HELD BY CHAIN; MAYOR MAY
DIRECT DOGS AND CATS BE RESTRAINED OR CONFINED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to own, keep or harbor any dog or cat of
a dangerous or ferocious disposition that habitually snaps or manifests a
disposition to bite, without the dog or cat being contained in a secure
facility as defined in §
98.052. If any vicious or dangerous dog or cat is allowed to run at large, the
city police shall have the authority to kill the dog or cat, whenever it
appears that the capture of the dog or cat cannot be accomplished without
unreasonably endangering persons or property. Upon the submission of a written
complaint of two or more affected persons from different households, filed with
the City Clerk’s office, that any dog or cat owned by the person named in the
complaint is committing injury to persons or property, or is an annoyance,
dangerous, offensive or unhealthy, the Mayor may direct the owner, keeper or
harborer of the dog or cat to restrain or confine any dog or cat as is provided
for in §
98.052.
(Prior Code, § 6-111)  (Ord. 4-95, passed 11-6-1995)  Penalty, see §
98.999
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-526
§ 98.030  RABIES; IMPOUNDMENT.
   (A)   Any dog or cat suspected of being afflicted with rabies or any dog or
cat not vaccinated in accordance with the laws of the state and the ordinances
of the city which has bitten any person and caused an abrasion of the skin of
the person shall be seized by the city police and impounded under the
supervision of a licensed veterinarian or a representative of the Board of
Public Health for a period of not less than ten days at the owner’s expense.
If, upon examination by a veterinarian, the dog or cat is found to exhibit no
clinical signs of rabies at the end of the impoundment, the dog or cat may be
released to the owner, or, in the case of a stray, it shall be disposed of in
accordance with applicable law. Any dog or cat vaccinated in accordance with
the provisions of the laws of the state and the ordinances of the city, which
has bitten any person, shall be confined by the owner or other responsible
person for a period of ten days, at which time the dog or cat shall be examined
by a licensed veterinarian and if no signs of rabies are then observed by the
veterinarian, then the dog may be released from confinement.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person who owns, keeps or harbors any dog
or cat that has bitten a person to fail, neglect or refuse to confine the dog
or cat or to submit the dog or cat to confinement as hereinabove provided.
(Prior Code, § 6-112)  (Ord. 4-95, passed 11-6-1995)  Penalty, see §
98.999
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 71-4406
§ 98.031  BITTEN BY RABID ANIMAL; DISPOSITION.
   In the case of dogs or cats known to have been bitten or scratched by a
rabid animal, the following rules shall apply.
   (A)   In the case of a dog or cat which has not been vaccinated in
accordance with the laws of the state and the ordinances of the city and which
has been bitten by a known rabid animal, the bitten or exposed dog or cat shall
be immediately destroyed, unless the owner is willing to place the dog or cat
in strict isolation in a kennel under veterinary supervision for a period of
not less than six months and vaccinate the dog or cat one moth prior to release
from the isolation.
   (B)   If the bitten or exposed dog or cat is vaccinated in accordance with
the laws and the ordinances of the city, the dog or cat shall be subject to the
following procedure:
      (1)   The dog or cat shall be immediately given a booster within five
days of exposure and observed for a period of not less than 45 days following
vaccination;
      (2)   If the dog or cat is not immediately revaccinated, the dog or cat
shall be confined in strict isolation in a kennel for a period of not less than
six months under the supervision of a veterinarian and vaccinated one month
prior to release from the isolation; or
      (3)   The dog or cat shall be destroyed, if the owner does not comply
with either divisions (B)(1) or (2) of this section.
(Prior Code, § 6-113)  (Ord. 4-95, passed 11-6-1995)  Penalty, see §
98.999
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 71-4407
§ 98.032  CONTINUOUS BARKING, HOWLING AND THE LIKE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to own, keep or harbor any dog within
the city which by constant and continuous barking, whining or howling in an
excessive or continuous fashion shall annoy or disturb the surrounding
neighborhood or other persons. In addition it shall be unlawful for any person
to own, keep or harbor any cat within the city which by constant and continuous
meowing or yowling in an excessive or continuous fashion shall annoy or disturb
the surrounding neighborhood or other persons. Provided that, the provisions of
this section shall not be construed to apply to the City Dog Shelter.
(Prior Code, § 6-114)  (Ord. 4-95, passed 11-6-1995)  Penalty, see §
98.999
§ 98.033  KILLING, POISONING AND INJURING UNLAWFUL.
   Except as otherwise provided in this subchapter, it shall be unlawful to
kill, or to administer, or cause to be administered, poison of any sort to a
dog or cat, or in any manner to injure, maim or destroy or, in any manner, to
attempt to injure, maim or destroy any dog or cat that is the property of
another person, or to place any poison, or poisoned food where the same is
accessible to a dog or cat.
(Prior Code, § 6-115)  (Ord. 4-95, passed 11-6-1995)  Penalty, see §
98.999
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 28-1014
§ 98.034  COLLECTION OF FEES, FINES, PENALTIES AND FUNDING.
   All monies received from fees assessed under this subchapter will go into a
Fund for Animal Welfare and Control. All disbursements made under this chapter
will come from the Fund for Animal Welfare and Control.
(Prior Code, § 6-122)  (Ord. 4-95, passed 11-6-1995)
§ 98.035  LICENSE FEES.
   For issuance of an altered dog or cat license the owner must provide a
certificate of alteration from a licensed veterinarian or a statement from the
veterinarian attesting that for age and/or health reasons alteration would be
detrimental to the health of the animal and the owner must certify that the
animal will not be used for breeding purposes.
(Prior Code, § 6-123)  (Ord. 4-95, passed 11-6-1995)
DANGEROUS DOGS
§ 98.050  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ANIMAL CONTROL AUTHORITY. Any entity authorized to enforce the animal
control laws of a city.
   ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER. Any individual employed, appointed or authorized by
an animal control authority for the purpose of aiding in the enforcement of
this act or any other law or ordinance relating to the licensing of animals,
control of animals or seizure and impoundment of animals and shall include any
state or local law enforcement or other employee whose duties in whole or in
part include assignments that involve the seizure and impoundment of any
animal.
   DANGEROUS DOG. Any dog that, according to the records of an animal control
authority:
      (1)   Has killed or inflicted severe injury on a human being on public or
private property;
      (2)   Has killed a domestic animal without provocation while the dog was
off the owner’s property; or
      (3)   Has been previously determined to be a potentially dangerous dog by
an animal control authority and the owner has received notice of the
determination and the dog again aggressively bites, attacks or endangers the
safety of humans or domestic animals. A dog shall not be defined as a DANGEROUS
DOG if the threat, any injury that is not a severe injury, or damage was
sustained by a person who, at the time, was committing a willful trespass as
defined in Neb. RS 20-203, 28-520 or 28-521 or any other tort upon the property
of the owner of the dog, who was tormenting, abusing or assaulting the dog, who
has, in the past, been observed or reported to have tormented, abused or
assaulted the dog, or who was committing or attempting to commit a crime.
   DOMESTIC ANIMAL. A cat, a dog or livestock.
   OWNER. Any person, firm, corporation, organization, political subdivision or
department  possessing, harboring, keeping or having control or custody of a
dog.
   POTENTIALLY DANGEROUS DOG.
      (1)   Any dog that, when unprovoked:
         (a)   Inflicts a non-severe injury on a human or injures a domestic
animal either on public or private property; or
         (b)   Chases or approaches a person upon streets, sidewalks or any
public grounds in a menacing fashion or apparent attitude of attack.
      (2)   Any specific dog with a known propensity, tendency or disposition
to attack when unprovoked, to cause injury or to threaten the safety of humans
or domestic animals; and severe injury shall mean any physical injury that
results in disfiguring lacerations requiring multiple sutures or cosmetic
surgery or one or more broken bones or that creates a potential danger to the
life or health of the victim.
(Prior Code, § 6-118)  (Ord. 4-95, passed 11-6-1995)
§ 98.051  RESTRAINT.
   No owner of a dangerous dog shall permit the dog to go beyond the property
of the owner unless the dog is restrained securely by a chain or leash.
(Prior Code, § 6-119)  (Ord. 4-95, passed 11-6-1995)  Penalty, see §
98.999
§ 98.052  CONFINEMENT.
   While unattended on the owner’s property, a dangerous dog shall be securely
confined, in a humane manner, indoors or in a securely enclosed and locked pen
or structure suitable designed to prevent the entry of young children and to
prevent the dog from escaping. The pen or structure shall have secure sides and
a secure top. If the pen or structure has no bottom secured to the sides, the
sides shall be embedded into the ground. The pen or structure shall also
protect the dog from the elements. The owner of a dangerous dog shall post a
warning sign on the property where the dog is kept that is clearly visible and
that informs persons that a dangerous dog is on the property.
(Prior Code, § 6-120)  (Ord. 4-95, passed 11-6-1995)  Penalty, see §
98.999
§ 98.053  FAILURE TO COMPLY.
   Any dangerous dog may be immediately confiscated by an animal control
officer if the owner is in violation of this subchapter. The owner shall be
responsible for the reasonable costs incurred by the animal control authority
for the care of a dangerous dog confiscated by an animal control officer or for
the destruction of any dangerous dog if the action by the animal control
authority is pursuant to law and if the owner violated this subchapter. In
addition to any other penalty, a court may order the animal control authority
to dispose of a dangerous dog in an expeditious and humane manner.
(Prior Code, § 6-121)  (Ord. 4-95, passed 11-6-1995)
PIT BULLS
§ 98.065  KEEPING PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful to keep, harbor, own or, in any way, possess within the
corporate limits of the city:
   (A)   Any pit bull dog; provided that, pit bull dogs registered with the
city on the date of publication of this subchapter may be kept within the city
subject to the standards and requirements set forth in the provisions of this
subchapter.
   (B)   PIT BULL DOG is defined to mean:
      (1)   The Staffordshire bull terrier breed of dog;
      (2)   The American pit bull terrier breed of dog;
      (3)   The American Staffordshire terrier breed of dog; and
      (4)   Any dog being of the breed of Staffordshire bull terrier, American
pit bull terrier, American Staffordshire terrier or any combination thereof, or
any dog with any percent of any of the above breeds.
(Ord. 33-07, passed 12-10-2007)  Penalty, see §
98.999
§ 98.066  REGISTERED KEEPING.
   The provisions of §
98.065 are not applicable to owners, keepers or harborers of pit bull dogs
registered with the city as of 12-14-2007. The keeping of the dogs, however,
shall be subject to the following provisions of this subchapter.
(Ord. 33-07, passed 12-10-2007)
§ 98.067  LEASH AND MUZZLE.
   No persons shall permit a registered pit bull dog to go outside its kennel
or pen unless the dog is securely leashed with a leash no longer than four feet
in length. No person shall permit a pit bull dog to be kept on a chair, rope or
other type of leash outside its kennel or pen unless a person is in physical
control of the leash. The dogs may not be leashed to inanimate objects such as
trees, posts, buildings and the like. In addition, all pit bull dogs on a leash
outside the animal’s kennel must be muzzled by a muzzling device sufficient to
prevent the dog from biting persons or other animals.
(Ord. 33-07, passed 12-10-2007)  Penalty, see §
98.999
§ 98.068  CONFINEMENT.
   (A)   All registered pit bull dogs shall be securely confined indoors or in
a securely enclosed and locked pen or kennel, except when leashed and muzzled
as above provided. The pen, kennel or structure must have secure sides and a
secure top attached to the sides. All structures used to confine registered pit
bull dogs must be locked with a key or combination lock when the animals are
within the structure. The structure mush have a secure bottom or floor attached
to the sides of the pen or the sides of the pen must be embedded in the ground
not less than two feet. All structures erected to house pit bull dogs must
comply with all zoning and building regulations of the city. All structures
must be adequately lighted and ventilated and kept in a clean and sanitary
condition.
   (B)   No pit bull dog may be kept on a porch, patio or in any part of a
house or structure that would allow the dog to exit the building on its own
volition. In addition, no animal may be kept in a house or structure when the
windows are open or when screen windows or screen doors are the only obstacle
preventing the dog from existing the structure.
(Ord. 33-07, passed 12-10-2007)  Penalty, see §
98.999
§ 98.069  SIGNS.
   All owners, keepers or harborers of registered pit bull dogs within the city
shall within ten days of the effective date of this subchapter display in a
prominent place on their premises a sign easily readable by the public using
the words “Beware of Dog”. In addition, a similar sign is required to be posted
on the kennel or pen of the animal.
(Ord. 33-07, passed 12-10-2007)  Penalty, see §
98.999
§ 98.070  INSURANCE.
   (A)   All owners, keepers or harborers of registered pit bull dogs must,
within ten days of the effective of this subchapter provide to the City Clerk
proof of personal liability insurance in a single incident amount of $100,000
for bodily injury to or death of any person or damage to property owned by any
person which may result from the ownership, keeping or maintenance of the
animal.
   (B)   The owner, keeper or harborer of a registered pit bull dog must advise
the City Clerk if the liability insurance is cancelled, lapsed or amended to
include an exclusion clause governing pit bull dogs.
   (C)   In the event the liability insurance is cancelled, lapsed or amended
to contain an exclusion clause governing pit bull dogs, the owner, keeper or
harborer shall be in violation of the provisions of this subchapter and subject
to the penalties provided herein.
(Ord. 33-07, passed 12-10-2007; Ord. 1-08, passed 1-14-2008)  Penalty, see §
98.999
§ 98.071  MICROCHIP.
   All registered pit bulls shall have an identifying microchip inserted
beneath its skin by a licensed veterinarian, at the owner’s expense, within two
months of the effective date of this subchapter and shall present to the City
Clerk written proof from a licensed veterinarian that this has been done. The
City Clerk shall maintain a file containing the registration numbers and names
of the pit bulls and the names and addresses of the owners. The owners shall
notify the City Clerk of any change of address.
(Ord. 33-07, passed 12-10-2007; Ord. 1-08, passed 1-14-2008)  Penalty, see §
98.999
§ 98.072  SPAYING AND NEUTERING.
   All registered pit bulls shall be spayed or neutered, at the owner’s
expense, and shall present to the City Clerk written proof from a licensed
veterinarian that this sterilization has been performed. This evidence shall be
presented to the City Clerk within the later of two months from the effective
date of this subchapter or seven months after the birth of the pit bull.
(Ord. 1-08, passed 1-14-2008)  Penalty, see §
98.999
§ 98.073  REPORTING REQUIREMENTS.
   All owners, keepers or harborers of registered pit bull dogs must within ten
days of the incident, report the following information in writing to the City
Clerk as required hereinafter:
   (A)   The removal from the city or death of a registered pit bull dog;
   (B)   The birth of offspring of a registered pit bull dog; and
   (C)   The new address of a registered pit bull dog owner should the owner
move within the corporate city limits.
(Ord. 33-07, passed 12-10-2007)  Penalty, see §
98.999
§ 98.074  SALE OR TRANSFER OF OWNERSHIP PROHIBITED.
   No person shall sell, barter or, in any other way, dispose of a pit bull dog
registered with the city to any person within the city unless the recipient
person resides permanently in the same household and on the same premises as
the registered owner of the dog; provided that, the registered owner of a pit
bull dog may sell or otherwise dispose of a registered dog or the offspring of
the dog to persons who do not reside with the city.
(Ord. 33-07, passed 12-10-2007)  Penalty, see §
98.999
§ 98.075  ANIMALS BORN OF REGISTERED DOGS.
   All offspring born of pit bull dogs registered within the city must be
removed from the city within eight weeks of the birth of the animal.
(Ord. 33-07, passed 12-10-2007)  Penalty, see §
98.999
§ 98.076  IRREBUTTABLE PRESUMPTIONS.
   There shall be an irrebuttable presumption that any dog registered with the
city as a pit bull dog or any of those breeds prohibited by §
98.065 is in fact a dog subject to the requirements of this subchapter.
(Ord. 33-07, passed 12-10-2007)
§ 98.077  FAILURE TO COMPLY.
   It shall be unlawful for the owner, keeper or harborer of a pit bull dog
registered with the city to fail to comply with the requirements and conditions
set forth in this subchapter. Any dog found to be the subject of a violation of
this subchapter shall be subject to immediate seizure and impoundment. In
addition, failure to comply will result in the revocation of the license of the
animal resulting in the immediate removal of the animal from the city.
(Ord. 33-07, passed 12-10-2007)  Penalty, see §
98.999
§ 98.078  DETERMINATION OF BREED; CONFISCATION OF ANIMAL; FAILURE TO SURRENDER
ANIMAL.
   (A)   The city Police Department shall serve notice upon owner that he or
she is believed to be in violation of §
98.065 for keeping, harboring, or possessing within city limits a pit bull dog.
   (B)   The owner shall have five days from the date of receiving notice to
inform the city Police Department, in writing, on whether the owner does or
does not believe that his or her dog is defined within §
98.065(B).
   (C)   If the owner fails to respond as stated herein, the dog will be
presumed to be a pit bull dog as defined in §
98.065 (B) and the owner will be cited for violation of §
98.065.
   (D)   If the owner responds that the dog is not a breed of dog under defined
in §
98.065(B), the dog shall be DNA tested by DNA testing facility approved by
city, at the owners expense so that the dogs specific breed or mix of breed is
accurately determined.
   (E)   If DNA testing confirms the dog to be a pit bull dog as defined in §
98.065 (B) the owner will be cited and the city Police Department will issue a
24-hour written notice to the owner to remove the dog from the corporate city
limits.
   (F)   If the owner refuses to remove the dog from the city limits, pursuant
to the 24- hour notice, and the dog is not being properly maintained by the
owner, pursuant to §§
98.067,
98.068 and
98.069, the  Police Department  shall  pick up and confiscate  the dog for the
safety and welfare of the public until trial is held on the owner's citation.
   (G)   If DNA testing confirms the dog is not a pit bull dog as defined
herein, the city will reimburse the owner for the cost of the DNA testing.
   (H)   A dog determined to be a danger to the public by the City Police Chief
or his/her designee shall be immediately impounded for the protection of public
health or safety.
   (I)   The owner of the dog immediately impounded, pursuant to this section,
shall be notified of the impoundment by certified mail or personal service
within five business days after the dog's impoundment. Said notice shall
include reason for impoundment.
   (J)   The owner shall provide a showing to the city Police Department that
the reason for impoundment has been corrected by the owner and that the owner
is in compliance with all city licensing requirements and City Code
regulations.
   (K)   Any person who fails to surrender an animal to an individual
identifiable as a city police officer, law enforcement office, or an Animal
Control Officer upon demand, so that the animal can be impounded as provided by
City Code, commits an offense.
(Ord. 48-11, passed 12-27-2011)
§ 98.999  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   All dogs other than those upon the premises of the owner, keeper or
harborer thereof or upon the premises of someone duly authorized by the owner,
keeper or harborer thereof to have possession, custody or control of or over,
the same, be and they are, required to be securely leashed and under the
immediate control of the owner, keeper or harborer thereof or of someone duly
authorized by the owner, keeper or harborer thereof to have immediate control
over the same. It shall be unlawful for the owner, keeper or harborer of any
dog to permit or allow the same to be in violation of the immediately preceding
sentence, and the owner, keeper or harborer of any dog who permits or allows
the same to be in violation of the immediately preceding sentence shall, upon
conviction thereof, be fined any sum not exceeding $100.
(Prior Code, § 6-116)
   (C)   All cats other than those upon the premises of the owner, keeper or
harborer thereof or upon the premises of someone duly authorized by the owner,
keeper or harborer thereof to have possession, custody or control of, or over,
the same, be and they are, required to be under the control of the owner,
keeper or harborer thereof or someone duly authorized by the owner, keeper or
harborer thereof to have control over the same. It shall be unlawful for the
owner, keeper or harborer of any cat to permit to allow the same to be in
violation of the immediately preceding sentence, and the owner, keeper or
harborer of any cat who permits or allows the same to be in violation of the
immediately preceding sentence shall, upon conviction thereof, be fined any sum
not exceeding $100.
(Prior Code, § 6-117)
   (D)   Any person violating or permitting the violation of any provision of
§§
98.065 through
98.077 shall, upon conviction, be fined a sum not more than $500. In addition,
the court shall order the registration of the subject pit bull revoked and the
dog removed from the city. Should the defendant refuse to remove the dog from
the city, the judge shall find the defendant owner in contempt and order the
immediate confiscation and impoundment of the animal. Each day that a violation
of this subchapter continues shall be deemed a separate offense. In addition to
the foregoing penalties, any person who violates this subchapter shall pay all
expenses, including shelter, food, handling, veterinary care and testimony
necessitated by the enforcement of this subchapter.
(Ord. 4-95, passed 11-6-1995; Ord. 33-07, passed 12-10-2007; Ord. 26-11, passed
6-27-2011)
CHAPTER 99:  HEALTH AND SANITATION
Section
General Provisions
   
99.01   Regulations
   
99.02   Enforcement official
   
99.03   Cooperation with County Health Board
   
99.04   Antipollution levy
   
99.05   Jurisdiction
Diseases
   
99.20   Report
   
99.21   Spreading disease
   
99.22   Medical attention required
Garbage Disposal
   
99.35   Definitions
   
99.36   Control of disposal
   
99.37   Collection authority
   
99.38   Notice; removal
   
99.39   Nuisance
   
99.40   Lien
Pollution and Nuisances
   
99.55   Definitions
   
99.56   Abatement
   
99.57   Air pollution
   
99.58   Water pollution
   
99.59   Weeds, litter, stagnant water
   
99.60   Trees with Dutch Elm disease; nuisance; abatement
   
99.61   Adjoining land owners; intervention; before trial
   
99.62   Dead or diseased trees
Cross-reference:
   Dumping Grounds, see
Chapter 50
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 99.01  REGULATIONS.
   For the purpose of safeguarding the health of the people of the city, the
Board of Health, from time to time, shall, adopt rules and regulations relative
thereto, including the removal of dead animals, the sanitary conditions of the
streets and alleys and vacant grounds, and of stockyards, cattle and hog pens,
wells, cisterns, privies, waterclosets, cesspools, stables and all buildings
and places not specified where filth, nuisances or offensive matter is kept or
is liable to or does accumulate, shall enforce the rules and regulations and
shall provide fines and punishments for the violation thereof.
(Prior Code, § 4-101)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-121, 17-123
§ 99.02  ENFORCEMENT OFFICIAL.
   The city police Chief shall be the Health Officer of the city. It shall be
his or her duty to notify the City Council of health nuisances and of every
case of contagious, infectious or malignant disease.
(Prior Code, § 4-102)
§ 99.03  COOPERATION WITH COUNTY HEALTH BOARD.
   It shall be the duty of the Board of Health of the city to work closely with
the County Health Board in protecting the health and welfare of the residents
of the city.
(Prior Code, § 4-104)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 71-501
§ 99.04  ANTIPOLLUTION LEVY.
   The city, for the purpose of creating a fund out of which antipollution of
water measures may be financed, is authorized and empowered to make a special
levy, not exceeding the limits therefor as prescribed by the laws of the state,
including, but not limited to, Neb. RS 18-512, as amended or superseded, upon
the assessed value of all the taxable property within the city, except
intangible property.
(Prior Code, § 4-105)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 18-512
§ 99.05  JURISDICTION.
   The Mayor shall have jurisdiction over all places within five miles of the
corporate limits of the city for the enforcement of any health or quarantine
ordinance or regulation. The jurisdiction of the city, to prevent any pollution
or injury to the stream or source of water for the supply of the city water
system, shall extend 15 miles beyond the corporate limits of the city.
(Prior Code, § 4-106)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-114, 17-536
DISEASES
§ 99.20  REPORT.
   It shall be the duty of all attending physicians to report to the city
police Chief, acting in his or her capacity as secretary and quarantine officer
of the Board of Health, promptly, upon the discovery thereof, the existence of
any contagious or infectious diseases. In the event that no physician is in
attendance, it shall be the duty of the person in charge of the care of any
person afflicted with any contagious or infectious disease, promptly, upon the
discovery thereof, to make the report. All reports made pursuant to this
subchapter shall be confidential, and any medical practitioner or other person
making the reports shall be immune from suit for slander or liable or breach of
privileged communication based on any statements contained in the report.
(Prior Code, § 4-201)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 71-503, 71-503.01
§ 99.21  SPREADING DISEASE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to spread disease willfully or
negligently or to cause the spread of the same.
(Prior Code, § 4-202)  Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-123, 28-1017
§ 99.22  MEDICAL ATTENTION REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for the parent, guardian or other person responsible
for any child to fail or neglect to secure proper medical treatment for the
child when he or she is afflicted with a contagious or infectious disease.
(Prior Code, § 4-203)  Penalty, see §
10.99
GARBAGE DISPOSAL
§ 99.35  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   GARBAGE.
      (1)   Kitchen refuse, decayed waste, dead animals or anything that may
decompose and become offensive to the public health.
(Prior Code, § 4-301)
      (2)   For purposes of §§
99.37,
99.38 and
99.39, the term GARBAGE shall be defined as provided for in division (1) above.
   REFUSE. For purposes of §§
99.37,
99.38 and
99.39, the term REFUSE shall be defined as worthless matter, discarded
machinery, chips, pieces of wood, dead trees, dead branches, bottles, broken
glass, crockery, tin cans, boxes, papers, rags or any other litter or debris.
(Prior Code, § 4-309)
   RUBBISH or TRASH. Discarded machinery, chips, pieces of wood, stocks, dead
trees, branches, bottles, broken glass, crockery, tin cans, boxes, papers, rags
or any other litter or debris that is not an immediate hazard to the health of
the residents of the city.
(Prior Code, § 4-302)
   WASTE. Cinders, ashes, plaster, brick, stone, sawdust or sand.
(Prior Code, § 4-303)
(Ord. 7-88, passed 11-7-1988)
§ 99.36  CONTROL OF DISPOSAL.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to keep in, on or about any dwelling,
building or premise, or any other place in the city, decayed vegetable or
animal substance, garbage or refuse matter of any kind that may be injurious to
the public health or offensive to the residents of the city, unless the same is
kept in receptacles made of galvanized iron, plastic or rubber or in plastic
bags, and as nearly air-tight as may be practical. It shall be unlawful to
throw or sweep into the streets, alleys, parks or other public grounds any
dirt, paper, nails, pieces of glass, refuse, waste or rubbish of any kind. No
person may permit  garbage, rubbish, waste or refuse to collect and all persons
shall remove the same from their property within 24 hours after being notified
to do so by the city police Chief, who shall represent the Board of Health. Any
person having garbage, rubbish, waste or refuse that is subject to decay or
fermentation with a short period of time shall be required to place the same in
a standard (metal, plastic or rubber) garbage can with a tight cover or in
sealed plastic bags. All persons residing within the corporate limits of the
city shall have their garbage hauled to a transfer station or licensed landfill
by haulers licensed (by franchise ordinance and agreement) by the city to
operate a garbage collection service in the city.
(Prior Code, § 4-304)  (Ord. 9-97, passed 6-2-1997)  Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 19-2106
§ 99.37  COLLECTION AUTHORITY.
   The City Council may provide for the collection and removal of garbage or
refuse found upon any lot or land within its corporate streets, roads or alleys
abutting the lot or land which constitutes a public nuisance. The city may
require the owner, duly authorized agent or tenant of the lot or land to remove
the garbage or refuse from the lot or land and streets, roads or alleys.
(Prior Code, § 4-305)  (Ord. 7-88, passed 11-7-1988)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 18-1752
§ 99.38  NOTICE; REMOVAL.
   Notice that removal of garbage or refuse is necessary shall be given to each
owner or owner’s duly authorized agent and to the tenant, if any. The notice
shall be provided by personal service or by certified mail. After providing the
notice, the city through its proper offices shall in addition to other proper
remedies, remove the garbage or refuse, or cause it to be removed, from the lot
or land and streets, roads or alleys.
(Prior Code, § 4-306)  (Ord. 7-88, passed 11-7-1988)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 18-1752
§ 99.39  NUISANCE.
   If the Mayor declares that the accumulation of the garbage or refuse upon
any lot or land constitutes an immediate nuisance and hazard to public health
and safety, the city shall remove the garbage or refuse, or cause it to be
removed, from the lot or land within 48 hours after notice by personal service
or following receipt of a certified letter in accordance with §
99.38 if the garbage or refuse has not been removed.
(Prior Code, § 4-307)  (Ord. 7-88, passed 11-7-1988)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 18-1752
§ 99.40  LIEN.
   Whenever a city removes any garbage or refuse, or causes it to be removed,
from any lot or land pursuant to this subchapter, it shall, after a hearing
conducted by the City Council, assess the cost of the removal against the lot
or land.
(Prior Code, § 4-308)  (Ord. 7-88, passed 11-7-1988)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 18-1752
POLLUTION AND NUISANCES
§ 99.55  DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   A nuisance consists in doing any unlawful act, or omitting to perform
a duty, or suffering or permitting any condition or thing to be or exist, which
act, omission, condition or thing either:
      (1)   Injures or endangers the comfort, repose, health or safety of
others;
      (2)   Offends decency;
      (3)   Is offensive to the senses;
      (4)   Unlawfully interferes with, obstructs, tends to obstruct or renders
dangerous for passage any stream, public park, parkway, square, street or
highway in the city;
      (5)   In any way renders other persons insecure in life or the use of
property; or
      (6)   Essentially interferes with the comfortable enjoyment of life and
property, or tends to depreciate the value of the property of others.
(Prior Code, § 4-401)
   (B)   The maintaining, using, placing, depositing, leaving or permitting of
any of the following specific acts, omissions, places, conditions and things
are hereby declared to be nuisances:
      (1)   Any odorous, putrid, unsound or unwholesome grain, meat, hides,
skins, feathers, vegetable matter or the whole or any part of any dead animal,
fish or fowl;
      (2)   Privies, vaults, cesspools, dumps, pits or like places which are
not securely protected from flies or rats, or which are foul or malodorous;
      (3)   Filthy, littered or trash-covered cellars, houseyards, barnyards,
stable yards, factory yards, mill yards, vacant areas in rear of stores,
granaries, vacant lots, houses, buildings or premises;
      (4)   Animal manure in any quantity which is not securely protected from
flies and the elements, or which is kept or handled in violation of any
ordinance of the city;
      (5)   Liquid household waste, human excreta, garbage, butcher’s trimmings
and offal, parts of fish or any waste vegetable or animal matter in any
quantity; provided, nothing herein contained shall prevent the temporary
retention of waste in receptacles in a manner provided by the Health Officer of
the city, nor the dumping of nonputrifying waste in a place and manner approved
by the Health Officer;
      (6)   Tin cans, bottles, glass, cans, ashes, small pieces of scrap iron,
wire metal articles, bric-a-brac, broken stone or cement, broken crockery,
broken glass, broken plaster and all trash or abandoned material, unless the
same be kept in covered bins or galvanized iron receptacles;
      (7)   Trash, litter, rags, accumulations of barrels, boxes, crates,
packing crates, mattresses, bedding, excelsior, packing hay, straw or other
packing material, lumber not neatly piled, scrap iron, tin or other metal not
neatly piled, old automobiles or parts thereof, or any other waste materials
when any of the articles or materials create condition in which flies or rats
may breed or multiply, or which may be fire danger or which are so unsightly as
to depreciate property values in the vicinity thereof;
      (8)   Any unsightly building, billboard or other structure, or any old,
abandoned or partially destroyed building or structure or any building or
structure commenced and left unfurnished, which the buildings, billboards or
other structures are either a fire hazard, a menace to the public health or
safety, or are so unsightly as to depreciate the value of property in the
vicinity thereof;
      (9)   All places used or maintained as junk yards, or dumping grounds, or
for the wrecking and dissembling of automobiles, trucks, tractors or machinery
of any kind, or for the storing or leaving of worn-out, wrecked or abandoned
automobiles, trucks, tractors or machinery of any kind, or of any of the parts
thereof, or for the storing or leaving of any machinery or equipment used by
contractors or builders or by other persons, which the places are kept or
maintained so as to essentially interfere with the comfortable enjoyment of
life or property by others, or which are so unsightly as to tend to depreciate
property values in the vicinity thereof;
      (10)   Stagnant water permitted or maintained on any lot or piece of
ground;
      (11)   Stock yards, granaries, mills, pig pens, cattle pens, chicken pens
or any other place, building or enclosure, in which animals or fowl of any kind
are confined or on which are stored tankage or any other animal or vegetable
matter, or on which any animal or vegetable matter including grain is being
processed, when the premises on which the vegetable or animal matter is
located, are maintained and kept in a manner that foul and noxious odors are
permitted to emanate therefrom, to the annoyance of inhabitants of the city, or
are maintained and kept in a manner as to be injurious to the public health;
and/or
      (12)   All other nuisances specifically designated elsewhere in this
code.
(Prior Code, § 4-402)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-556, 18-1720, 28-1012 through 28-1016
§ 99.56  ABATEMENT.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to erect, keep up, continue, use,
maintain or cause any nuisance, as herein provided, within the jurisdiction of
the city. Whenever a nuisance, as herein provided, exists within the
jurisdiction of the city, the city may proceed by a suit in equity to enjoin
and abate the same, in the manner provided by law. The Mayor and the city
Police Chief are directed to enforce the provisions of the city code against
all nuisances.
(Prior Code, § 4-403)  Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-121, 17-123, 17-556, 17-567, 18-1720, 18-
1722, 28-1012 through 28-1016
§ 99.57  AIR POLLUTION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to cause pollution
of any air of the city. Air pollution shall include the presence in the outdoor
atmosphere of one or more air contaminants, or combinations thereof, in
quantities and of a duration as are or may tend to be injurious to human, plant
or animal life or property or the conduct of business. AIR CONTAMINANT shall
mean the presence in the outdoor atmosphere of any dust, fume, mist, smoke,
vapor, gas or other gaseous fluid, or particulate substance differing in
composition from or exceeding in concentration the natural components of the
atmosphere. The air quality standards established or adopted by the state shall
be presumptive evidence as to when air shall be deemed to be polluted as herein
provided. Pollution of any air of the city of the placement or causing to be
placed on any materials in a location where they are likely to cause pollution
of any air of the city is hereby declared to be a public nuisance and, upon
written notice by the Board of Health to the person, firm or corporation
responsible for the pollution, the city may proceed by a suit in equity to
enjoin and abate the same, in the manner provided by law.
(Prior Code, § 4-404)  Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-123, 17-556, 18-1720, 81-1501 through 81-
1532
§ 99.58  WATER POLLUTION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to cause pollution
of any waters of the city or to place or cause to be placed any materials in a
location where they are likely to cause pollution of any waters of the city.
WATER POLLUTION shall include any contamination or other alteration of the
physical, chemical or biological properties of any waters of the city,
including change in temperature, taste, color, turbidity or odor of the waters
or the discharge of any liquid, gaseous, solid, radioactive or other substance
into any waters of the city as will or is likely to create a nuisance or to
render the waters harmful, detrimental or injurious to public health, safety or
welfare, or to domestic, commercial, industrial, agricultural, recreational or
other legitimate beneficial uses, or degrade the water from its intended use.
WATERS OF THIS CITY shall include all waters within the jurisdiction of the
city, including all streams, lakes, ponds, impounding reservoirs, marshes,
watercourses, waterways, wells, springs, irrigation systems, drainage systems
and all other bodies or accumulations of water, surface and underground,
natural or artificial, public or private, situated wholly or partly within or
bordering upon the city. The water quality standards established or adopted by
the state shall be presumptive evidence as to when waters shall be deemed to be
polluted as herein provided. Pollution of any waters of the city or the
placement or causing to be placed of any materials in a location where they are
likely to cause pollution of any waters of the city is hereby declared to be a
public nuisance and, upon written notice by the Board of Health to the person,
firm or corporation responsible for the pollution, the city may proceed by a
suit in equity to enjoin and abate the same, in the manner provided by law.
(Prior Code, § 4-405)  Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-123, 17-536, 17-556, 18-1720, 81-1501
through 81-1532
§ 99.59  WEEDS, LITTER, STAGNANT WATER.
   (A)   Lots or pieces of ground within the city shall be drained or filled so
as to prevent stagnant water or any other nuisance accumulating thereon.
   (B)   The owner or occupant of any lot or piece of ground within the city
shall keep the lot or piece of ground and one-half of the adjoining street and
alleys free of any growth of 12 inches or more in height of all grasses.
   (C)   The owner, lessor, or occupant of any lot or piece of ground within
the city shall keep the lot or piece of ground and one-half of the adjoining
street and alleys free of any growth of nine inches or more in height of all
weeds or other worthless vegetation.
   (D)   The growing, depositing or accumulation of litter on any lot or piece
of ground within the city is prohibited; provided that grass, leaves and
worthless vegetation may be used as ground mulch or in a compost pile. All
loose weeds or worthless vegetation subsequent to being cut shall be removed
and discarded.
   (E)   It is hereby declared to be a nuisance to permit or maintain any
growth of nine inches or more in height of weeds or worthless vegetation; or to
permit or maintain any growth of 12 inches or more in height of grasses; or to
litter or cause litter to be deposited or remain thereon, except in proper
receptacles.
   (F)   Any owner, lessor, or occupant of a lot or piece of ground shall, upon
conviction of violating this section, be guilty of an offense.
   (G)   Notice to abate and remove the nuisance shall be given to each owner
or owner's duly authorized agent, or to the lessor, or occupant, if any, by
personal service or certified mail. If notice by personal service or certified
mail is unsuccessful, notice shall be given by publication in a newspaper of
general circulation in the city or by conspicuously posting the notice on the
lot or ground upon which the nuisance is to be abated and removed. Within five
days after receipt of the notice or publication or posting, which ever is
applicable, if the owner, lessor, or occupant of the lot or piece of ground
does not request a hearing with the city or fails to comply with the order to
abate and remove the nuisance, the city may have the work done. The costs and
expenses of any work shall be paid by the owner. If unpaid for two months after
the work is done, the city may either:
      (1)   Levy and assess the costs and expenses of the work upon the lot or
piece of ground so benefited in the same manner as other special taxes for
improvements are levied and assess; or
      (2)   Recover in a civil action the costs and expenses of the work upon
the lot or piece of ground and the adjoining streets and alleys.
   (H)    For purposes of this section;
      (1)   LITTER includes,  but is not limited to:
         (a)   Trash, rubbish, refuse, garbage, paper, rags and ashes;
         (b)   Wood, plaster, cement, brick or stone building rubble;
         (c)   Grass, leaves and worthless vegetation;
         (d)   Offal and dead animals; and
         (e)   Any machine or machines, vehicle or vehicles or parts of a
machine or vehicle which have lost their identity, character, utility or
serviceability as such through deterioration, dismantling, or the ravages of
time, are inoperative or unable to perform their intended functions, or are
cast off, discarded or thrown away or left as waste, wreckage or junk; and
      (2)   WEEDS includes, but is not limited to bindweed (Convolvulus
arvensis), puncture vine (Tribulus terrestris), leafy spurge (Euphorbia esula),
Canada thistle (Cirsium arvense), perennial  peppergrass (Lepidium draba),
Russian knapweed (Centaurea picris), Johnson grass (Sorghum halepense), nodding
or musk thistle, quack grass (Agropyron repens), perennial sow thistle (Sonchus
arvensis), horse nettle (Solanum carolinese), bull thistle (Cirsium
lanceolatum), buckthorn (Rhamnus  sp.) (tourri), hemp plant (Cannabis sativa)
and ragweed (Ambrosiaceae).
(Prior Code, § 4-406)  (Ord. 9-04, passed 6-14-2004; Ord. 27-11, passed 7-25-
2011)   Penalty, see §
10.99
Cross-reference:
   Weeds, see §
92.06
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-563, 18-1720
§ 99.60  TREES WITH DUTCH ELM DISEASE; NUISANCE; ABATEMENT.
   (A)   All trees of the species and varieties of elm, zelkova and planera
that are in a diseased, dying or dead condition and that may serve as a
breeding place for the European Elm Bark Beetle, Scolytus Multistriatus, are
hereby declared to be a public nuisance. For the purposes of carrying out the
provisions of this section, the City Forester, or any other official of the
city acting in the capacity of City Forester, shall have the authority to enter
upon private property in order to inspect the trees thereon.
   (B)   In the event that the City Forester, or other official of the city
acting in the capacity of City Forester, shall determine that any tree of the
species and variety of elm, zelkova and planera is in a diseased, dying or dead
condition and may serve as a breeding place for the European Elm Bark Beetle,
Scolytus Multistriatus, the tree shall be declared to be a public nuisance.
   (C)   The City Council shall thereupon cause notice to be served upon the
owner, occupant, lessee or mortgagee of the land whereupon the tree is located,
by publication and by certified mail. The notice shall describe the condition
of the tree as found by the City Forester or other official of the city acting
in the capacity of City Forester and state that condition has been declared a
public nuisance and that the tree must be removed and buried within ten days of
the receipt of the notice.
   (D)   (1)   It shall be unlawful for any owner, occupant, lessee or
mortgagee so notified to fail, neglect or refuse to remove and bury the tree in
full compliance with the notice.
      (2)   If the person receiving the notice has not complied therewith or
taken an appeal from the determination of the City Forester or other official
of the city acting in the capacity of City Forester within ten days after
receipt of certified mail or within ten days after date of publication,
whichever is later, the City Forester, or other official of the city acting in
the capacity of City Forester, shall notify the City Council of the
noncompliance and the City Council shall, upon the receipt of the notification,
cause a hearing date to be fixed and notice thereof to be served upon the
owner, occupant, lessee or mortgagee of the land whereupon the tree is located.
The notice of hearing shall be by personal service or certified mail and
require the party or parties to appear before the City Council to show cause
why the condition should not be found to be a public nuisance and remedied. A
return of service shall be required by the City Council. The notice of hearing
shall be given not less than five days prior to the time of hearing, provided
that whenever the owner, lessee, occupant or mortgagee of the land is a
nonresident or cannot be found in the state, then the City Clerk shall publish,
in a newspaper of general circulation in the city, the notice of hearing for
two consecutive weeks, the last publication to be at least one week prior to
the date set for the hearing. Upon the date fixed for the hearing and pursuant
to notice, the City Council shall hear all objections made by interested
parties and shall hear evidence submitted by the City Forester or other
official of the city acting in the capacity of City Forester.
   (E)   If, after consideration of all of the evidence, the City Council shall
find that the tree is a public nuisance, it shall, by resolution, order and
direct the owner, occupant, lessee or mortgagee to remedy  the public nuisance
at once; provided, however, that, the party or parties may appeal the decision
to the appropriate court for adjudication during which proceedings the decision
of the City Council shall be stayed. Should the owner, occupant, lessee or
mortgagee  refuse or neglect to promptly comply with the order of the City
Council, the City Council shall proceed to cause  the abatement of the
described public nuisance.
(Prior Code, § 4-407)  Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-123, 17-556, 18-1720
§ 99.61  ADJOINING LAND OWNERS; INTERVENTION; BEFORE TRIAL.
   In case of appeal from an action of the City Council condemning real
property as a nuisance or as dangerous under the police powers of the city, the
owners of the adjoining property may intervene in the action at any time before
trial.
(Prior Code, § 4-408)
§ 99.62  DEAD OR DISEASED TREES.
   (A)   It is hereby declared a nuisance for a property owner to permit, allow
or maintain any dead or diseased trees within the right-of-way of streets
within the corporate limits of the city.
   (B)   It is hereby declared a nuisance for a property owner to permit, allow
or maintain any dead or diseased trees on private property within the corporate
limits of the city. For the purpose of carrying out the provisions of this
section, the city police shall have the authority to enter upon private
property to inspect the trees thereon.
   (C)   Notice to abate and remove the nuisance and notice of the right to a
hearing and the manner in which it may be requested shall be given to each
owner or owner’s duly authorized agent and to the occupant, if any, by personal
service or certified mail. Within 30 days after the receipt of the notice, if
the owner or occupant of the lot or piece of ground does not request a hearing
or fails to comply with the order to abate and remove the nuisance, the city
may have the work done and may levy and assess all or any portion of the costs
and expenses of the work upon the lot or piece of ground so benefitted in the
same manner as other special taxes for improvements are levied or assessed.
(Prior Code, § 4-409)  (Ord. 15-95, passed 8-7-1995)  Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-555, 28-1321
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
111.   OCCUPATION TAXES
      
112.   SALES AND ADVERTISING
      
113.   AMUSEMENTS
      
114.   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
      
115.   FRANCHISES AND CONTRACTUAL AGREEMENTS
      
116.   MOBILE HOME PARKS
      
117.   PLUMBERS
      
118.   ELECTRICIANS
      
119.   GAS FITTERS
CHAPTER 110:  GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
110.01   Natural gas companies; filing fee
   
110.02   Lottery; participation restrictions
   
110.03   Tobacco; license for sale; application; contents; fee
   
110.04   Stockyards
   
110.05   Junk businesses
   
110.06   Building movers and dismantlers
§ 110.01  NATURAL GAS COMPANIES; FILING FEE.
   The city shall charge and collect a filing fee from natural gas companies
for a rate filing. The fee shall be $300.
(Prior Code, § 10-701)
§ 110.02  LOTTERY; PARTICIPATION RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   No person under 19 years of age shall play or participate, in any way,
in the lottery established and conducted by the city.
   (B)   (1)   No owner or officer of a lottery operator with whom the city
contracts to conduct its lottery shall play the lottery conducted by the city.
      (2)   No employee or agent of the city, lottery operator or authorized
sales outlet location shall play the lottery of the city for which he or she
performs work during the time as he or she is actually working at the lottery
or while on duty.
   (C)   Nothing shall prohibit the following from playing the lottery
conducted by the city as long as the person is 19 years of age or older:
      (1)   Any member of the City Council, a city official or the immediate
family of the member or official; or
      (2)   An owner or officer of an authorized sales outlet location for the
city.
   (D)   No person, employee or agent of any person or the city shall knowingly
permit an individual under 19 years of age to play or participate, in any way,
in the lottery conducted by the city.
   (E)   For purposes of this section, IMMEDIATE FAMILY of a member of the City
Council or a city official shall mean:
      (1)   A person who is related to the member or official by blood,
marriage or adoption and resides in the same household; or
      (2)   A person who is claimed by the member or official, or the spouse of
the member or official, as a dependent for federal income tax purposes.
(Prior Code, § 10-801)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 9-646
§ 110.03  TOBACCO; LICENSE FOR SALE; APPLICATION; CONTENTS; FEE.
   (A)   Every person, partnership, limited liability company or corporation
desiring a license to sell tobacco at retail shall file with the City Clerk a
written application, on forms provided by the city, stating the name of the
person, partnership, limited liability company or corporation for whom the
license is desired and the exact location of the place of business and shall
deposit with the application a license fee in the amount of $10.
   (B)   If the applicant is an individual, the application shall include the
applicant’s Social Security number.
(Prior Code, § 10-901)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 28-1422, 28-1423
§ 110.04  STOCKYARDS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, partnership, corporation or
association to use or employ any building or premise, now or hereinafter
erected of existing within the corporate limits of the city, as a stockyard,
animal weighing pen, whether temporarily used for weighing, loading or
unloading during transportation or not, or as a commercial cattle, hog, sheep
or animal feed lot, or to use or employ buildings, sheds or pavilions use as
interior sales barns.
   (B)   Nothing herein shall be construed to apply to any person now operating
any commercial sales barn, stockyard or animal weighing pen within the
corporate limits of the city or who presently uses or employs any buildings,
sheds or pavilions as interior sales barns; provided, however, that, the
provisions of this section shall be construed to apply to the assignee of any
person.
(Prior Code, § 10-423)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 110.05  JUNK BUSINESSES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, partnership, corporation or
association to engage in or carry on the business of a junk dealer or junk
collector or to operate a junk yard within the corporate limits of the city;
provided that, nothing herein shall be construed to apply to any person now
operating as a junk dealer, junk collector or junk yard operator, but shall be
construed to apply to the assignee of any person.
   (B)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      JUNK COLLECTOR. Any person going from place to place, or house to house
collecting or buying iron, copper, brass and zinc scraps, rags, bottles or old
paper and selling the same to a junk dealer.
      JUNK DEALER. Any person engaged in the business of buying, selling,
receiving, collecting or dealing in metal scraps, scrap iron, metals of any
kind and in any form, bottles, rags and used tires; the dismantling or taking
apart of automobiles, other than for repair, or the wrecking of automobiles;
the storage of automobiles unfit for operation; the storage of automobile
bodies and parts thereof; the storage of automobiles or parts thereof kept for
salvage; the storage of scraps from automobiles; or the storage of iron, metals
or junk.
      JUNK YARD. Any place where or from which any person shall conduct, engage
in or carry on the business of a junk dealer.
(Prior Code, § 10-424)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 110.06  BUILDING MOVERS AND DISMANTLERS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, partnership, corporation or
association to move or to dismantle any building or structure within the
jurisdiction of the city without a written permit issued as herein provided.
Application for a permit to move or dismantle any building or structure within
the jurisdiction of the city shall be filed with the City Clerk, shall be in
writing and shall include a statement as to the location of the building or
structure to be moved or dismantled, a statement as to the proposed route over
which the building or structure is to be moved, a statement as to the equipment
to be used in the moving or dismantling of the building or structure and other
information as the City Council shall require. The application shall be
accompanied by a certificate issued by the County Treasurer indicating that all
of the provisions regulating the moving of buildings have been complied with on
the part of the owner of the real estate upon which the building is presently
located. The City Clerk shall refer the application to the City Council for
approval. Upon approval of the City Council, the City Clerk shall then issue
the permit; provided that, a good and sufficient corporate surety bond, check
or cash, in an amount set by motion of the City Council and conditioned upon
moving the building without doing damage to any private or city property, is
filed with the City Clerk prior to the granting of any permit as herein
provided. At such time as the moving of any building or structure within the
jurisdiction of the city has been completed, the Building Inspector shall
inspect the premise and report to the City Clerk as to the extent of damages,
if any, resulting from the relocation and whether any city ordinances have been
violated during the operation. Upon a satisfactory report from the Building
Inspector, the City Clerk shall return the corporate surety bond, cash or check
deposited by the applicant. In the event the basement, foundation or portion
thereof is not properly filled, covered or in a clean and sanitary condition,
the City Council may apply the money deposited for the purpose of defraying the
expense of correcting the condition; provided, however, that, nothing herein
shall be construed to in any manner preventing the city from recovering, by
suit at law or equity, the amount of any expense of correcting the condition
which is in excess of the surety bond, check or cash deposited as hereinabove
provided.
(Prior Code, § 10-425)
   (B)   In the event that it will be necessary for a person, firm,
partnership, corporation or association moving any building or structure within
the jurisdiction of the city to interfere in any manner with the telephone or
telegraph poles and wires, or a gas line, the company or companies owning,
using or operating the poles, wires or line shall upon proper notice of at
least 24 hours, be present and assist by disconnecting the poles, wires or line
relative to the building moving operation. All expense of the disconnection,
removal or related work shall be paid in advance by the person, firm,
partnership, corporation or association engaged in the moving of the building
or structure, unless the disconnection or work is furnished on different terms
as provided in the company’s franchise. Whenever the moving of any building or
structure necessitates interference with a water main, sewer main, pipes or
wire belonging to the city, notice in writing of the time and rate of the
building moving operation shall be given to the various city officials in
charge of the city utility departments who shall proceed, in behalf of the city
and at the expense of the mover, to make the disconnections and do the work as
is necessary.
(Prior Code, § 10-426)
Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-142
CHAPTER 111:  OCCUPATION TAXES
Section
   
111.01   Amounts of occupational tax
   
111.02   Fire insurance companies; collection
   
111.03   Collection
   
111.04   Receipt; certificate; display of certificate
   
111.05   Failure to pay; collection of delinquent taxes; interest on delinquent
taxes
§ 111.01  AMOUNTS OF OCCUPATIONAL TAX.
   For the purpose of raising revenue, an occupation tax is hereby levied, on
the following business within the limits of the city, as follows.
Alcoholic liquor distributors (except beer and wine)(whose home office  $750
is in the city)(per year)
Beer and wine distributor (whose home office is in the city)(per year)  $200
Billiard and pool halls (first table)(per year)                         $50
   (each additional table)(per year)                                 $25
Bowling alleys (per lane)(per year)                                     $15
Class A retailer of on-sale beer only (per year)                        $100
Class B retailer of off-sale beer only (per year)                       $100
Class C retailer of alcoholic liquors for on-sale and off-sale (per     $300
year)
Class D retailer of alcoholic liquors, including beer off-sale (per     $200
year)
Class I alcoholic liquor for consumption on the premises                $250
Electricians (original licensing)(per year)                             $25
   (renewal license)(per year)                                       $25
Fire insurance companies (per year)                                     $5
Gas fitters (original licensing)(per year)                              $10
   (renewal license)(per year)                                       $10
Hawkers and peddlers (per day)                                          $3
Heating, ventilation, air conditioning (HVAC) (original licensing)(per  $25
year)
Manufacturer of alcohol and spirits (per year)                          $2,000
Manufacturer of beer (per year)                                         $200
Manufacturer of wine (per year)                                         $500
Music boxes and juke boxes                                              $10
Nonbeverage use: (per year)
   Class 1                                                           $5
   Class 2                                                           $25
   Class 3                                                           $50
   Class 4                                                           $100
   Class 5                                                           $250
   Class 6                                                           $250
Plumbers (original licensing)(per year)                                 $25
   (renewal license)(per year)                                       $25
Railroad company (per year)                                             $25
Skill games, such as whiffle board, baffle board, or similar games,
whether automatically operated or not for hire; profit or gain by means
of plunger addressed to balls, bullets or marbles on a board or table
equipped pins, posts, pockets, tract or slots, where element of skill
predominates over the element of chance, to include all pin ball        $35
machines of any sort, and all similar devices, not to be used for
gambling under any circumstances, per game, per board or per table,
(including coin operated pool table and shuffle board)(including all
coin operated video game machines), (per year)
Telephone company (per year)                                            $100
 
(Prior Code, § 10-601)  (Ord. 1-05, passed 1-10-2005; Ord. 10-07, passed 7-23-
2007)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-525
§ 111.02  FIRE INSURANCE COMPANIES; COLLECTION.
   (A)   All revenue realized from the occupation tax upon fire insurance
companies doing business in the city shall be applied to the use, support and
benefit of the City Fire Department.
   (B)   The City Clerk shall collect, with diligence, the occupation tax upon
fire insurance companies doing business in the city and shall, upon the receipt
of the tax, pay over the proceeds thereof to the City Treasurer, who shall
credit the same to the Special Occupation Tax Fund for benefit of the City Fire
Department.
   (C)   Upon proper claim filed by the City Fire Chief and allowed by the City
Council, the City Treasurer shall pay over the proceeds of the tax in the Fund
from time to time for the use of the City Fire Department.
(Prior Code, § 10-602)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 35-106
§ 111.03  COLLECTION.
   All occupation taxes of the city shall be due and payable on February 1 of
each year, except in the event that the taxes are levied on a daily basis. All
revenue obtained through the levying and collection of occupation taxes of the
city shall be immediately deposited into the General Fund, unless otherwise
specifically provided by ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 10-603)
§ 111.04  RECEIPT; CERTIFICATE; DISPLAY OF CERTIFICATE.
   Upon the payment of any individual occupation tax of the city, the City
Clerk shall prepare a receipt therefor in duplicate, properly dated and
specifying the person paying the tax and the amount paid, and shall issue a
copy of the receipt to the person, firm, partnership, corporation or
association paying the tax. The copy of the receipt issued to the person, firm,
partnership, corporation or association paying the tax shall constitute the
occupation tax certificate. It shall be unlawful for any person, firm,
partnership, corporation or association receiving an occupation tax certificate
as hereinabove provided to fail, neglect or refuse to display the certificate
in a prominent place or to carry the certificate in a way as to be easily
accessible when business is being conducted.
(Prior Code, § 10-604)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.05  FAILURE TO PAY; COLLECTION OF DELINQUENT TAXES; INTEREST ON
DELINQUENT TAXES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, partnership, corporation or
association to fail, neglect or refuse to pay any applicable occupation tax of
the city on or before the day that the tax becomes due and payable. In the
event that any person, firm, partnership, corporation or association fails to
pay any applicable occupation tax of the city on or before the day that the tax
becomes due and payable, the city shall proceed, by civil suit, to collect the
amount of the tax due. All delinquent occupation taxes of the city shall bear
interest at the rate of 1% per month.
(Prior Code, § 10-605)  Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-525
CHAPTER 112:  SALES AND ADVERTISING
Section
General Provisions
   
112.01   Peddlers barred from Business District
   
112.02   Permit required; revocation of permit
Itinerant Sales
   
112.15   Definitions
   
112.16   Unlicensed sales prohibited
   
112.17   Licenses issued by City Clerk; application for license; appeal
   
112.18   Bond as precondition to license
   
112.19   City Clerk as agent for service of process as precondition to license
   
112.20   Payment of license tax as precondition to license
   
112.21   Expiration license
   
112.22   Revocation of license
   
112.23   Duty of police to enforce
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 112.01  PEDDLERS BARRED FROM BUSINESS DISTRICT.
   It shall be unlawful for any persons engaged in the business, occupation or
activity of hawking, peddling, selling, trading or offering to sell or trade
any goods, wares, merchandise or chattels of any description, including farm
products, fruit and other staples of food, to park their conveyances or to
erect a temporary place of business, for the purpose of engaging in the
business, occupation or activity, upon any street within the Business District
of the city.
(Prior Code, § 10-110)  Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-134, 17-562
§ 112.02  PERMIT REQUIRED; REVOCATION OF PERMIT.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, partnership, corporation or
association to erect or to cause to be erected any advertising display, sign or
other construction for the purpose of advertising at any location upon or over
any city property without having first obtained a valid permit therefor, issued
pursuant to the terms of this section. Application for the permits shall be
furnished by the city in blank form and shall require the applicant to provide
all necessary information and documents which the City Council may deem
appropriate. In the event that the City Council approves the application, it
shall direct the City Clerk to issue the permit for which application was made.
   (B)   Any person, firm, partnership, corporation or association granted a
permit pursuant to the terms of this section shall be subject to any fees,
taxes or other rules and regulations, relating to the subject matter of the
permit, which the City Council may deem appropriate. Any permit granted
pursuant to the terms of this section shall be subject to revocation by the
City Council for good and sufficient cause. In the event that any member of the
City Council shall be of the opinion that any advertising display, sign or
other construction, the subject matter of any permit issued pursuant to the
terms of this section, is in a condition that is dangerous and likely to cause
injury to any persons or property passing over or upon the public ways or city
property, then a member of the City Council may submit a resolution to the City
Council for the purpose of the revocation of the permit.
   (C)   The City Council, upon the making of the resolution, shall cause a
hearing date to be fixed and notice thereof to be served upon the person, firm,
partnership, corporation or association holding the permit resolved to be
revoked. The notice of hearing shall be by personal service by certified mail
and shall require the holder of the permit or a representative of the holder of
the permit to appear before the City Council upon the matter of the resolution
seeking the revocation of the permit. A return of service shall be required by
the City Council. The notice shall be given not less than five days prior to
the time of the hearing; provided that, whenever the holder of the permit in
question is a nonresident or cannot be found within the state, then the City
Clerk shall cause to be published, in a newspaper of general circulation in the
city, the notice of hearing for two consecutive weeks, the last publication to
be at least one week prior to the date set for the hearing. Upon the date fixed
for the hearing, and pursuant to notice, the City Council shall receive and
hear all evidence and arguments, submitted and made by any interested parties,
relevant to the resolution seeking the revocation of the permit in question.
   (D)   If, after consideration of the evidence and arguments of the
interested parties, the City Council shall find that good and sufficient cause
exists for the revocation of the permit in question, then the City Council
shall adopt and approve the resolution providing for the revocation and shall
further, by resolution, order and direct that holder of the permit in question
to remove the advertising display, sign or other construction, the subject
matter of the permit.
   (E)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, partnership, corporation or
association to fail, neglect or refuse to remove any advertising display, sign
or other construction for the purpose of advertising located upon or over any
city property when the permit therefor has been revoked as hereinabove
provided. In the event that any person, firm, partnership, corporation or
association that has erected or caused to be erected any advertising display,
sign or other construction for the purpose of advertising, located upon or over
any city property, shall fail, neglect or refuse to promptly comply with any
valid order of the City Council demanding the removal of the display, sign or
construction, the City Council shall direct the Chief of Police, or other
designated official in charge of the control of signs, to forthwith remove the
display, sign or construction.
(Prior Code, § 10-111)  Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-140
ITINERANT SALES
§ 112.15  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ITINERANT MERCHANT, TRANSIENT MERCHANT or ITINERANT VENDOR. Any person,
firm, partnership, corporation, association, receiver or trustee, whether
acting as owner, agent, cosignee or employee, and including both residents and
nonresidents of the city, who engage temporarily within the city in the
business of selling and delivering goods, wares, merchandise or chattels of any
description or of taking orders for the goods, wares, merchandise or chattels,
to or at any homes, apartments or other residential premises within the city.
(Prior Code, § 10-101)
§ 112.16  UNLICENSED SALES PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, partnership, corporation,
association, receiver or trustee to engage in any business, occupation or
activity as an itinerant merchant, transient merchant or itinerant vendor
within the city without having first obtained a valid license, issued pursuant
to the terms of this subchapter, to carry out the business, occupation or
activity.
(Prior Code, § 10-102)  Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-134
§ 112.17  LICENSES ISSUED BY CITY CLERK; APPLICATION FOR LICENSE; APPEAL.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the City Clerk to receive all applications for
license to carry out any business, occupation or activity as an itinerant
merchant, transient merchant or itinerant vendor within the city and to issue
the license, pursuant to the application, whenever it shall appear that all
provisions of this subchapter relating to the issuance thereof shall have been
complied with by the applicant therefor. All applications for license to carry
out any business, occupation or activity as an itinerant merchant, transient
merchant or itinerant vendor within the city shall be filed, by the applicant,
with the City Clerk.
   (B)   The applications shall be in writing, shall be sworn to and signed, by
the applicant himself or herself if an individual, by all partners if a
partnership, or by the president if a corporation, and shall show the
following:
      (1)   The name or names of the person or persons having the management or
supervision of the applicant’s business during the time that it is proposed
that it will be carried on in the city; the local address or addresses of the
person or persons while engaged in the business; the permanent address or
addresses of the person or persons; the capacity in which the person or persons
will act (that is, whether as proprietor, agent or otherwise); the name and
address of the person, firm or corporation for whose account the business will
be carried on, if any; and if a corporation, under the law of what state the
same;
      (2)   The place or places in the city, where it is proposed to carry on
applicant’s business and the length of time during which it is proposed that
the business shall be conducted;
      (3)   A statement of the nature of merchandise to be sold or offered for
sale by the applicant;
      (4)   A brief statement of the nature of the advertising done or proposed
to be done in order to attract customers;
      (5)   Credentials from the person for whom the applicant proposes to do
business, authorizing the applicant to act as the representative; and
      (6)   Other reasonable information as to the identity or character of the
person or persons having the management or supervision of the applicant’s
business or the method or plan of doing the business as the City Clerk may deem
proper.
   (C)   No license to carry out any business, occupation or activity as an
itinerant merchant, transient merchant or itinerant vendor within the city
shall be issued unless and until an application for the license, as herein
provided, shall have been filed. In the event that the City Clerk shall fail,
neglect or refuse to issue any license applied for pursuant to the provisions
of this subchapter, any person, firm, partnership, corporation, association,
receiver or trustee aggrieved by the failure, neglect or refusal shall have the
right to appeal the failure, neglect or refusal to the City Council. The appeal
shall be perfected by filing, with the City Council, a written statement
setting forth the grounds for the appeal, the statement to be filed no later
than 14 days after the day on which notice of the refusal of the City Clerk to
issue the license applied for is mailed to the last known address of the
applicant therefor. The City Council shall set the time and place for a hearing
on the appeal and notice shall be given to the appellant, therein by registered
mail, postage prepaid, at his or her last known address. The order of the City
Council on the appeal shall be final.
(Prior Code, § 10-103)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-134
§ 112.18  BOND AS PRECONDITION TO LICENSE.
   No license to carry out any business, occupation or activity as an itinerant
merchant, transient merchant or itinerant vendor within the city shall be
issued unless and until the applicant therefore shall file, with the City
Clerk, a bond, approved by the City Attorney, the bond to run to the city in a
sum set by resolution of the City Council; to be executed by the applicant as
principal and by one corporate surety or by two individual sureties upon whom
service may be had within the county; and to be conditioned that the applicant
shall fully comply with all provisions of this code, and of the statutes of the
state, in any manner regulating and concerning the sale or delivery of any
goods, wares, merchandise or chattels, and that the applicant will pay all
judgments rendered against the applicant for any violation of the provisions of
this code or of the statutes of the state, or of any of them, together with all
judgments and costs that may be recovered against the applicant by any person
for damage arising out of any misrepresentation, deception or deceit practiced
upon any person transacting business with the applicant, either at the time of
making the sale or through any advertisement of any character whatsoever with
reference to the goods, wares, merchandise or chattels sold, or any part
thereof; provided, however, that, nothing herein shall be construed to apply to
any itinerant merchant, transient merchant or itinerant vendor otherwise
required, pursuant to the laws of the state, to file a bond as a prerequisite
of doing business within the state. Action upon any bond filed pursuant to the
terms of this section may be brought in the name of the city to file use of the
aggrieved party.
(Prior Code, § 10-104)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-134
§ 112.19  CITY CLERK AS AGENT FOR SERVICE OF PROCESS AS PRECONDITION TO
LICENSE.
   (A)   No license to carry out any business, occupation or activity as an
itinerant merchant, transient merchant or itinerant vendor within the city
shall be issued unless and until the applicant therefor shall file, with the
City Clerk, an instrument nominating and appointing the City Clerk, or any
person performing the official duties of the position, as the true and lawful
agent of the applicant for the service of process, with full power and
authority to receive and to acknowledge service of notice or process in respect
to any action instituted in any court of the state to which the applicant may
be a party arising out of any business transacted by the applicant pursuant to
the license; provided, however, that, nothing herein shall be construed to
apply to any itinerant merchant, transient merchant or itinerant vendor
otherwise required, pursuant to the laws of the state, to appoint any official
of the state as an agent of the applicant for the purpose of receiving service
of process as a prerequisite for doing business within the state.
   (B)   The City Clerk shall keep a record of all processes served upon the
City Clerk in accordance with this subchapter as the agent for the applicant,
identifying in the record:
      (1)   Each process so served;
      (2)   The court which issued the same;
      (3)   The title and nature of the action; and
      (4)   The time and date of service.
   (C)   Immediately upon being served with process as provided herein, it
shall be the duty of the City Clerk to send to the applicant, at the last known
address of the applicant, by registered United States mail, a copy of the
process.
(Prior Code, § 10-105)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-134
§ 112.20  PAYMENT OF LICENSE TAX AS PRECONDITION TO LICENSE.
   No license to carry out any business, occupation or activity as an itinerant
merchant, transient merchant or itinerant vendor within the city shall be
issued unless and until the applicant therefor shall pay, to the City Clerk, a
license tax in an amount set by resolution of the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 10-106)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-525
§ 112.21  EXPIRATION LICENSE.
   All licenses issued to itinerant merchants, transient merchants and
itinerant vendors pursuant to the provisions of this subchapter shall expire
and shall be without force or effect 180 days after the date of the issuance
thereof, unless a prior date of the expiration is fixed therein, in which case
the license shall expire and shall be without force or effect on the prior
date. It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, partnership, corporation,
association, receiver or trustee, having once been licensed pursuant to the
terms of this subchapter to engage in any business, occupation or activity as
an itinerant merchant, transient merchant or itinerant vendor within the city,
to continue or renew the business, occupation or activity at any time after the
license shall have expired; provided, however, that, nothing herein shall be
construed to prohibit any person, firm, partnership, corporation, association,
receiver or trustee from engaging in the business, occupation or activity
pursuant to the authority of any license subsequently issued pursuant to the
terms of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 10-107)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-134
§ 112.22  REVOCATION OF LICENSE.
   (A)   Following notice and hearing on the matter, any license issued
pursuant to the provisions of this subchapter to any itinerant merchant,
transient merchant or itinerant vendor may be revoked by act of the Mayor for
any of the following causes:
      (1)   Any fraud, misrepresentation or false statement contained in the
application for the license;
      (2)   Any fraud, misrepresentation, deception, deceit or false statement
made in connection with the selling of any goods, wares, merchandise or
chattle;
      (3)   Any violation of any provisions of this subchapter;
      (4)   The conviction of the licensee of any felony of any nature or of
any misdemeanor involving moral turpitude; or
      (5)   The conducting of the business, occupation or activity licensed by
this subchapter in an unlawful manner or in any manner which constitutes a
breach of the peace or a menace to the health, safety or general welfare of the
public.
   (B)   No license shall be revoked as herein provided until hearing on the
matter shall have been held before the Mayor, at which hearing the licensee
whose license is at issue therein shall have the right to submit any evidence
and present any arguments relevant to the matter of the revocation. Notice of
the hearing shall be given in writing, setting forth specifically the grounds
of the complaint and the time and place of the hearing. The notice shall be
sent by registered mail, postage prepaid, to the licensee, at the last known
address of the licensee, at least five days prior to the date set for the
hearing. Any licensee aggrieved by any license revocation as hereinabove
provided shall have the right to appeal the revocation to the City Council. The
appeal shall be perfected by filing, with the City Council, a written statement
setting forth the grounds for the appeal, the statement to be filed no later
than 14 days after the day on which notice of the Mayor’s official act of
revocation is mailed to the last known address of the licensee. The City
Council shall set the time and place for a hearing on the appeal and notice
thereof shall be given to the appellant therein by registered mail, postage
prepaid, at his or her last known address. The order of the City Council on the
appeal shall be final.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, partnership, corporation,
association, receiver or trustee to engage in any business, occupation or
activity as an itinerant merchant, transient merchant or itinerant vendor
within the city at any time after any license, issued pursuant to the
provisions of this subchapter, shall have been revoked as herein provided;
provided, however, that, nothing herein shall be construed to prohibit any
person, firm, partnership, corporation, association, receiver or trustee from
engaging in the business, occupation or activity during any time after the
perfecting of an appeal of the revocation to the City Council and before the
decision of the City Council denying the appeal; and provided, further, that,
nothing herein shall be construed to prohibit any person, firm, partnership,
corporation, association, receiver or trustee from engaging in the business,
occupation or activity pursuant to the authority of any license issued,
pursuant to the terms of this subchapter, subsequent to the revocation.
(Prior Code, § 10-108)  Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-134
§ 112.23  DUTY OF POLICE TO ENFORCE.
   It shall be the duty of the city police to examine all places of business
and persons within the jurisdiction of the city subject to the foregoing
provisions of this subchapter and to enforce the provisions against any person,
firm, partnership, corporation, association, receiver or trustee found to be
violating the same.
(Prior Code, § 10-109)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-134
CHAPTER 113:  AMUSEMENTS
Section
Public Dances
   
113.01   Defined
   
113.02   Supervision; duty of person conducting public dance to compensate
supervisory personnel
   
113.03   Responsibility of person conducting public dance to maintain control
thereof
   
113.04   Permissible hours
   
113.05   Condition of premises
   
113.06   Liability of owner of premises for violation
Bingo
   
113.20   Prize limit
   
113.21   Limit on gross proceeds from play
   
113.22   Limit on sessions of play
PUBLIC DANCES
§ 113.01  DEFINED.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PUBLIC DANCE. Any dancing event, masquerade, rock festival, concert or ball
given or conducted for which a fee, contribution or collection for purposes of
admission is charged; provided, the term PUBLIC DANCE shall not be construed to
include dances, music festivals, masquerades or balls to which admission is
limited strictly to persons expressly invited by the person, organization or
society giving or holding the event, and which is not given or conducted
designedly for profit or gain to the person, organization or society giving or
conducting the same; and provided, further, that, the provisions herein shall
not apply to any dance conducted under the supervision and direction of the
City Council of any college or school district within the city.
(Prior Code, § 10-201)
§ 113.02  SUPERVISION; DUTY OF PERSON CONDUCTING PUBLIC DANCE TO COMPENSATE
SUPERVISORY PERSONNEL.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons conducting any public dance
to refuse to permit members of the city police to enter onto the premises of
the dance for the purpose of inspection at any time. The City Council is hereby
empowered to appoint or designate a matron or inspector to be present at any
and all public dances conducted within the city. The matron or inspector shall
take the oath required of the city police, and shall have all the powers and
duties conferred upon regularly appointed police. It shall be the duty of the
matron or inspector to enforce the provisions herein. The matron or inspector
may call upon any police officer, or the person or persons conducting the
dance, for assistance in ejecting any person from the dance, if that person is
offending against the decent and peaceful proprieties of a social gathering.
The matron or inspector so appointed shall be entitled to charge for his or her
services at each dance and shall receive a fee as the City Council shall, by
motion, designate. The fee shall be paid by the person or persons conducting
the public dance prior to the opening of the public dance. It shall be unlawful
for any person or persons conducting a public dance to begin the dance until a
matron or inspector is present, unless the City Council waives their right to
make an appointment. The matron or inspector shall make a written report to the
City Council concerning each dance attended. The City Council may, in its
discretion, designate one or more additional peace officers to work with the
matron or inspector during the hours of the public dance and the compensation
of any additional peace officer so appointed shall be equal to and paid in the
same manner as the matron’s or inspector’s compensation.
(Prior Code, § 10-202)  Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-132
§ 113.03  RESPONSIBILITY OF PERSON CONDUCTING PUBLIC DANCE TO MAINTAIN CONTROL
THEREOF.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons conducting any public dance
to permit any individual to enter upon the premises of the public dance
whenever the person or persons conducting the public dance has reason to
believe:
   (A)   The individual is in an intoxicated or disorderly condition;
   (B)   The individual is likely to engage in disorderly conduct or incite
others to engage in disorderly conduct;
   (C)   The individual intends to engage in or to solicit, or is likely to
engage in or to solicit, any act of prostitution; and/or
   (D)   The individual intends to engage in, to solicit or to aid and abet in
the commission of, or is likely to engage in, to solicit or to aid and abet in
the commission of, any unlawful act of any nature.
(Prior Code, § 10-203)  Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-132
§ 113.04  PERMISSIBLE HOURS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to manage, sponsor, conduct or in any
manner participate in any public dance at any time during the period of any
day, except Sunday, after the hours of 12:00 midnight and before the hours of
7:00 a.m. It shall be unlawful for any person to manage, sponsor, conduct or,
in any manner, participate in any public dance at any time during the first day
of the week, commonly called Sunday.
(Prior Code, § 10-204)  Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-128, 17-132
§ 113.05  CONDITION OF PREMISES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to conduct any public dance
in any building, house, hall, room, area, place or premise, unless the
building, house, hall, room, area, place or premise shall:
   (A)   Be in a clean, healthful and safe condition, well-lighted and free
from obstructions;
   (B)   Be connected with adequate toilet facilities, readily accessible to
all patrons; and
   (C)   Have at least one exit, in addition to the main entrance therefor,
above which shall be placed a sign, which shall be lighted at all hours,
exhibiting the word “EXIT” in letters at least four inches in height.
(Prior Code, § 10-205)  Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-132
§ 113.06  LIABILITY OF OWNER OF PREMISES FOR VIOLATION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, partnership, corporation or
association, owning or otherwise controlling any land, building, house, hall,
room, area, place or premise within the corporate limits of the city, to rent,
lease or lend the land, building, house, hall, room, area, place or premise
with the knowledge:
   (A)   The land, building, house, hall, room, area, place or premise is to be
used for the purpose of conducting any public dance; and
   (B)   The public dance is to be conducted in any manner in violation of the
provisions of this subchapter relating thereto or that the land, building,
house, hall, room, area, place or premise is in a condition as shall fail to
comply with any of the provisions of this subchapter relating thereto.
(Prior Code, § 10-206)  Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-132
BINGO
§ 113.20  PRIZE LIMIT.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, partnership, corporation or
association conducting the game of bingo within the jurisdiction of the city to
pay to the winners of any games of bingo conducted in any one daily session
cash prizes or merchandise in excess of $750. In computing the $750 per session
limitation, all cash and merchandise given for winning a bingo, winning a
drawing or any participation in a lottery activity, participating in a love-
thy-neighbor or other prize-sharing and a jackpot shall be included.
(Prior Code, § 10-221)  Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 9-114, 9-121
§ 113.21  LIMIT ON GROSS PROCEEDS FROM PLAY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, partnership, corporation or
association conducting the game of bingo within the jurisdiction of the city to
receive, in gross receipts from conducting the bingo, any amount in excess of
$1,500 in any one daily session.
(Prior Code, § 10-222)  Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 9-114, 9-121
§ 113.22  LIMIT ON SESSIONS OF PLAY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, partnership, corporation or
association to conduct the game of bingo within the jurisdiction of the city
oftener than ten times per month.
(Prior Code, § 10-223)  Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 9-114, 9-121
CHAPTER 114:  ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
Section
General Provisions
   
114.01   Definitions
Licenses
   
114.15   License required
   
114.16   License to be framed and hung in plain view
   
114.17   Licensee requirements
   
114.18   Liquor application; city examination
   
114.19   License renewal; city powers and duties
   
114.20   Licenses; city powers and duties
   
114.21   Retail licensing standards; binding recommendations
   
114.22   Notice; procedure
   
114.23   Catering licenses
   
114.24   Keg sales; registration; keg identification numbers; prohibited acts
Conditions and Restrictions
   
114.35   Location
   
114.36   Sale at retail forbidden in dwelling or lodging house
   
114.37   Citizen complaints
   
114.38   Unlawful for owner of premises to knowingly permit violations
   
114.39   Violations by agent or employee of licensee deemed act by licensee
   
114.40   Premises open to view; lighting
   
114.41   Minors and incompetents
   
114.42   Credit sales prohibited
   
114.43   Reserved
   
114.44   Original package
   
114.45   Hours of sale
   
114.46   Unsanitary retail establishments prohibited; premises subject to
inspection
   
114.47   Employment of minors prohibited
   
114.48   Manufacture, sale, delivery and possession; prohibitions; exceptions
   
114.49   Removal of intoxicated persons from public property
   
114.50   Licensed premises; inspections
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 114.01  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions found in Neb. RS
53-103 through 53-103.42 shall be used.
(Prior Code, § 10-301)  (Ord. 17-11, passed 6-27-2011)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 53-103
LICENSES
§ 114.15  LICENSE REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, partnership, corporation or
association to manufacture, bottle or blend for sale, to sell, to barter or to
keep for sale any alcoholic liquors, including beer, within the jurisdiction of
the city, unless the person, firm, partnership, corporation or association
shall have, in full force and effect, a license for the purpose of carrying on
the activities issued pursuant to the State Liquor Control Act.
(Prior Code, § 10-302)  Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-120, 53-134
§ 114.16  LICENSE TO BE FRAMED AND HUNG IN PLAIN VIEW.
   Every licensee under the State Liquor Control Act shall cause the license to
be framed and hung in plain view in a conspicuous place on the licensed
premises.
(Prior Code, § 10-305)  Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 53-134, 53-148
§ 114.17  LICENSEE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   No license shall be issued to:
      (1)   A person who is not a resident of this state, except in case of
railroad, airline, or boat licenses;
      (2)   A person who is not of good character and reputation in the
community in which he or she resides;
      (3)   A person who is not a citizen of the United States;
      (4)   A person who has been convicted of or has pleaded guilty to a
felony under the laws of this state, any other state, or the United States;
      (5)   A person who has been convicted of or has pleaded guilty to any
Class I misdemeanor pursuant Neb. RS Chapter 28, art. 3, 4, 7, 8, 10, 11, or
12, or any similar offense under a prior criminal statute or in another state,
except that any additional requirements imposed by this division on May 18,
1983, shall not prevent any person holding a license on that date from
retaining or renewing that license if the conviction or plea occurred prior to
May 18, 1983;
      (6)   A person whose license issued under the Nebraska Liquor Control Act
has been revoked for cause;
      (7)   A person who at the time of application for renewal of any license
issued under the Act would not be eligible for that license upon initial
application;
      (8)   A partnership, unless one of the partners is a resident of this
state and unless all the members of that partnership are otherwise qualified to
obtain a license;
      (9)   A limited liability company, unless one of the members is a
resident of this state and unless all the members of that company are otherwise
qualified to obtain a license;
      (10)   A corporation, if any officer or director of the corporation or
any stockholder owning in the aggregate more than 25% of the stock of that
corporation would be ineligible to receive a license under this section for any
reason other than the reasons stated in divisions (A)(1) and (A)(3) of this
section, or if a manager of a corporate licensee would be ineligible to receive
a license under this section for any reason.  This division shall not apply to
railroad licenses;
      (11)   A person whose place of business is conducted by a manager or
agent, unless that manager or agent possesses the same qualifications required
of the licensee;
      (12)   A person who does not own the premises for which a license is
sought or does not have a lease or combination of leases on the premises for
the full period for which the license is to be issued;
      (13)   Except as provided in this division, an applicant whose spouse is
ineligible under this section to receive and hold a liquor license.  Such an
applicant shall become eligible for a liquor license only if the Nebraska
Liquor Control Commission finds from the evidence that the public interest will
not be infringed upon if the license is granted.  It shall be prima facie
evidence that when a spouse is ineligible to receive a liquor license, the
applicant is also ineligible to receive a liquor license.  This prima facie
evidence shall be overcome if it is shown to the satisfaction of the
Commission:
         (a)   The licensed business will be the sole property of the
applicant; and
         (b)   The licensed premises will be properly operated.
      (14)   A person seeking a license for premises which do not meet
standards for fire safety as established by the State Fire Marshal;
      (15)   A law enforcement officer, except that this division shall not
prohibit a law enforcement officer from holding membership in any nonprofit
organization holding a liquor license or from participating in any manner in
the management or administration of a nonprofit organization; or
      (16)   A person less than 21 years of age.
   (B)   When a trustee is the licensee, the beneficiary or beneficiaries of
the trust shall comply with the requirements of this section, but nothing in
this section shall prohibit any such beneficiary from being a minor or person
who is mentally incompetent.
(Prior Code, § 10-306)  (Ord. 18-11, passed 6-27-2011)   Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 53-124.03, 53-125
§ 114.18  LIQUOR APPLICATION; CITY EXAMINATION.
   (A)   (1)   Any person or persons desiring to obtain a license to sell
alcoholic liquor at retail shall file an application with the Liquor Control
Commission. Upon receipt from the Commission of the notice and copy of the
application as provided in Neb. RS 53-131, the City Council shall fix a time
and place at which a hearing will be held, and at which time the City Council
shall receive evidence, under oath, either orally, or in writing, from the
applicant and any other person concerning the propriety of the issuance of the
license. The hearing shall be held not more than 45 days after the receipt of
notice from the Commission. The City Council may examine, or cause to be
examined, under oath, the books and records of any applicant; to hear testimony
and to take proof for its information in the performance of its duties.
      (2)   For purposes of obtaining any of the information desired, the City
Council may authorize its agent, the City Clerk or the City Attorney, to act on
its behalf.
   (B)   Notice of the time and place of the hearing shall be published in a
legal newspaper in, or of general circulation in, the city one time not less
than seven, nor more than 14, days before the time of the hearing. The notice
shall include, but not be limited to, a statement that all persons desiring to
give evidence before the City Council in support of or in protest against the
issuance of the license may do so at the time of the hearing.
   (C)   The City Council shall, after the hearing provided in division (A)
above, approve or deny the application within 45 days of receipt of the
application from the Commission, and shall cause to be spread at large in the
minute record of its proceedings a resolution approving or denying the
application. The City Clerk shall thereupon mail or deliver to the Commission a
copy of the resolution within ten days of the decision to approve or deny the
application.
   (D)   Any resolution denying an application rendered by the City Council
shall be in writing or stated in the record and shall be accompanied by
findings. The findings shall consist of concise statements of the conclusions
upon each contested issue. The applicant shall be notified of the decision in
person or by mail.
(Prior Code, § 10-307)  (Ord. 2-92, passed 3-2-1992)  Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 53-131, 53-132, 53-134
§ 114.19  LICENSE RENEWAL; CITY POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   A retail license issued by the State Liquor Control Commission and
outstanding may be automatically renewed by the Commission in the absence of a
written request by the City Council to require the licensee to submit an
application for renewal. Any licensed retail premises located in an area which
is annexed to the city shall file a formal application for a license and, while
the application is pending, the licensee may continue all license privileges
until the original license expires or is canceled or revoked. If the license
expires within 60 days following the annexation date of the area, the license
may be renewed by order of the Commission for not more than one year.
   (B)   The City Clerk shall cause to be published in a legal newspaper in or
of general circulation in the city, one time between January 10 and January 30
of each year, individual notice in the form prescribed by law of the right of
automatic renewal of each retail liquor and beer license within the city,
except that notice of the right of automatic renewal of Class C licenses shall
be published between the dates of July 10 and July 30 of each year. If written
protests to the issuance of automatic renewal of a license are filed in the
office of the City Clerk by three or more residents of the city on or before
February 10, or August 10 for Class C licenses, the City Council shall hold a
hearing to determine whether continuation of the license should be allowed.
Upon the conclusion of any hearing required by this section, the City Council
may request a licensee to submit an application as provided in Neb. RS 53-135.
(Prior Code, § 10-308)  (Ord. 1-05, passed 1-10-2005)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 53-135
§ 114.20  LICENSES; CITY POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   The governing body is authorized to regulate by ordinance, not
inconsistent with the Nebraska Liquor Control Act, the business of all retail,
craft brewery, and microdistillery licensees carried on within the corporate
limits of the municipality .
   (B)   During the period of 45 days after the date of receipt by mail or
electronic delivery from the Nebraska Liquor Control Commission notice and a
copy of an application for a new license to sell alcoholic liquor at retail, a
craft brewery license, or a microdistillery license, the governing body may
make and submit to the Commission recommendations relative to the granting or
refusal to grant the license to the applicant.
   (C)   The governing body, with respect to licenses within the corporate
limits of the municipality, has the following powers, functions, and duties
with respect to retail, craft brewery, and microdistillery licenses:
      (1)   To cancel or revoke for cause retail, craft brewery, or
microdistillery licenses to sell or dispense alcoholic liquor issued to persons
for premises within its jurisdiction, subject to the right of appeal to the
Nebraska Liquor Control Commission;
      (2)   To enter or to authorize any law enforcement officer to enter at
any time upon any premises licensed under the Nebraska Liquor Control Act to
determine whether any provision of the Act, any rule or regulation adopted and
promulgated pursuant to the Act, or any ordinance, resolution, rule, or
regulation adopted by the governing body has been or is being violated, and at
that time examine the premises of the licensee in connection with such
determination. Any law enforcement officer who determines that any provision of
the Act, any rule or regulation adopted and promulgated pursuant to the Act, or
any ordinance, resolution, rule, or regulation adopted by the governing body
has been or is being violated shall report such violation in writing to the
Executive Director of the Commission:
         (a)   Within 30 days after determining that such violation has
occurred;
         (b)   Within 30 days after the conclusion of an ongoing police
investigation; or
         (c)   Within 30 days after the verdict in a prosecution related to
such an ongoing police investigation if the prosecuting attorney determines
that reporting such violation prior to the verdict would jeopardize such
prosecution, whichever is later;
      (3)   To receive a signed complaint from any citizen within its
jurisdiction that any provision of the Act, any rule or regulation adopted and
promulgated pursuant to the Act, or any ordinance, resolution, rule, or
regulation relating to alcoholic liquor has been or is being violated and to
act upon these complaints in the manner provided in the Act;
      (4)   To receive retail, craft brewery, and microdistillery license fees
as provided in Neb. RS 53-124 and 53-124.01 and pay the same, after the license
has been delivered to the applicant, to the Municipal Treasurer;
      (5)   To examine or cause to be examined any applicant or any retail,
craft brewery, or microdistillery licensee upon whom notice of cancellation or
revocation has been served as provided in the Act, to examine or cause to be
examined the books and records of any applicant or licensee, and to hear
testimony and to take proof for its information in the performance of its
duties.  For purposes of obtaining any of the information desired, the
governing body may authorize its agent or attorney to act on its behalf;
      (6)   To cancel or revoke on its own motion any license if, upon the same
notice and hearing as provided for citizen complaints, it determines that the
licensee has violated any of the provisions of the Nebraska Liquor Control Act
or any valid and subsisting ordinance, resolution, rule, or regulation duly
enacted, adopted, and promulgated relating to alcoholic liquor.  The order of
cancellation or revocation may be appealed to the Commission within 30 days
after the date of the order by filing a notice of appeal with the Commission. 
The Commission shall handle the appeal in the manner provided for hearing on an
application in Neb. RS 53-133; and
      (7)   Upon receipt from the Commission of the notice and copy of
application as provided in Neb. RS 53-131, to fix a time and place for a
hearing at which the governing body shall receive evidence, either orally or by
affidavit from the applicant and any other person, bearing upon the propriety
of the issuance of a license.  Notice of the time and place of the hearing
shall be published in a legal newspaper in or of general circulation in the
municipality, one time not less than seven and not more than 14 days before the
time of the hearing.  The notice shall include, but not be limited to, a
statement that all persons desiring to give evidence before the governing body
in support of or in protest against the issuance of the license may do so at
the time of the hearing.  The hearing shall be held not more than 45 days after
the date of receipt of the notice from the Commission, and after the hearing
the governing body shall cause to be recorded in the minute record of its
proceedings a resolution recommending either issuance or refusal of the
license.  The Municipal Clerk shall mail to the Commission by first class mail,
postage prepaid, a copy of the resolution which shall state the cost of the
published notice, except that failure to comply with this provision shall not
void any license issued by the Commission.  If the Commission refuses to issue
such a license, the cost of publication of notice shall be paid by the
Commission from the security for costs.
   (D)   (1)   When the Nebraska Liquor Control Commission mails or delivers to
the Municipal Clerk a retail, craft brewery, or microdistillery license issued
or renewed by the Commission, the Clerk shall deliver the license to the
licensee upon receipt from the licensee of proof of payment of:
         (a)   The license fee if by the terms of Neb. RS 53-124 the fee is
payable to the Municipal Treasurer;
         (b)   Any fee for publication of notice of hearing before the
governing body upon the application for the license;
         (c)   The fee for publication of notice of renewal, if applicable, as
provided in Neb. RS 53-135.01; and
         (d)   Occupation taxes, if any, imposed by the municipality.
      (2)   Notwithstanding any ordinance or charter power to the contrary, the
municipality shall not impose an occupation tax on the business of any person,
firm, or corporation licensed under the Nebraska Liquor Control Act and doing
business within the corporate limits of the municipality in any sum which
exceeds two times the amount of the license fee required to be paid under the
Act to obtain that license.
(Prior Code, § 10-309)  (Ord. 1-05, passed 1-10-2005; Ord. 19-11, passed 6-27-
2011; Ord. 43-11, passed 12-27-2011)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 53-131, 53-132, 53-134, 53-134.03
§ 114.21  RETAIL LICENSING STANDARDS; BINDING RECOMMENDATIONS.
   (A)   Local governing bodies shall only have authority to approve
applications and deny licenses pursuant to the State Liquor Control Act.
   (B)   The City Council shall only consider the following licensing standards
and criteria at the hearing and in evaluation of any applicant for a retail
alcoholic liquor license, for the upgrading of a license to sell alcoholic
liquor, or for the expansion or change in location of the premises, and for
the  purpose  of  formulating  a recommendation from the City Council to the
State Liquor Control Commission in accordance with the State Liquor Control
Act:
      (1)   The adequacy of existing law enforcement resources and services in
the area;
      (2)   The recommendation of the Police Department or any other law
enforcement agency;
      (3)   Existing motor vehicle and pedestrian traffic flow in the vicinity
of the proposed licensed premises, potential traffic and parking problems and
the proximity and availability of on-street and off-street parking;
      (4)   Zoning restrictions and the local governing body’s zoning and land-
use policies;
      (5)   Sanitation or sanitary conditions on or about the proposed licensed
premises;
      (6)   The existence of a citizen’s protest and similar evidence in
support of or in opposition to the application;
      (7)   The existing population and projected growth within the
jurisdiction of the local governing body and within the area to be served;
      (8)   The existing liquor licenses, the class of each license and the
distance and times of travel between establishments issued the licenses;
      (9)   Whether the proposed license would be compatible with the
neighborhood or community where the proposed premises are located;
      (10)   Whether the type of business or activity proposed to be operated
or presently operated in conjunction with the proposed license is and will be
consistent with the public interest as declared in Neb. RS 53-101.01;
      (11)   Whether the applicant can ensure that all alcoholic beverages,
including beer and wine, will be handled by persons in accordance with Neb. RS
53-168-.06;
      (12)   Whether the applicant has taken every reasonable precaution to
protect against the possibility of shoplifting of alcoholic liquor, which
alcoholic liquor shall be displayed and kept in and sold from an area which is
reasonably secured;
      (13)   Whether the applicant is fit, willing and able to properly provide
the service proposed in conformance with all provisions and requirements of and
rules and regulations adopted and promulgated pursuant to the act;
      (14)   Whether the applicant has demonstrated that the type of management
and control exercised over the licensed premises will be sufficient to ensure
that the licensee can conform to all the provisions and requirements of and
rules and regulations adopted and promulgated pursuant to the Act;
      (15)   The background information of the applicant established by
information contained in the public records of the Commission and
investigations conducted by law enforcement agencies;
      (16)   Past evidence of discrimination involving the applicant as
evidenced by findings of fact before any administrative board or agency of the
local governing body, any other governmental board or agency of the local
governing body, any other governmental unit or any court of law;
      (17)   Whether the applicant or the applicant’s representatives
suppressed any fact or provided any inaccurate information to the Commission or
local governing body or the employees of the Commission or local governing body
in regard to the license application or liquor investigations. The applicant
shall be required to cooperate in providing a full disclosure to the
investigating agents of the local governing body;
      (18)   Proximity of and impact on schools, hospitals, libraries, parts
and public institutions;
      (19)   Whether activities proposed to be conducted on the licensed
premises or in adjacent related outdoor areas will create unreasonable noise or
disturbance; and
      (20)   Compliance with state laws, liquor rules and regulations, and city
ordinances and regulations and whether or not the applicant has ever forfeited
bond to appear in court to answer charges of having committed a felony or
charges of having violated any law or ordinance enacted in the interest of good
morals and decency or has been convicted of violating or has forfeited bond to
appear in court and answer charges for violating any law or ordinance relating
to alcoholic liquor.
   (C)   It shall be the applicant’s duty to produce evidence pertaining to the
designated criteria prescribed in this section. The burden of proof and
persuasion shall be on the party filing the application. When applicable for
purposes of this section, “applicant” shall be synonymous with “licensee”.
(Prior Code, § 10-325)  (Ord. 11-89, passed 1-2-1990)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 53-134
§ 114.22  NOTICE; PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Notice. Notice of a hearing held pursuant to Neb. RS 53-134 shall be
given to the application by the City Clerk and shall contain the date, time and
location of the hearing. Two or more proceedings which are legally or factually
related may be heard and considered together unless any party thereto makes a
showing sufficient to satisfy the City Council that prejudice would result
therefrom.
   (B)   Procedure.
      (1)   Hearings will be informal and conducted by the City Attorney. The
intent is an inquiry into the facts, not an adversarial action. Each witness
may present his or her testimony in narrative fashion or by question and
answer.
      (2)   The City Council or the applicant may order the hearing to be
recorded by the Clerk, at the expense of the applicant(s).
      (3)   The City Council may admit and give probative effect of evidence
which possesses probative value commonly accepted by reasonable prudent
individuals. The City Attorney may limit testimony where it appears
incompetent, irrelevant or unduly repetitious. If there is opposition to any
application and the opposition desires the opportunity to present arguments and
to cross-examine the applicant and any witnesses in favor of the application,
they shall choose a spokesperson to perform the function who shall notify the
City Attorney of his or her representation prior to the start of the hearing.
The order of the proceeding is as follows:
         (a)   Exhibits will be marked in advance by the Clerk and presented to
the City Attorney during the presentation;
         (b)   Presentation of evidence, witnesses and arguments by applicant;
         (c)   Testimony of any other citizens in favor of the proposed
license;
         (d)   Examination of applicant, witnesses or citizens by City
Attorney, City Council or duly appointed agent;
         (e)   Cross-examination of applicant, witnesses or citizens by
spokesperson for opposition, if any;
         (f)   Presentation of evidence and witnesses by opposition;
         (g)   Testimony of any other citizens in opposition to the proposed
license;
         (h)   Presentation of evidence by city and law enforcement personnel;
         (i)   Cross-examination by applicant;
         (j)   Rebuttal evidence by both parties and by city administration and
agent; and
         (k)   Summation by applicant and opposition spokesperson, if any.
      (4)   In all cases, the burden of proof and persuasion shall be on the
party filing the application.
      (5)   Any member of the City Council and the City Attorney may question
any witness, call witnesses or request information.
      (6)   All witnesses shall be sworn.
      (7)   The City Council may make further inquiry and investigation
following the hearing.
      (8)   The City Council or the applicant may order the hearing to be
recorded by the Clerk, at the expense of the applicant(s).
(Prior Code, § 10-326)  (Ord. 11-89, passed 1-2-1990)
§ 114.23  CATERING LICENSES.
   (A)   The holder of a license to sell alcoholic liquor at retail issued
under Neb. RS 53-124, a craft brewery license, a microdistillery license, or a
farm winery license  may obtain an annual catering license by filing an
application and license fee with the Nebraska Liquor Control Commission.
   (B)   Upon receipt from the Commission of the notice and a copy of the
application as provided in Neb. RS 53-124.12, the Governing Body shall process
the application in the same manner as provided for other alcoholic liquor
retail licenses.
   (C)   The Governing Body, with respect to catering licensees within its
corporate limits, may cancel a catering license for cause for the remainder of
the period for which that catering license is issued.  Any person whose
catering license is canceled may appeal to the District Court.
   (D)   The Governing Body may impose an occupation tax on the business of a
catering licensee doing business within the liquor license jurisdiction of the
Governing Body.  The tax may not exceed double the license fee for a catering
license.
(Prior Code, § 10-327)  (Ord. 1-05, passed 1-10-2005; Ord. 20-11, passed 6-27-
2011)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 53-124.12
§ 114.24  KEG SALES; REGISTRATION; KEG IDENTIFICATION NUMBERS; PROHIBITED ACTS.
   (A)   When any person licensed to sell alcoholic liquor at retail sells beer
for consumption off the premises in a container with a liquid capacity of five
or more gallons or 18-92/100 or more liters, the seller shall record the date
of sale, the keg identification number, the purchaser’s name and address and
the number of the purchaser’s motor vehicle operator’s license, state
identification card or military identification, if the military identification
contains a picture of the purchaser, together with the purchaser’s signature,
the record shall be on a form prescribed by the Liquor Control Commission and
shall be kept by the licensee at the retail establishment where the purchase
was made for not less than six months. The records kept pursuant to this
section shall be available for inspection by any law enforcement officer during
normal business hours or at any other reasonable time. Any person violating
this section shall be guilty of an offense.
   (B)   Licensees shall place a label bearing a keg identification number on
each keg at the time of retail sale. Any person who unlawfully tampers with,
alters or removes the keg identification number from a beer container after the
container has been taken from the licensed premises pursuant to a retail sale
and before its return to the licensed premises or other place where returned
kegs are accepted shall be guilty of an offense.
(Prior Code, § 10-328)  (Ord. 11-94, passed 12-19-1994)  Penalty, see §
10.99
CONDITIONS AND RESTRICTIONS
§ 114.35  LOCATION.
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided in division (B) of this section, no
license shall be issued for the sale at retail of any alcoholic liquor within
150 feet of any church, school, hospital, or home for aged or indigent persons
or for veterans, their wives or children. This prohibition does not apply to
any location within such distance of 150 feet:
      (1)   For which a license to sell alcoholic liquor at retail has been
granted by the Nebraska Liquor Control Commission for two years continuously
prior to making of application for license;
      (2)   To hotels offering restaurant service, to regularly organized
clubs, or to restaurants, food shops, or other places where sale of alcoholic
liquor is not the principal business carried on, if such place of business so
exempted was established for such purposes prior to May 24, 1935; or
      (3)   To a college or university in the state which is subject to Neb. RS
53-177.01.
   (B)   If a proposed location for the sale at retail of any alcoholic liquor
is within 150 feet of any church, a license may be issued if the commission
gives notice to the affected church and holds a hearing as prescribed in Neb.
RS 53-133.
   (C)   No alcoholic liquor, other than beer, shall be sold for consumption on
the premises within 300 feet from the campus of any college or university
within the municipality, except that this section:
      (1)   Does not prohibit a nonpublic college or university from
contracting with an individual or corporation holding a license to sell
alcoholic liquor at retail for the purpose of selling alcoholic liquor at
retail on the campus of such college or university at events sanctioned by such
college or university but does prohibit the sale of alcoholic liquor at retail
by such licensee on the campus of such nonpublic college or university at
student activities or events; and
      (2)   Does not prohibit sales of alcoholic liquor by a community college
culinary education program pursuant to Neb. RS 53-124.15.
(Prior Code, § 10-303)  (Ord. 21-11, passed 6-27-2011; Ord. 45-11, passed 12-
27-2011)   Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 53-134, 53-177
   State Commission may waive 300-feet requirement, see Neb. RS 177.01
§ 114.36  SALE AT RETAIL FORBIDDEN IN DWELLING OR LODGING HOUSE.
   Except in the case of hotels and clubs, it shall be unlawful for any person,
firm, partnership, corporation or association to sell any alcoholic liquor at
retail upon any premises within the jurisdiction of the city which have any
access which leads from the premises to any other portion of the same building
or structure used for dwelling or lodging purposes, and which is permitted to
be used or kept accessible for use by the public; provided, however, that,
nothing herein shall be construed to prohibit any connection between any
premises and other portion of the building or structure which is used only by
the licensee, his or her family and personal guests.
(Prior Code, § 10-304)  Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 53-134, 53-178
§ 114.37  CITIZEN COMPLAINTS.
   Any five residents of the city shall have the right to file a complaint with
the City Council stating that any retail licensee subject to the jurisdiction
of the City Council has been or is violating any provision of the State Liquor
Control Act or the rules or regulations issued pursuant to the act. The
complaint shall be in writing in the form prescribed by the City Council and
shall be signed and sworn to by the parties complaining. The complaint shall
state the particular provision, rule or regulation believed to have been
violated and the facts in detail upon which belief is based. If the City
Council is satisfied that the complaint substantially charges a violation and
that from the facts alleged there is reasonable cause for the belief, it shall
set the matter for hearing within ten days from the date of the filing of the
complaint and shall serve notice upon the licensee of the time and place of the
hearing and of the particular charge in the complaint. The complaint shall, in
all cases, be disposed of by the City Council within 30 days from the date the
complaint was filed by resolution thereof, which resolution shall be deemed the
final order for purposes of appeal to the State Liquor Control Commission as
provided in Neb. RS 53-1,115.
(Prior Code, § 10-310)  (Ord. 1-05, passed 1-10-2005)  Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 53-134.04
§ 114.38  UNLAWFUL FOR OWNER OF PREMISES TO KNOWINGLY PERMIT VIOLATIONS.
   It shall be unlawful for any owner of any premises licensed under the State
Liquor Control Act or for any person from whom a licensee derives the right to
possession of any licensed premises or for the agent of any owner or person to
knowingly permit the licensee to use the licensed premises in any manner which
is in violation of any provisions of any ordinance of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 10-311)  Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 53-1,101
§ 114.39  VIOLATIONS BY AGENT OR EMPLOYEE OF LICENSEE DEEMED ACT BY LICENSEE.
   Every act or omission of whatsoever nature constituting a violation of any
of the provisions of this chapter by any officer, director, manager or other
agent or employee of any licensee, if the act is committed or omission is made
with the authorization, knowledge or approval of the licensee, shall be deemed
and held to be the act of the employer or licensee, and the employer or
licensee shall be punishable in the same manner as if the act or omission had
been done or omitted by him or her personally.
(Prior Code, § 10-312)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 53-1,102
§ 114.40  PREMISES OPEN TO VIEW; LIGHTING.
   (A)   In premises upon which the sale of alcoholic liquor for consumption
upon the premises is licensed, other than as a restaurant, hotel or club, no
screen, blind, curtain, partition, article or thing shall be permitted in the
windows or upon the doors of the licensed premises nor inside the premises,
which shall prevent a clear view into the interior, of the licensed premises
from the street, road or sidewalk at all times, and no booth, screen, partition
or other obstruction nor any arrangements of lights or lighting shall be
permitted in or about the interior of the licensed premises which shall prevent
a full view of the entire interior of the premises from the street, road or
sidewalk. All rooms where liquor is sold for consumption upon the premises
shall be continuously lighted during business hours by natural or artificial
white light so that all parts of the interior of the premises shall be clearly
visible. In case the view into any licensed premises required by the foregoing
provisions shall be willfully obscured by the licensee or by him or her
willfully suffered to be obscured or in any manner obstructed, then the license
shall be subject to revocation in the manner herein provided.
   (B)   In order to enforce the provisions of this section, the City Council
shall have the right to require the filing with it of plans, drawings and
photographs showing the clearance of the view as hereinabove required at the
time that application for license is made.
(Prior Code, § 10-313)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 114.41  MINORS AND INCOMPETENTS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to sell, give away, dispose
of, exchange, permit the sale of, or make a gift of any alcoholic liquors, or
to procure any alcoholic liquors to or for any minor or to any person who is
mentally incompetent.
(Prior Code, § 10-314)  Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 53-180
§ 114.42  CREDIT SALES PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person shall sell or furnish alcoholic liquor at retail to any
person on credit, on a passbook, on an order on a store, in exchange for any
goods, wares, or merchandise, or in payment for any services rendered, and if
any person extends credit for any such purpose, the debt thereby attempted to
be created shall not be recoverable at law.
   (B)   Nothing in this section shall prevent the following:
      (1)   Any club holding a Class C license from permitting checks or
statements for alcoholic liquor to be signed by members or bona fide guests of
members and charged to the account of such members or guests in accordance with
the bylaws of such club;
      (2)   Any hotel or restaurant holding a retail license from permitting
checks or statements for liquor to be signed by regular guests residing at such
hotel or eating at such restaurant and charged to the accounts of such guests;
or
      (3)   Any licensed retailer engaged in the sale of wine from issuing
wine-tasting cards to customers.
(Prior Code, § 10-315)  (Ord. 44-11, passed 12-27-2011)   Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 53-183
§ 114.43  RESERVED.
§ 114.44  ORIGINAL PACKAGE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons who own, manage, or
lease any premise in which the sale of alcoholic beverages is licensed, to have
in his, her or their possession for sale at retail any alcoholic liquor
contained in casks, or other containers, except in the original package.
   (B)   Nothing in this section shall prohibit the refilling of original
packages of alcoholic liquor for strictly private use and not for resale.
(Prior Code, § 10-317)  (Ord. 2-92, passed 3-2-1992)  Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 53-184
§ 114.45  HOURS OF SALE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any licensed person or persons or his, her or
their agents to sell any alcoholic beverages within the city, except during the
hours provided herein:
Hours of Allowed Sale
Hours of Allowed Sale
Alcoholic liquors, excluding beer and wine
Secular days:
   Off sa6:00 a.m. to 1:00 a.m. on the following day
   On sal6:00 a.m. to 1:00 a.m. on the following day
Sundays:
   Off sa12:00 noon to Monday at 1:00 a.m.
   On sal12:00 noon to Monday at 1:00 a.m.
 
Beer and wine only:
Secular days:  
   Off sale6:00 a.m. to 1:00 a.m. on the following day
   On sale 6:00 a.m. to 1:00 a.m. on the following day
Sundays:
   Off sale6:00 a.m. to Monday at 1:00 a.m.
   On sale 6:00 a.m. to Monday at 1:00 a.m.
 
   (B)   No alcoholic liquor, including beer, shall be sold at retail or
dispensed on any day between the hours of 1 a.m. and 6 a.m. except that the
Governing Body with respect to area inside the corporate limits of the
municipality may by ordinance require closing prior to 1 a.m. on any day or if
adopted by a vote of at least two-thirds of the members of the Governing Body,
permit retail sale or dispensing of alcoholic liquor for consumption on the
premises, excluding sales for consumption off the premises, later than 1 a.m.
and prior to 2 a.m. on any day.
   (C)   Except as provided for and allowed by ordinance of the Governing Body,
no alcoholic liquor, including beer, shall be sold at retail or dispensed
inside the corporate limits of the municipality between the hours of 6 a.m.
Sunday and 1 a.m. Monday. No such ordinance shall permit alcoholic liquor,
other than beer and wine, to be sold at retail or dispensed between the hours
of 6 a.m. Sunday and 12 noon Sunday. This division (B) shall not apply after 12
noon on Sunday to a licensee which is a nonprofit corporation and the holder of
a Class C license or a Class I license.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful on property licensed to sell alcoholic liquor at
retail to allow alcoholic liquor in open containers to remain or be in
possession or control of any person for purposes of consumption between the
hours of 15 minutes after the closing hour applicable to the licensed premises
and 6 a.m. on any day.
   (E)   Nothing in this section shall prohibit licensed premises from being
open for other business on days and hours during which the sale or dispensing
of alcoholic liquor is prohibited by this section.
(Prior Code, § 10-318)  (Ord. 1-05, passed 1-10-2005; Ord. 22-11, passed 6-27-
2011; Ord. 1-12, passed 2-17-2012)   Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 53-179
§ 114.46  UNSANITARY RETAIL ESTABLISHMENTS PROHIBITED; PREMISES SUBJECT TO
INSPECTION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, partnership, corporation or
association to hold open for public use any retail liquor establishment that is
not in a clean and sanitary condition. It shall be unlawful for any person,
firm, partnership, corporation or association to hold open for public use any
retail liquor establishment, unless the premises of the establishment has,
affixed thereto as a part thereof, toilet facilities that are adequate  and
convenient for the customers and patrons of the premises. All licensed retail
liquor establishments situated within the jurisdiction of the city shall be
subject to any health inspections that the City Council or the city police may
make or cause to be made. All applications for retail liquor licenses within
the city shall be viewed, in part, from the standpoint of the sanitary
conditions of the licensed premises and a report concerning the sanitary
conditions shall be made by the applicant at all hearings concerning the
application for, or the renewal of, any liquor license.
(Prior Code, § 10-319)  Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-123
§ 114.47  EMPLOYMENT OF MINORS PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, partnership, corporation or
association to hire, employ or permit any person under the age of 19 years to
serve or dispense alcoholic liquors including beer, upon any premises of any
retail liquor establishment licensed in the name of the person, firm,
partnership, corporation or association.
(Prior Code, § 10-320)  Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 53-180.02
§ 114.48  MANUFACTURE, SALE, DELIVERY AND POSSESSION; PROHIBITIONS; EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   No person shall manufacture, bottle, blend, sell, barter, transport,
deliver, furnish or possess any alcoholic liquor for beverage purposes, except
as specifically provided in this chapter and the State Liquor Control Act.
   (B)   Nothing in this chapter shall prevent:
      (1)   The possession of alcoholic liquor legally obtained as provided in
this chapter or the Act for the personal use of the possessor and his or her
family or guests;
      (2)   The making of wine, cider or other alcoholic liquor by a person
from fruits, vegetables or grains, or the product thereof, by simple
fermentation and without distillation, if made solely for the use of the maker
and his or her family and guests;
      (3)   Any duly licensed practicing physician or dentist from possessing
or using alcoholic liquor in the strict practice of his or her profession, any
hospital or other institution caring for the sick and diseased persons from
possessing and using alcoholic liquor for the treatment of bona fide patients
of the hospital or other institution, or any drug store employing a licensed
pharmacist from possessing or using alcoholic liquor in the compounding of
prescriptions of licensed physicians;
      (4)   The possession and dispensation of alcoholic liquor by an
authorized representative of any religion on the premises of a place of
worship, for the purpose of conducting any bona fide religious rite, ritual or
ceremony;
      (5)   Persons who are 16 years old or older from carrying alcoholic
liquor from licensed establishments when they are accompanied by a person not a
minor;
      (6)   Persons who are 16 years old or older from handling alcoholic
liquor containers and alcoholic liquor in the course of their employment;
      (7)   Persons who are 16 years old or older from removing and disposing
of alcoholic liquor containers for the convenience of the employer and
customers in the course of their employment; or
      (8)   Persons who are 19 years old or older from serving or selling
alcoholic liquor in the course of their employment.
(Prior Code, § 10-322)  (Ord. 7-02, passed 7-8-2002)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 53-168.06
§ 114.49  REMOVAL OF INTOXICATED PERSONS FROM PUBLIC PROPERTY.
   (A)   Any law enforcement officer with the power to arrest for traffic
violations may take a person who is intoxicated and in the judgment of the
officer dangerous to himself, herself or others, or who is otherwise
incapacitated, from any public property. An officer removing an intoxicated
person from public property shall make a reasonable effort to take the
intoxicated person to his or her home or to any hospital, clinic, alcoholism
center or medical doctor as may be necessary to preserve life or to prevent
injury. If these measures are unsuccessful or are not feasible, the officer may
then place the intoxicated person in civil protective custody, except that
civil protective custody shall be used only as long as is necessary to preserve
life or to prevent injury, and under no circumstances longer than 12 hours. The
placement of the person in civil protective custody shall be recorded at the
facility or jail at which he or she is delivered and communicated to his or her
family or next of kin, if they can be located, or to the person designated by
the person taken into civil protective custody.
   (B)   The law enforcement officer who acts in compliance with this section
shall be deemed to be acting in the course of his or her official duty and
shall not be criminally or civilly liable for the actions. The taking of an
individual into civil protective custody under this section shall not be
considered an arrest. No entry or other record shall be made to indicate that
the person has been arrested or charged with a crime.
   (C)   For purposes of this section, PUBLIC PROPERTY shall mean any public
right-of-way, street, highway, alley, park or other state-, county- or city-
owned property.
(Prior Code, § 10-323)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 53-1,121
§ 114.50  LICENSED PREMISES; INSPECTIONS.
   The City Council shall cause frequent inspection to be made on the premises
of all retail licensees. If it is found that any licensee is violating any
provision of this chapter, the State Liquor Control Act or the rules and
regulations of the State Liquor Control Commission or is failing to observe in
good faith the purposes of this chapter or the Act, the license may be
suspended, canceled or revoked after the licensee is given an opportunity to be
heard in his or her defense.
(Prior Code, § 10-324)  (Ord. 1-05, passed 1-10-2005)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 53-116.01
CHAPTER 115:  FRANCHISES AND CONTRACTUAL AGREEMENTS
Section
   
115.01   Natural gas
   
115.02   Telephone
   
115.03   Television
   
115.04   Community antenna service; rate increase
§ 115.01  NATURAL GAS.
   The City Council has granted to the Peoples Natural Gas Division of Northern
Natural Gas Co., Inc., the authority to construct, maintain and operate a gas
transmission and distribution system within the city. Actual details of the
agreement and the present gas rates, charges and fees are available at the City
Clerk’s office.
(Prior Code, § 10-501)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-528.02
§ 115.02  TELEPHONE.
   The City Council has granted to the Lincoln Telephone and Telegraph Company,
Inc., the authority to maintain and operate a telephone system within the city.
Actual details of the agreement and the present telephone rates, charges and
fees are available at the City Clerk’s office.
(Prior Code, § 10-502)
§ 115.03  TELEVISION.
   The City Council has granted to the T-V Transmission Inc. the authority to
maintain, and operate a television station and transmitting system in the city.
Actual details of the agreement and the charges, rates and fees are available
at the City Clerk’s office.
(Prior Code, § 10-503)
§ 115.04  COMMUNITY ANTENNA SERVICE; RATE INCREASE.
   (A)   Approval of a rate increase for a person or entity furnishing
community antenna television service shall be required and shall be made by the
Council which granted the franchise to the person or entity. The approval shall
be made by ordinance or resolution.
   (B)   Prior to voting on a rate increase the Council shall hold at lease two
public meetings at which the ratepayers and the franchisee may comment on the
programming content and rates of the franchisee. At least 30 days prior to the
first meeting held to examine programming content and rates, each ratepayer or
subscriber shall be notified by a billing statement or other written notice
when and where the public meeting shall be held. The notice shall also provide
information as to what rates are proposed by the franchisee for consideration
by the Council; provided that, this section shall apply only to franchises
granted or renewed after 5-23-1979.
(Prior Code, § 10-504)
CHAPTER 116:  MOBILE HOME PARKS
Section
   
116.01   Definitions
   
116.02   Board of Health; supervision; inspection
   
116.03   Operation without permit prohibited; permit application; false
statements
   
116.04   Permit revocation
   
116.05   Area and condition of parks
   
116.06   Prohibited alterations and additions to mobile homes
   
116.07   Responsibility for maintenance
   
116.08   Office; management
   
116.09   Applicability of codes and other health and safety regulations
   
116.10   Liability for utility service charges
§ 116.01  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BOARD OF HEALTH. The Board of Health of the city as established by §
32.07 of this code.
   FIRE PREVENTION AUTHORITY. The City Fire Department.
   MOBILE HOME. Any vehicle or structure so designed and constructed in a
manner as will permit occupancy thereof as sleeping quarters for one or more
persons, or the conduct of any business or profession, occupation or trade (or
use as a selling or advertising device), and so designed that it. is or may be
mounted on wheels and used as a conveyance on highways or city streets,
propelled or drawn by its own or other motive power, excepting a device used
exclusively upon stationary rails or tracks.
   MOBILE HOME PARK. Any park, trailer park, trailer court, camp, site, lot,
parcel or tract of land designed, maintained or intended for the purpose of
supplying a location or accommodations for any mobile home or mobile homes and
upon which any mobile home or mobile homes are parked or placed and shall
include all buildings used or intended for use as part of the equipment
thereof, whether a charge is made for the use of the mobile home park and its
facilities or not. The term MOBILE HOME PARK shall not include mobile home,
trailer or automobile sales lots upon which unoccupied mobile homes are parked
or placed for the purposes of sale and inspection for sale.
   MOBILE HOME SPACE. Any plot of ground within a mobile home park designed for
the accommodation of one mobile home.
   PERMIT. A written permit issued by the City Clerk, under the direction and
with the consent of the Board of Health, permitting a mobile home park to
operate, within the jurisdiction of the city, pursuant to the provisions of
this code and of any regulations promulgated thereunder.
   STREET. Any public street, avenue, road, alley or highway, located in the
city and established for the use of vehicles, the boundaries of which are
hereby determined to be the outer boundaries of the street, avenue, road or
alley, as platted and dedicated as shown by the official records of the city
and the county as shown on the official records in the office of the County
Clerk as official streets, avenues, roads or alleys within the corporate
limits.
(Prior Code, § 10-401)
§ 116.02  BOARD OF HEALTH; SUPERVISION; INSPECTION.
   All mobile home parks within the jurisdiction of the city shall be under the
direct supervision of the Board of Health. The Board of Health shall recommend
to the City Council additional rules and regulations as it may deem advisable
for the proper sanitation, safety and maintenance of mobile home parks within
the jurisdiction of the city. The Board of Health shall provide for and cause
to be made periodic inspections of all mobile home parks within the
jurisdiction of the city, which inspections shall be carried out at reasonable
times by officers or agents of the Board of Health; provided, however, that,
nothing herein shall be construed to empower the Board of Health, or the agents
or employees thereof, to enter any mobile home located within any mobile home
park for the purpose of inspection, without the consent of the owner or
occupant of the mobile home.
(Prior Code, § 10-402)
§ 116.03  OPERATION WITHOUT PERMIT PROHIBITED; PERMIT APPLICATION; FALSE
STATEMENTS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, partnership, corporation or
association to construct, maintain, operate or alter any mobile home park
within the zoning jurisdiction of the city, unless the person, firm,
partnership, corporation or association shall hold a valid permit, issued
pursuant to the provisions of this section, authorizing the construction,
maintenance, operation or alteration. All applications for permits for the
construction, maintenance, operation or alteration of mobile home parks within
the jurisdiction of the city shall be filed with the City Clerk, shall be in
writing, shall be signed by the applicant, shall be accompanied by an affidavit
of the applicant testifying as to the truth of the application and shall
contain the following:
      (1)   The name and address of the applicant;
      (2)   The location and legal description of the mobile home park;
      (3)   A complete plan of the mobile home park, showing compliance with
all applicable provisions of this code and of the regulations promulgated
thereunder; and
      (4)   Further information as may be requested by the Board of Health in
order to enable it to determine whether the permits should be issued.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, partnership, corporation or
association preparing and filing an application for a permit for the
construction, maintenance, operation or alteration of a mobile home park within
the jurisdiction of the city to knowingly make or cause to be made any false or
misleading statement of material fact upon the application. All applications
for permits for the construction, maintenance, operation or alteration of
mobile home parks within the jurisdiction of the city filed with the City Clerk
shall be delivered by the City Clerk to the Board of Health. It shall be the
duty of the City Clerk to issue permits for the construction, maintenance,
operation or alteration of mobile home parks within the jurisdiction of the
city when directed to do so by the Board of Health. No permit issued pursuant
to the terms of this section shall be transferable. Every person, firm,
partnership, corporation or association holding a permit authorizing the
construction, maintenance, operation or alteration of a mobile home park within
the jurisdiction of the city shall give notice in writing to the City Clerk
within 72 hours after having sold, transferred, given away or otherwise
disposed of any interest in or control of the mobile home park that is the
subject of the permit, the notice to include the name and address of the
person, firm, partnership, corporation or association succeeding to the
ownership or control of the mobile home park.
(Prior Code, § 10-403)  Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-1001
§ 116.04  PERMIT REVOCATION.
   The City Council may, at any time, revoke any permit to construct, maintain,
operate or alter a mobile home park within the jurisdiction of the city, in the
event that it shall appear to the City Council that the mobile home park is
being constructed, maintained, operated or altered in any manner which does not
comply with any of the provisions of this code or of the laws of the state
relating to mobile homes or mobile home parks, together with any rules or
regulations promulgated pursuant to the code or laws, or in the event that it
shall appear that there is any other condition, cause or conduct in regard to
the construction, maintenance, operation or alteration of the mobile home park
which is adverse to the best interests of the health, welfare or safety of the
city. No permit authorizing the construction, maintenance, operation or
alteration of a mobile home park within the jurisdiction of the city shall be
revoked as herein provided until hearing on the matter shall have been held
before the City Council, at which hearing the holder of the permit at issue
shall have the right to submit any evidence and present any arguments relevant
to the matter of the revocation. Notice of the hearing shall be given in
writing, setting forth specifically the grounds for the proposed revocation and
the time and place of the hearing. The notice shall be sent by registered mail,
postage prepaid, to the holder of the permit, at the last known address of the
holder, at least five days prior to the date set for the hearing. It shall be
unlawful for any person, firm, partnership, corporation or association to
construct, maintain, operate or alter any mobile home park within the
jurisdiction of the city at any time subsequent to the revocation of the permit
authorizing the construction, maintenance, operation or alteration.
(Prior Code, § 10-404)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 116.05  AREA AND CONDITION OF PARKS.
   (A)   All mobile home parks within the jurisdiction of the city shall be
located upon well-drained sites and shall be so located that the drainage from
the mobile home parks will not endanger any water supply. All mobile home parks
within the jurisdiction of the city shall be located in areas free from
marshes, swamps and other potential breeding places for insects or rodents. All
mobile home parks within the jurisdiction of the city shall be large enough in
area to accommodate the following:
      (1)   The designated number of mobile home spaces;
      (2)   All necessary streets and roadways;
      (3)   Adequate parking areas for motor vehicles; and
      (4)   Adequate service areas and playgrounds.
   (B)   The number of mobile homes to be accommodated in any mobile home park
shall not exceed the number obtained by dividing the total square foot area of
the mobile home park site by the number 2,600. Each mobile home space shall be
clearly defined and shall be laid out in a manner that a minimum of 20 feet of
space exists between any two mobile homes and a minimum of ten feet of space
exists between any mobile home and any permanent building.
   (C)   No mobile home located within a mobile home park within the
jurisdiction of the city shall be nearer than five feet to any property
adjacent to the mobile home park. No mobile home located within a mobile home
park within the jurisdiction of the city shall be nearer than two feet to any
street or highway right-of-way. No permit authorizing the construction,
maintenance, operation or alteration of a mobile home park within the
jurisdiction of the city shall be issued unless the mobile home park shall be
designed to be large enough to accommodate a minimum of 15 mobile homes.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, partnership, corporation or
association to allow any mobile home to remain in any mobile home park owned or
operated by the person, firm, partnership, corporation or association unless
the mobile home shall occupy a designated mobile home space.
   (E)   (1)   Each mobile home space within mobile home parks located within
the jurisdiction of the city shall be provided with an access road which shall
be continuous, shall connect with a street or highway and shall have a minimum
width of 20 feet.
      (2)   Parking areas within mobile home parks located within the
jurisdiction of the city shall be large enough in area to include motor vehicle
parking spaces in a number at least equal to the number of mobile home spaces
within the parks.
      (3)   A minimum of 100 square feet per mobile home space shall be made
available as playgrounds within all mobile home parks within the jurisdiction
of the city and the playgrounds shall be protected from highways, streets and
parking areas.
      (4)   An adequate supply of pure water, furnished through a pipe
distribution system connected directly with a city water main, with supply
outlets located at every mobile home space, shall be provided.
      (5)   Four anchors shall be provided for each mobile home space and each
mobile home shall be securely anchored as soon as reasonably possible after its
location upon a mobile home space.
(Prior Code, § 10-405)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 116.06  PROHIBITED ALTERATIONS AND ADDITIONS TO MOBILE HOMES.
   No permanent enclosed additions of any kind shall be built onto nor made a
part of any mobile home located within any mobile home park within the
jurisdiction of the city. Mobile homes located within mobile home parks within
the jurisdiction of the city shall not be skirted in a manner as to attach the
mobile homes permanently to the ground, provide a harborage for rodents or
create a health or fire hazard. The wheels of mobile homes located within
mobile home parks within the jurisdiction of the city shall not be removed,
except that the wheels may be removed temporarily when necessary for repairs.
(Prior Code, § 10-406)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 116.07  RESPONSIBILITY FOR MAINTENANCE.
   All mobile home parks within the jurisdiction of the city shall be
maintained under the management and supervision of the person, firm,
partnership, corporation or association holding the permit authorizing the
construction, maintenance, operation or alteration of the mobile home park or
of a duly authorized representative of the person, firm, partnership,
corporation or association. It shall be the personal duty of those charged with
the maintenance of mobile home parks within the jurisdiction of the city, as
hereinabove provided, to maintain the mobile home parks in strict accordance
with all laws, ordinances, codes, rules and regulations of the city and of the
state relating to sanitation, fire, protection, health and safety.
(Prior Code, § 10-407)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 116.08  OFFICE; MANAGEMENT.
   (A)   Every mobile home park within jurisdiction of the city shall have
located therein an office building in which shall be located:
      (1)   The permanent office of the person in direct day to day charge and
control of the park;
      (2)   A copy of the permit, issued pursuant to the terms of this chapter,
authorizing the construction, maintenance, operation or alteration of the park,
the copy to be posted and in plain sight; and
      (3)   An accurate and up to date copy of the park register.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of any person, firm, partnership, corporation or
association holding a permit authorizing the construction, maintenance,
operation or alteration of a mobile home park within the jurisdiction of the
city and of any person in direct day to day charge and control of the park to:
      (1)   Keep, at all times, a register of all occupants of each mobile home
space within the park, which register shall show for all occupants their names
and addresses, the dates of their entrance and departure, the license numbers
of their mobile homes and the name of the state issuing the license;
      (2)   Maintain the park in a clean, orderly and sanitary condition at all
times;
      (3)   Report to the Chairperson of the Board of Health all cases of
persons or animals affected or suspected of being affected with any
communicable disease; and
      (4)   Prohibit the use of any mobile home located within the park by a
number of persons greater than that which the mobile home is designed to
accommodate.
(Prior Code, § 10-408)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 116.09  APPLICABILITY OF CODES AND OTHER HEALTH AND SAFETY REGULATIONS.
   Mobile home parks located within the jurisdiction of the city shall in no
manner be construed to be exempt from applicable provisions of the City
Building Code, City Plumbing Code, City Electrical Code or of any other
ordinances, rules or regulations of the city relating to health or safety.
(Prior Code, § 10-409)
§ 116.10  LIABILITY FOR UTILITY SERVICE CHARGES.
   Any person, firm, partnership, corporation or association holding a permit
authorizing the maintenance or operation of a mobile home park within the
jurisdiction of the city shall be primarily liable for all utility service
charges which accrue against the mobile homes located in the mobile home park.
(Prior Code, § 10-410)
CHAPTER 117:  PLUMBERS
Section
   
117.01   License required
   
117.02   Application for license; false statement prohibited; bond required
   
117.03   Licensing of plumbing firms as “master plumbers”; revocation
   
117.04   Term of license; revocation; renewal
§ 117.01  LICENSE REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, individually or as a member of a firm,
partnership, corporation or association, to hold himself or herself out to the
public as or to engage in or work at the business or activities of a master
plumber or journeyman plumber within the jurisdiction of the city unless the
person shall be licensed with the city as a master plumber or journeyman
plumber as hereinafter provided. Nothing in this section shall be construed to
require an employee working for a single employer as part of the employer’s
full-time staff and not holding himself or herself out to the public for hire
to hold a license while acting within the scope of his or her employment.
Nothing in this section shall be construed to apply to any public utility
company or companies serving the city and its inhabitants under a franchise
agreement with the city, nor shall this section be construed as being, in any
manner, a limitation or restriction upon any franchises heretofore granted by
the city.
(Prior Code, § 10-411)  Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 18-1917, 18-1919
§ 117.02  APPLICATION FOR LICENSE; FALSE STATEMENT PROHIBITED; BOND REQUIRED.
   (A)   Application for licensing as a master plumber or journeyman plumber
shall be made in writing to the City Council, upon forms prepared and furnished
by the City Clerk, and shall show the name and address of the applicant, the
business location of the applicant and other information as the City Council
shall deem desirable. It shall be unlawful for any person preparing an
application for licensing as a master plumber or journeyman plumber to
knowingly make or cause to be made any false or misleading statement of
material fact upon the application. No application for licensing as a master
plumber or journeyman plumber shall be issued unless and until the applicant
shall file with the City Clerk a bond, in an amount set by resolution of the
City Council and on file at the office of the Clerk, signed by one or more
sufficient sureties to be approved by the City Council, or a surety bond of the
same amount issued by an approved corporate surety company. The bond shall
contain the condition that the applicant shall defend, save, keep harmless and
indemnify the city from all liabilities, claims, damages, judgments, costs and
expenses of every nature and description caused by the willful or negligent
conduct of the plumber while engaged in the business of plumbing.
   (B)   The provisions of this section may be satisfied by the applicant
depositing, with the Clerk, an insurance policy providing public liability and
property damage insurance to the city and the general public in the same amount
as the bond, executed by an insurance company authorized to do business in the
state; provided, an endorsement, approved as to form by the City Attorney,
shall be attached to and become part of each and every liability insurance
policy deposited with the city, and the endorsement shall contain each and
every condition of the bond required by the City Council. The obligee of the
bond or the beneficiary of the insurance policy shall be the city, and action
may be maintained thereon by anyone injured by a breach of the conditions of
the bond or of the covenants contained in the required endorsement on the
policy of insurance for a period of one year after the completion of any
plumbing work. Upon approval of the applicant by the City Council, license
shall be issued to the applicant upon the payment of a licensing fee in an
amount set by resolution of the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 10-412)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 117.03  LICENSING OF PLUMBING FIRMS AS “MASTER PLUMBERS”; REVOCATION.
   (A)   Any plumbing firm within the city may be licensed hereunder as a
master plumber in the name of the firm; provided that, the firm shall have a
master plumber who is duly licensed as provided in this chapter.
   (B)   The master plumber must be a bona fide officer of the firm or an
employee who is regularly employed by the firm and is actually engaged in the
planning, superintending and practical installation of plumbing and drainage.
   (C)   The master plumber listed and licensed by the firm shall be in actual
charge of and responsible for the installation, removal or repair of any
plumbing or drainage work done by the firm.
   (D)   One individual must also qualify as a master plumber to enable the
firm to hold a master plumber’s license and in case the individual withdrawn
from or ceases to be connected with the firm, the City Council shall forthwith
revoke the license of the firm as hereinafter provided.
(Prior Code, § 10-413)
§ 117.04  TERM OF LICENSE; REVOCATION; RENEWAL.
   All licenses issued pursuant to the provisions of §
117.02 shall expire on August 1 of the year in which they are issued; provided
that, any license may be revoked by the City Council in the event that it shall
appear to the City Council that the holder of the license is either incompetent
to engage in or work at the business of a master plumber, if the licensee is
licensed as a master plumber, or of a journeyman plumber, if the licensee is
licensed as a journeyman plumber or, in the event that it shall appear to the
City Council that the holder of the license is guilty of a willful breach of
the provisions of any law, ordinance, provided to knowingly make or cause to be
made any false or misleading statement of material fact upon the application.
(Prior Code, § 10-414)
CHAPTER 118:  ELECTRICIANS
Section
   
118.01   License required
   
118.02   Applications for license; false statement prohibited; bond required
   
118.03   Licensing of electrician firm as “master electrician”; revocation
   
118.04   Expiration and renewal of certificate of registration
§ 118.01  LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (A)   No person shall install any electric apparatus within the corporate
limits without first having obtained a license to do so hereinafter provided.
In addition, no licensed electrical contractor, master electrician or
journeyman electrician may lend his or her license to any person or knowingly
permit the use thereof by another. The Building Inspector shall recommend and
the City Council shall issue licenses to those persons who have been issued a
valid and unexpired electrician’s license by the state; provided, the persons
shall have complied with the other terms and conditions precedent to the
issuance of licenses as required in this chapter.
   (B)   In the event that the applicant holds a license issued by the state,
the license required herein shall be in the form of an occupation tax
certificate. Application for a license shall be made to the City Clerk in
writing showing the name and residence of the applicant, the business location
of the applicant and other information as may be required.
(Prior Code, § 10-415)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 118.02  APPLICATIONS FOR LICENSE; FALSE STATEMENT PROHIBITED; BOND REQUIRED.
   Application for licensing as a master electrician or journeyman electrician
shall be made in writing to the City Council, upon forms prepared and furnished
by the City Clerk, and shall show the name and address of the applicant, the
business location of the applicant and other information as the City Council
shall deem desirable. It shall be unlawful for any person preparing an
application for licensing as a master electrician or journeyman electrician to
knowingly make or cause to be made any false or misleading statement of
material fact upon the application. No application for licensing as a master
electrician or journeyman electrician shall be issued unless and until the
applicant shall file, with the City Clerk, a bond, in a sum set by resolution
of the City Council and on file at the office of the Clerk, to be approved by
the City Council, conditioned that the licensee shall indemnify and hold
harmless the city from all liability caused by an negligent or intentional act
arising from his or her electrical work or violation of this code and shall pay
all fines imposed upon him or her for any violation thereof; provided that, the
obligation may be satisfied by delivering to the City Clerk a policy of
insurance in the same manner and of the same type as that required of plumbers.
The obligee of the bond shall be the city and action may be maintained thereon
by anyone injured by a breach of its conditions for a period of one year after
the completion of any electrical work. Upon approval of the applicant by the
City Council, the license shall be issued to the applicant upon payment of a
licensing fee in an amount set by resolution of the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 10-416)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 118.03  LICENSING OF ELECTRICIAN FIRM AS “MASTER ELECTRICIAN”; REVOCATION.
   Any electrician firm within the city may be licensed hereunder as a master
electrician in the name of the firm; provided that, the firm shall have a
master electrician, serving as a bona fide officer or member of the firm, who
is duly licensed, pursuant to the provisions of the laws of the state or of §
118.02, as a master electrician. All firms licensed as a master electrician in
the name of the firm as hereinabove provided shall, at all times, have, as a
member or officer thereof, an individual master electrician as hereinabove
provided and if any firm shall fail to have at least one individual master
electrician, then the City Council shall forthwith revoke the license of the
firm as hereinafter provided.
(Prior Code, § 10-417)
§ 118.04  EXPIRATION AND RENEWAL OF CERTIFICATE OF REGISTRATION.
   Registration certificates shall expire on December 31 of the year in which
they are issued and shall not be assignable. Certificates of registration, at
the time of their expiration, may be renewed upon recommendation of the City
Council, without an examination, upon payment of the required registration fee.
Any person registered as a master electrician who does not renew his or her
certificate of registration by July 1 after the expiration of same, shall pay
any registration fee required by this chapter for a master electrician and
shall again prove his or her qualification to the City Council before the
person can again be registered hereunder.
(Prior Code, § 10-418)
CHAPTER 119:  GAS FITTERS
Section
   
119.01   License required
   
119.02   Application for licensing; false statement prohibited; bond required
   
119.03   Licensing of firm as gas fitter; revocation
   
119.04   Term of license; revocation; renewal
§ 119.01  LICENSE REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, individually or as a member of a firm,
partnership, corporation or association, to engage in the business of
inspecting, cleaning, repairing, altering, selling or installing natural gas
piping systems or appliances unless the person shall be licensed with the city
as a gas fitter, as hereinafter provided.
(Prior Code, § 10-419)  Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-525
§ 119.02  APPLICATION FOR LICENSING; FALSE STATEMENT PROHIBITED; BOND REQUIRED.
   (A)   Application for licensing as a gas fitter shall be made in writing to
the City Council, upon forms prepared and furnished by the City Clerk and shall
show the name and address of the applicant, the business location of the
applicant and other information as the City Council shall deem desirable.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person preparing an application for
licensing as a gas fitter to knowingly make or cause to be made any false or
misleading statement of material fact upon the application. No application for
licensing as a gas fitter shall be issued unless and until the applicant shall
file, with the City Clerk, a bond, in a sum set by resolution of the City
Council, signed by one or more sufficient sureties, or by a corporate surety
doing business within the city to be approved by the City Council, conditioned
that the applicant shall indemnify and hold harmless the city from all
accidents, damage, liability, claims, judgments, costs or expenses caused by
the willful or negligent misconduct of the applicant as a gas fitter licensed
hereunder. The obligee of the bond shall be the city and action may be
maintained thereon by anyone injured by a breach of its condition. All bonds
tendered by gas fitters shall be approved in writing as to form and substance
by the City Attorney. In lieu of the filing of the aforesaid bond, each
registered gas fitter may obtain and file a certificate thereof with the City
Clerk, a general, public liability insurance policy for property damage and
bodily injury in policy limits set by resolution of the City Council and on
file at the office of the Clerk.
   (C)   Action may be maintained thereon by anyone injured by a breach of the
conditions of the bond or the covenants contained in the required endorsement
on the policy of insurance for a period of one year after the completion of any
gas fitting. Upon approval of the applicant by the City Council, the license
shall be issued to the applicant upon payment of a licensing fee in an amount
set by resolution of the City Council. During the period of the license, the
licensee shall be governed by all applicable ordinances, codes, rules and
regulations herein provided, including all applicable ordinances, codes, rules
and regulations that may hereinafter be adopted by the City Council or by any
governmental subdivision of the city during the period.
(Prior Code, § 10-420)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 119.03  LICENSING OF FIRM AS GAS FITTER; REVOCATION.
   (A)   Any firm within the city may be licensed hereunder as a gas fitter;
provided that, the firm shall have at least one person who is:
      (1)   Serving as a bona fide officer of the firm or as a regular employee
of the firm;
      (2)   Regularly and actually in charge of the planning, superintending
and practical installation of gas piping and appliances carried out by the
firm; and
      (3)   Duly licensed, pursuant to the provisions of §
119.02, as a gas fitter.
   (B)   In the event that any firm licensed as a gas fitter shall fail to have
at least one bona fide officer or regular employee, as hereinabove described,
licensed within the city as a gas fitter, then the City Council shall forthwith
revoke the license of the firm as hereinafter provided. Any firm licensed as a
gas fitter, as hereinabove provided, may employ and utilize persons not
licensed as gas fitters in the inspecting, cleaning, repairing, altering,
selling and installing of natural gas piping systems and appliances; provided
that, the work of the nonlicensed persons is at all times under the
jurisdiction, authority and direct control of a bona fide officer or regular
employee of the firm who is licensed within the city as a gas fitter.
(Prior Code, § 10-421)
§ 119.04  TERM OF LICENSE; REVOCATION; RENEWAL.
   (A)   All licenses issued pursuant to the provisions of §
119.02 shall expire on August 1 of the year in which they are issued; provided
that, any license may be revoked by the City Council in the event that it shall
appear to the City Council:
      (1)   The holder of the license is incompetent to engage in or work at
the business of a gas fitter;
      (2)   The holder of the license obtained the license through error, fraud
or misrepresentation; or
      (3)   The holder of the license has on two or more occasions willfully
violated the provisions of any law, ordinance, code, rule or regulation
relating to the licensee’s business as a gas fitter, including, but not limited
to, the City Building Code.
   (B)   No license shall be revoked as herein provided until hearing on the
matter shall have been held before the City Council, at which hearing the
holder of the license at issue shall have the right to submit any evidence and
present any arguments relevant to the matter of the revocation. Notice of the
hearing shall be given in writing, setting forth specifically the grounds for
the proposed revocation and the time and place of the hearing. The notice shall
be sent by registered mail, postage prepaid, to the holder of the license, at
the last known address of the holder, at least five days prior to the date set
for the hearing. All original licenses may be renewed by the City Council, at
the date of their expiration, upon payment of the required license fee. Renewal
licenses shall be granted by the City Council upon the written application of
the licensee, filed with the City Council, stating that the purposes and
condition of the licensee remain unchanged. It shall be unlawful for any person
preparing an application for a renewal license as hereinabove provided to
knowingly make or cause to be made any false or misleading statement of
material fact upon the application.
(Prior Code, § 10-422)  Penalty, see §
10.99
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
131.   OFFENSES AGAINST PERSONS
      
132.   OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC HEALTH AND SAFETY
      
133.   OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC MORALS AND ECENCY
      
134.   OFFENSES AGAINST PROPERTY
CHAPTER 130:  GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
130.01   Attempt to commit an offense
   
130.02   Solicitation to commit an offense
   
130.03   Conspiracy to commit offense
   
130.04   Aiding or abetting the commission of an offense
   
130.05   Obstructing, impeding or interfering with police officer
   
130.06   Parental responsibility for acts of children
   
130.07   Resisting, interfering with, impeding, obstructing or abusing city
officers
   
130.08   Impersonating an officer
   
130.09   Threat or false information concerning injury to person or property
   
130.10   Coercion
   
130.11   Violence on a service dog; interference
§ 130.01  ATTEMPT TO COMMIT AN OFFENSE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in any conduct
constituting an attempt to commit a violation of the terms of this code.
   (B)   A person shall be deemed guilty of an attempt to commit a violation of
this code if, acting with the kind of culpability otherwise required for
commission of the violation, he or she:
      (1)   Purposely engages in conduct which would constitute the violation
if the attendant circumstances were as he or she believed them to be;
      (2)   When causing a particular result is an element of the violation,
does or omits to do anything with the purpose of causing or with the belief
that it will cause the result without further conduct on his or her part; or
      (3)   Purposely does or omits to do anything which, under the
circumstances as he or she believes them to be, is an act or omission
constituting a substantial step in a course of conduct planned to culminate in
his or her commission of the violation.
   (C)   Conduct shall not be held to constitute a substantial step under this
section unless it is strongly corroborative if the actor’s purpose to commit a
violation of the code. Without negativing the sufficiency of other conduct, the
following, if strongly corroborative of the actor’s purpose to commit a
violation of the code, shall not be held insufficient as a matter of law:
      (1)   Lying in wait, searching for or following the contemplated victim
of the violation of the code;
      (2)   Enticing or seeking to entice the contemplated victim of the
violation of the code to go to the place contemplated for the commission of the
violation;
      (3)   Reconnoitering the place contemplated for the commission of the
violation of the code;
      (4)   Unlawful entry of a structure, vehicle or enclosure in which it is
contemplated that the violation of the code will be committed;
      (5)   Possession of materials to be employed in the commission of the
violation of the code, which are specially designed for the unlawful use or
which can serve no lawful purpose of the actor under the circumstances; and/or
      (6)   Soliciting an innocent agent to engage in conduct constituting an
element of the violation of the code.
   (D)   When the actor’s conduct would otherwise constitute an attempt under
divisions (B) or (C) of this section, it is an affirmative defense that he or
she abandoned his or her effort to commit the violation of the code or
otherwise prevented its commission, under circumstances manifesting a complete
and voluntary renunciation of his or her purpose to commit the violation. The
establishment of a defense does not, however, affect the liability of an
accomplice who did not join in the abandonment or prevention.
   (E)   Within the meaning of this section, renunciation of purpose to violate
the code is not voluntary if it is motivated, in whole or in part, by
circumstances, not present or apparent at the inception of the actor’s course
of conduct, which increase the probability of detection or apprehension or
which make more difficult the accomplishment of the purpose to violate the
code. Renunciation is not complete if it is motivated by a decision to postpone
the conduct designed to violate the code until a more advantageous time or to
transfer the effort directed at violation of the code to another but similar
objective or victim.
(Prior Code, § 6-354)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.02  SOLICITATION TO COMMIT AN OFFENSE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in any conduct
constituting a solicitation of the commission of a violation of the terms of
this code. A person shall be deemed guilty of solicitation of the commission of
a violation of this code if, with the purpose of promoting or facilitating its
commission, he or she commands, encourages or requests another person to engage
in specific conduct which would constitute the violation or an attempt to
commit the violation or would establish his or her complicity in its commission
or attempted commission. Under the terms of this section, it is immaterial that
the actor fails to communicate with the person he or she solicits to commit a
violation of this code so long as his or her conduct was designed to effect the
communication.
   (B)   It is an affirmative defense to prosecution under this section that
the actor, after soliciting another person to commit a violation of this code,
persuaded him or her not to do so or otherwise prevented the commission of the
violation, under circumstances manifesting a complete and voluntary
renunciation of his or her purpose to cause a violation of the code.
   (C)   It is immaterial to the liability of a person who solicits another to
commit a violation of this code that:
      (1)   He or she or the person whom he or she solicits does not occupy a
particular position or have a particular characteristic which is an element of
the violation, if he or she believes that one of them does; or
      (2)   The person whom he or she solicits is irresponsible or has an
immunity to prosecution or conviction for the commission of the violation.
(Prior Code, § 6-355)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.03  CONSPIRACY TO COMMIT OFFENSE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to conspire with any other person
or persons to commit a violation of the terms of this code. A person shall be
deemed guilty of conspiracy with another person or other persons to commit a
violation of this code if, with the purpose of promoting or facilitating its
commission, he or she:
      (1)   Agrees with the other person or persons that they or one or more of
them will engage in conduct which constitutes the violation or an attempt or
solicitation to commit the violation; or
      (2)   Agrees to aid the other person or persons in the planning or
commission of the violation or of an attempt or solicitation to commit the
violation.
   (B)   If a person guilty of conspiracy, as defined herein, knows that a
person with whom he or she conspires to commit a violation of this code has
conspired with another person or persons to commit the same violation, then he
or she is guilty of conspiring with the other person or persons, whether or not
he or she knows their identity, to commit the violation.
   (C)   If a person conspires to commit a number of violations of this code,
then he or she is guilty of only one conspiracy so long as the multiple
violations are the object of the same agreement or continuous conspiratorial
relationship.
   (D)   No person may be convicted of a conspiracy to commit a violation of
this code unless an overt act in pursuance of the conspiracy is alleged and
proved to have been done by him or her by a person with whom he or she
conspired.
   (E)   It is an affirmative defense that the actor, after conspiring to
commit a violation of this code thwarted the success of the conspiracy, under
circumstances manifesting a complete and voluntary renunciation of his or her
purpose to cause or cooperate in a violation of this code.
   (F)   It is immaterial to the liability of a person who conspires with
another to commit a violation of this code that:
      (1)   He or she or the person with whom he or she conspires does not
occupy a particular position or have a particular position or have a particular
characteristic which is an element of the violation, if he or she believes that
one of them does; or
      (2)   The person with whom he or she conspires is irresponsible or has an
immunity to prosecution or conviction for the commission of the violation.
   (G)   It shall not be a defense to prosecution or liability under this
section that any or all of the actions, conversations or communications
necessary or instrumental to the planning, formation or perfection of any
conspiracy to violate this code occurred at a location outside of the
jurisdiction of the city.
(Prior Code, § 6-356)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.04  AIDING OR ABETTING THE COMMISSION OF AN OFFENSE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to aid or abet any other person or
persons in the violation of this code. Whoever aids or abets any other person
or persons in the violation of this code may be prosecuted and punished as if
he or she were the principal offender.
(Prior Code, § 6-357)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.05  OBSTRUCTING, IMPEDING OR INTERFERING WITH POLICE OFFICER.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to obstruct, impede or interfere with
any police officer in the execution of his or her office or in the performance
of his or her official duties.
(Prior Code, § 6-358)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.06  PARENTAL RESPONSIBILITY FOR ACTS OF CHILDREN.
   (A)   For the purpose of this title, the following definitions apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      CRIMINAL ACTS. Those acts which violate any federal or state law or city
or local ordinance and shall include moving traffic violations.
      PARENT. The lawful father or mother of a minor child, whether by birth or
by adoption.
   (B)   Any parent, guardian or other person having custody of any child under
18 years of age who fails to exercise reasonable and proper control of the
child to prevent the child from committing two or more criminal acts other than
traffic violations, all of which acts being within the city, or to prevent the
child from committing three or more convictions of moving traffic violations on
at least three separate occasions, all of which moving traffic violations being
within the city, shall be fined not more than $100.
(Prior Code, § 6-359)
§ 130.07  RESISTING, INTERFERING WITH, IMPEDING, OBSTRUCTING OR ABUSING CITY
OFFICERS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to resist, interfere with, impede,
obstruct or abuse any law enforcement officer, city police officer or any other
city official engaged in the proper execution of his or her office.
(Prior Code, § 6-304)  Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 28-729
   Related provisions, see State v. Boss, 195 Neb. 467
§ 130.08  IMPERSONATING AN OFFICER.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, other than a member of the city police
or of any official police or law enforcement organization, to wear an official
badge or uniform, or any badge or uniform having the appearance of being an
official badge or uniform, or to, in any manner, falsely and purposely
impersonate members of the city police or of any other official police or law
enforcement organization.
(Prior Code, § 6-348)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.09  THREAT OR FALSE INFORMATION CONCERNING INJURY TO PERSON OR PROPERTY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to impart or convey, or cause to be
imparted or conveyed, any threat against the person or property of another, and
it shall further be unlawful for any person to impart or convey, or cause to be
imparted or conveyed, any false information, knowing the same to be false,
concerning an attempt or alleged attempt being made, or to be made, to damage
or destroy any building or other real or personal property or to injure or kill
any person.
(Prior Code, § 6-349)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.10  COERCION.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to intentionally, and with the
purpose of unlawfully restricting another’s freedom of action to his or her
detriment, threaten to:
      (1)   Commit any criminal offense;
      (2)   Accuse anyone of a criminal offense;
      (3)   Expose any secret tending to subject any person to hatred, contempt
or ridicule, or to impair his or her credit or business repute; or
      (4)   Take or withhold action as an official, or cause an official to
take or withhold action.
   (B)   It is an affirmative defense to prosecution based on divisions (A)(2),
(3) or (4) above that the actor believed the accusation or secret to be true or
the proposed official action justified and that his or her purpose was limited
to compelling the other to behave in a way reasonably related to the
circumstances which were the subject of the accusation, exposure or proposed
official action, as be desisting from further misbehavior, making good a wrong
done, refraining from taking any action or responsibility for which the actor
believes the other disqualified.
(Prior Code, § 6-353)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.11  VIOLENCE ON A SERVICE DOG; INTERFERENCE.
   (A)   A person commits the offense of violence on a service dog when he or
she intentionally injures, harasses or threatens to injure or harass or
attempts to intentionally injure, harass or threaten a dog that he or she knows
or has reason to believe is a dog guide for a blind or visually impaired
person, a hearing aid dog for a deaf or hearing-impaired person, or a service
dog for a physically limited person.
   (B)   A person commits the offense of interference with a service dog when
he or she intentionally impedes, interferes or threatens to impede or interfere
or attempts to intentionally impede, interfere or threaten to impede or
interfere with a dog that he or she knows or has reason to believe is a dog
guide for a blind or visually impaired person, a hearing aid dog for a deaf or
hearing-impaired person, or a service dog for a physically limited person.
   (C)   Evidence that the defendant initiated or continued conduct toward a
dog as described in divisions (A) or (B) above after being requested to avoid
or discontinue the conduct by the blind, visually impaired, deaf, hearing-
impaired or physically limited person being served or assisted by the dog shall
create a rebuttable presumption that the conduct of the defendant was initiated
or continued intentionally.
   (D)   For the purpose of this title, the following definitions apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      BLIND PERSON. A person with totally impaired vision or with vision, with
or without correction, which is so severely impaired that the primary means of
receiving information is through other sensory input, including, but not
limited to, Braille, mechanical reproduction, synthesized speech or readers.
      DEAF PERSON. A person with totally impaired hearing or with hearing, with
or without amplification, which is so severely impaired that the primary means
of receiving spoken language is through other sensory input, including, but not
limited to, lip reading, sign language, finger spelling or reading.
      HEARING-IMPAIRED PERSON. A person who is unable to hear air conduction
thresholds at an average of 40 decibels or greater in the person’s better ear.
      PHYSICALLY LIMITED PERSON. A person having limited ambulatory abilities,
including, but not limited to, having a permanent impairment or condition that
requires the person to use a wheelchair or to walk with difficulty or
insecurity to the extent that the person is insecure or exposed to danger.
      VISUALLY IMPAIRED PERSON. A person having a visual acuity of 20/200 or
less in the person’s better eye with correction or having a limitation to the
person’s field of vision so that the widest diameter of the visual field
subtends an angular distance not greater than 20 degrees.
(Prior Code, § 6-364)  Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 28-1009.01
CHAPTER 131:  OFFENSES AGAINST PERSONS
Section
   
131.01   Assault; battery
   
131.02   Provoking assault by another
   
131.03   Stalking
   
131.04   Criminal impersonation
§ 131.01  ASSAULT; BATTERY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to assault or to threaten another in a
menacing manner or to strike or wound another.
(Prior Code, § 6-301)  Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 28-409, 28-410, 28-411, 28-413
§ 131.02  PROVOKING ASSAULT BY ANOTHER.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to, in any manner, intentionally provoke
or attempt to provoke an assault upon himself or herself or upon another.
(Prior Code, § 6-303)  Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 28-412
§ 131.03  STALKING.
   (A)   Any person who willfully and maliciously harasses another person with
the intent to terrify, threaten or intimidate commits the offense of stalking.
   (B)   For purposes of this section, HARASS shall mean to engage in a knowing
and willful course of conduct directed at a specific person which seriously
terrifies, threatens or intimidates the person and which serves no legitimate
purpose, and course of conduct shall mean a pattern of conduct composed of a
series of acts of following, detaining, restraining the personal liberty of or
stalking the person or telephoning the person.
(Prior Code, § 6-362)  (Ord. 11-94, passed 12-19-1994)  Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 28-311.02, 28-311.03
§ 131.04  CRIMINAL IMPERSONATION.
   (A)   (1)   The definitions found in Neb. RS 28-638 shall apply.
      (2)   The offenses described in division (B) below shall exist when the
credit, money, goods, services or other thing of value that was gained or was
attempted to be gained was less than $500.
   (B)   A person commits criminal impersonation if he or she:
      (1)   Assumes a false identity and does an act in his or her assumed
character with intent to gain a pecuniary benefit for himself, herself or
another or to deceive or harm another;
      (2)   Pretends to be a representative of some person or organization and
does an act in his or her pretended capacity with the intent to gain a
pecuniary benefit for himself, herself or another and to deceive or harm
another;
      (3)   Carries on any profession, business or any other occupation without
a license, certificate or other authorization required by law; and
      (4)   Without the authorization or permission of another and with the
intent to deceive or harm another:
         (a)   Obtains or records personal identification documents or personal
identifying information; and
         (b)   Accesses or attempts to access the financial resources of
another through the use of a personal identification document or personal
identifying information for the purpose of obtaining credit, money, goods,
services or any other thing of value.
   (C)   Criminal impersonation does not mean:
      (1)   The lawful obtaining of credit information in the course of a bona
fide consumer or commercial transaction;
      (2)   The lawful, good faith exercise of a security interest or a right
of setoff by a creditor or a financial institution; or
      (3)   The lawful, good faith compliance by any person when required by
any warrant, levy, garnishment, attachment, court order or other judicial or
administrative order, decree or directive.
(Prior Code, § 6-365)  (Ord. 4-03, passed 4-14-2003)  Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 28-638
CHAPTER 132:  OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC HEALTH AND SAFETY
Section
   
132.01   Disorderly conduct
   
132.02   Disturbing the peace
   
132.03   Excessive noise
   
132.04   Disturbing an assembly
   
132.05   Criminal mischief
   
132.06   Alcoholic beverages and other intoxicants
   
132.07   Weapons
   
132.08   Fireworks
   
132.09   Games, exercises and the like upon streets and sidewalks
   
132.10   Obstruction of public streets and sidewalks
   
132.11   Abandoned automobiles
   
132.12   Reserved
   
132.13   Injuring trees
   
132.14   Injuring cultivated plants; carrying away fruit
   
132.15   Posting; defacing posted advertisements
   
132.16   Erecting fences
   
132.17   Dangerous appliances left accessible
   
132.18   False reporting
   
132.19   Curfew
   
132.20   Civil emergencies; curfew and other regulations
§ 132.01  DISORDERLY CONDUCT.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in conduct or behavior which
disturbs the peace and good order of the city by clamor, noise, yelling,
intoxication, drunkenness, fighting, using obscene or profane language in the
streets or other public places, or is otherwise indecent or disorderly conduct
or lewd or lascivious behavior.
(Prior Code, § 6-302)  (Ord. 4-05, passed 2-14-2005)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 132.02  DISTURBING THE PEACE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to disturb the peace, quiet, security or
repose of any person, family or neighborhood.
(Prior Code, § 6-305)  Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-556, 28-818
§ 132.03  EXCESSIVE NOISE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person within the city to operate any
radio, tape player, compact disc player, stereophonic sound system or similar
devise which reproduces or amplifies radio broadcasts, or musical recordings,
in or upon any street, alley or other public place in a manner as to be audible
to any person at any point or place more than 75 feet from the source.
   (B)   The prohibition set forth herein shall not apply to the activity:
      (1)   When conducted in connection with an activity or event sponsored by
a school, church or governmental entity;
      (2)   When conducted in connection with an activity open to the public,
such as a carnival, circus or athletic event; and
      (3)   If a permit for same has been issued by the City Council, or its
designee, which permit may include such conditions as the City Council, or its
designee, shall deem necessary and appropriate; provided, however, the
conditions shall be reasonably related to preserving the public peace and shall
not infringe upon the applicant’s right to free speech.
(Prior Code, § 6-305.01)  (Ord. 11-00, passed 11-13-2000)  Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-556
§ 132.04  DISTURBING AN ASSEMBLY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to disturb, interrupt or interfere with
any lawful assembly of people by loud and unnecessary noise, threatening
behavior or indecent and shocking behavior.
(Prior Code, § 6-306)  Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-556, 28-801 through 28-803
§ 132.05  CRIMINAL MISCHIEF.
   (A)   A person commits criminal mischief if he or she:
      (1)   Damages property of another intentionally or recklessly;
      (2)   Intentionally tampers with property of another so as to endanger
person or property; or
      (3)   Intentionally or maliciously causes another to suffer pecuniary
loss by deception or threat.
   (B)   Criminal mischief is an offense:
      (1)   If the actor intentionally or maliciously causes pecuniary loss of
$200 or more, but less than $1,500; or
      (2)   If the actor intentionally, maliciously or recklessly causes
pecuniary loss in an amount of less than $200 or if his or her action results
in no pecuniary loss.
(Prior Code, § 6-307)  Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 28-519
§ 132.06  ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES AND OTHER INTOXICANTS.
   (A)   Removal of intoxicated persons from public or quasi-public property.
      (1)   Any law enforcement officer with the power to arrest for traffic
violations may take a person who is intoxicated and in the judgment of the
officer dangerous to himself, herself or others, or who is otherwise
incapacitated, from any public or quasi-public property. An officer removing an
intoxicated person from public or quasi-public property shall make a reasonable
effort to take the intoxicated person to his or her home or to place the person
in any hospital, clinic, alcoholism center, or with a medical doctor as may be
necessary to preserve life or to prevent injury. The effort at placement shall
be deemed reasonable if the officer contacts those facilities or doctor which
have previously represented a willingness to accept and treat the individuals
and which regularly do accept the individuals. If the efforts are unsuccessful
or are not feasible, the officer may then place the intoxicated person in civil
protective custody, except that civil protective custody shall be used only as
long as is necessary to preserve life or to prevent injury and under no
circumstances longer than 24 hours.
      (2)   The placement of the person in civil protective custody shall be
recorded at the facility or jail at which he or she is delivered and
communicated to his or her family or next of kin, if they can be located, or to
the person designated by the person taken into civil protective custody.
      (3)   The law enforcement officer who acts in compliance with this
section shall be deemed to be acting in the course of his or her official duty
and shall not be criminally or civilly liable for the actions. The taking of an
individual into civil protective custody under this section shall not be
considered an arrest. No entry or other record shall be made to indicate that
the person has been arrested or charged with a crime.
      (4)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
         PUBLIC PROPERTY. Any public right-of-way, street, highway, alley, park
or other state-, county- or city-owned property.
         QUASI-PUBLIC PROPERTY. Private- or publicly-owned property utilized
for proprietary or business uses which involves patronage by the public or
which invites public ingress and egress.
(Prior Code, § 6-327)
   (B)   Toxic inhalants. It shall be unlawful for any person, for the purpose
of intoxication, inebriation, excitement, stupefaction or the dulling of the
brain or nervous system, to intentionally smell or inhale, or possess for the
purpose of smelling or inhaling, any product which is capable of releasing
toxic vapors or fumes; provided, however, that, nothing in this section shall
be interpreted as applying to the inhalation of anesthesia or medication
prescribed by a licensed practitioner of medicine and surgery for medical or
dental purposes. For the purposes of this section, the term TOXIC VAPORS OR
FUMES shall mean and include any glue, cement, nail polish remover, paint
thinner, cleaning fluid, gasoline or any other product or adhesive containing
one or more of the following chemical compounds: acetone, an acetate, benzene,
butyl alcohol, ethyl alcohol, ethylene dichloride, isopropyl alcohol, methyl
alcohol, methyl ethyl ketone, pentachlorophenol, petroleum ether, tolueme or
any other chemical which, if inhaled into the human system, shall produce a
condition of intoxication, inebriation, excitement, stupefaction or dulling of
the brain or nervous system.
(Prior Code, § 6-328)
   (C)   Sale of toxic inhalants. It shall be unlawful for any person to sell,
offer to sell, give or offer to give any product which is capable of releasing
toxic vapors or fumes to any person, if the person has reasonable cause to
believe that the product sold, offered for sale, given or offered to be given
will be used for the purpose of violating division (B) above. For the purposes
of this section, the term TOXIC VAPORS OR FUMES shall mean and include any
glue, cement, nail polish remover, paint thinner, cleaning fluid, gasoline or
any other product or adhesive containing one or more of the following chemical
compounds: acetone, an acetate, benzene, butyl alcohol, ethyl alcohol, ethylene
dichloride, isopropyl alcohol, methyl alcohol, methyl ethyl ketone,
pentachlorophenol, petroleum ether, toluene or any other chemical which, if
inhaled into the human system, shall produce a condition of intoxication,
inebriation, excitement, stupefaction or dulling of the brain or nervous
system.
(Prior Code, § 6-329)
   (D)   Consumption in public places or places open to the public:
restrictions.
      (1)   Except when the Nebraska Liquor Control Commission has issued a
license as provided in Neb. RS 53-186(2) or as provided in Neb. RS 60-6,211.08,
it is unlawful for any person to consume alcoholic liquor upon property owned
or controlled by the state or any governmental subdivision thereof unless
authorized by the governing bodies having jurisdiction over such property.
      (2)   It is unlawful for any person owning, operating, managing, or
conducting any dance hall, restaurant, café, or club or any place open to the
general public to permit or allow any person to consume alcoholic liquor upon
the premises except as permitted by a license issued for such premises pursuant
to the Nebraska Liquor Control Act.  It is unlawful for any person to consume
alcoholic liquor in any dance hall, restaurant, café, or club or any place open
to the general public except as permitted by a license issued for such premises
pursuant to the Act.  This division does not apply to a retail licensee while
lawfully engaged in the catering of alcoholic beverages or to limousines or
buses operated under Neb. RS 60-6,211.08.
(Prior Code, § 6-330)
   (E)   Drinking on public property; possession of open alcoholic beverage
container.
      (1)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
         ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE.
            1.   Beer, ale, porter, stout, and other similar fermented
beverages, including sake or similar products, of any name or description,
containing 0.5% or more of alcohol by volume, brewed or produced from malt,
wholly or in part, or from any substitute therefor;
            2.   Wine of not less than 0.5% alcohol by volume; or
            3.   Distilled spirits, which is that substance known as ethyl
alcohol, ethanol, or spirits of wine in any form, including all dilutions and
mixtures thereof from whatever source or by whatever process produced.
            4.   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE does not include trace amounts not readily
consumable as a beverage.
         HIGHWAY.  A road or street including the entire area within the right-
of-way.
         LIMOUSINE. A luxury vehicle used to provide prearranged passenger
transportation on a dedicated basis at a premium fare that has a seating
capacity of at least five and no more than 14 persons behind the driver with a
physical partition separating the driver seat from the passenger compartment.
LIMOUSINE does not include taxicabs, hotel or airport buses or shuttles, or
buses.
         OPEN ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE CONTAINER.  Except as provided in Neb. RS 53-
123.04(3) and 53-123.11(1)(c), any bottle, can, or other receptacle:
            1.   That contains any amount of alcoholic beverage; and
            2.   a.   That is open or has a broken seal; or
               b.   The contents of which are partially removed.
         PASSENGER AREA.  The area designed to seat the driver and passengers
while the motor vehicle is in operation and any area that is readily accessible
to the driver or a passenger while in their seating positions, including any
compartments in the area.  PASSENGER AREA does not include the area behind the
last upright seat of the motor vehicle if the area is not normally occupied by
the driver or a passenger and the motor vehicle is not equipped with a trunk.
      (2)   Except as otherwise provided in this section, it is unlawful for
any person in the passenger area of a motor vehicle to possess an open
alcoholic beverage container while the motor vehicle is located in a public
parking area or on any highway in this municipality.
      (3)   Except as provided in  divisions (D) or (E)(4) of this section, it
is unlawful for any person to consume an alcoholic beverage:
         (a)   In a public parking area or on any highway in this municipality;
or
         (b)   Inside a motor vehicle while in a public parking area or on any
highway in this municipality.
      (4)   This section does not apply to persons who are passengers of, but
not drivers of, a limousine or bus being used in a charter or special party
service as defined by rules and regulations adopted and promulgated by the
state Public Service Commission and subject to Neb. Admin. Code, Chapter 75,
Article 3. Such passengers may possess open alcoholic beverage containers and
may consume alcoholic beverages while such limousine or bus is in a public
parking area or on any highway in this municipality if:
         (a)   The driver of the limousine or bus is prohibited from consuming
alcoholic liquor; and
         (b)   Alcoholic liquor is not present in any area that is readily
accessible to the driver while in the driver's seat, including any compartments
in such area.
(Prior Code, § 6-330.01)
   (F)   Misrepresentation by minor to obtain alcohol. No minor, as defined by
Neb. RS 53-103.23, shall obtain, or attempt to obtain, alcoholic liquor by
misrepresentation of age, or by any other method, in any tavern or other place
where alcoholic liquor is sold.
(Prior Code, § 6-331)
   (G)   Minors; prohibited acts involving alcoholic liquor.     
      (1)   For purposes of this section, the definitions found in Neb. RS 53-
103.01 through 53-103.42 shall apply, including, but not limited to, the
definitions of the terms "alcoholic liquor," "consume," "minor," "sale," and
"to sell."
      (2)   Except as otherwise provided in §
114.48, no minor may sell, dispense, consume, or have in his or her possession
or physical control any alcoholic liquor in any tavern or in any other place,
including public streets, alleys, roads, or highways, upon property owned by
the state or any subdivision thereof, or inside any vehicle while in or on any
other place, including, but not limited to, the public streets, alleys, roads,
or highways, or upon property owned by the state or any subdivision thereof,
except that a minor may consume, possess, or have physical control of alcoholic
liquor as a part of a bona fide religious rite, ritual, or ceremony or in his
or her permanent place of residence.
      (3)   It shall be unlawful for any person under 21 years of age to
transport, consume, or knowingly possess or have under his or her control beer
or other alcoholic liquor in or transported by any motor vehicle.
(Ord. 12-93, passed 11-1-1993; Ord. 24-11, passed 6-27-2011; Ord. 25-11, passed
6-27-2011; Ord. 42-11, passed 12-27-2011; Ord. 46-11, passed 12-27-2011) 
Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 53-1,121, 53-103.23, 53-180.01, 53-180.02,
53-186, 53-186(1), 53-186.01, 60-6,211.08
§ 132.07  WEAPONS.
   (A)   Carrying concealed weapons. It shall be unlawful for any person or
persons to carry about or upon his, her or their person or at or in any place
within their immediate control any concealed pistol, revolver, knife, billy
club, slingshot, metal knuckles or other dangerous weapon of any kind;
provided, however, that, nothing herein shall be construed to apply to members
of any official police organization acting within the proper course of their
official functions. Nothing herein shall be construed to apply to an individual
who has a permit to carry a concealed handgun pursuant to the Concealed Handgun
Permit Act. Any weapon carried in violation of this section is hereby declared
to be contraband and, as such, shall be subject to confiscation and forfeiture.
(Prior Code, § 6-332)
   (B)   Carrying loaded firearms. It shall be unlawful for any person or
persons to carry, transport or possess any loaded firearm of any sort within
the jurisdiction of the city; provided, however, that, it shall not be unlawful
for any person or persons to carry, transport or possess any loaded firearm
upon property owned or controlled by the person; and provided, further, that,
nothing herein shall be construed to apply to members of any official police
organization or to any military service personnel acting within the proper
course of their official functions. Any weapon carried in violation of this
section is hereby declared to be contraband and, as such, shall be subject to
confiscation and forfeiture.
(Prior Code, § 6-333)
   (C)   Discharge of firearms. It shall be unlawful for any person to fire or
discharge any firearm within the jurisdiction of the city; provided, however,
that, nothing herein shall be construed to apply to officially sanctioned
public celebrations wherein the persons discharging firearms have written
permission to do so from the City Council; and provided, further, that, nothing
herein shall be construed to apply to members of any official police
organization or to any military service personnel acting within the proper
course of their official functions.
(Prior Code, § 6-334)
   (D)   Discharge of slingshots, air guns, BB guns, bows and crossbows. It
shall be unlawful for any person to discharge a slingshot, air gun, BB gun, bow
or crossbow or any instrument which propels a projectile of any sort, across or
into any public property or in the private property of another person without
approval by property owner and/or resident.
(Prior Code, § 6-335)  (Ord. 47-11, passed 12-27-2011)
Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-556, 69-2427 through 69-2447
§ 132.08  FIREWORKS.
   (A)   Permitted fireworks; permitted days of use.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to ignite or cause to be
exploded fireworks or firecrackers of any description whatsoever, except
sparklers, Vesuvius fountains, spray fountains, torches, color fire cones, star
and comet type color aerial shells without explosive charges for the purpose of
making noise, color wheels, lady fingers, not exceeding one-half inch in length
or one-fourth inch in diameter, and which do not contain more than 50
milligrams each in weight of explosive material.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful for any person to ignite or cause to be
exploded fireworks or firecrackers of any description whatsoever at any time
within the city, except between the hours of 1:00 a.m., June 24 until 11:00
p.m. on July 5 of each year and between the hours of 1:00 a.m. December 28,
1999, until 11:00 p.m. 1-1-2000. Additional permissible times of the discharge
may be obtained by written permission of the Fire Chief or his or her Assistant
Chiefs.
      (3)   The provisions of this section shall not apply to any fireworks to
be used for purpose of public exhibitions or display under authorization of the
City Council or to fireworks furnished for agricultural purposes pursuant to
written authorization the State Fire Marshal.
(Prior Code, § 6-336)
   (B)   Throwing fireworks and explosives. It shall be unlawful for any person
to throw or place any fireworks of any description whatsoever:
      (1)   From or into a motor vehicle;
      (2)   Onto any street, highway or sidewalk;
      (3)   At or near any person;
      (4)   Into or upon any building; or
      (5)   Into, at or near any group of persons.
(Prior Code, § 6-337)
   (C)   Defined. For the purpose of this section, the following definition
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      FIREWORKS. Any composition or device designed for the purpose of
producing a visible or audible effect by combustion, deflagration, or
detonation and which meets the definition of common or special fireworks set
forth by the United States Department of Transportation in Title 49, Code of
Federal Regulations.
(Prior Code, § 6-361)
(Ord. 7-88, passed 11-7-1988; Ord. 11-99, passed 12-13-1999)  Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-556, 28-1241, 28-1244, 28-1245
§ 132.09  GAMES, EXERCISES AND THE LIKE UPON STREETS AND SIDEWALKS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to play catch with any items
including, but not by enumeration limited to, a baseball, a football, a
basketball and a frisbee, or to kick or bat any item or to engage in any game,
exercise or sport upon the city streets and sidewalks; provided, however, that,
nothing herein shall be construed to prohibit or prevent the City Council from
authorizing, from time to time, that certain streets and sidewalks be blocked
off for the purpose of providing a café area in which to engage in a game,
exercise or sport.
(Prior Code, § 6-338)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 132.10  OBSTRUCTION OF PUBLIC STREETS AND SIDEWALKS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to erect, maintain, operate or suffer to
remain on any city street or sidewalk a stand, wagon, display, slow moving
vehicle or other obstruction inconvenient to or inconsistent with the public
use of the same; provided, however, that, nothing herein shall be construed to
prohibit or prevent the obstruction of any city streets or sidewalks directly
caused by an emergency or obstruction of any city streets or sidewalks for the
purposes of any parade, festival or celebration duly authorized by the City
Council.
(Prior Code, § 6-339)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 132.11  ABANDONED AUTOMOBILES.
   (A)   (1)   No person shall cause any vehicle to be an abandoned vehicle as
described in divisions (B)(1), (2), (3) or (4) of this section.
      (2)   No person other than one authorized by the city or appropriate
state agency shall destroy, deface or remove any part of a vehicle which is
left unattended on a highway or other public place without license plates
affixed or which is abandoned.
   (B)   A motor vehicle is an abandoned vehicle:
      (1)   If left unattended, with no license plates or valid “In Transit”
decals issued pursuant to Neb. RS 60-320 affixed thereto, for more than six
hours on any public property;
      (2)   If left unattended for more than 24 hours on any public property,
except a portion thereof on which parking is legally permitted;
      (3)   If left unattended for more than 43 hours after the parking of the
vehicle has become illegal, if left on a portion of any public property on
which parking is legally permitted;
      (4)   If left unattended for more than seven days on private property if
left initially without permission of the owner, or after permission of the
owner is terminated; or
      (5)   If left for more than 30 days in the custody of a law enforcement
agency after the agency has sent a letter to the last-registered owner under
division (E) of this section. No motor vehicle subject to forfeiture under Neb.
RS 28-431 shall be an abandoned vehicle under this division.
   (C)   If an abandoned vehicle, at the time of abandonment, has no license
plates of the current year or valid “In Transit” decals issued pursuant to Neb.
RS 60-320 affixed and is of a wholesale value, taking into consideration the
condition of the vehicle, of $250 or less, title shall immediately vest in the
city.
   (D)   (1)   Except for vehicles governed by division (C) of this section,
the city shall make an inquiry concerning the last-registered owner of an
abandoned vehicle as follows:
         (a)   Abandoned vehicles with license plates affixed, to the
jurisdiction which issued the license plates; or
         (b)   Abandoned vehicle with no license plates affixed, to the
Department of Motor Vehicles.
      (2)   The city shall notify the last-registered owner, if any, that the
vehicle in question has been determined to be an abandoned vehicle and that, if
unclaimed, either:
         (a)   It will be sold or will be offered at public auction after five
days from the date the notice was mailed; or
         (b)   Title will vest in the city 30 days after the date the notice
was mailed.
      (3)   If the city is notified that a lien or mortgage exists, the notice
described in division (D)(2) of this section shall also be sent to the
lienholder or mortgagee. Any person claiming the vehicle shall be required to
pay the cost of removal and storage of the vehicle.
      (4)   Title to an abandoned vehicle, if unclaimed, shall vest in the
city:
         (a)   Five days after the date the notice is mailed if the vehicle
will be sold or offered at public auction under division (D)(2)(a) of this
section;
         (b)   Thirty days after the date the notice is mailed if the city will
retain the vehicle; or
         (c)   If the last-registered owner cannot be ascertained, when notice
of the fact is received.
      (5)   After title to the abandoned vehicle vests pursuant to division (D)
(4) of this section, the city may retain for use, sell or auction the abandoned
vehicle. If the city has determined that the vehicle should be retained for
use, the city shall, at the same time that the notice, if any, is mailed,
publish in a newspaper of general circulation in the jurisdiction an
announcement that the city intends to retain the abandoned vehicle for its use
and that title will vest in the city 30 days after publication.
   (E)   (1)   If the city law enforcement agency has custody of a motor
vehicle for investigatory purposes and has no further need to keep it in
custody, it shall send a certified letter to each of the last-registered owners
stating that the vehicle is in the custody of the agency, that the vehicle is
no longer needed for law enforcement purposes, and that after 30 days the
agency will dispose of the vehicle.
      (2)   This division shall not apply to motor vehicles subject to
forfeiture under Neb. RS 28-431.
      (3)   No storage fees shall be assessed against the registered owner of a
motor vehicle held in custody for investigatory purposes under this division
unless the registered owner or the person in possession of the vehicle when it
is taken into custody is charged with a felony or misdemeanor related to the
offense for which the law enforcement agency took the vehicle into custody. If
a registered owner or the person in possession of the vehicle when it is taken
into custody is charged with a felony or misdemeanor by is not convicted, the
registered owner shall be entitled to a refund of the storage fees.
   (F)   Any proceeds from the sale of an abandoned vehicle, less any expenses
incurred by the city, shall be held by the city without interest, for the
benefit of the owner or lienholders of the vehicle for a period of two years.
If not claimed within the two-year period, the proceeds shall be paid into the
General Fund of the city.
   (G)   Neither the owner, lessee, nor occupant of the premises from which any
abandoned vehicle is removed, nor the city, shall be liable for any loss or
damage to the vehicle which occurs; during its removal or while in the
possession of the city or its contractual agent or as a result of any
subsequent disposition.
   (H)   The last-registered owner of an abandoned vehicle shall be liable to
the city for the costs of removal and storage of the vehicle.
   (I)   For purposes of this section, PUBLIC PROPERTY means any public right-
of-way, street, highway, alley or park or other state-, county- or city-owned
property; PRIVATE PROPERTY means any privately owned property which is not
included within the definition of public property.
   (J)   Any person who violates the provisions of this section is guilty of an
offense.
(Prior Code, § 6-340)  Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Additional regulations, see Neb. RS 60-1901 through 60-1911
§ 132.12  RESERVED.
§ 132.13  INJURING TREES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, carelessly or purposely and without
lawful authority, to box, bore, bark, girdle, saw, cut down, injure or destroy
any living tree or trees standing or growing upon land owned or controlled by
any other person or persons; provided, however, that, nothing herein shall be
construed to prohibit any public service company, association or organization
from trimming any tree or trees pursuant to a written authorization duly
obtained from the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 6-342)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 132.14  INJURING CULTIVATED PLANTS; CARRYING AWAY FRUIT.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, carelessly or purposely and without
lawful authority, to cut down, root up, sever, carry away injure or destroy any
shrub, bush, vine, cultivated root, plant, fruit or other vegetable production
standing, growing or being on or attached to the lands of another or to cut
down, root up, sever, carry away, injure or destroy the fruit of any tree.
(Prior Code, § 6-343)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 132.15  POSTING; DEFACING POSTED ADVERTISEMENTS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to post, paste or paint any sign,
advertisement or other writing of any nature upon a fence, pole, building or
other property without the written permission of the owner of the property.
(Prior Code, § 6-344)
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to purposely and maliciously tear,
deface, remove or cover up the posted advertisement or bill of any other
person, firm or corporation when the posted advertisement or bill is of value
and is rightfully and lawfully posted.
(Prior Code, § 6-345)
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 132.16  ERECTING FENCES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to erect, or cause to be erected, and
maintain, or cause to be maintained, any barbed wire or electric fence within
the corporate limits of the city.
(Prior Code, § 6-346)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 132.17  DANGEROUS APPLIANCES LEFT ACCESSIBLE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to permit a refrigerator, icebox,
freezer or other dangerous appliance to be in the open and accessible to
children, whether on private or public property, unless all doors shall have
been removed from the appliances and the same shall have been otherwise made
reasonably safe.
(Prior Code, § 6-347)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 132.18  FALSE REPORTING.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to:
      (1)   Furnish material information he or she knows to be false to any
peace officer or other official with the intent to instigate an investigation
of an alleged criminal matter or impede the investigation of an actual criminal
matter;
      (2)   Furnish information he or she knows to be false alleging the
existence of the need for the assistance of an emergency medical service or
out-of-hospital emergency care provider or an emergency in which human life or
property are in jeopardy to any hospital, emergency medical service or other
person or governmental agency;
      (3)   Furnish any information, or cause the information to be furnished
or conveyed by electric, electronic, telephonic or mechanical means, knowing
the same to be false concerning the need for assistance of the Fire Department
or any personnel or equipment of the Department;
      (4)   Furnish any information he or she knows to be false concerning the
location of any explosive in any building or other property to any person; and
      (5)   Furnish material information he or she knows to be false to any
governmental department or agency with the intent to instigate an investigation
or to impede an ongoing investigation and which actually results in causing or
impeding the investigation.
   (B)   A person who violates this section commits the offense of false
reporting.
(Prior Code, § 6-350)  Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 28-907
§ 132.19  CURFEW.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person under the age of 16 years to
loiter, wander, stroll, loaf or play in or upon any of the streets, alleys or
other public places within the city after the hour of 11:00 p.m. of any day,
unless the person is accompanied by a parent, guardian or other adult person
having the care, custody or control of the person under the age of 16 years, or
unless the person under the age of 16 years is engaged in lawful employment.
(Prior Code, § 6-351)
   (B)   This section does not apply to a minor who is:
      (1)   Accompanied by the minor's parent or guardian;
      (2)   On an errand at the direction of the minor's parent or guardian,
without any detour or stop;
      (3)   In a motor vehicle involved in interstate travel;
      (4)   Engaged in an employment activity, or going to or returning home
from an employment activity, without any detour or stop;
      (5)   Involved in an emergency;
      (6)   On the sidewalk abutting the minor's residence or abutting the
residence of a next-door neighbor if the neighbor did not complain to the
police department  about the minor's presence;
      (7)   Attending an official school, religious, or other recreational
activity supervised by adults and sponsored by the city, a civic organization,
or another similar entity that takes responsibility for the minor, or going to
or returning home from, without any detour or stop, an official school,
religious, or other recreational activity supervised by adults and sponsored by
the city, a civic organization, or another similar entity that takes
responsibility for the minor;
      (8)   Exercising First Amendment rights protected by the United States
Constitution, such as the free exercise of religion, freedom of speech, and the
right of assembly; or
      (9)   Married or had been married or had disabilities of minority removed
in accordance with state law.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 132.20  CIVIL EMERGENCIES; CURFEW AND OTHER REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Whenever, in the sound judgment of the Mayor, or in the event of his
or her inability to act, of the President of the Council, it is determined that
an emergency exists as a result of mob action or other civil disobedience or as
a result of a natural disaster, causing danger of injury to or damages to
persons or property, the Mayor, or in the event of his or her inability to act,
the President of the Council, shall have the power to impose, by proclamation,
any or all of the following regulations, when the regulations are reasonably
necessary to preserve the peace and order of the city:
      (1)   To impose a curfew upon all or any portion of the city thereby
requiring all persons, in the designated curfew areas to remove themselves from
the public streets, alleys, parks or other public places; provided, physicians,
nurses and ambulance operators performing medical services, utility personnel
maintaining essential public services, firefighters and city authorized or
requested law enforcement officers and personnel may be exempted from the
curfew;
      (2)   To order the closing of any business establishments any where
within the city for the period of the emergency, the businesses to include, but
not be limited to, those selling intoxicating liquors, cereal malt beverages,
gasoline or firearms;
      (3)   To designate any public street, thoroughfare or vehicle parking
areas closed to motor vehicles and pedestrian traffic; and
      (4)   To call upon regular and auxiliary law enforcement agencies and
organizations within or without the city to assist in preserving and keeping
the peace within the city. The proclamation of emergency shall become effective
upon its issuance and dissemination to the public by appropriate news media,
and if not available, then by posting in five of the most public places within
the corporate limits of the city, including the City Hall, Post Office and
Courthouse. The proclamation shall be delivered to the city police, who shall
use their public address systems throughout the city and immediately notify the
public of the proclamation and curfew and warn the public that any violation of
the curfew shall be deemed an offense and violators shall be arrested. Any
emergency proclaimed in accordance with the provisions of this section shall
terminate after 48 hours from the issuance thereof, or upon the issuance of a
proclamation determining an emergency no longer exists, whichever occurs first;
provided, the emergency may be extended for the additional periods of time as
shall be determined to be necessary by resolution of the City Council.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to willfully fail, neglect or
refuse to comply with any emergency proclamation issued pursuant to this
section or to willfully fail, neglect or refuse to comply with the orders of
any duly authorized law enforcement officers or personnel charged with the
responsibility of enforcing the proclamation.
(Prior Code, § 6-352)
Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 133:  OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC MORALS AND DECENCY
Section
   
133.01   Window peeping
   
133.02   Prostitution
   
133.03   Indecent exposure
   
133.04   Obscenity
   
133.05   Gambling
§ 133.01  WINDOW PEEPING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to go upon the private premises of
another to look or peep into any window, door or other opening in a building
occupied by any other person.
(Prior Code, § 6-312)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 133.02  PROSTITUTION.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person purposely or knowingly to engage
or agree to engage in an act of prostitution. For the purposes of this section,
the word PROSTITUTION shall mean the practice of indiscriminate sexual activity
expressly for compensation.
(Prior Code, § 6-314)
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person purposely or knowingly to solicit,
induce or attempt to induce another person to engage in an act of prostitution.
For the purposes of this section, the word PROSTITUTION shall mean the practice
of indiscriminate sexual activity expressly for compensation.
(Prior Code, § 6-315)
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person purposely or knowingly to offer to
bring together or to bring together two or more persons for the purpose of
engaging in prostitution. For the purposes of this section, the word
PROSTITUTION shall mean the practice of indiscriminate sexual activity
expressly for compensation.
(Prior Code, § 6-316)
   (D)   It shall be unlawful for any person purposely or knowingly to solicit,
entice or attempt to entice a person to become a prostitute. For the purposes
of this section, the word PROSTITUTE shall mean any person who shall engage in
the practice of indiscriminate sexual activity expressly for compensation.
(Prior Code, § 6-317)
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 133.03  INDECENT EXPOSURE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to knowingly and intentionally cause an
indecent exposure of his or her person in any public place.
(Prior Code, § 6-318)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 133.04  OBSCENITY.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      DISTRIBUTE. To transfer possession, whether with or without
consideration, by any means.
      KNOWINGLY. Having general knowledge of, or reason to know, or a belief or
reasonable ground for belief which warrants further inspection or inquiry or
the character and content of any material, taken as a whole, described in this
section, which is reasonably susceptible to examination by the defendant.
      HARMFUL TO MINORS. The quality of any description or representation, in
whatever form, of nudity, sexual conduct, sexual excitement or sadomasochistic
abuse, when it:
         (a)   Predominantly appeals to the prurient, shameful or morbid
interest of minors;
         (b)   Is patently offensive to prevailing standards in the adult
community as a whole with respect to what is suitable material for minors; and
         (c)   Is lacking in serious literary, artistic, political or
scientific value for minors.
      MATERIAL or WORK. Any book or magazine, newspaper, comic book, pamphlet
or other printed or written material or any picture, drawing, photograph,
figure, image, motion picture, whether or not positive or negative exhibited or
screened, play, night club or live performance, television production, other
pictorial representation or electric reproduction or any recording
transcription, mechanical or otherwise, or any other articles, equipment,
machines or materials.
      MINOR. Any unmarried person under the age of 18 years.
      NUDITY. The showing of the human, post-pubertal male or female genitals,
pubic area or buttocks with less than a full opaque covering, or the depiction
of covered male genitals in a discernibly turgid state, or the showing of the
female breast with less than a full opaque covering of any portion thereof
below the top of the nipple.
      OBSCENE.
         (a)   An average person applying contemporary community standards
would find that the work, material, conduct or live performance taken as a
whole predominantly appeals to the prurient interest or a shameful or morbid
interest in nudity, sex or excretion;
         (b)   The work, material, conduct or live performance depicts or
describes in a patently offensive way sexual conduct specifically set out in
divisions (B) through (D) below; and
         (c)   The work, conduct, material or live performance taken as a whole
lacks serious literary, artistic, political or scientific value.
      PERSON. Any individual, partnership, firm, association, corporation,
trustee, lessee, agent, assignee or other legal entity.
      PERFORMANCE. Whether with or without consideration, shall mean any play,
motion picture, dance or other exhibition performed before an audience.
      PROMOTE. To manufacture, issue, sell, give, provide, lend, mail, deliver,
transfer, transmit, publish, distribute, circulate, disseminate, present,
exhibit or place an order for advertising, or to knowingly offer in person or
through an agent or agree to do the same.
      SEXUAL CONDUCT. Acts of masturbation, homosexuality, sodomy, sexual
intercourse or prolonged physical contact with a person’s clothed or unclothed
genitals, pubic area or buttocks or, if the person be female, breast.
      SEXUAL EXCITEMENT. The condition of the human male or female genitals
when in a state of sexual stimulation or arousal.
      SADOMASOCHISTIC ABUSE. Flagellation or torture by or upon a nude person
or a person clad in undergarments, a mask or bizarre costume or the condition
of being fettered, bound or otherwise physically restrained when performed to
predominantly appeal to the shameful or morbid interest.
(Prior Code, § 6-319)
   (B)   Sale of obscene literature and material to minor. It shall be unlawful
for a person knowingly to sell deliver, distribute, display for sale or provide
to a minor or knowingly to possess with intent to sell, deliver, distribute,
display for sale or provide to a minor:
      (1)   Any picture, photograph, drawing, sculpture, motion picture film or
similar visual representation or image of a person or portion of the human
body, or any replica, article or device having the appearance of either male or
female genitals which predominantly pruriently, shamefully or morbidly depicts
nudity, sexual conduct, sexual excitement or sadomasochistic abuse and which,
taken as a whole, is harmful to minors; or
      (2)   Any book, pamphlet, magazine, printed matter however produced, or
sound recording which contains any matter enumerated in division (B)(1) of this
section, or explicit and detailed verbal descriptions or narrative accounts of
sexual excitement, sexual conduct, or sadomasochistic abuse, of a predominantly
prurient, shameful or morbid nature, and which, taken as a whole, is harmful to
minors.
(Prior Code, § 6-320)
   (C)   Admission of minor to obscene motion picture, show presentation. It
shall be unlawful for any person knowingly to exhibit to a minor or knowingly
to provide to a minor an admission ticket or pass or knowingly to admit a minor
to premises whereon there is exhibited a motion picture, show or other
presentation which, in whole or in part, predominantly pruriently, shamefully
or morbidly depicts nudity, sexual conduct or sado-masochistic abuse and which,
taken as a whole, is harmful to minors.
(Prior Code, § 6-321)
   (D)   Preparation, distribution, ordering, production, exhibition or
promotion of obscene literature or material.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person knowingly to:
         (a)   Print, copy, manufacture, prepare, produce or reproduce obscene
material for purposes of sale or distribution;
         (b)   Publish, circulate, sell, rent, lend, transport, distribute or
exhibit any obscene material;
         (c)   Have in his or her possession with intent to sell, rent, lend,
transport or distribute any obscene material; or
         (d)   Promote any obscene material or performance.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful for any person to place an order for any
advertising promoting the sale or distribution of material represented or held
out to be obscene, whether or not the material exists in fact or is obscene.
(Prior Code, § 6-322)
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 133.05  GAMBLING.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to play at any game of chance
whatsoever for money or property of value, or for anything representing money
or value.
(Prior Code, § 6-323)
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to maintain, operate or have in
his or her possession or custody for himself, herself or as agent for another,
any slot machine, game of chance, mixed game of chance and skill, wheel of
fortune, photograph-rack, lottery of any kind, canerack, knife-board, baby and
ball rack or any gambling device of a similar nature.
(Prior Code, § 6-324)
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person to maintain any gambling house,
table or room or place whatever at which any game of chance may be played for
money or property or other valuable thing, or for anything representing money
or value; and it shall be unlawful for any person to suffer or permit the
gambling device to be set up, kept, used or maintained for the purpose of
gambling in or upon any premise or tenement belonging to, or under the control
of, any person.
(Prior Code, § 6-325)
   (D)   It shall be unlawful for any person to visit, frequent or loaf about
any room or place where gambling or the playing of games of chance for money or
property or other valuable thing, or for anything representing money or value,
is conducted or permitted, knowing the same to be such a place.
(Prior Code, § 6-326)
Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 134:  OFFENSES AGAINST PROPERTY
Section
   
134.01   Arson
   
134.02   Theft generally
   
134.03   Theft of telecommunications service
   
134.04   Concealing and receiving stolen property
   
134.05   Trespassing
   
134.06   Shoplifting
   
134.07   Littering
§ 134.01  ARSON.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to willfully, intentionally or
negligently and carelessly, set on fire or cause to be set on fire, any real or
personal property of any class or character, or to willfully or intentionally
aid, counsel or procure another to set on fire, or cause to be set on fire, any
real or personal property of any class or character.
(Prior Code, § 6-308)  Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 28-502 through 28-504.05
§ 134.02  THEFT GENERALLY.
   (A)   (1)   The definitions found in Neb. RS 28-509 shall apply.
      (2)   The offenses described in divisions (B) through (G) below shall
exist when the value of the thing involved is under $500.
   (B)   (1)   A person commits theft if he or she takes, or exercise control
over, movable property of another with the intent to deprive him or her
thereof.
      (2)   A person commits theft if he or she transfers immovable property of
another or any interest therein with the intent to benefit himself or herself
or another not entitled thereto.
      (3)   Except as provided for rental or lease of a motor vehicle in Neb.
RS 28-511(4), it shall be presumed that a lessee’s failure to return leased or
rented movable property to the lessor after the expiration of a written lease
or written rental agreement is done with intent to deprive if the lessee has
been mailed notice by certified mail that the lease or rental agreement has
expired and he or she has failed within ten days after the notice to return the
property.
   (C)   A person commits theft if he or she obtains property of another by
deception as defined in Neb. RS 28-512.
   (D)   (1)   A person commits theft if he or she obtains property of another
by threatening to:
         (a)   Inflict bodily injury on anyone or commit any other criminal
offense;
         (b)   Accuse anyone of a criminal offense;
         (c)   Expose any secret tending to subject any person to hatred,
contempt or ridicule, or to impair his or her credit or business repute;
         (d)   Take or withhold action as an official or cause an official to
take or withhold action;
         (e)   Bring about or continue a strike, boycott or other collective
unofficial action, if the property is not demanded or received for the benefit
of the group in whose interest the actor purports to act; or
         (f)   Testify or provide information or withhold testimony or
information with respect to another’s legal claim or defense.
      (2)   It is an affirmative defense to prosecution based on divisions (D)
(1)(b), (c) or (d) that the property obtained by threat of accusation,
exposure, lawsuit or other invocation of official action was honestly claimed
as restitution or indemnification for harm done in the circumstances to which
the accusation, exposure, lawsuit or other official action relates, or as
compensation for property or lawful services.
   (E)   A person who comes into control of property of another that he or she
knows to have been lost, mislaid or delivered under a mistake as to the nature
or amount of the property or the identity of the recipient commits theft if,
with intent to deprive the owner thereof, he or she fails to take reasonable
measures to restore the property to a person entitled to have it.
   (F)   (1)   A person commits theft if he or she obtains services, which he
or she knows available only for compensation, by deception or threat or by
false token or other means to avoid payment for the service. Services include
labor, professional service, telephone service, electric service, cable
television service or other public service, accommodation in hotels,
restaurants or elsewhere, admission to exhibitions and use of vehicles or other
movable property. When compensation for service is ordinarily paid immediately
upon the rendering of the service, as in the case of hotels and restaurants,
refusal to pay or absconding without payment or offer to pay gives rise to a
presumption that the service was obtained by deception as to intention to pay.
      (2)   A person commits theft if, having control over the disposition of
services of others to which he or she is not entitled, he or she diverts the
services to his or her own benefit or to the benefit of another not entitled
thereto.
   (G)   A person commits theft if he or she receives, retains, or disposes of
stolen movable property of another knowing that it has been stolen, or
believing that it has been stolen, unless the property is received, retained or
disposed with intention to restore it to the owner.
(Prior Code, § 6-309)  (Ord. 4-03, passed 4-14-2003)  Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 28-511, 28-512, 28-513, 28-514, 28-515, 28-
517
§ 134.03  THEFT OF TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICE.
   (A)   It is an offense for any person to:
      (1)   Knowingly make or possess any device designed to or commonly used
to obtain telecommunications service fraudulently from a licensed cable
television franchisee with the intent to use the device in the commission of an
offense described in Neb. RS 28-515(1);
      (2)   Knowingly tamper with, interfere with or connect to any cables,
wires, converters or other devices used for the distribution of
telecommunications service by any mechanical, electrical, acoustical or other
means without authority from the operator of the service with the intent of
obtaining telecommunications service fraudulently; or
      (3)   Sell, give, transfer or offer or advertise for sale a device which
the person knows or should know is intended to be used for the purpose of
obtaining telecommunications service fraudulently.
   (B)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      DEVICE. Includes, but is not limited to, instrument, apparatus, equipment
and plans or instructions for making or assembling the instrument, apparatus or
equipment.
      TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICE. Includes, but is not limited to, telephone
service and cable television service.
(Prior Code, § 6-309.01)  (Ord. 4-03, passed 4-14-2003)  Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 28-515.01
§ 134.04  CONCEALING AND RECEIVING STOLEN PROPERTY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to receive or conceal any stolen
property, goods or chattels of any kind whatever or to receive or conceal any
bank bill or bills, promissory note or notes, bill of exchange, order, warrant,
draft, check or bond or any accountable receipt for money or evidence of
ownership.
(Prior Code, § 6-310)  Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 28-513
§ 134.05  TRESPASSING.
   (A)   Other than in an emergency, it shall be unlawful for any person,
without the consent of the owner, to purposely or knowingly enter upon any
private grounds, or to break, cut or injure any tree, shrub, plant, flower or
grass growing thereon, or to enter upon an improved lot or grounds occupied for
residence purposes and to loiter about the same.
(Prior Code, § 6-311)
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for a person, knowing that he or she is not
licensed or privileged to do so, enters or remains in any place as to which
notice against trespass is given by actual communication to the actor; or
posting in a manner prescribed by law or reasonably likely to come to the
attention of intruders; or fencing or other enclosure manifestly designed to
exclude intruders.
(Prior Code, § 6-311.01)
(Ord. 4-05, passed 2-14-2005)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 134.06  SHOPLIFTING.
   (A)   A person commits the crime of theft by shoplifting when he or she,
with the intent of appropriating merchandise to his or her own use without
paying for the same or to deprive the owner of possession of the property or
its retail value, in whole or in part, does any of the following:
      (1)   Conceals or takes possession of the goods or merchandise of any
store or retail establishment;
      (2)   Alters the price tag or other price marking on goods or merchandise
of any store or retail establishment;
      (3)   Transfers the goods or merchandise of any store or retail
establishment from one container to another;
      (4)   Interchanges the label or price tag from one item of merchandise
with a label or price tag from one item of merchandise; or
      (5)   Causes the cash register or other sales recording device to reflect
less than the retail price of the merchandise.
   (B)   In any prosecution for theft by shoplifting, in order to allow the
owner or owners of shoplifted property the use of the property pending criminal
prosecutions, photographs of the shoplifted property may be accepted as prima
facie evidence as to the identity of the property. The photograph shall be
accompanied by a written statement containing the following:
      (1)   A description of the property;
      (2)   The name of the owner or owners of the property;
      (3)   The time, date and location where the shoplifting occurred;
      (4)   The time and date the photograph was taken;
      (5)   The name of the photographer; and
      (6)   Verification by the arresting officer.
   (C)   Prior to allowing the use of the shoplifted property as provided in
this section, legal counsel for the alleged shoplifter shall have a reasonable
opportunity to inspect and appraise the property and may file a motion for
retention of the property, which shall be granted if there is any reasonable
basis for believing that the photographs and accompanying affidavit may be
misleading.
(Prior Code, § 6-360)  Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 28-515
§ 134.07  LITTERING.
   (A)   Any person who deposits, throws, discards or otherwise disposes of any
litter on any public or private property or in any waters commits the offense
of littering unless:
      (1)   The property is an area designated by law for the disposal of the
material and the person is authorized by the proper public authority to so use
the property; or
      (2)   The litter is placed in a receptacle or container installed on the
property for the purpose.
   (B)   The word LITTER, as used in this section, shall mean all waste
material susceptible of being dropped, deposited, discarded or otherwise
disposed of by any person upon any property in the state, but does not include
wastes of primary processes of farming or manufacturing. WASTE MATERIAL, as
used in this section, shall mean any material appearing in a place or in a
context not associated with that material’s function or origin.
   (C)   Whenever litter is thrown, deposited, dropped or dumped from any motor
vehicle or watercraft in violation of this section, the operator of the motor
vehicle or watercraft commits the offense of littering.
(Prior Code, § 6-361)  (Ord. 14-95, passed 8-7-1995)  Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 28-523
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   BUILDING REGULATIONS; CONSTRUCTION
      
151.   SUBDIVISIONS
      
152.   ZONING
CHAPTER 150:  BUILDING REGULATIONS; CONSTRUCTION
Section
General Provisions
   
150.01   Zoning Commissioner; powers and duties
   
150.02   Construction of regulations
   
150.03   Unsafe buildings; special assessments
   
150.04   Plans, maps and the like; city officials; duty
Building Permits
   
150.15   Generally; required; application and the like
   
150.16   Flood hazard areas; required; application and the like
   
150.17   Fees
Building Code
   
150.30   Building Code and Residential Code adopted by reference
   
150.31   Building permits; duplicate to County Assessor
   
150.32   Prohibition of lead pipes, solder and flux
Other Codes
   
150.45   Housing Code adopted by reference
   
150.46   Sign Code adopted by reference
   
150.47   Plumbing Code adopted by reference
   
150.48   Electrical Code adopted by reference
Mobile Homes
   
150.60   Definitions
   
150.61   Location outside of mobile home park prohibited; exceptions
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 150.01  ZONING COMMISSIONER; POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   The Zoning Commissioner shall have the duty of enforcing all building
and housing regulations, as herein prescribed. He or she shall inspect all
buildings repaired, altered, built or moved in the city as often as necessary
to ensure compliance with all city ordinances. He or she shall have the power
and authority to order all work stopped on any construction, alteration or
relocation which violates any provisions prescribed herein. He or she shall
issue permission to continue any construction, alteration or relocation when he
or she is satisfied that no provision will be violated. The written order may
be served by any city police officer.
(Prior Code, § 9-101)
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to refuse to allow the Zoning
Commissioner entry onto any land or into any building or structure where any
construction, structural alteration, repair or relocation is taking place for
the purpose of making lawful inspections pursuant to his or her duties and
powers as Zoning Commissioner.
(Prior Code, § 9-102)  Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 29-830 through 29-835
§ 150.02  CONSTRUCTION OF REGULATIONS.
   In the event that any of the provisions of
Chapter 97 of this code pertaining to building materials and construction type
are more stringent than the provisions of this chapter, then and in that event
the provisions of Chapter 97 of this code shall be construed to control only
with respect to those buildings and structures located within the fire limits
of the city, as defined by §
97.16, unless otherwise specified in this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 9-103)
§ 150.03  UNSAFE BUILDINGS; SPECIAL ASSESSMENTS.
   (A)   If any owner of any building or structure fails, neglects or refuses
to comply with notice by or on behalf of the city to repair, rehabilitate or
demolish and remove a building or structure which is unsafe and a public
nuisance, the city may proceed with the work specified in the notice to the
property owner. A statement of the cost of the work shall be transmitted to the
City Council.
   (B)   The City Council may:
      (1)   Levy the cost as a special assessment against the lot or real
estate upon which the building or structure is located. The special assessment
shall be a lien on the real estate and shall be collected in the manner
provided for special assessments; or
      (2)   Collect the cost from the owner of the building or structure and
enforce the collection by civil action in any court of competent jurisdiction.
(Prior Code, § 9-104)  (Ord. 1-91, passed 2-4-1991)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 18-1720, 18-1722, 18-1722.01
§ 150.04  PLANS, MAPS AND THE LIKE; CITY OFFICIALS; DUTY.
   A city official charged with the duty or responsibility of accepting or
approving plans, specifications, geological maps and reports shall not accept
or approve plans, specifications, geological maps or reports which have not
been prepared in accordance with the Geologists Regulation Act.
(Prior Code, § 9-108)  (Ord. 1-05, passed 1-10-2005)
BUILDING PERMITS
§ 150.15  GENERALLY; REQUIRED; APPLICATION AND THE LIKE.
   (A)   Except in those instances where the issuance of building permits shall
be controlled by §§
97.16 or
150.16 of this code, it shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation
to erect, construct, reconstruct, enlarge, structurally alter or move any
building or structure, or any part or portion thereof, or to commence any
grading or filling in connection therewith, or cause the same to be done,
within the jurisdiction of the city without  first obtaining a building permit
issued pursuant to the provisions of this section.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to erect,
construct, reconstruct, enlarge, structurally alter or move any sign, which is
permanently attached to the outside of a building or structure, or permanently
attached to the land on which it is situated, or cause the same to be done,
within the jurisdiction of the city without first obtaining a building permit
issued pursuant to the provisions of this section.
   (C)   Applicants for building permits issued pursuant to the provisions of
this section shall prepare a written application therefor, upon a form
furnished for such purpose by the city, completed in accordance with all
instructions and directions of the form. The applications, when properly
completed, shall be filed with the City Clerk together with the appropriate
fee, as set forth in §
150.16, which fee shall be refunded in the event that the application is
denied. It shall be unlawful for any person preparing an application for a
building permit issued pursuant to this section to willfully misrepresent or
misstate thereon any material fact, plan or intention.
   (D)   The Zoning Commissioner shall review every application made for a
building permit issued pursuant to this section to determine whether the
actions proposed and described in the application will conform with all
applicable provisions of this code, including all standards and codes 
incorporated therein, and with provisions of all other applicable codes, laws,
ordinances, rules, regulations, resolutions and standards. In the event that
the Zoning Commissioner determines that the work described in an application
for a building permit issued pursuant to this section conforms with all
applicable provisions of this code, including all standards and codes
incorporated therein, and with provisions of all other applicable codes, laws,
ordinances, rules, regulations, resolutions and standards, it shall  thereupon
be the duty of the Zoning Commissioner to direct that the building permit
applied for be issued by the City Clerk. It shall be the duty of the City Clerk
to issue all building permits pursuant to the directions of the Zoning
Commissioner.
   (E)   All building permits issued pursuant to this section shall expire by
limitation and become null and void for all purposes whatsoever in the event
that the work described therein is not begun within 90 days of the issuance of
the permit. All building permits issued pursuant to this section shall expire
by limitation and become null and void for all purposes whatsoever in the event
that the work described therein is not substantially completed within one year
of the issuance thereof; provided, however, that, the Zoning Commissioner, for
good cause shown, may extend the building permit for the time as he or she may
determine. In the event that any building permit issued pursuant to this
section shall expire as hereinabove provided, it shall be the duty of the
Zoning Commissioner to give written notice of the expiration to the person,
firm or corporation issued the permit.
   (F)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation granted or
issued a building permit, pursuant to the provisions of this section, approving
or authorizing the erection, construction, reconstruction, enlargement,
structural alteration or movement of any building or structure, or any part or
portion thereof, to cause or allow the building or structure to deviate in any
material way from its manner of construction or final condition as represented
in the application, submitted by the person, firm or corporation, upon the
basis of which the building permit was issued.
(Prior Code, § 9-104)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 150.16  FLOOD HAZARD AREAS; REQUIRED; APPLICATION AND THE LIKE.
   (A)   (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to
erect, construct reconstruct, enlarge, alter, repair, improve, move or demolish
any building or other structure, or any part or portion thereof, or any
addition thereto or to commence any excavation, grading or filling in
connection therewith, or cause the same to be done, at any location within the
flood hazard areas of the city without first obtaining a building permit issued
pursuant to the provisions of this section. The flood hazard areas of the city
shall consist of those areas of the city as established and illustrated by the
map entitled “The Official Flood Hazard Area Map”, which map shall be on file
at the office of the City Clerk. The Official Flood Hazard Area Map, together
with all amendments thereto and all explanatory matter thereof, is hereby
incorporated into this section by reference thereto.
      (2)   To obtain a building permit issued pursuant to the provisions of
this section, each applicant therefor shall first prepare a written application
therefor on a form furnished for the purpose by the city. Each application
shall be completed in accordance with all instructions and directions of the
form and shall be filed with the City Clerk, prior to the meeting of the City
Council at which the same is to be acted upon. It shall be unlawful for any
person preparing an application for a building permit issued pursuant to this
section to willfully misrepresent or misstate thereon any material fact, plan
or intention.
   (B)   The Zoning Commissioner shall review all applications for building
permits issued pursuant to the provisions of this section to determine whether
the work proposed thereby and described therein will conform to all applicable
provisions of this code and all other applicable ordinances, laws, resolutions,
rules and regulations and shall, prior to action by the City Council upon each
application, submit any and all recommendations which the City Council may
request. The City Council shall, by motion, direct that a building permit be
issued by the City Clerk, if the work proposed by and described in the
application therefor will conform to all applicable provisions of this code and
all other applicable ordinances, laws, resolutions, rules and regulations. All
building permits issued pursuant to the provisions of this section shall expire
by limitation and become null and void for all purposes whatsoever one calendar
year from and after the date of issuance thereof, unless the City Council upon
good cause shown extends the same for the length of time as it may determine.
   (C)   No building permit issued pursuant to the provisions of this section
shall be issued unless and until the appropriate fee therefor, as set forth
herein, shall have been paid.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation granted or
issued a building permit, pursuant to the provisions of this section, approving
or authorizing the erection, construction, reconstruction, enlargement,
alteration, repair, improvement, movement or demolition of any building or
structure, or any part or portion thereof, or any addition thereto, to cause or
allow the building or structure to deviate in any material way from its manner
of construction or final condition as represented in the application, submitted
by each person, firm or corporation, upon the basis of which the building
permit was issued.
(Prior Code, § 9-105)
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 150.17  FEES.
   (A)   No building permit shall be issued pursuant to the provisions of §§
97.22,
150.15 or
150.16 unless and until the fee for the building permit shall have been paid to
the City Clerk as provided herein. The fee shall be based upon the estimated
cost of the work proposed by and described in the application for the building
permit to which the fee shall relate.
   (B)   Fees for all building permits applicable to residential, business,
office, industrial, churches, county schools and all other buildings or
structures (including hospitals, nursing homes and restaurants)  shall be in
the amount as set by resolution.
   (C)   Fees for signs shall be (a separate fee shall be charged for each
sign) in the amount as set forth by resolution.
   (D)   In the case of a remodeling project that changes the electrical,
plumbing or heating, ventilating or air conditioning (HVAC) there shall be an
additional fee called special electrical, special plumbing, or special HVAC in
the amount as set by resolution.
(Prior Code, § 9-106)  (Ord. 10-07, passed 7-23-2007)
BUILDING CODE
§ 150.30  BUILDING CODE AND RESIDENTIAL CODE ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   To provide certain minimum standards, provisions and requirements for safe
and stable design, methods of construction, and uses of materials in buildings
hereafter erected, constructed, enlarged, altered, repaired, relocated and
converted, the International Building Code (IBC), 2000 edition, published by
the International Code Council and the International Residential Code (IRC),
2000 edition published by the International Code Council, and printed in book
or pamphlet form are hereby incorporated by reference in addition to all
amended additions as though printed in full herein. One copy of the
International Building Code and International Residential Code are on file at
the office of the City Clerk and are available for public inspection at any
reasonable time.
(Prior Code, § 9-201)  (Ord. 6-03, passed 10-13-2003)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 18-132
§ 150.31  BUILDING PERMITS; DUPLICATE TO COUNTY ASSESSOR.
   Whenever a building permit is issued for the erection, alteration or repair
of any building within the city’s jurisdiction and the improvement is $2,500 or
more, a duplicate of the permit shall be issued to the County Assessor.
(Prior Code, § 9-202)  (Ord. 1-04, passed 4-12-2004)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 18-1743
§ 150.32  PROHIBITION OF LEAD PIPES, SOLDER AND FLUX.
   (A)   Any pipe, solders or flux used in the installation of repair of any
residential or nonresidential facility which is connected to the public water
supply system shall be lead free.
   (B)   For purposes of this section, LEAD FREE shall mean:
      (1)   Solders and flux: not more than 0.2% lead; and
      (2)   Pipe and pipe fittings: not more than 8% lead.
(Prior Code, § 9-203)  Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Nebraska State Legislature 383
OTHER CODES
§ 150.45  HOUSING CODE ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   To provide certain minimum standards, provisions and requirements for safe
and stable design, methods of construction, and uses of materials in houses
hereafter erected, constructed, enlarged, altered, repaired, relocated and
converted, the Uniform Housing Code, 1976 Edition, copyright International
Conference of Building Officials, printed in book or pamphlet form is hereby
incorporated by reference in addition to all amended additions as though
printed in full herein. All prior ordinances in conflict herewith shall be and
are hereby repealed, one copy of the Uniform Housing Code is on file at the
office of the City Clerk and is available for public inspection at any
reasonable time.
(Prior Code, § 9-301)  (Ord. 6-90, passed 8-6-1990)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 18-132, 18-2146
§ 150.46  SIGN CODE ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   To develop better sign construction and to provide minimum standards to
safeguard life, health, property and public welfare by regulating structural
requirements for all signs and sign structures located outside buildings, the
Uniform Sign Code, 1976 edition, copyright International Conference of Building
Officials, printed in book or pamphlet form is hereby incorporated by reference
in addition to all amended editions as though printed in full herein. One copy
of the Sign Code is on file at the office of the City Clerk and is available at
any reasonable time.
(Prior Code, § 9-401)  (Ord. 6-90, passed 8-6-1990)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 18-132
§ 150.47  PLUMBING CODE ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   To provide certain minimum standards, provisions and requirements for safe
and stable installation, methods of connection, and uses of materials in the
installation of plumbing and heating shall be as found in the American Standard
National Plumbing Code (ASAA 40.8-1955), published in book or pamphlet form by
The American Society of Mechanical Engineers, in addition to all amended
editions as though printed in full herein. All prior ordinances in conflict
herewith shall be and are hereby repealed. One copy of the Plumbing Code is on
file at the office of the City Clerk and is available at any reasonable time.
(Prior Code, § 9-501)  (Ord. 6-90, passed 8-6-1990)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 18-132
§ 150.48  ELECTRICAL CODE ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   To provide certain minimum standards, provisions and requirements for safe
and fire proof installation, methods of connection and uses of materials in the
installation of electrical wiring and appliances shall be found in the National
Electrical Code, National Fire Protection Association Publication Number 70,
latest edition which has been adopted by the State Electrical Board, printed in
book or pamphlet form, in addition to all amended editions as though printed in
full herein. All prior ordinances in conflict herewith shall be and are hereby
repealed. One copy of the National Electrical Code is on file at the office of
the City Clerk and is available for public inspection at any reasonable time.
(Prior Code, § 9-601)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 18-132
MOBILE HOMES
§ 150.60  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DOUBLE WIDE MOBILE HOME. Any mobile home, as hereinabove defined, or
combination of mobile homes designed to be connected into a single unit, having
a minimum outside width of 20 feet and containing 800 or more square feet of
living space.
   MOBILE HOME. Any vehicle or structure so designed and constructed in the
manner as will permit occupancy thereof as sleeping quarters for one or more
persons, or the conduct of any business or profession, occupation or trade (or
use as a selling or advertising device), and so designed that it is or may be
mounted on wheels and used as a conveyance on highways or city streets,
propelled or drawn by its own or other motive power, excepting a device used
exclusively upon stationary rails or tracks.
   MOBILE HOME PARK. Any park, trailer park, trailer court, court, camp, site,
lot, parcel or tract of land designed, maintained or intended for the purpose
of supplying a location or accommodations for any mobile home or mobile homes
and upon which any mobile home or mobile homes are parked or placed and shall
include all buildings used or intended for use as part of the equipment
thereof, whether a charge is made for the use of the mobile home park and its
facilities or not. The term MOBILE HOME PARK shall not include mobile home,
trailer or automobile sales lots upon which unoccupied mobile homes are parked
or placed for the purposes of sale and inspection for sale.
   TRAVEL TRAILER and CAMPER and CONVERTED BUS. Any portable structure or
vehicle supported upon its own axle or axles used or so constructed as to
permit its being used as a conveyance upon the public streets or highways and
duly licensable as such and constructed in a manner as will permit occupancy
thereof as a dwelling or sleeping place for one or more persons for a limited
or temporary time or basically designed for travel or camping purposes,
propelled or drawn by its own or other motive power.
(Prior Code, § 9-801)
§ 150.61  LOCATION OUTSIDE OF MOBILE HOME PARK PROHIBITED; EXCEPTIONS.
   After the effective date hereof, and except as may otherwise be provided, it
shall be unlawful for any person to place or locate, or to permit to be placed
or located, any mobile home, travel trailer, camper or converted bus owned by
the person at any location within the zoning jurisdiction of the city other
than a designated and approved mobile home park for which a currently valid
permit has been issued pursuant to the provisions of §
116.03; provided, however, that, nothing herein shall be construed to apply to
any double wide mobile home, when the double wide mobile home is placed upon
permanent foundation or support, with axle and towing apparatus removed,
located upon premises owned or leased by the owner of the double wide mobile
home, and is used as a residence for a trade or business; provided, further,
that, nothing herein shall be construed to prohibit the storage of any travel
trailer, camper or converted bus by the owner of the travel trailer, camper or
converted bus upon premises owned or leased by the owner at a location as far
away as possible from the street or streets abutting the premises or within a
garage or enclosure; and provided, further, that, nothing herein shall be
construed to prohibit any person from keeping or maintaining any travel
trailer, camper or converted bus upon any premises for occupancy as dwelling or
sleeping space for any period not to exceed two weeks in duration, so long as
the travel trailer, camper or converted bus is kept or maintained at a location
on the premises that is as far away as possible from the street or streets
abutting the premises.
(Prior Code, § 9-802)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-1001
CHAPTER 151:  SUBDIVISIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
151.001   Purpose
   
151.002   Jurisdiction
   
151.003   Applicability
   
151.004   Definitions
   
151.005   Severability
   
151.006   Waiver for small subdivisions
   
151.007   Amendments
Procedures
   
151.020   Preapplication meetings
   
151.021   Plat submission requirements
   
151.022   Fees
   
151.023   Scale and preliminary plat contents
   
151.024   Notification of improvement schedule
   
151.025   Notification of County Planning Commission
   
151.026   Notification of School Board
   
151.027   Approval or rejection
   
151.028   Recording of action
   
151.029   Approval is conditional
   
151.030   Final plat submission requirements
   
151.031   Scale and final plat contents
   
151.032   Supplementary data required
   
151.033   Planning Commission recommendations
Streets, Alleys, Sidewalks, Driveways
   
151.045   Streets
   
151.046   Street extension
   
151.047   Dedication of right-of-way for new streets
   
151.048   Dedication of right-of-way for existing streets
   
151.049   Intersections
   
151.050   Horizontal and vertical street curves
   
151.051   Street grades and elevations
   
151.052   Widths and grades
   
151.053   Marginal access streets
   
151.054   Street jogs
   
151.055   Street names
   
151.056   Private streets and reserve strips
   
151.057   Grading specifications
   
151.058   Minimum pavement widths
   
151.059   Street surfacing
   
151.060   Curb and gutter
   
151.061   Street name signs
   
151.062   Alleys
   
151.063   Sidewalks
   
151.064   Driveways
Blocks and Lots
   
151.075   General requirements
   
151.076   Utility lines
   
151.077   Appropriate lots
   
151.078   Minimum lot dimensions
   
151.079   Monuments
Utility and Drainage Facilities
   
151.090   General
   
151.091   Water supply improvements
   
151.092   Sanitary sewer improvements
   
151.093   Drainage improvements
   
151.094   Storm sewers and storm water drainage
   
151.095   Culverts and bridges
   
151.096   Erosion control
   
151.097   Fire protection
   
151.098   Electric, gas and telephone improvements
Shared Improvement Costs
   
151.110   Over-size and off-site improvements
   
151.111   Cost of over-size improvements
   
151.112   Extensions to boundaries
   
151.113   Off-site extensions
Subdivision Improvement Guarantees
   
151.125   Completion of improvement
   
151.126   Inspection and certification
   
151.127   Surety performance bond
   
151.128   Escrow account
   
151.129   Sequential approval of subdivision segments without guarantee
   
151.130   Special assessment
   
151.131   Time limits
   
151.132   Failure to complete improvements
   
151.133   Reduction of guarantees
   
151.134   Release of guarantee
Variances
   
151.145   Granting of variances; conditions
   
151.146   Recording of plat
   
151.147   Planned development
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 151.001  PURPOSE.
   The purpose of these regulations is to provide for the orderly development
of the city and its environs; to proscribe standards for the laying out of
subdivisions in harmony with the comprehensive plan; for the coordination of
streets and utilities within subdivisions with other existing or planned
streets and utilities; for coordination of subdivisions with other features of
the comprehensive plan to provide for adequate open space for traffic,
recreation, light and air; and for the distribution of population and traffic
in a manner so as to create conditions favorable to health, safety, convenience
or prosperity, all in accordance with applicable state statutes.
(Prior Code, § 1)
§ 151.002  JURISDICTION.
   The provisions of this chapter shall apply within the area of planning and
zoning jurisdiction, as defined on the “Official Zoning Map of the City of
Auburn, Nebraska”, as may be amended from time to time.
(Prior Code, § 2)
§ 151.003  APPLICABILITY.
   (A)   Any plat, hereafter made, for each subdivision or part thereof lying
within the jurisdiction of this chapter, shall be prepared for approval and
recorded as herein prescribed. The regulations contained herein shall apply to
the subdivision of a lot, tract, parcel of land into two or more lots, tracts
or other division of land for the purpose of sale or development, whether
immediate or future, including the resubdivision or replatting of land or lots,
except that the division of land when the smallest parcel created is more than
ten acres in area shall be exempt from these regulations.
   (B)   Further, the regulations set forth by this chapter shall be minimum
regulations which shall apply uniformly throughout the jurisdiction of this
chapter, except as hereafter provided.
      (1)   Each separate principal use/building within the jurisdiction of
this chapter shall be situated on a separate and single subdivided lot of
record unless otherwise provided in
Chapter 152 of this code.
      (2)   No subdivision of land shall be permitted within the jurisdiction
of this chapter unless a plat is approved in accordance with the provisions of
this chapter. Further, no lot in a subdivision may be sold, transferred or
negotiated to sell, no permit to erect, alter or repair any building upon land
in a subdivision may be issued, and no building may be erected in a subdivision
unless a final plat has been approved by the City Council and recorded with the
County Register of Deeds.
      (3)   These regulations shall not apply to the following:
         (a)   To a subdivision of land whereby the smallest parcel created or
remaining is more than ten acres;
         (b)   The subdivision of burial lots in cemeteries; and/or
         (c)   As provided in §
152.196 regarding the further subdivision of existing lots and blocks.
(Prior Code, § 3)
§ 151.004  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning. The
present tense includes the future tense, the singular number includes the
plural and the plural number includes the singular.
   BUILDING LINE. A line parallel or nearly parallel, to either the street line
or the lot line not abutting the street and at a specified distance from the
street or lot line which marks the minimum distance from either line that a
building may be erected. In the case of a cul-de-sac, the BUILDING LINE shall
be measured around the curvature of the street line.
   BUILDING OFFICIAL. The person or persons designated by the City Council to
administer this chapter whether the person or persons be entitled Building
Official, Building Inspector or administrative official.
   COMMON OPEN SPACE. That undivided land in a subdivision which may be jointly
owned by all property owners of the subdivision, for the benefit of the owners
of the individual building sites of the development.
   COMMON SEWER SYSTEM. A sanitary sewage system in public ownership which
provides for the collection and treatment of domestic effluent in a central
sewage treatment plant which meets the minimum requirements of the State
Department of Environmental Qualify for primary and secondary sewage treatment
and which does not include individual septic tanks or portable sewage treatment
facilities.
   COMMON WATER SYSTEM. A water system which provides for the supply, storage
and distribution of potable water on an uninterrupted basis which is in public
ownership.
   COMPREHENSIVE PLAN. The long range development plan adopted by the City
Council.
   COVENANT. Written promise or pledge.
   CULVERT. A transverse drain that channels water under a bridge, street or
driveway.
   EASEMENT. A grant by property owner to the public, a corporation or persons
of the use of a tract of land for a specific purpose.
   ENGINEER. One licensed by the state, designated by the City Council to act
for the city.
   FRONTAGE. The length of the property abutting on one side of a street
measured along the dividing line between the property and the street.
   GREEN AREA. Same as COMMON OPEN SPACE.
   IMPROVEMENT. Street pavement or resurfacing, curbs, gutter, sidewalks, water
lines, sewer lines, storm drains, street lights, flood control and drainage
facilities, utility lines, landscaping and other related matters normally
associated with the development of raw land into building sites.
   LOT. A parcel of land occupied or intended for occupancy by a use permitted
in this regulation, including one main building together with its accessory
buildings, the open spaces and parking required by this regulation and fronting
upon a street.
   LOT, CORNER. A lot abutting upon two or more streets at their intersection.
   LOT, INTERIOR. A lot other than a corner lot which has frontage on one
street only.
   LOT, THROUGH. A lot other than a corner lot fronting on more than one
street.
   MONUMENTS. Permanent concrete or iron markers used to establish definitely
all lines of the plat of a subdivision, including all lot corners, boundary
line corners and points of change in street alignment.
   OUT LOT. Property shown on a subdivision plat outside of the boundaries of
the land which is developed and which is to be excluded from the development of
the subdivision.
   PARKING SPACE, OFF-STREET. An area, enclosed or unenclosed, sufficient in
size to store one automobile, together with a driveway connecting the parking
space with a street or alley and permitting ingress and egress.
   PEDESTRIAN WAYS. A tract of land dedicated to public use, which cuts across
a block to facilitate pedestrian access to adjoining streets and properties.
   PLANNED DEVELOPMENT. Special development of certain tracts of land, planned
and designed as a unit for one or more land uses under the regulations and
procedures contained in this chapter.
   PLANNING AREA. The statutory zoning jurisdiction of the city.
   PLANNING COMMISSION. The appointed planning body designated by the City
Council.
   PLAT. Map, drawing or chart upon which the developer’s plan of subdivision
is presented to the City Council for approval and, after the approval, to the
appropriate County Clerk for recording or in conformance with the provisions of
§
152.196.
   PLOT. A parcel of ground.
   PUBLIC WAY. An alley, avenue, boulevard, bridge, channel, ditch, easement,
expressway, freeway, highway, land, parkway, right-of-way, road, sidewalk,
street, subway, tunnel, viaduct, walk or other ways in which the general public
or a public entity have a right, or which are dedicated, whether improved or
not.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. A strip of land taken or dedicated for use as a public way. In
addition to the roadway, it normally incorporates the curbs, lawn strips,
sidewalks, lighting and drainage facilities, and may include special features
such as grade separation, landscaped areas, viaducts and bridges.
   SETBACK LINE. A line, as shown on a record plat or otherwise established by
the City Council, beyond which no part of a main exterior wall of a building or
structure may project.
   SEWERS, ON-SITE. A septic tank or similar installation on an individual lot
which utilizes an aerobic bacteriological process or equally satisfactory
process for the elimination of sewage and provides for the proper and safe
disposal of the effluent, subject to the approval of health and sanitation
officials having jurisdiction.
   SIDEWALK. A dedicated public way, whether along the side of a road or not.
   STREET. A public or private thoroughfare including avenues, which affords
principle means of access to abutting property.
   SUBDIVIDER. The owners, developers or agents of persons or corporations
affecting subdivision.
   SUBDIVISION. The division of a parcel of land into two or more lots or
parcels for the purpose of transfer of ownership, building development, or, if
a new street is involved, any division of a parcel of land. The term includes
RESUBDIVISION and, when appropriate to the context, shall relate to the process
of subdividing or to the land subdivided.
   SURVEYOR. Any person registered in the state to practice surveying.
   THOROUGHFARE, STREET or ROAD. The full width between property lines bounding
every public way of whatever nature, with a part thereof to be used for
vehicular traffic and designated as follows.
      (1)   ALLEY. A dedicated public right-of-way, other than a street, which
provides only a secondary means of access to abutting property.
      (2)   ARTERIAL STREET. A street which provides for through traffic
movement between and around streets with direct access to abutting property,
subject to necessary control of entrances, exits and curb use.
      (3)   COLLECTOR STREET. A street which provides for traffic movement
between arterial and local streets, with direct access to abutting property.
      (4)   CUL-DE-SAC. A local street of relatively short length with one end
open to traffic and the other end terminating in a vehicular turnaround.
      (5)   DEAD-END STREET. A street temporarily having only one outlet for
vehicular traffic and intended to be extended or continued in the future.
      (6)   LOCAL STREET. A street which provides direct access to abutting
land and local traffic movement, whether in business, industrial or residential
land.
      (7)   MARGINAL ACCESS STREET. A local or collector street, parallel and
adjacent to an arterial or collector street, providing access to abutting
properties and protection from arterial or collector streets. (Also called
FRONTAGE STREET or SERVICE ROAD.)
   VICINITY MAP. A drawing located on the plat which sets forth by dimensions
or other means, the relationship of the proposed subdivision or use to other
nearby developments or landmarks and community facilities and services within
the city, in order to better locate and orient the area in question.
   WALKWAY. See SIDEWALK.
   ZONE or DISTRICT. A section of the zoning area for which uniform regulations
governing the use, height, area, size and intensity of the use of buildings,
land and open spaces about buildings, are established.
(Prior Code, § 4)
§ 151.005  SEVERABILITY.
   Should any section or provision of this regulation be declared by the courts
to be unconstitutional or invalid, the decision shall not affect the validity
of this regulation as a whole, or any part thereof, other than the part so
declared to be unconstitutional or invalid.
(Prior Code, § 5)
§ 151.006  WAIVER FOR SMALL SUBDIVISIONS.
   (A)   The subdivider may make application for, and the Council may grant, a
waiver of some or all of the requirements provided for herein for small
residential, commercial and industrial subdivisions where the following
conditions exist:
      (1)   The subdivision contains no more than four lots, which total area
of the lots shall not exceed one-half acre each, and conform to existing zoning
ordinances;
      (2)   All lots of the proposed subdivisions shall be platted on existing
streets;
      (3)   Surfaces of all streets serving the subdivision meet, or exceed,
street surface standards of the city;
      (4)   Public water, sanitary sewer, storm sewer system facilities are
available to all lots in the subdivision;
      (5)   The development of the subdivision will not increase erosion or
flooding potential; and
      (6)   The subdivider demonstrates to the Council that the development is
in conformity with the potential development of abutting property.
   (B)   A subdivider requesting a waiver hereunder shall submit the request in
writing to the Council prior to the submission of a preliminary plat. The
request for a waiver shall include a list of all requirements for which a
waiver is sought by reference to code numbers and descriptive headings.
(Prior Code, § 13)
§ 151.007  AMENDMENTS.
   Any provision herein from time to time may be amended, supplemented,
changed, modified or repealed by the City Council according to law; provided,
however, that, the amendments, supplements, changes, modifications or repealed
provisions shall not become effective until after study and report and
recommendations of the Planning Commission.
(Prior Code, § 14)
PROCEDURES
§ 151.020  PREAPPLICATION MEETINGS.
   (A)   (1)   A preapplication meeting between the applicant or his, her or
its representative, the Planning Commission, Building Official and other city
departments will be required prior to the submission of an application for
approval of a preliminary plat. No application for preliminary plat will be
accepted by the Building Official until after the preapplication meeting.
Preapplication meetings should be scheduled through the City Clerk’s office.
      (2)   The purpose of the preapplication meeting is to review policies,
procedures and forms required by the city and to discuss the applicant’s
request.
   (B)   The application shall provide the following minimum information as
part of a conceptual review sketch plan:
      (1)   The proposed layout of streets, lots and utilities in relation to
existing streets, utilities, topography and other conditions; and
      (2)   A general location map showing the proposed subdivision and its
relationship to existing abutting subdivisions and community facilities in the
area, such as streets, alleys, schools, parks, commercial areas and other data
supplementing the subdivision plan which outline or describe all of the
proposed development as it relates to existing conditions.
(Prior Code, § 6.1)
§ 151.021  PLAT SUBMISSION REQUIREMENTS.
   The subdivider shall submit to the City Clerk nine copies of the preliminary
plat and supplemental material specified, with written application for
conditional approval, at least 15 days prior to the regular meeting of the
Planning Commission at which the request will be heard.
(Prior Code, § 6.2)
§ 151.022  FEES.
   Fees are set accordingly by the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 6.3)
§ 151.023  SCALE AND PRELIMINARY PLAT CONTENTS.
   Preliminary plats shall be a scale of one inch to 100 feet (or one inch
equals 200 feet if 75% of the lots are one acre or larger) and shall be
prepared with the following information:
   (A)   Name, location, acreage, owner and designer of subdivision with legal
description as shown by land records;
   (B)   Present zoning;
   (C)   Date, north point and graphic scale;
   (D)   Location of property lines, roads, existing utilities with size of
lines and other underground installations and easement;
   (E)   Names of adjoining properties or subdivisions;
   (F)   Proposed utility system, including water, sewer and paving;
   (G)   Dimensions, lot lines, except that in industrial type subdivisions,
lot lines may be excluded;
   (H)   Location of proposed drainage;
   (I)   Contours at five-foot intervals at one inch equals 200 feet scale;
   (J)   Proposed improvements and grading concepts;
   (K)   Location of existing buildings;
   (L)   Proposed easements, dedications and reservations of land required; and
   (M)   Approval block for Planning Commission and City Council action.
(Prior Code, § 6.4)
§ 151.024  NOTIFICATION OF IMPROVEMENT SCHEDULE.
   The subdivider shall indicate by a letter, when improvements as required
will be provided, any proposed restrictive covenants for the land involved
shall accompany the letter.
(Prior Code, § 6.5)
§ 151.025  NOTIFICATION OF COUNTY PLANNING COMMISSION.
   The city shall notify the County Planning Commission, if one exists, of any
proposed subdivision plat and provide the Commission with all available
materials on the proposed plat, when the proposed plat lies partially or
totally within the extraterritorial subdivision jurisdiction being exercised by
that city in the county. The Commission shall be given 30 days to officially
comment on the appropriateness of the design and improvements proposed in the
plat. The review period shall run concurrently with subdivision review
activities of the city after the Commission receives all available material for
a proposed subdivision plat.
(Prior Code, § 6.6)
§ 151.026  NOTIFICATION OF SCHOOL BOARD.
   (A)   At least ten days prior to the Planning Commission meeting at which
the preliminary plat is to be considered for approval, the Planning Commission
shall submit a copy of the proposal to the School Board of each School District
which the proposed development affects, and shall notify the School Board of
the meeting date.
   (B)   Copies of the plat may be submitted to any other agency which may be
affected.
(Prior Code, § 6.7)
§ 151.027  APPROVAL OR REJECTION.
   After review of the preliminary plat and negotiations with the subdivider,
the City Planning Commission shall reject or conditionally approve the
preliminary plat, within 40 days after the official meeting at which the plat
was considered.
(Prior Code, § 6.8)
§ 151.028  RECORDING OF ACTION.
   The action of the Planning Commission shall be noted on three copies of the
preliminary plat, referenced and attached to any conditions determined. One
copy shall be returned to the subdivider, one copy relayed to the City Council
and one copy retained by the Planning Commission.
(Prior Code, § 6.9)
§ 151.029  APPROVAL IS CONDITIONAL.
   Approval of a preliminary plat shall not constitute approval of the final
plat; it shall be deemed an expression of approval or conditional approval of
the submitted plat, as a guide for the preparation of the final plat, which
will be subject to further consideration by the Planning Commission and the
City Council. Any conditional approval of the preliminary plat shall be
effective for a period of one year unless an extension is granted by the
Planning Commission.
(Prior Code, § 6.10)
§ 151.030  FINAL PLAT SUBMISSION REQUIREMENTS.
   Final plats, showing entire concept, shall be submitted to the City Clerk
within one year of approval of the preliminary plat, unless an extension is
granted by the Planning Commission. The final plat shall conform to the
preliminary plat as approved and to the requirements of all applicable
ordinances and state statutes; and, if desired by the subdivider, it may
constitute only that portion of the approved preliminary plat which the
subdivider proposes to record and develop at the time; provided, however, that,
the portion conforms to all requirements of these regulations.
(Prior Code, § 6.11)
§ 151.031  SCALE AND FINAL PLAT CONTENTS.
   (A)   One original and two Mylar copies of the final plat and other exhibits
required for approval shall be submitted at least 15 days prior to the regular
meeting of the Planning Commission at which the request will be heard. The
final plat shall be drawn in ink on Mylar and shall be at a scale of one inch
to 100 feet or larger.
   (B)   The final plat shall show the following:
      (1)   Date, title, name and location of subdivision;
      (2)   Streets and street names, lots, setback lines, lot numbers and the
like, except that in industrial type subdivision lot designation may be
excluded;
      (3)   Graphic scale and north arrow;
      (4)   Monuments (ferrous) one-inch diameter maximum, 30-inch length
minimum;
      (5)   Dimensions, angles and bearings and complete legal description of
the property;
      (6)   Sufficient survey data to reproduce any line on the ground;
      (7)   Names of adjoining subdivisions;
      (8)   Location and dimensions of any easements;
      (9)   Purpose for which sites are dedicated or reserved and the transfer
of ownership of the
same;
      (10)   Certification by surveyor or engineer as to accuracy of survey and
plat;
      (11)   Certification signed and acknowledged by all parties holding title
or having any title interest in the land subdivided and consenting to the
preparation and recording of the plat as submitted;
      (12)   Certification recording the approval by the Planning Commission;
and
      (13)   Certification recording the approval by the City Council and the
acceptance of any dedications.
(Prior Code, § 6.12)
§ 151.032  SUPPLEMENTARY DATA REQUIRED.
   The final plat shall be accompanied by:
   (A)   Preliminary construction plans of all required public improvements,
approved by an Engineer; and
   (B)   A subdivision agreement signed by the property owner and on behalf of
the city and notarized, so that it may be recorded at the office of the County
Clerk to all land included within the proposed subdivision. This requirement
may be waived by the city.
(Prior Code, § 6.13)
§ 151.033  PLANNING COMMISSION RECOMMENDATIONS.
   The Planning Commission shall reject or approve the final plat and have
prepared a recommendation to the City Council recommending rejection or
approval. All reasons for recommending rejection shall be clearly stated.
Notification of approval or rejection by the Planning Commission or City
Council shall be given the subdivider within 60 days after submission of the
final plat to the Planning Commission.
(Prior Code, § 6.14)
STREETS, ALLEYS, SIDEWALKS, DRIVEWAYS
§ 151.045  STREETS.
   The arrangements, character, extent, width, grade and location of all
streets shall conform to the comprehensive development plan and shall be
considered in their relation to existing and planned streets, to topographical
conditions, to public convenience and safety and in their appropriate relation
to the proposed uses of the land to be served by the streets.
(Prior Code, § 7.1)
§ 151.046  STREET EXTENSION.
   The street layout of the proposed subdivision shall provide for the
continuation of appropriate projection of streets and alleys already existing
in areas being subdivided. Where, at the determination of the City Council, it
is desirable to provide street access to adjoining properties, proposed streets
shall be extended by dedication to the boundaries of the properties. Where the
City Council deems it necessary, the dead-end streets shall be provided with a
temporary turnaround having a radius of at least 60 feet. The street system for
the proposed subdivision shall provide for extending existing streets at the
same or greater width, but in no case shall a street extension be of less width
than the minimum width required in these regulations for a street in its
category.
(Prior Code, § 7.2)
§ 151.047  DEDICATION OF RIGHT-OF-WAY FOR NEW STREETS.
   The dedication of right-of-way for new streets measured from lot line to lot
line shall be as shown on the comprehensive development plan. All streets
classified as arterial streets by the comprehensive development plan shall have
all points of access approved by the City Council. Marginal access streets may
be required by the City Council for subdivisions fronting on arterial streets.
(Prior Code, § 7.3)
§ 151.048  DEDICATION OF RIGHT-OF-WAY FOR EXISTING STREETS.
   Subdivisions platted along existing streets shall dedicate additional right-
of-way if necessary to meet the minimum street width requirements set forth in
this regulation. The entire minimum right-of-way width shall be dedicated where
the subdivision is on both sides of an existing street. When the subdivision is
located on only one side of an existing street, one half of the required right-
of-way width, measured from the center line of the existing roadway, shall be
dedicated. Dedication of one-half of the right-of-way for proposed streets
along the boundaries of land proposed for subdivision shall be prohibited.
(Prior Code, § 7.4)
§ 151.049  INTERSECTIONS.
   Streets shall intersect as nearly as possible at an angle of 90 degrees and
no intersection shall be at any angle of less than 60 degrees. Street curb
intersections shall be rounded by radii of at least 20 feet. When the smallest
angle of street intersection is less than 75 degrees, the City Council may
require curb radii of greater length. Wherever necessary to permit the
construction of a curb having a desirable radius without reducing the sidewalk
at a street corner to less than normal width, the property line at the street
corner shall be rounded or otherwise set back sufficiently to permit the curb
construction. No lot or other parcel of land which abuts on and has access to
either a collector or a minor street shall have a service drive, curb cut or
other means of access to an arterial street within 50 feet of the right-of-way
of any street which intersects the arterial street on the side on which the lot
or parcel is located.
(Prior Code, § 7.5)
§ 151.050  HORIZONTAL AND VERTICAL STREET CURVES.
   (A)   A tangent at least 100 feet long shall be introduced between reverse
curves on arterial and collector streets. Where there is a deflection angle of
more than ten degrees in the alignment of a street, a curve with a radius
adequate to ensure safe sight distance shall be made. The minimum radii of
curves provided shall be required.
   (B)   Every change in grade shall be connected by a vertical curve
constructed so as to afford a minimum sight distance of 200 feet, the sight
distance being measured from a driver’s eyes, which are assumed to be four and
one-half feet above the pavement surface, to an object four inches high on the
pavement.
   (C)   Profiles of all streets showing natural or finished grades, drawn to
an approved scale, may be required by the city.
(Prior Code, § 7.6)
§ 151.051  STREET GRADES AND ELEVATIONS.
   (A)   All streets shall be designed so as to provide for the discharge of
surface water from the pavement and from the right-of-way by grading and
drainage. For adequate drainage, the minimum street grade shall not be less
than 0.5%. The city shall not approve streets which will be subject to
inundation or flooding. All streets must be located at elevations which will
make them flood-free in order that portions of the subdivision will not be
isolated by floods.
   (B)   Where flood conditions exist, the city shall require profiles or
elevations of streets in order to determine the advisability of permitting the
proposed subdivision activity. Fill may be used in areas subject to flooding in
order to provide flood-free streets if the fill does not increase flood
heights. Drainage openings shall be designed so as not to restrict the flow of
water and thereby increase flood height.
(Prior Code, § 7.7)
§ 151.052  WIDTHS AND GRADES.
   Right-of-way widths, pavement widths and grades shall be:
Street Classification Minimum Right-of-Way  Minimum Pavement Maximum Grade (%)
                      (ft.)                 Width (ft.)
Street Classification Minimum Right-of-Way  Minimum Pavement Maximum Grade (%)
                      (ft.)                 Width (ft.)
Alleys                20                    12               10
Arterial              80                    32               7
Collector             80                    26               7
Cul-de-sac and loop   90                    80 diameter      10
Local                 70                    26 or 281        10
Marginal access
(frontage road, no    60                    26               10
parking)
1 Provided on-street parking is prohibited.
 
(Prior Code, § 7.8)  (Ord. 7-05, passed 6-13-2005)
§ 151.053  MARGINAL ACCESS STREETS.
   (A)   Where a subdivision abuts or contains an existing or proposed arterial
street, the city may require access streets, reverse frontage with screen
planting contained in a non-access reservation along the rear property line,
deep lots with rear service alleys, or other treatment as may be necessary for
adequate protection of residential properties and to afford separation of
through and local traffic.
   (B)   Where the proposed subdivision abuts upon or contains an existing or
proposed arterial street or highway or which traffic volumes and vehicular
speeds warrant special safety considerations, the city may require that
marginal access streets be provided in order that no lots front on the existing
or proposed arterial street or highway.
   (C)   Where a subdivision borders on or contains a railway right-of-way or
limited access highway right-of-way, the city may require a street
approximately parallel to and on each side of the right-of-way, at a distance
suitable for the appropriate use of the intervening land, as for park purposes
in residential districts. The distances shall also be determined with due
regard for the requirements of approach grades and future grade separations.
(Prior Code, § 7.9)
§ 151.054  STREET JOGS.
   Street jogs with center line offsets of less than 150 feet shall be
prohibited. Cul-de-sacs, minor terminal or dead-end streets or courts which are
designed so as to have one end permanently closed shall not be longer than 500
feet and shall be provided at the closed end with a turnaround having a radius
at the outside of the right-of-way of at least 60 feet.
(Prior Code, § 7.10)
§ 151.055  STREET NAMES.
   Proposed streets which are in alignment with other already existing and
named streets shall bear the names of the existing streets. The name of a
proposed street which is not in alignment with an existing street shall not
duplicate the name of any existing street, irrespective of the use of the
suffix street, avenue, boulevard, drive, place, court, lane, road, pike,
highway, parkway or similar suffix. Whenever a street alignment changes
direction more than 45 degrees without a return to the original alignment
within a distance of 500 feet, then the name of the street shall be changed at
the point of curvature. Whenever a cul-de-sac street serves not more than three
lots, the name of the intersecting street shall apply to the cul-de-sac. To
avoid duplication and confusion, the proposed names of all streets shall be
approved by the designated City Engineer prior to the names being assigned or
used.
(Prior Code, § 7.11)
§ 151.056  PRIVATE STREETS AND RESERVE STRIPS.
   There shall be no private streets platted within a subdivision. There shall
be no reserve strips in a subdivision, except where their control is definitely
vested in the city or county under conditions approved by the Council as
authorized herein.
(Prior Code, § 7.12)
§ 151.057  GRADING SPECIFICATIONS.
   All streets, roads and alleys shall be graded to their full widths by the
subdivider, so that street pavements and sidewalks can be constructed on the
same level plane. Deviation from this standard due to special topographical
conditions will be allowed only with the approval of the City Council. Before
grading is started, the entire right-of-way area shall be first cleared of all
tree stumps, roots, brush and other objectionable materials and of all trees
not intended for preservation. The subgrade shall be properly shaped, rolled
and uniformly compacted to conform with the accepted cross-section and grades.
In cuts and fills, all tree stumps, boulders, organic material, soft clay,
spongy material and other objectionable materials shall be removed to a depth
of at least two feet below the graded surface. This objectionable matter, as
well as similar matter from cuts, shall be removed from the right-of-way area
and disposed of in a manner that it will not become incorporated in fills or
hinder proper operation of the drainage system.
(Prior Code, § 7.13)
§ 151.058  MINIMUM PAVEMENT WIDTHS.
   Pavement widths shall be measured between curb backs. Minimum pavement or
surface widths shall be provided according to the code of the city.
(Prior Code, § 7.14)
§ 151.059  STREET SURFACING.
   The streets in the proposed subdivision shall be paved, including curbs and
gutters, and street surfacing shall be of concrete or any other suitable
surface as recommended by the designated City Engineer and approved by the City
Council. Requirements for paving, including curb and gutter, may be waived at
the request of the subdivider. Streets in the subdivision shall have a crushed
rock or gravel surface which meets the specifications of the city.
(Prior Code, § 7.15)
§ 151.060  CURB AND GUTTER.
   Curb and gutter shall be provided as required by the City Engineer. In areas
of notable flash flooding or heavy rain run-off, curbs shall be required on all
streets designed for areas where the existing or anticipated residential
density of the areas surrounding the proposed subdivision equals or exceeds
three dwelling units per net acre. In commercial developments, or where other
similar intensive urban uses exist or are anticipated, curbs shall be required.
Where curbs exist on abutting properties, their extension shall be required
throughout the proposed subdivision. All curb and gutter shall be constructed
in conformance with the minimum standards of the city and as approved by the
City Engineer.
(Prior Code, § 7.16)
§ 151.061  STREET NAME SIGNS.
   Street name signs, of a type in use throughout the city, shall be erected by
the subdivider at all intersections.
(Prior Code, § 7.17)
§ 151.062  ALLEYS.
   Alleys shall be provided to give access to the rear of all lots used for
commercial and industrial purposes. Minimum width of an alley shall be 20 feet.
Alley intersections and sharp changes in alignment shall be avoided, but where
necessary, corners shall be cut off sufficiently to permit safe vehicular
movement. Dead-end alleys shall be avoided where possible, but if unavoidable,
shall be provided with adequate facilities at the dead-end, as determined by
the City Council. Alleys need not be provided in residential areas where the
subdivider produces evidence of easements which are satisfactory to the City
Council.
(Prior Code, § 7.18)
§ 151.063  SIDEWALKS.
   Sidewalks shall be provided and shall be constructed of portland cement
concrete or other acceptable materials as approved by the City Council.
Sidewalk thickness shall be not less than four inches and sidewalk width not
less than four feet.
(Prior Code, § 7.19)
§ 151.064  DRIVEWAYS.
   (A)   Driveways shall have a maximum grade of 10%. Driveways and curb cuts
shall be located not less than three feet from the side lot lines.
   (B)   Curb cuts for straight curbs and the flare for rolled curbs shall be
three feet wider than the driveway pavement on each side.
(Prior Code, § 7.20)
BLOCKS AND LOTS
§ 151.075  GENERAL REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The lengths, widths and shapes of blocks shall be suited to the
planned use of the land, zoning requirements, need for convenient access,
control and safety of street traffic and the limitations and opportunities of
topography.
   (B)   Block lengths in residential areas shall not as a general rule be less
than 600 feet in length between street lines unless dictated by exceptional
topography or other limiting factors of good design.
(Prior Code, § 8.1)
§ 151.076  UTILITY LINES.
   All utility lines for electric power, telephone and cable television service
shall be placed underground except where, in the opinion of the City Planning
Commission, the location is infeasible or too costly. Poles for permitted
overhead lines shall be placed in rear lot line easements.
(Prior Code, § 8.2)
§ 151.077  APPROPRIATE LOTS.
   The size, shape and orientation of the lots shall be appropriate for the
location of the subdivision and for the type of development and use
contemplated. The lots should be designed to provide an aesthetically pleasing
building site and a proper architectural setting for the buildings
contemplated.
(Prior Code, § 8.3)
§ 151.078  MINIMUM LOT DIMENSIONS.
   Minimum lot dimensions shall conform to the requirements of the City Zoning
Regulations. Where not served by a public sewer, lot dimensions and areas
shall, in addition, conform to any recommendations of the State Department of
Health.
(Prior Code, § 8.4)
§ 151.079  MONUMENTS.
   Monuments shall be placed on all block corners, angle points, points of
curves in streets and at intermediate points as shall be required by the
Engineer. The monuments shall be of the material, size and length as may be
approved by the Engineer.
(Prior Code, § 8.5)
UTILITY AND DRAINAGE FACILITIES
§ 151.090  GENERAL.
   Sanitary sewer and water main distribution lines shall be installed by the
city and paid for by the subdivider and within the unpaved portions of the
street when practical. All utility lines, including service connections shall
be completely installed, and inspected and approved by the City Engineer,
following the grading of the street and prior to the application of any
pavement base. Pavement cuts will not be permitted for installation of service
connections following paving. Where rock or other obstacles are known to exist
beneath the pavement area at the depth as to interfere with the installation of
electric, water, natural gas, communications or other service connections, the
complete installation of service connections shall be required prior to the
application of any pavement base.
(Prior Code, § 9.1)
§ 151.091  WATER SUPPLY IMPROVEMENTS.
   Where a public water supply is reasonably accessible or required because of
pollution problems, in the determination of the City Council, the subdivision
shall be provided with a complete water distribution system, and appropriately
spaced fire hydrants. Public water distribution and public well systems shall
meet the requirements of the City and State Health Departments. Where public
water supply is not available or not required, the subdivider shall supply
acceptable evidence of the availability of water. The subdivider may be
required to make one or more test wells in the area to be platted, if the
evidence is deemed not acceptable. Copies of well logs which are obtained shall
include the name and address of the well driller and shall be submitted with
the plat to the city. Where public water is not available or otherwise not
provided in the subdivision, the minimum lot size shall conform to the minimum
lot size specified in the zoning regulations; provided that, in no case shall
the minimum lot be less than one acre in area.
(Prior Code, § 9.2)
§ 151.092  SANITARY SEWER IMPROVEMENTS.
   The following requirements shall govern sanitary sewer improvements.
   (A)   Where an adequate public sanitary sewer system is reasonably
accessible in the determination of the City Council, public sanitary sewers
shall be installed to adequately serve all lots, including lateral connections
to the public system. Public sewer system extensions shall meet the
requirements of the city standards and the State Department of Environmental
Quality and the Department of Health. Combinations of sanitary sewers and storm
sewers shall be prohibited.
   (B)   Where a public sanitary sewer system is not reasonably accessible, the
subdivider may provide:
      (1)   A central treatment plant, provided that the central treatment
plant is installed in accordance with the City and State Department of
Environmental Quality and Department of Health requirements; or
      (2)   Lots may be served by individual disposal systems, if the
provisions of the following section are met.
   (C)   (1)   Where the installation of individual disposal systems is
considered, the suitability of the soil for individual systems, the absorptive
ability of the soil, surface drainage, ground water level and topography shall
be the criteria for determining whether or not the installation of individual
systems is permissible. Criteria shall be in accordance with the requirements
of the City and the State Department of Environmental Quality and Department of
Health.
      (2)   Each lot so served shall be of a size and shape to accommodate the
necessary length of tile field at a safe distance from and at a lower elevation
than the proposed buildings. The lot size and shape shall conform to the
requirements of the zoning district in which they are located; provided that,
in no case shall the minimum lot be less than one acre in area where there is a
public water supply available at the lot and two and one-half acres where there
is not public water supply available.
      (3)   At least one percolation test shall be made for each lot area being
platted, and each test shall be located in close proximity to the proposed
individual sewage disposal unit, be numbered and its location shown on the
preliminary plat. All percolation tests shall be performed in accordance with
the requirements of the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 9.3)
§ 151.093  DRAINAGE IMPROVEMENTS.
   The subdivider shall construct all necessary facilities, including
underground pipe, inlets, catch basins or open drainage ditches, as determined
by the City Engineer, to provide for the adequate disposal of subsurface and
surface water and maintenance of natural drainage courses. The velocity of flow
in an open ditch shall not exceed four feet per second in soil ditches or six
feet per second in turf gutters. Paved gutters will be required if velocities
of flow are greater than those specified or if it is otherwise likely that
destructive erosion will result. Drainage ditches shall not be permitted to
discharge into any sanitary sewer facility.
(Prior Code, § 9.4)
§ 151.094  STORM SEWERS AND STORM WATER DRAINAGE.
   Where an adequate public storm sewer system is available at the plat
boundary, the city shall construct a storm sewer system and connect with the
storm sewer line. If a storm sewer system is not accessible, natural drainage
channels with easement of adequate width shall be provided, as determined by
the City Engineer and approved by the City Council. Storm drainage, including
drain tile around basements, shall not be permitted to discharge into any
sanitary sewer facility, but shall connect to an adequate drainage outlet.
(Prior Code, § 9.5)
§ 151.095  CULVERTS AND BRIDGES.
   (A)   Where natural drainage channels intersect any street right-of-way, it
shall be the responsibility of the subdivider to have satisfactory bridges and/
or culverts constructed.
   (B)   Where culverts are required, minimum requirements shall be observed as
follows.
      (1)   All culverts shall extend across the entire right-of-way width of
the proposed street. The cover over the culvert and its capacity shall be
determined by the City Engineer. The minimum diameter of a culvert pipe shall
be 18 inches. Depending on existing drainage conditions, head walls may be
required.
      (2)   Driveway culverts shall have a minimum length of 20 feet and a
minimum diameter of 18 inches. The driveway culverts shall be laid so as to
maintain the flow lines of the ditch or gutter. Head walls may be required.
(Prior Code, § 9.6)
§ 151.096  EROSION CONTROL.
   The subdivider shall be required to provide for the control of erosion of
areas of the subdivision which are disturbed by grading operations by
constructing temporary terraces on slopes, temporary silting basins, sod swales
and spillways, and whatever may be necessary to prevent erosion and damage to
adjacent properties from surface drainage as approved by the city and the City
Engineer.
(Prior Code, § 9.7)
§ 151.097  FIRE PROTECTION.
   Fire hydrants shall be provided by the city in all subdivisions with public
water supplies.
(Prior Code, § 9.8)
§ 151.098  ELECTRIC, GAS AND TELEPHONE IMPROVEMENTS.
   (A)   Electric service and telephone service shall be provided within each
subdivision. Gas service may be required where reasonably accessible. Whenever
the facilities are reasonably accessible and available, they may be required to
be installed within the area prior to the approval of the final plat.
Telephone, electric, street lighting and communications conductors may be
installed underground at the option of the City Council.
   (B)   Overhead secondary utility lines, where installed shall be located at
the rear of all lots.
   (C)   Whenever a sanitary sewer line and electric and/or telephone line is
each placed underground in the same utility easement, the following provisions
shall be applicable:
      (1)   The total easement width shall not be less than 15 feet; and
      (2)   The sanitary sewer line shall be installed within three feet of the
easement and the electric and/or telephone line shall be installed within three
feet of the opposite side of the easement.
(Prior Code, § 9.9)
SHARED IMPROVEMENT COSTS
§ 151.110  OVER-SIZE AND OFF-SITE IMPROVEMENTS.
   The utilities, pavement and other land improvements required for the
proposed subdivision shall be designed of over-size and/or with extensions
provided to serve nearby land which is an integral part of the neighborhood
service or drainage area, as determined by the City Council and the City
Engineer.
(Prior Code, § 10.1)
§ 151.111  COST OF OVER-SIZE IMPROVEMENTS.
   Minimum street pavement widths shall conform to the standards set by the
City Council. Where pavement widths greater than the standards are deemed
necessary by the City Engineer and approved by the City Council, the city shall
bear the extra cost of providing a greater than minimum pavement width required
by the standards. The subdivider shall be required to pay for only that part of
the construction costs for the arterial streets, trunk sewers or water lines
which are serving the proposed subdivision as determined by the city and the
City Engineer. The city shall pay the difference between the cost of required
improvements for the proposed subdivision and improvements required to service
the surrounding areas, as specified herein.
(Prior Code, § 10.2)
§ 151.112  EXTENSIONS TO BOUNDARIES.
   The subdivider may be required to extend the necessary improvements to the
boundary of the proposed subdivision to serve adjoining unsubdivided land, as
determined by the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 10.3)
§ 151.113  OFF-SITE EXTENSIONS.
   If street or utilities are not available at the boundary of a proposed
subdivision, and if the Council finds the extensions across undeveloped areas
would not be warranted as a special assessment to the intervening properties or
as a city expense until some future time, the subdivider may be required, prior
to the approval of the final plat, to obtain necessary easements or right-of-
way and construct and pay for the extensions. The improvements shall be
available for connections by subdividers of adjoining land.
(Prior Code, § 10.4)
SUBDIVISION IMPROVEMENT GUARANTEES
§ 151.125  COMPLETION OF IMPROVEMENT.
   Prior to the final plat approval, the subdivider shall complete, in a manner
satisfactory to the City Council and the City Engineer, all improvements
required herein specified in the final subdivision plat, and as approved by the
City Council, and shall dedicate same to the city in accordance with the
following sections. Final plat approval shall not be granted until the
dedication of the improvements has been accepted by the city.
(Prior Code, § 11.1)
§ 151.126  INSPECTION AND CERTIFICATION.
   (A)   The City Engineer, or other designated city official, shall regularly
inspect for defects in the construction of required improvements. Upon
completion of these improvements, the City Engineer shall file with the City
Council a statement either certifying that the improvements have been completed
in the specific manner or listing the defects in these improvements. Upon
completion of the improvements, the subdivider shall file with the Council a
statement stipulating the following:
      (1)   All required improvements are complete;
      (2)   These improvements are in compliance with the minimum standards
specified by the Council for their construction;
      (3)   The subdivider knows of no defects from any cause in those
improvements;
      (4)   These improvement are free and clear of any encumbrance or lien;
and
      (5)   A one-year guarantee from the date of acceptance by City Council.
   (B)   The subdivider shall also file with the city an agreement dedicating
the improvements to the city. If the City Engineer has certified that the
contracted improvements are complete, then, upon receipt of the other
statements and agreements detailed above, the city shall accept the dedication
of those improvements. The city may, at its discretion, accept the dedication
of any portion of the required improvements; provided that, all statements and
agreements specified above have been received for that portion of the
improvements.
   (C)   In lieu of requiring the completion of all improvements prior to final
plat approval, the city may, at its discretion, enter into a contract with the
subdivider whereby the subdivider shall guarantee to complete all improvements
required by this regulation, or otherwise specified by the City Council, in a
manner satisfactory to the Council. To secure this contract, the subdivider
shall provide, subject to the approval of the Council, one of the following
guarantees.
(Prior Code, § 11.2)
§ 151.127  SURETY PERFORMANCE BOND.
   The subdivider shall obtain a security bond from a surety bonding company
authorized to do business in the state. The bond shall be payable to the city
and shall be in an amount to cover the entire cost, as estimated by the
subdivider and approved by the City Engineer of installing all contracted
improvements. The duration of the bond shall be until the time as the
improvements are accepted by the city.
(Prior Code, § 11.3)
§ 151.128  ESCROW ACCOUNT.
   (A)   The subdivider shall deposit cash, or other instrument readily
convertible into cash at face value, either with the city or in escrow with a
bank. The use of any instrument other than cash, and in the case of an escrow
account, the bank with which the funds are to be deposited shall be subject to
the approval of the City Council. The amount of the deposit shall be at least
equal to the cost, as estimated by the subdivider and approved by the City
Engineer, of installing all required improvements.
   (B)   In the case of an escrow account, the subdivider shall file with the
City Council an agreement between the financial bank and himself or herself
guaranteeing the following:
      (1)   The funds of the escrow account shall be held in trust until
released by the City Council and may not be used or pledged by the subdivider
as security in any other matter during that period; and
      (2)   In the case of a failure on the part of the subdivider to complete
the improvements, then the bank shall immediately make the funds in the account
available to the city for use in the completion of those improvements.
(Prior Code, § 11.4)
§ 151.129  SEQUENTIAL APPROVAL OF SUBDIVISION SEGMENTS WITHOUT GUARANTEE.
   (A)   Where a subdivision is to be developed in several sections, the City
Council may, at its discretion, waive the use of a guarantee on the initial
sections; provided that, the sections may not be larger than 25 lots or 50% of
the total number of lots in the subdivision, whichever is less. The City
Council shall grant final plat approval for each succeeding section being
contingent upon completion of all contracted improvements in each preceding
section, and acceptance of those improvements in accordance with this section.
   (B)   Completion of improvements in the final plat section of the
subdivision, which shall include at least 25 lots or 50% of the total number of
lots in the subdivision, whichever is less, must be guaranteed through the use
of one of the other methods detailed under this section of this regulation.
(Prior Code, § 11.5)
§ 151.130  SPECIAL ASSESSMENT.
   The city may, at its discretion, enter into an agreement with the subdivider
to pay the cost of the required improvements through the use of a special
assessment. The city shall make the arrangements for actual construction and
interim financing as it deems appropriate; provided that, construction of
improvements in any section of the subdivision shall be completed in a time
period not longer than would be allowed if another form of improvement
guarantee were used. In this instance, the subdivider would not be required to
provide a surety performance bond or establish an escrow account as provided
for in §§
151.127 and
151.128.
(Prior Code, § 11.6)
§ 151.131  TIME LIMITS.
   Prior to the granting of final plat approval, the subdivider and the City
Council shall agree upon a deadline for the completion of all required
improvements, the deadline not to exceed two years from the date of final plat
approval. The City Council shall have the power to extend the deadline for one
additional year where the subdivider can present substantial reason for doing
so.
(Prior Code, § 11.7)
§ 151.132  FAILURE TO COMPLETE IMPROVEMENTS.
   (A)   If any portion of the required improvements shall fail to be accepted
for dedication in compliance with this regulation within the allocated time
period, either for reason of incompletion or for reason of substandard
construction, then the City Council shall take one of the following actions:
      (1)   Where improvements have been guaranteed under this regulation,
preliminary plat approval shall be revoked; or
      (2)   Where improvements have been guaranteed under this section of this
regulation, the City Council shall declare whatever security has been pledged
as a guarantee to be forfeited.
   (B)   Where the City Council is not already in possession of the guarantee,
it shall immediately take the actions necessary to obtain it. Upon receipt of
these securities, the City Council shall use them, or receipts from their sale
if that be necessary, to finance the completion of contracted improvements or
the rebuilding of the improvements to the proper specifications. Unused
portions of these securities shall be returned to the subdivider, bonding
company or crediting institution, as is appropriate.
(Prior Code, § 11.8)
§ 151.133  REDUCTION OF GUARANTEES.
   In those cases where improvement guarantees have been made under this
section of this regulation, the amount of the guarantee may be reduced upon
acceptance in compliance with this section of the dedication of a portion of
the required improvements.
(Prior Code, § 11.9)
§ 151.134  RELEASE OF GUARANTEE.
   If, after final approval and prior to the expiration of one year after the
date of final approval, or the longer period of time as may be prescribed by
law or by the terms of any applicable special guarantee required by the
contract documents, any work is found to be defective, the subdivider will
promptly, without cost to the city and in accordance with the city’s written
instructions, either correct the defective work, or if any work has been
rejected by the city, remove it from the site and replace it with nondefective
work. It shall be the duty of the subdivider to notify the City Council in
writing within 30 days prior to the expiration of the one-year period to make
the final inspection of the work. Unless the subdivider shall furnish the
notices, the obligation to maintain the work shall continue in force until the
notices have been furnished, the work inspected and any required corrections
made.
(Prior Code, § 11.10)
VARIANCES
§ 151.145  GRANTING OF VARIANCES; CONDITIONS.
   The City Council may grant variances from the provisions herein, but only
after determining that:
   (A)   There are unique circumstances or conditions affecting the property;
   (B)   The variance is necessary for the reasonable and acceptable
development of the property in question; and
   (C)   The granting of the variance will not be detrimental to the public
welfare or injurious to the adjacent property.
(Prior Code, § 12.1)
§ 151.146  RECORDING OF PLAT.
   In no case shall the requirement of filing and recording a plat for
subdivision be waived.
(Prior Code, § 12.2)
§ 151.147  PLANNED DEVELOPMENT.
   The Council may also grant reasonable variances, if the subdivider
concurrently submits an application for, and obtains approval of, a planned
development. The subdivider shall indicate where the plans vary from the
requirements of this regulation and shall present sufficient evidence to
support the request, indicating why the request will not be detrimental to the
public health, safety and welfare.
(Prior Code, § 12.3)
CHAPTER 152:  ZONING
Section
General Provisions
   
152.001   Definitions
   
152.002   Amendment
Establishment of Districts
   
152.015   District establishment; official zoning map
   
152.016   City planning; designation of extraterritorial jurisdiction
   
152.017   Replacement of official zoning map
   
152.018   Interpretation of district boundaries
   
152.019   Application of district regulations
Schedule of District Regulations
   
152.030   Generally
   
152.031   AGR Agricultural Residential
   
152.032   R-1 Residential District
   
152.033   R-2 Residential District
   
152.034   R-3 Residential District
   
152.035   R-4 Residential District
   
152.036   C-1 Central Commercial District
   
152.037   C-R Commercial/Residential District
   
152.038   M Industrial District
   
152.039   FP Flood Plain District
Supplementary District Regulations
   
152.050   Accessory buildings and uses
   
152.051   Erection of more than one principal structure on a lot
   
152.052   Regulation application; parking and storage of certain vehicles
   
152.053   Storage of goods and equipment
   
152.054   Lot width
   
152.055   Height regulations
   
152.056   Yard regulations
   
152.057   Fences
   
152.058   Satellite dishes
   
152.059   Sight triangle
   
152.060   Home occupations
   
152.061   Temporary uses permit
   
152.062   New water wells
City Planning
   
152.075   Subdivisions and additions permitted
   
152.076   Survey and plat
   
152.077   Additions; incorporation into city
Nonconforming Uses
   
152.090   Intent
   
152.091   Lots of record
   
152.092   Structures
   
152.093   Authority to continue and the like
   
152.094   Status of special permitted or conditional uses
   
152.095   Former variance as nonconformity
Signs
   
152.110   General requirement signs
   
152.111   District sign regulations
   
152.112   Permit and fees required
   
152.113   Nonconforming signs
   
152.114   Removal of signs
Fair Housing
   
152.125   Purpose
   
152.126   Definitions
   
152.127   Unlawful acts
   
152.128   Handicapped person; discriminatory practices prohibited; design and
construction standards
   
152.129   Transaction related to residential real estate; discriminatory
practices prohibited
   
152.130   Multiple listing service; other service; discriminatory practices
prohibited
   
152.131   Religious organization; private home, private club or housing for
older persons; restricting use not prohibited
   
152.132   Information
Off-Street Parking and Loading
   
152.145   Requirements
   
152.146   Building permits
   
152.147   On streets
   
152.148   Parking lots
Special Exception Uses
   
152.160   Purpose
   
152.161   Procedure
   
152.162   Standards
Planned Unit Developments
   
152.175   Definition; plan; intention
   
152.176   Purposes
   
152.177   Required information
   
152.178   Use exceptions
   
152.179   Density regulations
   
152.180   Designation of permanent common open space
   
152.181   Minimum lot area in residential planned developments
   
152.182   Building permits
General Regulations
   
152.195   Manufactured homes
   
152.196   Approval of plats
   
152.197   Industrial performance standards
Board of Adjustment
   
152.215   Establishment
   
152.216   Proceedings
   
152.217   Hearing appeals; notice
   
152.218   Stay of proceedings
   
152.219   Powers
   
152.220   Appeals from
   
152.221   Duties of city officers
Administration and Enforcement
   
152.235   Generally
   
152.236   Schedule of filing fees
   
152.237   Occupancy permits
 
   
152.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 152.001  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning. For the
purposes of these regulations, certain terms or words used herein shall be
interpreted as follows. The word PERSON includes a firm, association,
organization, partnership, trust, company or corporation as well as an
individual. The present tense includes the future tense, the singular number
includes the plural number, and the plural number includes the singular. The
word SHALL is mandatory; the word MAY is permissive. The words USED or OCCUPIED
include the words INTENDED, DESIGNED or ARRANGED TO BE USED OR OCCUPIED. The
word LOT includes the words PLOT or PARCEL.
   ACCESSORY BUILDINGS AND USES. A subordinate building, the use of which is
incidental to that of the main building or to the main use of the premises. An
ACCESSORY USE is one which is incidental to the main use of the premise.
   ACREAGE. A parcel of land over one acre in size which is not used primarily
for farm purposes.
   AGRICULTURE. The use of land for the raising of field crops, horticulture,
animal and poultry husbandry and kennels.
   ALLEY. A public or private thoroughfare which affords only a secondary means
of access to property abutting thereon.
   APARTMENT. A room or suite of rooms in a multiple dwelling or where more
than one living unit is established above nonresidential uses, intended or
designed for use as a residence by a single family including culinary
accommodations.
   APARTMENT HOUSE. See DWELLING, MULTIPLE.
   BASEMENT. A story having more than one-half its height below grade. A
BASEMENT is not counted as a story for the purpose of height regulations.
   BLOCK. A parcel of land entirely surrounded by public highways, streets,
railroads or unplatted land.
   BLOCK FRONT. All of the property on one side of a street between two
intersecting streets.
   BOARDING HOUSE. A building other than a hotel where for compensations and by
pre-arrangements for definite periods, meals or lodging and meals are provided
for three or more persons, but not exceeding 20 persons.
   BUILDABLE AREA. A portion of a lot remaining after required yards have been
provided.
   BUILDING. Any structure, including a roof supported by walls, designed or
intended for the support, enclosure, shelter or protection of persons, animals,
chattels or property and forming a construction that is safe and stable.
   BUILDING, HEIGHT OF. The vertical distance from the grade to the highest
point of the coping of a flat roof or to the deck line of a mansard roof, or to
the mean height level between eaves and ridge for gable, hip and gambrel roofs.
   CHILD CARE CENTER. A facility which is or should be licensed by the State
Department of Social Services under the authority of Neb. RS 71-1908 through
71-1918, as provided and defined under 474 N.A.C. Chapter 6, § 002.
   CHILD CARE HOME. A private home providing care for children for compensation
which is or should be licensed by the State Department of Social Services.
   DRIVE-IN RESTAURANTS. Any place or premises used for sale, dispensing or
serving food, refreshments, or beverages in automobiles, including those
establishments where customers may serve themselves and may eat or drink the
food, refreshments or beverages on the premise.
   DUPLEX. Residential building designed for or occupied by two families.
   DWELLING, FARM. Residential dwellings including a mobile home appurtenant to
agricultural operations, including living quarters for persons employed on the
premises, guest houses not rented or otherwise conducted as a business, and
private garages, out buildings and barns.
   DWELLING, MOBILE HOME. See MOBILE HOME.
   DWELLING, MULTIPLE FAMILY. A residential building designed for or occupied
by three or more families, with the number of families in residence not
exceeding the number of total dwelling units provided.
   DWELLING, SEASONAL. Summer cabins, camps and cottages for seasonal and not
permanent or year-round occupancy.
   DWELLING, SECTIONAL. A detached single-family residential family unit
designed to be transported on flatbed or other trailers, and arriving at the
site where it is to be occupied as a dwelling, complete and ready for occupancy
except for minor and incidental unpacking and assembly operations, location on
jacks, or other temporary or permanent foundations, connections to utilities
and the like.
   DWELLING, SINGLE FAMILY. A detached residential dwelling unit other than a
mobile home, designed for and occupied by one family only.
   DWELLING, TWO FAMILY. A detached residential building unit containing two
dwelling units, designed for and occupied by no more than two families.
   DWELLING UNIT. One room, or rooms connected together, constituting a
separate, independent housekeeping establishment for owner occupancy, or rental
or lease on a weekly, monthly, or longer basis and physically separate from any
other rooms or dwelling units which may be in the same structure, and
containing independent cooking and sleeping facilities.
   FAMILY. One or more person, related or unrelated, living together as a
single housekeeping unit with or without domestic servants, caregivers, foster
children and supervisory personnel in a group living arrangement. The term
FAMILY shall not include occupancy of a residence by persons living in
fraternities, sororities, clubs or transient or permanent commercial
residential facilities catering to the general public. Also excluded are
nursing and convalescent homes.
   FARM. An area which is used for the growing and storing of agricultural
crops as well as poultry or dairy farming and the raising and feeding of
livestock.
   FEED LOT. The confined feeding of livestock or poultry in buildings, lots,
pens, pools or ponds, which normally are not used for the raising of crops or
for grazing animals. For the purpose of this chapter, the term FEED LOT shall
include the confined feeding of 50 or more beef cows, feeder or fat cattle,
dairy cattle, swine, 100 or more sheep or 500 or more poultry.
   FRONTAGE. All the property on one side of the street between two
intersecting streets (crossing or termination) measured along the line of the
street, or if the street is dead-ended, then all the property abutting on one
side between an intersecting street and the dead-end of the street.
   GARAGE/CARPORT, PRIVATE. An accessory building designed or used for the
storage of not more than four motor driven vehicles owned and used by the
occupants of the building to which it is accessory.
   GARAGE, PUBLIC. A building or portion thereof, other than a private garage
or storage garage, designed or used for equipment, repairing, hiring,
servicing, selling or storing motor driven vehicles.
   GARAGE, STORAGE. A building or portion thereof designed or used exclusively
for housing five or more motor driven vehicles.
   GASOLINE SERVICE STATION. Buildings and premises where gasoline, oil,
grease, batteries, tires and automobile accessories may be supplied and
dispensed at retail, and where other automotive services may be rendered and
sales made except major mechanical and body work, straightening of body parts,
painting, welding, storage of automobiles not in operating condition, or other
work involving noise, glare, fumes, smoke or other characteristics to an extent
greater than normally found in gasoline stations. A GASOLINE SERVICE STATION is
not a repair garage or a body shop.
   GROUP HOUSING PROJECT. A dwelling project consisting of three or more
buildings, to be constructed on a plot of ground which is not subdivided into
customary streets or lots, or where existing or contemplated street or streets
or lot layouts make it impractical to apply the requirements of these
regulations to the individual building units in the housing projects.
   HOME OCCUPATION. A business, occupation or profession carried on within a
residential dwelling or an accessory building by the resident thereof, which is
incidental and secondary to the residential occupancy and does not change the
residential character thereof. The regulations pertaining to HOME OCCUPATIONS
are included in §
152.060.
   HOTEL. A building used as a temporary abiding place of individuals or groups
of individuals who are, for compensation, lodged with or without meals, and
with no culinary provisions in individual units.
   INSTITUTION. A building occupied by a non-profit corporation or a nonprofit
establishment for public use.
   JUNKYARD/SALVAGE YARD. Any area where waste, discarded or salvaged, is
bought, sold, exchanged, bailed or packed, disassembled or handled, including
the dismantling or “wrecking” of automobiles or other vehicles or machinery,
house-wrecking and structural steel materials and equipment, but not including
areas where the uses are conducted entirely within a completely enclosed
building.
   LOADING SPACE, OFF-STREET. Space logically and conveniently located for bulk
pickups and deliveries, scaled to delivery vehicles expected to be used, and
accessible to the vehicles when required off-street parking spaces are filled.
REQUIRED OFF-STREET LOADING SPACE is not to be included as off-street parking
space in computation of required off-street parking space.
   LOT. A parcel of land of at least sufficient size to meet minimum zoning
requirements for use, coverage and area, and to provide the yards and other
open spaces as are herein required. The lot shall have frontage on an improved
public street, or on an improved private street, and may consist of:
      (1)   A single lot of record;
      (2)   A portion of a lot of record;
      (3)   A combination of complete lots of records, of complete lots of
record and portions of lots of record, or of portions of lots of record; and
      (4)   A parcel of land described by metes and bounds; provided that in no
case of division or combination shall any residual lot or parcel be created
which does not meet the requirements of this chapter.
   LOT, CORNER. A lot abutting upon two or more streets at their intersection.
   LOT, DEPTH OF. The mean horizontal distance between the front and rear lot
lines.
   LOT, DOUBLE FRONTAGE. A lot having a frontage on two non-intersecting
streets, as distinguished from a corner lot.
   LOT OF RECORD. A lot which is a part of a subdivision, the plat of which has
been recorded in the office of the County Clerk; or a parcel of land, the deed
to which was recorded in the office of the County Clerk prior to the adoption
of this chapter.
   LOT WIDTH. The width of a lot measured at the front building line and at
right angles to its depth.
   MANUFACTURE. Any method of processing, developing, fabricating, assembling,
either raw materials, semi-finished materials or parts into a semi-finished
product.
   MINI-WAREHOUSE. A storage facility designed to serve families and small
businesses on a fee basis.
   MOBILE HOME. Any structure used for living, sleeping, business or storage
purposes, having no foundation other than wheels, blocks, skids, jacks, horses
or skirting and which has been, or reasonably may be equipped with wheels for
transporting the structure from place to place. Each MOBILE HOME shall be at
least eight feet in width and 40 feet in length.
   MOBILE HOME PARK. Any lot or parcel used for one or more mobile homes,
trailers, trailer coaches, camp cars, trailer houses or other portable or
movable shelters, but not “travel trailers”.
   MODULAR HOME. A dwelling structure designed to be transported after
fabrication and located as a permanent addition to, and becoming part of, the
real property. The structure must meet city building requirements and set on a
permanent foundation and connected to public utilities.
   MOTEL. A building containing one or more sleeping rooms to be rented on a
daily basis, primarily to the motoring public together with a parking area,
recreation space, vending machines, but not including restaurants, clubs or
retail sales.
   NONCONFORMING USE, LOT, BUILDING OR LAND. Any building or land lawfully
occupied by a use at the time of passage of this chapter or amendment thereto,
which does not conform after the passage of this chapter or amendment thereto
with the use regulations of the district in which it is situated.
   NON-FARM BUILDINGS. All buildings, except those buildings utilized for
agricultural purposes on a farm.
   NURSING HOME, CONVALESCENT HOME. A home for the aged or infirmary where
residents are provided with food, shelter and care for hire or compensation.
   PARKING SPACE, OFF-STREET.
      (1)   For the purposes of this chapter, an OFF-STREET PARKING SPACE shall
consist of a space adequate for parking an automobile with room for opening
doors on both sides, together with properly related access to a public street
or alley and maneuvering room. REQUIRED OFF-STREET PARKING AREAS for three or
more automobiles shall have individual spaces marked, and shall be so designed,
maintained and regulated that no parking shall be on any paved or unused
portion of a public street, walk or alley, and so that any automobile may be
parked and unparked without unparking another.
      (2)   For the purposes of computation, an OFF-STREET PARKING SPACE and
necessary access and maneuvering room may be estimated at 300 square feet, but
off-street parking requirements will be considered to be met when only actual
spaces meeting the requirements above are provided and maintained, improved in
a manner appropriate to the circumstances of the use.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. A vehicular unit not exceeding 40 feet in overall
length, eight feet in width or 12 feet in overall height, primarily designed as
temporary living quarters for recreational camping or travel use having either
its own motive power or designed to be mounted on or drawn by an automotive
vehicle. RECREATIONAL VEHICLE includes motor homes, truck camper, travel
trailer, camping trailer and fifth wheel. This definition shall include a boat
mounted on a trailer, together not exceeding 40 feet in body length, eight feet
in width or 12 feet in overall height.
   RECYCLING CENTER. A building in which used material is separated and
processed prior to shipment to others who will use those materials to
manufacture new products. The facility is not a junkyard.
   RECYCLING COLLECTION POINT. A collection point for small refuse items, such
as bottles and newspapers, located either in a container or small structure.
   SANITARY TRANSFER STATION. A collection point for temporary storage of
refuse. No processing of refuse would be allowed. The TRANSFER STATION must be
in conformance with the requirements of the State Department of Health.
   SIGN. Any structure or part thereof or device attached thereto or painted or
represented thereon, which shall display or include any letter, word, model,
banner, flag, pennant, insignia, device or representation used as, or which is
in the nature of an announcement, direction or advertisement. The word SIGN
includes the word BILLBOARD, but does not include the flag, pennant or insignia
of any political, educational, charitable, philanthropic, civic, professional,
religious or like campaign, drive, movement or event.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/d9e36da79805169189100e171c4def5407f2532b/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1745.jpg]
 
   STREET or ROAD. All property dedicated to or intended for public or private
street, highway, freeway or roadway purposes or subject to public or private
easement therefor.
   STREET LINE. The right-of-way line of a street.
   STORY.
      (1)   The portion of a building, other than a cellar, included between
the surface of any floor and the surface of the floor above it or, if there be
no floor above it, then the space between the floor and the ceiling next above
it.
      (2)   The first story is the highest story having its interior floor
surface not more than four feet above the curb level, established or mean
street grade, or average ground level, whichever is highest.
   STORY, HALF. A space under a sloping roof which has the line of intersection
of roof decking and wall face not more than three feet above the top floor
level, and in which space not more than 60% of the floor area is or may be
finished off for use.
   STRUCTURAL ABERRATIONS. Any change in the supporting members of a building
such as bearing walls, or partitions, columns, beams or girders, or any
rebuilding or alteration of the roof or the exterior walls.
   STRUCTURE. Anything constructed or erected, excluding fences, the use of
which requires permanent location on the ground or is attached to something
having a permanent location on the ground.
   TOWNHOUSE. A single-family house of two or sometimes three stories that is
connected to a similar unit by a common wall. Sometimes called ROWHOUSE.
   VARIANCE. Authorized only by height, area and size of structure or size of
yards and open spaces; establishment or expansion of a use otherwise prohibited
shall not be allowed by variance nor shall a variance be granted because of the
presence of nonconformities in the zoning district of uses in an adjoining
zoning district as further set but herein after the powers and duties of the
Board of Adjustment.
   YARD. An open space on the same lot with the building unoccupied and
unobstructed by any portion of a structure from the ground upward, except as
otherwise provided herein. In measuring a yard for the purpose of determining
the width of a side yard, the depth of a front yard or the depth of a rear
yard, the minimum horizontal distant between the lot line and the nearest point
of the foundation wall of the structure shall be used.
   YARD, FRONT. A yard extending across the front of a lot between the side
yard lines, and being the minimum horizontal distance between the street line
and the main building or any projections thereof, other than the projections of
the usual steps, unenclosed balcony or open porch. The front yard setback shall
apply on all street frontages.
   YARD, REAR. A yard extending across the rear of a lot, measured between the
side lot lines and the minimum horizontal distances between the rear lot line
and the rear of the building or any projection other than the steps, unenclosed
balcony or unenclosed porch.
   YARD, SIDE. A yard between the main building and the side line of the lot
and extending from the front yard line to the rear yard line.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/d9e36da79805169189100e171c4def5407f2532b/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1748.jpg]
 
   ZONING ADMINISTRATOR. The person authorized and empowered by the City
Council having jurisdiction to administer the requirements of these zoning
regulations.
(Prior Code, § 11-301)
§ 152.002  AMENDMENT.
   (A)   The regulations, restrictions and boundaries set forth in this chapter
may from time to time be amended, supplemented, changed or repealed; provided,
however, that, no the action may be taken until the proposed amendment has been
referred to the Planning Commission for its study and recommendation and the
City Council has held a public hearing thereon.
   (B)   An amendment may be initiated by the City Council, by a motion of the
Planning Commission, or when involving a map change, by a written petition of
any property owner addressed to the City Council. The City Council shall act on
the petitions within 90 days of receipt. Having once considered a petition, the
Council will not consider substantially the same petition for one year.
   (C)   All proposed amendments (except those initiated by the Planning
Commission) shall be submitted to the Planning Commission for study and
recommendation. The Planning Commission shall study the proposals to determine:
      (1)   The need and justification for the change;
      (2)   When pertaining to a change in the district classification of
property, the effect of the change, if any, on the property and on surrounding
properties;
      (3)   When pertaining to a change in the district classification of
property, the amount of undeveloped land in the general area and in the city
having the same district classification as requested; and
      (4)   The relationship of the proposed amendment to the purposes of the
general planning program, with appropriate consideration as to whether the
proposed change will further the purpose of this chapter and the Comprehensive
Plan.
   (D)   Within 45 days from the date that any proposed amendment is referred
to it (unless a longer period shall have been established by mutual agreement
between the City Council and the Planning Commission) shall be advisory only,
and shall not be binding on the City Council. If the Planning Commission does
not submit its report within the prescribed time, the City Council may proceed
to act on the amendment without further awaiting the recommendations of the
Planning Commission.
   (E)   No regulation, restriction or boundary shall become effective until
after a public hearing, by both the Planning Commission and City Council, in
relation thereto, at which time parties in interest and citizens shall have an
opportunity to be heard. Notice of the time and place of the hearing shall be
given by publication thereof in a paper of general circulation in the city, at
least one time ten days prior to the hearing.
   (F)   In addition to the publication of the notice therein prescribed, a
notice shall be posted in a conspicuous place on or near the property on which
action is pending. The notice shall not be less than 18 inches in height and 24
inches in width with a white or yellow background and black letters not less
than one and one-half inches in height. The posted notice shall be so placed
upon the premises that it is easily visible from the street nearest the same
and shall be so posted at least ten days prior to the date of the hearing. It
shall be unlawful for anyone to remove, mutilate, destroy or change the posted
notice prior to the hearing. Any person so doing shall be deemed guilty of a
misdemeanor. If the record title owner of any lots included in the proposed
change be nonresidents of the city, then a written notice of the hearing shall
be mailed by certified mail to them addressed to their last known addresses at
least ten days prior to the hearing. The provisions of this section in
reference to notice shall not apply:
      (1)   In the event of a proposed change in the regulations, restrictions
or boundaries throughout the entire area of an existing zoning district or of
the city; or
      (2)   In the event additional or different types of zoning districts are
proposed, whether or not the additional different districts are made applicable
to areas, or parts of areas, already within a zoning district of the city, but
only the requirements of Neb. RS 19-904 shall be applicable.
   (G)   In case of protest against the change, signed by the owners of 20% or
more, of the area of the lots included in the proposed change, or of those
immediately adjacent on the sides and in the rear thereof extending 300 feet
therefrom, and of those directly opposite thereto extending 300 feet from the
street frontage of the opposite lots, the amendments shall not become
effective, except by the favorable vote of three-fourths of all members of the
City Council.
(Prior Code, § 11-1001)  Penalty, see §
152.999
ESTABLISHMENT OF DISTRICTS
§ 152.015  DISTRICT ESTABLISHMENT; OFFICIAL ZONING MAP.
   (A)   (1)   The city and the area within its zoning jurisdiction thereof
shall be divided into zones, or districts, as shown on the Official Zoning Map,
which is hereby adopted by reference and declared to be a part of this chapter.
      (2)   There shall be a map for the area located within the corporate
limits of the city and the extraterritorial area adjacent and beyond the
corporate limits of the city, showing the zones or districts into which the
areas are divided or zoned.
   (B)   The Official Zoning Map for the area within the corporate limits of
the city and the extraterritorial area adjacent and up to one mile beyond the
corporate limits of the city shall be identified by the signature of the Mayor
of the city attested by the City Clerk, and bear the seal of the city under the
following words, together with the date of the adoption of this chapter:
      “This is to certify that this is the Official Zoning Map of the area
within the corporate limits of the City of Auburn, Nebraska and the
extraterritorial area adjacent and up to one mile beyond the corporate limits
of the City of Auburn, Nebraska, referred to in § 11-101 of Ord. 2-95 of the
City of Auburn, Nebraska”;
   (C)   If, in accordance with the provisions of this chapter and Neb. RS
Chapter 19, changes are made in district boundaries or other matter portrayed
on the Official Zoning Map, the changes shall be entered on the Official Zoning
Map promptly after the amendment has been approved by the City Council.
   (D)   The official zoning map shall be signed by the Mayor and attested by
the City Clerk. No amendment to this chapter which involves matter portrayed on
the Official Zoning Map shall become effective until the change and entry has
been made on the maps.
   (E)   (1)   No changes of any nature shall be made in the Official Zoning
Map or matter shown thereon, except in conformity with the procedures set forth
in this chapter.
      (2)   Any unauthorized change of whatever kind by any person or persons
shall be considered a violation of this chapter and punishable as provided
under §
152.018.
   (F)   Regardless of the existence of purported copies of the Official Zoning
Map which may from time to time be made or published, the Official Zoning Map
which shall be located in the office of the City Clerk shall be the final
authority as to the current zoning status of land and water areas, buildings
and other structures in the city and in the extraterritorial areas adjacent to
and beyond the corporate limits.
(Prior Code, § 11-101)
§ 152.016  CITY PLANNING; DESIGNATION OF EXTRATERRITORIAL JURISDICTION.
   (A)   The territory located within one mile of the corporate limits of the
city is hereby designated as the city’s extraterritorial jurisdiction for the
purpose of exercising the powers and duties granted by Neb. RS 17-1002 and 17-
1003 with respect to subdivisions and platting and Neb. RS 19-2402 with respect
to extension of water or sanitary sewer service.
   (B)   The boundaries of the territory so designated shall be as shown on the
official zoning map, a copy of which is on file and available for public
inspection in the office of the City Clerk.
(Prior Code, § 11-101.01)  (Ord. 7-02, passed 7-8-2002)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-1002
§ 152.017  REPLACEMENT OF OFFICIAL ZONING MAP.
   (A)   In the event that the Official Zoning Map becomes damaged, destroyed,
lost or difficult to interpret because of the nature or number of changes and
additions, the City Council may, by resolution, adopt a new Official Zoning Map
which shall supersede the prior Official Zoning Map. The new Official Zoning
Map may correct drafting or other errors or omissions in the prior Official
Zoning Map, but no correction shall have the effect of amending the original
Official Zoning Map and shall be identified by the signature of the Mayor,
attested by the City Clerk, and bear the seal of the city under the following
words:
      ‘This is to certify that this Official Zoning Map supersedes and replaces
the Official Zoning Map adopted, as part of Ordinance No.              of the
City of Auburn, Nebraska.”
   (B)   Unless the prior Official Zoning Map has been lost or has been totally
destroyed, the prior map, or any significant part thereof remaining, shall be
preserved, together with all available records pertaining to its adoption or
amendment.
(Prior Code, § 11-102)
§ 152.018  INTERPRETATION OF DISTRICT BOUNDARIES.
   Where uncertainty exists as to the boundaries of districts as shown on the
Official Zoning Map, the following rules shall apply.
   (A)   Boundaries indicated as approximately following the center lines of
streets, highways or alleys shall be construed to follow the center lines.
   (B)   Boundaries indicated as approximately following platted lot lines
shall be construed as following the lot lines.
   (C)   Boundaries indicated as approximately following city limits shall be
construed as following the city limits.
   (D)   Boundaries indicated as following railroad lines shall be construed to
be midway between the main tracks.
   (E)   Boundaries indicated as following shore lines shall be construed to
follow the shore lines, and in the event of change in the shore line, shall be
construed as moving with the actual shore line; boundaries indicated as
approximately following the center lines of streams, rivers, canals, lakes or
other bodies of water shall be construed to follow the center lines.
   (F)   Boundaries indicated as parallel to or extensions of features
indicated in divisions (A) through (E) above shall be so construed. Distances
not specifically indicated on the Official Zoning Map shall be determined by
the scale of the map.
   (G)   Where physical or cultural features existing on the ground are at
variance with those shown on the Official Zoning Map, or in other circumstances
not covered by divisions (A) through (F) above, the Board of Zoning Adjustment
shall interpret the district boundaries.
   (H)   Where a district boundary line divides a lot which was in single
ownership at the time of passage of this chapter, the Board of Zoning
Adjustment may permit, as a special exception, the extension of the regulations
for either portion of the lot not to exceed 50 feet beyond the district line
into the remaining portion of the lot.
(Prior Code, § 11-103)
§ 152.019  APPLICATION OF DISTRICT REGULATIONS.
   The regulations set by this chapter within each district shall be minimum
regulations and shall apply uniformly to each class or kind of structure or
land, and particularly, except as hereinafter provided.
   (A)   No building, structure or land shall hereafter be used or occupied,
and no building or structure or part thereof shall hereafter be erected,
constructed, reconstructed, moved or structurally altered, except in conformity
with all of the regulations herein specified for the district in which it is
located.
   (B)   No building or other structure shall hereafter be erected or altered:
      (1)   To exceed the height or bulk;
      (2)   To accommodate or house a greater number of families;
      (3)   To occupy a greater percentage of lot area;
      (4)   To have narrower or smaller rear yards, front yards or side yards
or other open spaces;
      (5)   To exceed the maximum number of dwelling units per lot area; and/or
      (6)   To provide fewer than the required number of off-street parking and
off-street loading spaces, than herein required; or in any other manner
contrary to the provisions of this chapter.
   (C)   No part of a yard, or other open space or off-street parking or
loading space required about or in connection with any building for the purpose
of complying with this chapter, shall be included as a part of a yard, open
space or off-street parking or loading space similarly required for any other
building.
   (D)   No yard or lot existing at the time of passage of this chapter shall
be reduced in dimension or area below the minimum requirements set forth
herein. Yards or lots created after the effective date of this chapter shall
meet at least the minimum requirements established by this chapter.
   (E)   All land annexed to the city shall retain the same zoning
classification as established in the unincorporated area.
   (F)   Within 180 days of the annexation of land to the city, zoning shall be
established for that land incorporated into the one-mile extraterritorial
jurisdiction. Zoning shall be established for the land by the same statutory
procedure required for the amendment of the zoning regulations.
   (G)   Where applicable, county, state or federal standards are more
restrictive than those contained herein, the more restrictive standards shall
apply.
   (H)   The following structures and uses shall be exempt from the provisions
of these regulations:
      (1)   Poles, wires, cables, conduits, vaults, laterals, pipes, mains,
valves or other similar equipment for the distribution to consumers of
telephone or other communications, electricity, gas, or water, or the
collection of sewage or surface water operated or maintained by a public
utility, but not including substations located on or above the surface of the
ground;
      (2)   Railroad track, signals, bridges and similar facilities and
equipment located on a railroad right-of-way and maintenance and repair work on
the facilities and equipment; and
      (3)   Public signs.
(Prior Code, § 11-104)
SCHEDULE OF DISTRICT REGULATIONS
§ 152.030  GENERALLY.
   District regulations shall be set forth in this subchapter and in §§
152.050 through
152.062.
(Prior Code, § 11-401)
§ 152.031  AGR AGRICULTURAL RESIDENTIAL.
   (A)   Intent. The intent of this district is to provide a transition from
land used for agriculture to a low density residential use and other urban
development. This district permits farm and non-farm dwellings and agricultural
uses which are most unlikely to be a nuisance for residential uses.
   (B)   Permitted principal uses and structure.
      (1)   Farms, agriculture, excluding feedlots and excluding intensive
feeding facilities;
      (2)   Single-family dwellings;
      (3)   Ranch and farm dwellings;
      (4)   The sale and distribution of farm products, produce and machinery
that are to be used for farming purposes;
      (5)   Public uses, including, but not limited to, public parks,
playgrounds, golf courses, recreational uses, fire stations, public elementary
and high schools, public utilities and utility distribution systems;
      (6)   Churches, places of worship and cemeteries;
      (7)   Railroads;
      (8)   Child care home; and
      (9)   Animal clinics, animal hospitals, veterinarian services and
associated uses.
   (C)   Permitted accessory uses and structures.
      (1)   Home occupations, in conformance with §
152.060;
      (2)   Roadside stands; and
      (3)   Accessory uses and structures normally appurtenant to the permitted
uses and structures when established within the area of the Agricultural
District.
   (D)   Permitted conditional uses. A building or premises may be used for the
following in conformance with the conditions prescribed herein;
      (1)   Bed and breakfast guest home:
         (a)   Parking, as required in §
152.145;
         (b)   Signs as required in §
152.111;
         (c)   A maximum of four rooms or suites of rooms are made available
for use as transient lodging; and
         (d)   The remainder of the dwelling shall be used and owned as a
residence by the host family.
      (2)   Domestic shelter: the maximum number of occupants of the facility
shall not exceed one person per 1,000 square feet of lot area; and
      (3)   Utility substation: provide a fence of chain link type bordering
the station with a minimum height of six feet with a barrier guard to prevent
encroachment.
   (E)   Special exception uses. In accordance with §§
152.160 through
152.162:
      (1)   Cemeteries, crematories, mausoleum and columbaria;
      (2)   Child care center;
      (3)   Airport;
      (4)   Commercial recreational facilities;
      (5)   Country club, riding stables;
      (6)   Nursing and care homes;
      (7)   Hospitals, penal institutions, sanitariums and other special care
facilities;
      (8)   Wind generating systems;
      (9)   Golf courses and driving ranges;
      (10)   Private elementary and high schools;
      (11)   Communication structures;
      (12)   Public or private warehouse or storage facilities;
      (13)   Camping areas; and
      (14)   Nursery and/or landscape business.
   (F)   Prohibited uses and structures. All other uses and structures which
are not specifically permitted or not permissive as special uses shall be
prohibited from the AGR Agriculture Residential District.
Minimum Area Regulations
Minimum Area Regulations
Lot requirement               One acre
Required front yard           17 feet
Required rear yard            50 feet or 20% of lot depth, whichever is less
Required side yard            15 feet
Lot width                     150 feet
Maximum height of structures:  
   Permitted uses          35 feet
 
   (G)   Parking regulations. Parking within the AGR Agriculture Residential
District shall be in conformance with the provisions of §
152.145.
   (H)   Sign regulations. Signs within the AGR Agriculture Residential 
District  shall  be  in conformance with the provisions of §
152.111.
(Prior Code, § 11-402)  (Ord. 19-07, passed 9-10-2007)
§ 152.032  R-1 RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT.
   (A)   Intent. To provide for low density residential uses and several
compatible supporting uses in a stable, pleasant environment which encourages
family life.
   (B)   Permitted principle uses and structures:
      (1)   Single-family dwellings;
      (2)   Two-family dwellings;
      (3)   Primary and secondary education;
      (4)   Public uses, including, but not limited to, public parks,
playgrounds, golf courses, recreational uses, fire stations, public elementary
and high schools, public utilities and utility distribution systems;
      (5)   Golf courses and country clubs, except miniature golf courses and
driving ranges not located within a golf course;
      (6)   Child care home; and
      (7)   No mobile homes shall be permitted or allowed in any area included
in the Residential District.
   (C)   Permitted accessory uses and structures.
      (1)   Home occupations, in conformance with §
152.060; and
      (2)   Accessory uses and structures, when established in conformance
within the space limits of this district.
   (D)   Permitted conditional uses. A building or premises may be used for the
following in conformance with the conditions prescribed herein:
      (1)   Bed and breakfast guest home:
         (a)   Parking, as required in §
152.145;
         (b)   Signs, as required in §
152.111;
         (c)   A minimum of four rooms or suites of rooms are made available
for use as transient lodging; and
         (d)   The remainder of the dwelling shall be used and owned as a
residence by the host family.
      (2)   Domestic shelter: the minimum number of occupants of the facility
shall not exceed one person per 1,000 square feet of lot area.
   (E)   Special exception uses. In accordance with §§
152.160 through
152.162:
      (1)   Utility substations;
      (2)   Places of worship such as churches, synagogues and temples; and
      (3)   Townhouses.
   (F)   Prohibited uses and structures. All other uses and structures which
are not specifically permitted or not permissible as special uses shall be
prohibited from the R-1 Residential District.
   (G)   Height and area regulations. The maximum height and minimum area
regulations shall be as follows.
      (1)   General requirements:
 
           Lot Area  Lot Width  Required    Required    Required
           (sq. ft.) (ft.)      Front Yard  Side Yard   Rear Yard  Height (ft.)
                                (ft.)       (ft.)       (ft.)
Dwelling,
single-    7,000     50         17          5 if lot               35
family                                      width is
Dwelling,  3,500 per 25 per     17          less than              35
two-family family    family                 70 feet, 10
                                            if lot      Lesser of
                                            width is 70 25 or 20%
                                            feet to 100 of lot
Other                                       feet and    depth
permitted  10,000    75         17          10% if lot             35
uses                                        width is
                                            greater
                                            than 100
                                            feet
 
      (2)    There shall be a required front yard setback of 17 feet on each
street side of a double-frontage lot.
      (3)   Buildings on corner lots shall provide front yard setbacks of 17
feet on both street frontages. The second street frontage front yard setback
may be reduced to 15 feet only if further development cannot occur or that
adjoining lots would have a setback greater than 15 feet; and designate
remaining yards as one rear and one side yard.
      (4)   Buildings and structures shall not exceed two and one-half stories
in height.
      (5)   The side yard setback between individual units of two-family
dwellings may be reduced to zero, if the following condition is met: a one-hour
fire rated constructed common wall between units starting at the basement level
and continuing through to the roof line is maintained.
   (H)   Parking regulations. Parking within the R-1 Residential District shall
be in conformance with the provisions of §
152.145.
   (I)   Sign regulations. Signs within the R-1 Residential District shall be
in conformance with the provisions of §
152.111.
(Prior Code, § 11-403)
§ 152.033  R-2 RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT.
   (A)   Intent. To provide for medium density residential uses and several
compatible supporting uses in a stable, pleasant environment which encourages
family life.
   (B)   Permitted principal uses and structures.
      (1)   Single-family dwellings;
      (2)   Two-family dwellings;
      (3)   Multi-family dwellings consisting of four units or less;
      (4)   Townhouses limited to four units or less;
      (5)   Primary and secondary education;
      (6)   Public parks, buildings and grounds;
      (7)   Golf courses and country clubs, except miniature golf courses and
driving ranges not located within a golf course;
      (8)   Child care home; and
      (9)   No mobile homes shall be permitted or allowed in any area included
in the Residential District.
   (C)   Permitted accessory uses and structures.
      (1)   Home occupations, in accordance with §
152.060; and
      (2)   Accessory uses and structures normally appurtenant to the permitted
uses and structures, when established in conformance within the space limits of
the district.
   (D)   Permitted conditional uses. A building or premises may be used for the
following in conformance with the conditions prescribed herein:
      (1)   Bed and breakfast guest home:
         (a)   Parking, as required in §
152.145;
         (b)   Signs, as required in §
152.111;
         (c)   A minimum of four rooms or suites of rooms are made available
for use as transient lodging; and
         (d)   The remainder of the dwelling shall be used and owned as a
residence by the host family.
      (2)   Domestic shelters: the maximum number of occupants of the facility
shall not exceed one person per 1,000 square feet of lot area.
   (E)   Special exception uses. In accordance with §§
152.160 through
152.162:
      (1)   Nursing and care homes;
      (2)   Utility substations;
      (3)   Mausoleum and columbaria;
      (4)   Places of worship such as churches, synagogues and temples;
      (5)   Communication and utility uses;
      (6)   Pre-schools; and
      (7)   Child care center.
   (F)   Prohibited uses and structures. All other uses and structures which
are not specifically permitted or not permissible as special uses shall be
prohibited from the R-2 Residential District.
   (G)   Height and area regulations. The maximum height and minimum area
regulations shall be as follows.
      (1)   General requirements:
 
           Lot Area  Lot Width  Required    Required    Required
           (sq. ft.) (ft.)      Front Yard  Side Yard   Rear Yard  Height (ft.)
                                (ft.)       (ft.)       (ft.)
Dwelling,
single-    7,000     50         17          5 if lot               35
family                                      width is
Dwelling,  3,500 per 25 per     17          less than
two-family family    family                 70 feet, 10
Townhouse  3,500 per 50         17          if lot      Lesser of  35
           family                           width is 70 25 of 20%
Multiple-  1,500 per 50         17          feet to 100 of lot     35
family     family                           feet and    depth
                                            10% if lot
Other                                       width is
permitted  7,000     50         17          greater                35
uses                                        than 100
                                            feet
 
      (2)   There shall be a required front yard setback of 17 feet on each
street side of a double-frontage lot.
      (3)   Buildings on corner lota shall provide front yard setbacks of 17
feet on both street frontages. The second street frontage front yard setback
may be reduced to 15 feet only if further development cannot occur or that
adjoining lots would have a setback greater than 15 feet; and designate
remaining yards as one rear and one side yard.
      (4)   Buildings or structures shall not exceed two and one-half stories
in height.
      (5)   The side yard setback between individual units of two-family
dwellings and townhouses may be reduced to zero, if the following conditions
are met: a one-hour fire rated construction common wall between units starting
at the basement level and continuing through to the roof line is maintained.
   (H)   Parking regulations. Parking within the R-2 Residential District shall
be in conformance with the provisions of §
152.145.
   (I)   Sign regulations. Signs within the R-2 Residential District shall be
in conformance with the provisions of §
152.111.
(Prior Code, § 11-404)
§ 152.034  R-3 RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT.
   (A)   Intent. To provide for high density residential uses and several
compatible supporting uses in a stable, pleasant environment which encourages
family life.
   (B)   Permitted principal uses and structures.
      (1)   Single-family dwellings;
      (2)   Two-family dwellings;
      (3)   Townhouses;
      (4)   Multi-family dwellings;
      (5)   Public parks, buildings and grounds;
      (6)   Child care home; and
      (7)   No mobile homes shall be permitted or allowed in any area included
in the residential district.
   (C)   Permitted accessory uses and structures.
      (1)   Home occupations, in accordance with §
152.060; and
      (2)   Accessory uses and structures normally appurtenant to the permitted
uses and structures, when established in conformance with §§
152.050 through
152.062.
   (D)   Permitted conditional uses. A building or premises may be used for the
following in conformance with the conditions prescribed herein:
      (1)   Bed and breakfast guest home:
         (a)   Parking, as required in §
152.145;
         (b)   Signs, as required in §
152.111;
         (c)   A minimum of four rooms or suites of rooms are made available
for use as transient lodging; and
         (d)   The remainder of the dwelling shall be used and owned as a
residence by the host family.
      (2)   Domestic shelter: the minimum number of occupants of the facility
shall not exceed one person per 750 square feet of lot area.
   (E)   Special exception uses. In accordance with §§
152.160 through
152.162:
      (1)   Nursing and care homes;
      (2)   Utility substations;
      (3)   Mausoleum and columbaria;
      (4)   Places of worship such as churches, synagogues and temples;
      (5)   Communication and utility uses;
      (6)   Pre-schools; and
      (7)   Child care center.
   (F)   Prohibited uses and structures. All other uses and structures which
are not specifically permitted or not permissible as special uses shall be
prohibited from the R-3 Residential District.
   (G)   Height and area regulations. The maximum height and minimum area
regulations shall be as follows:
      (1)   General requirements:
 
           Lot Area  Lot Width  Required    Required    Required
           (sq. ft.) (ft.)      Front Yard  Side Yard   Rear Yard  Height (ft.)
                                (ft.)       (ft.)       (ft.)
Dwelling,
single-    5,000     50         17          5 if lot    20         35
family                                      width is
Dwelling,  2,500 per 25 per     17          less than   20         35
two-family family    family                 70 feet, 10
Dwelling,  1,500 per                        if lot
multiple-  family    50         17          width is 70 20         35
family                                      feet to 100
                                            feet and
                                            10% if lot
Other                                       width is
permitted  1,500     50         17          greater     20         35
uses                                        than 100
                                            feet
 
      (2)   There shall be a required front yard setback of 20 feet on each
street side of a double-frontage lot.
      (3)   Building on corner lots shall provide a second frontage on the
street side of not less than 15 feet; provided that, the buildable width need
not be reduced to less than 28 feet, yards remaining shall be designated side
yards each with a minimum of five feet in depth.
      (4)   Buildings or structures shall not exceed three stories in height.
   (H)   Parking regulations. Parking within the R-3 Residential District shall
be in conformance with the provisions of §
152.145.
   (I)   Sign regulations. Signs within the R-3 Residential District shall be
in conformance with the provisions of §
152.111.
(Prior Code, § 11-405)
§ 152.035  R-4 RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT.
   (A)   Intent. To provide for the development of higher density residential
areas and mobile home parks and areas where individuals may purchase lots and
attach mobile homes.
   (B)   Permitted principal uses and structures.
      (1)   Mobile homes for residential purposes;
      (2)   Single-family dwellings;
      (3)   Two-family dwellings;
      (4)   Townhouses;
      (5)   Multi-family dwellings;
      (6)   Public parks, buildings and grounds; and
      (7)   Child care home.
   (C)   Permitted accessory uses and structures.
      (1)   Home occupations, in accordance with §
152.060; and
      (2)   Accessory uses and structures normally appurtenant to the permitted
uses and structures, when established in conformance with §§
152.050 through
152.062.
   (D)   Permitted conditional uses. A building or premises may be used for the
following in conformance with the conditions prescribed herein:
      (1)   Bed and breakfast guest home:
         (a)   Parking, as required in §
152.145;
         (b)   Signs, as required in §
152.111;
         (c)   A maximum of four rooms or suites of rooms are made available
for use as transient lodging;
         (d)   The remainder of the dwelling shall be used and owned as a
residence by the host family.
      (2)   Domestic shelter: the maximum number of occupants of the facility
shall not exceed one person per 750 square feet of lot area.
   (E)   Special exception uses. In accordance with §§
152.060 through
152.062:
      (1)   Mobile home parks;
      (2)   Nursing and care homes;
      (3)   Utility substations;
      (4)   Places of worship such as churches, synagogues and temples;
      (5)   Communication and utility uses;
      (6)   Pre-schools; and
      (7)   Child care center.
   (F)   Prohibited uses and structures. All other uses and structures which
are not specifically permitted or not permissible as special uses shall be
prohibited from the R-4 Residential District.
   (G)   Height and area regulations. The maximum height and minimum area
regulations shall be as follows:
      (1)   General requirements:
 
            Lot Area  Lot Width  Required    Required    Required   Height
            (sq. ft.) (ft.)      Front Yard  Side Yard   Rear Yard  (ft.)
                                 (ft.)       (ft.)       (ft.)
Mobile home 4,400     40         17          5 if lot    20         35
Dwelling,                                    width is
single-     4,400     40         17          less than   20         35
family                                       70 feet, 10
Dwelling,   2,200 per 20 per     17          if lot      20         35
two-family  family    family                 width is 70
Multiple-   1,200 per 40         17          feet to 100 20         35
family      family                           feet and
                                             10% if lot
Other                                        width is
permitted   4,400     40         17          greater     20         35
uses                                         than 100
                                             feet
 
      (2)   There shall be a required front yard setback of 17 feet on each
street side of a double-frontage lot.
      (3)   Buildings on corner lots shall provide a second frontage on the
street side of not less than 15 feet; provided that, the buildable width need
not be reduced to less than 28 feet, yards remaining shall be designated side
yards each with a minimum of five feet in depth.
      (4)   Buildings or structures shall not exceed three stories in height.
      (5)   (a)   Mobile home parks shall have a minimum tract area of two
acres.
         (b)   Each mobile home park shall be designed in accordance with the
following minimum design standards.
            1.   Minimum design standards.
               a.   The park shall be located on a well-drained site, properly
graded to ensure rapid drainage and freedom from stagnant pools of water.
               b.   Mobile home parks hereafter approved shall have a maximum
density of seven mobile homes per gross acre and minimum area of 4,400 square
feet shall be provided for each mobile home space.
               c.   Each mobile home space shall be at least 40 feet wide at
the front setback line and clearly defined.
               d.   Mobile homes shall be located on each space so as to
maintain a setback of no less than 17 feet from any public street, highway
right-of-way or R-4 Residential District boundary; as to maintain a setback of
no less than 20 feet from the edge of a park roadway or sidewalk; as to
maintain a setback of no less than 20 feet or 20% of lot depth from a rear
boundary line, whichever is smaller, of a mobile home space when the boundary
line is not common to any public street, highway right-of-way or R-
4 Residential District boundary; and as to maintain a setback of no less than
five feet from any side boundary line of a mobile home space.
               e.   All mobile homes shall be so located to maintain a
clearance of not less than 20 feet from another mobile home and as to maintain
a clearance of not less than 15 feet between any mobile home and any
appurtenance to a mobile home.
               f.   All mobile home spaces shall front upon a private roadway
of not less than 24 feet in width, including curbs on each side; provided,
however, that, no on-street parking is permitted. If parallel parking is
permitted on one side of the street, the width shall be increased to 32 feet.
All roadways shall have unobstructed access to a public street.
               g.   Common walks shall be provided in locations where
pedestrian traffic is concentrated; for example, to the entrance and to the
office and other important facilities. Common walks should preferably be
through interior areas removed from the vicinity of streets.
               h.   All roadways and sidewalks within the mobile home park
shall be constructed in accordance with city standards and shall be adequately
lighted at night. A street must be completely constructed prior to the
occupancy of any mobile home space fronting on the street.
               i.   A community building may be provided which may include
recreation facilities, laundry facilities, storm shelter and other similar
uses.
               j.   Each mobile home shall devote a minimum of 100 square feet
per mobile home space for recreational area. Individual recreational areas
shall not be less than 5,000 square feet and required setbacks, roadways and
off-street parking spaces shall not be considered as recreational space. A
minimum of 50% of the recreational facilities shall be constructed prior to the
development of one-half of the project and all recreational facilities shall be
constructed by the time the project is 75% complete.
               k.   A landscape buffer shall be provided not less than 15 feet
in width and the landscape buffer shall be planted with coniferous and
deciduous plant material along all edges of the mobile home park so as to
provide proper screening for the park. The landscape buffer shall be properly
policed and maintained by the owner.
               l.   Each mobile home space shall be provided with paved patio
or equivalent, other than parking space, of not less than 100 square feet. The
paved surface shall be of asphalt, concrete or precast concrete blocks. No open
storage of any unsightly material shall be permitted within the mobile home
park and the space beneath the mobile home shall be considered as open storage.
            2.   Water supply.
               a.   All mobile home parks shall be connected to a public water
supply.
               b.   The individual water service connection shall be provided
at each mobile home space and the size, location and installation of water
lines shall be in accordance with the requirements of the City Plumbing Code.
            3.   Sewage disposal. Individual sewer connections shall be
provided for each mobile home space and shall be installed in accordance with
the City Plumbing Code. All mobile home parks shall be connected to a public
sewer system.
            4.   Tie downs and ground anchors. All mobile homes shall be
secured to the ground by tie downs and ground anchors in accordance with
standards of the State Department of Health.
            5.   Blocking. All mobile homes shall be blocked at a minimum of
ten-foot centers around the perimeter of each mobile home, and this blocking
shall provide 16 inches by 16 inches bearing upon the stand.
            6.   Pad requirements. Shall be a flexible surface with a minimum
of five-inch thick gravel, stone or compacted surface, treated to discourage
plant growth, constructed to discharge water and edged to prohibit fraying or
spreading of surfacing materials, or shall be a hard surface of a minimum of
two 18-inch wide concrete ribbons or slabs capable of carrying the weight and
of sufficient length to support all blocking points of the mobile home.
            7.   Fire safety standards. When liquified petroleum gas is used in
a mobile home park, containers for the gas shall not hold more than 25-gallon
water capacity, shall be the liquified petroleum gas containers approved by the
United States Commerce Commission for its intended purpose, and shall be
attached to the mobile home in a manner approved by the Liquified Petroleum Gas
Association.
            8.   Skirting. Each mobile home shall be skirted within 30 days
after placement in the park by enclosing the open area under the unit with a
material that is compatible with the exterior finish of the mobile home and is
consistent with the quality of development of the park.
            9.   Mobile home park application requirements.
               a.   An applicant for a mobile home park in the R-4 Residential
District shall prepare, or cause to be prepared, a preliminary mobile home park
plan, drawn to a scale of not less than one inch equals 100 feet and 15 copies
of the plan shall be submitted to the Planning Commission for its review and
recommendations. The plan shall be designed in accordance with the minimum
design standards of these regulations, and shall have contours shown at two-
foot intervals.
               b.   Upon approval of the preliminary mobile home park plan by
the Planning Commission, the applicant shall prepare and submit a final plan,
which shall incorporate any changes or alterations requested. The final plan
and the Planning Commission recommendations shall be forwarded to the City
Council for their review and final action.
               c.   Any substantial deviation from the approved plan, as
determined by the Building Inspector, shall constitute a violation of the
zoning certificate authorizing construction of the project. Changes in plans
shall be resubmitted for reconsideration and approval by the Planning
Commission and City Council.
   (H)   Parking regulations. Parking within the R-4 Residential District shall
be in conformance with the provisions of §
152.145.
   (I)   Sign regulations. Signs within the R-4 Residential District shall be
in conformance with the provisions of §
152.111.
(Prior Code, § 11-406)
§ 152.036  C-1 CENTRAL COMMERCIAL DISTRICT.
   (A)   Intent. This district is designed to provide for a wide range of
retail, office, amusement and service uses normally found in a central business
district. Highest density and intensity of use is permitted in this district
   (B)   Permitted principle uses and structure.
      (1)   Apartments on floors other than ground floors;
      (2)   Automobile sales and services;
      (3)   Automotive wash facilities;
      (4)   Bakery;
      (5)   Banks, savings and loan associations, credit unions and finance
companies;
      (6)   Barbershops, beauty parlors and shoeshine shops;
      (7)   Business offices;
      (8)   Commercial recreation facilities (bowling alleys, miniature golf
courses and similar uses);
      (9)   Detached banking facilities;
      (10)   Dry cleaning or laundry establishments;
      (11)   Food service, restaurants and taverns;
      (12)   Food storage lockers;
      (13)   Funeral homes and mortuaries;
      (14)   Garden centers;
      (15)   Messenger and telegraph stations;
      (16)   Motels and hotels;
      (17)   Museums and art galleries;
      (18)   Office buildings;
      (19)   Parking lots, parking garages and other off-street parking
facilities;
      (20)   Personal and professional services;
      (21)   Photography studios;
      (22)   Private schools, including but not limited to business or
commercial schools, dance or music academies and nursery pre-schools;
      (23)   Public and private charitable institutions;
      (24)   Public and quasi-public uses of an educational, recreational or
religious type including pre-schools, public and parochial elementary schools
and junior high schools, high schools; private non-profit schools, churches,
parsonages and other religious institutions, parks and playgrounds;
      (25)   Public uses of an administrative, public service or cultural type
including city, county, state or federal administrative centers and courts,
libraries, police and fire stations and other public buildings, structures and
facilities;
      (26)   Public utility facilities;
      (27)   Sales and showrooms, including service facilities and rental of
equipment; provided, all displays and merchandise are within the enclosure
walls of the buildings;
      (28)   Service stations;
      (29)   Stores or shops for the sale of goods at retail;
      (30)   Temporary shelter for homeless;
      (31)   Theaters;
      (32)   Mini-warehouse; and
      (33)   Farm supplies-retail.
   (C)   Permitted accessory uses. The following accessory uses and structures
shall be permitted:
      (1)   Accessory uses and structures normally appurtenant to permitted
uses and structures, when established in conformance within the space limits of
the district; and
      (2)   Home occupations, in conformance with §
152.060
   (D)   Permitted conditional uses. A building or premises may be used for the
following in conformance with the conditions prescribed herein:
      (1)   Single-family dwelling; provided, the dwelling meets maximum height
and minimum area regulations m the R-2 Residential District;
      (2)   Two-family dwelling; provided, the dwelling meets maximum height
and minimum area regulations in the R-2 Residential District; and
      (3)   Multiple-family dwellings:
         (a)   Provided, the dwelling meets maximum height and minimum area
regulations in the R-2 Residential District; and
         (b)   Provided, a minimum of two off-street parking spaces for each
unit.
   (E)   Special exception uses. In accordance with §§
152.060 through
152.062:
      (1)   Child care homes and centers;
      (2)   Recycling center; and
      (3)   Apartments on ground floor.
   (F)   Prohibited uses and structures. All uses and structures which are not
specifically permitted as special uses shall be prohibited from the C-1 Central
Commercial District.
   (G)   Height and area regulations. The maximum height and minimum area
regulations shall be as follows:
 
           Lot Area  Lot Width  Required    Required    Required
           (sq. ft.) (ft.)      Front Yard  Side Yard   Rear Yard  Heigh (ft.)t
                                (ft.)       (ft.)       (ft.)
Other                                       0, 10 when
permitted  3,500     25         0           abutting a  0          35
uses                                        residential
                                            district
Dwelling,
single-    7,000     50         17          5 if lot               35
family                                      width is
Dwelling,  3,500 per 25 per     17          less than              35
two-family family    family                 70 feet, 10
                                            if lot
                                            width is 70
                                            feet to 100 Lesser of
Dwelling,                                   feet and    25 or 20%
multiple-  1,500 per 50         17          10% if lot  of lot     35
family     family                           width is    depth
                                            greater
                                            than 100
                                            feet

Apartments                                  0, 10 when             35,
above      1,750 per 25         0           abutting a             including
ground     unit                             residential            ground floor
floor                                       district
 
   (H)   Parking regulations. Parking within the C-1 Central Commercial
District shall be in conformance with the provisions of §
152.145.
   (I)   Sign regulations. Signs within the C-1 Central Commercial District
shall be in conformance with the provisions of §
152.111.
(Prior Code, § 11-407)
§ 152.037  C-R COMMERCIAL/RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT.
   (A)   Intent. To provide for the trade, service, cultural and recreational
uses which are appropriate to be developed in conjunction with a highway or
major street and offer a desired convenience in location and accessibility to
the motoring public and allow for single- and multi-family dwelling units.
   (B)   Permitted principle uses and structures.
      (1)   ATM;
      (2)   Automobile sales;
      (3)   Automotive wash facilities;
      (4)   Construction sales and services;
      (5)   Commercial recreation facilities (bowling alleys, miniature golf
courses and similar uses);
      (6)   Detached banking facilities;
      (7)   Farm implement sales and services;
      (8)   Finance, insurance and real estate services;
      (9)   Food service, restaurants and taverns;
      (10)   Freight terminals;
      (11)   Garden centers and nurseries;
      (12)   Mini-warehouses;
      (13)   Mobile and modular home sales;
      (14)   Motels and hotels;
      (15)   Museums and art galleries;
      (16)   Public and private charitable institutions;
      (17)   Public and quasi-public uses of an educational, recreational or
religious type including public and parochial elementary schools and junior
high schools, high schools; private non-profit schools, churches, parsonages
and other religious institutions; parks and playgrounds;
      (18)   Public uses of an administrative, public service or cultural type
including city, county, state or federal administrative centers and courts,
libraries, police and fire stations and other public buildings, structures and
facilities;
      (19)   Residential single- and multi-family dwelling units;
      (20)   Service stations and convenience stores;
      (21)   Stores or shops for the sale of goods at retail;
      (22)   Temporary shelter for homeless;
      (23)   Theaters;
      (24)   Transportation warehousing;
      (25)   Veterinary services; and
      (26)   Wholesale sales and services.
   (C)   Permitted accessory uses and structures. Accessory uses normally
appurtenant to the permitted principal uses and structures when established in
conformance within the space limits of this district.
   (D)   Special exception uses. In conformance with §§
152.160 through
152.162:
      (1)   Campgrounds;
      (2)   Pre-school; and
      (3)   Recycling center.
   (E)   Prohibited uses and structures. All uses and structures which are not
specifically permitted as special uses shall be prohibited from the C-
R Commercial/Residential District.
   (F)   Height and area regulations. The maximum height and minimum area
regulations shall be as follows:
 
          Lot Area  Lot Width  Required    Required   Required
          (sq. ft.) (ft.)      Front Yard  Side Yard  Rear Yard  Height (ft.)
                               (ft.)       (ft.)      (ft.)
Permitted 7,000     50         17          0          25         35
uses
 
   (G)   Screening. A solid or semi-solid fence or wall at least six feet, but
not more than eight feet high or a ten-foot landscape buffer consisting of
trees, shrubs and evergreens, shall be provided adjacent to any adjoining
residential district; however, in the event the adjacent residential district
and the commercial development are separated by a street right-of-way, the
fence, wall or landscape buffer shall not be required. All fences, walls or
buffers shall be maintained by the owner or owners of this property in the C-
R District.
   (H)   Parking regulations. Parking within the C-R Commercial/Residential
District shall be in conformance with the provisions in §
152.145.
   (I)   Sign regulations. Signs within the C-R Commercial/Residential District
shall be in conformance with the provisions in §
152.111.
(Prior Code, § 11-408)
§ 152.038  M INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT.
   (A)   Intent. The intent of this district is to provide locations for all
manufacturing, warehousing and distribution industries. Commercial uses
permitted in this district are generally those which serve the convenience of
industrial establishments and their employees.
   (B)   Permitted principle uses and structures.
      (1)   Agriculture, excluding the development of or expansion of existing
intensive livestock operational facility;
      (2)   Animal hospitals;
      (3)   Automobile and truck sales and services;
      (4)   Automotive wash facilities;
      (5)   Blacksmithing and welding shops;
      (6)   Bottling works;
      (7)   Building material sales, except for ready-mix concrete plants and
similar uses which emit particulate, odor or smoke;
      (8)   Carpenter, cabinet, plumbing or sheet metal shops;
      (9)   Carpet and rug cleaning and repair services;
      (10)   Construction sales and services;
      (11)   Disinfecting and exterminating services;
      (12)   Dry cleaning, laundering and dyeing services;
      (13)   Dyeing and finishing of textiles;
      (14)   Educational and scientific research services;
      (15)   Electrical sales and services;
      (16)   Equipment rental and leasing services;
      (17)   Farm machinery and equipment - retail;
      (18)   Farm supplies - retail;
      (19)   Feeds, grains and hay - retail;
      (20)   Food lockers and storage services;
      (21)   Foundries;
      (22)   Freight forwarding services;
      (23)   Furniture repair and reupholster services;
      (24)   Fur repair and storage services;
      (25)   Gas and petroleum field services;
      (26)   Garden centers and nurseries;
      (27)   Gas utility maintenance yard;
      (28)   Harvesting services;
      (29)   Irrigation equipment sales and manufacture;
      (30)   Landscape sales and services;
      (31)   Machinery sales and storage lots;
      (32)   Mobile and modular home sales and manufacturing;
      (33)   Newspaper publishing plants and commercial printing;
      (34)   Outdoor advertising services;
      (35)   Photoengraving;
      (36)   Photofinishing services;
      (37)   Public and quasi-public uses of an educational, recreational or
religious type including public and parochial elementary schools and junior
high schools, high schools; private non-profit schools, churches, parsonages
and other religious institutions; parks and playgrounds;
      (38)   Public utility and public service uses;
      (39)   Radios, televisions, phonographs, recorders, tape players and
other similar devices repair services;
      (40)   Recycling centers;
      (41)   Road maintenance yards;
      (42)   Service stations;
      (43)   Stores or shops for the sale of industry goods at retail;
      (44)   Telephone services;
      (45)   Transportation warehousing;
      (46)   Truck wash services;
      (47)   Veterinarian services;
      (48)   Warehousing and storage except for products of a highly explosive,
combustible or volatile nature;
      (49)   Water well, drilling services;
      (50)   Wholesale establishments, except those which handle products of a
highly explosive, combustible or volatile nature; and
      (51)   Mini-warehouse.
   (C)   Permitted accessory uses and structures. Accessory uses normally
appurtenant to the permitted principal uses and structures when established in
conformance within the space limits of this district: the retail sale of a
product produced on the premises when the production is the principal activity
on the site.
   (D)   Permitted conditional uses. A building or premises may be used for the
following in conformance with the conditions prescribed herein:
      (1)   Motor vehicle body shop:
         (a)   Provided that, all outdoor storage of materials and motor
vehicles determined by the Zoning Administrator to be a safety hazard or visual
blight shall be screened from public view and access from an adjacent arterial
streets and all zoning districts other than Industrial Districts by a solid or
semi-solid fence having a minimum height of six feet and a visual density of no
less than 50%; and
         (b)   Provided that, no more than four wrecked, scrapped or inoperable
motor vehicles be on the premises for parts for sale or reuse at the same time.
      (2)   Motor vehicle repair service: provided that, all outdoor storage of
materials and motor vehicles determined by the Zoning Administrator to be a
safety hazard or visual blight shall be screened from public view and access
from an adjacent arterial streets and all zoning districts other than
Industrial Districts by a solid or semi-solid fence having a minimum height of
six feet and a visual density of no less than 50%;
      (3)   Motor vehicle storage yard (excluding salvage operations): provided
that, all vehicles shall be screened from public view and access from adjacent
arterial streets and from all zoning districts other than industrial districts
by a solid fence having a minimum height of six feet and a visual density of no
less than 50%;
      (4)   Salvage yards, subject to the following:
         (a)   Located on a tract of land at least 300 feet from a residential
district zone;
         (b)   The operation shall be conducted wholly within a noncombustible
building or within an area completely surrounded on all sides by a fence or
wall at least eight feet high. The fence or wall, having a visual density of
uniform texture and color, shall be so maintained by the proprietor as to
ensure maximum safety to the public and obscure the junk from normal view of
the public. The fence or wall shall be installed in a manner as to retain all
scrap, junk or other material within the yard;
         (c)   No junk shall be loaded, unloaded or otherwise placed either
temporarily or permanently outside the enclosed building, fence or wall, or
within the public right-of-way;
         (d)   Burning of paper, trash, junk or other waste materials shall be
prohibited; and
         (e)   No junk, salvage, scrap or other materials shall be piled or
stacked higher than the top of the required fence or wall.
      (5)   Child care center: provided, the center conforms and complies with
the provisions of §
152.162.
   (E)   Special exception uses. In accordance with §§
152.160 through
152.162:
      (1)   Agricultural equipment manufacturing;
      (2)   Alfalfa dehydrating mills;
      (3)   Animal rendering;
      (4)   Bulk petroleum storage wholesale;
      (5)   Cold storage plants;
      (6)   Expansion of nonconforming use;
      (7)   Explosives - manufacturing;
      (8)   Grain elevators;
      (9)   Gravel, stone and sand quarrying;
      (10)   Industrial wastes disposals;
      (11)   Livestock - wholesale;
      (12)   Manufacturing, fabricating or processing operations, not elsewhere
listed which may be noxious or offensive by reason of vibration, noise, dust,
fumes, gas, odor or smoke;
      (13)   Meat packing plants;
      (14)   Petroleum and natural gas refining and processing;
      (15)   Pre-schools;
      (16)   Radio and television transmitting stations and towers;
      (17)   Refuse incineration;
      (18)   Ready mix concrete and asphalt mix plants;
      (19)   Seed cleaning and processing;
      (20)   Single-family dwellings;
      (21)   Solid waste transfer stations;
      (22)   Stockyards and slaughter houses; and
      (23)   Storage of bulk oil, gas and explosives.
   (F)   Prohibited uses and structures. Uses and structures which are not
specifically permitted or not permissible as special uses shall be prohibited
from the M Industrial District.
   (G)   Height and area regulations. The maximum height and minimum area
regulations shall be as follows:
 
                              Required Required    Required            Maximum
          Lot Area  Lot Width Front    Side Yard   Rear Yard   Height  Lot
          (sq. ft.) (ft.)     Yard     (ft.)       (ft.)       (ft.)   Coverage
                              (ft.)
                                       5, 10 when  0, 10 when
                                       abutting or abutting or
Permitted None      75        17       across an   across an   50      75%
uses                                   alley from  alley from
                                       residential residential
                                       district    district
 
   (H)   Landscaping/screening.
      (1)   A solid or semi-solid fence or wall at least six feet, but not more
than eight feet high or a ten-foot landscape buffer consisting of trees, shrubs
and evergreens, shall be provided adjacent to any adjoining residential
district; however, in the event the adjacent residential district and the
industrial district are separated by a street right-of-way, the fence, wall or
landscape buffer shall not be required.
      (2)   All fences, walls or buffers shall be maintained by the owner or
owners of this property in the M Industrial District.
   (I)   Parking regulations. Parking within the M Industrial District shall be
in conformance with the provisions of §
152.145.
   (J)   Sign regulations. Signs within the I-2 Heavy Industrial District shall
be in conformance with the provisions of §
152.111.
(Prior Code, § 11-409)
§ 152.039  FP FLOOD PLAIN DISTRICT.
   (A)   Amending statutory authorization, findings of fact and purposes.
      (1)   Statutory authorization.  The Legislature of the State of Nebraska
has in Neb RS 31-1001 to 31-1022 (R.R.S. 1943, as amended), assigned the
responsibility to local governmental units to adopt floodplain management
regulations designed to protect the public health, safety and general welfare. 
Therefore, the Mayor and Council of the City of Auburn, Nebraska ordains as
follows.
      (2)   Findings of fact.
         (a)   Flood losses resulting from periodic inundation. The flood
hazard areas of The City of Auburn, Nebraska, are subject to inundation which
results in loss of life and property, health and safety hazards, disruption of
commerce and governmental services, extraordinary public expenditures for flood
protection and relief, and impairment of the tax base all of which adversely
affect the public health, safety and general welfare.
         (b)   General causes of the flood losses.  These flood losses are
caused by:
            1.   The cumulative effect of obstructions in floodplains causing
increases in flood heights and velocities;
            2.   The occupancy of flood hazard areas by uses vulnerable to
floods or hazardous to others, which are inadequately elevated or otherwise
unprotected from flood damages.
      (3)   Statement of purpose.  It is the purpose of this section to promote
the public health, safety, and general welfare and to minimize those losses
described in division (A)(2)(a) above by applying the provisions of this
section to:
         (a)   Restrict or prohibit uses which are dangerous to health, safety,
or property in times of flooding or cause undue increases in flood heights or
velocities.
         (b)   Require that uses vulnerable to floods, including public
facilities, which serve such uses, be provided with flood protection at the
time of initial construction.
         (c)   Protect individuals from buying lands which are unsuited for
intended purposes because of flood hazard.
         (d)   Assure that eligibility is maintained for property owners in the
community to purchase flood insurance in the National Flood Insurance Program.
   (B)   Local administrator responsibilities.  The Zoning Commissioner hereby
has these added responsibilities and is authorized and directed to enforce all
of the provisions of this section and all other ordinances of the city now in
force or hereafter adopted, related to zoning, subdivision or building codes.
   (C)   Local administrator additional responsibilities.  The Zoning
Commissioner's appointment shall continue during good behavior and satisfactory
service.  During temporary absence or disability of the Zoning Commissioner,
the governing body of the city shall designate an acting administrator.
   (D)   Definitions.  For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      100-YEAR FLOOD.  The condition of flooding having a 1% chance of annual
occurrence.
      APPURTENANT STRUCTURE.  A structure on the same parcel of property as the
principal structure, the use of which is incidental to the use of the principal
structure.
      BASE FLOOD.  The flood having 1% chance of being equaled or exceeded in
any given year.
      BASEMENT.  Any area of the building having its floor subgrade (below
ground level) on all sides.
      DEVELOPMENT.  Any man-made change to improved or unimproved real estate,
including but not limited to buildings or other structures, mining, dredging,
filling, grading, paving, excavation or drilling operations or storage of
equipment or materials.
      EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK or SUBDIVISION.  A manufactured home park
or subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots
on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including, at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is complete before the effective date
of the floodplain management regulations adopted by a community.
      EXPANSION OF EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK or SUBDIVISION.  The
preparation of additional sites by the construction of facilities for servicing
the lots on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads).
      FLOOD.  A general and temporary condition of partial or complete
inundation of normally dry land areas from:  (1)  The overflow of inland or
tidal waters.  (2)  The unusual and rapid accumulation of runoff of surface
waters from any source.
      FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (FIRM).  An official map of a community, on
which the administrator has delineated both the special flood hazard areas and
the risk premium applicable to the community.
      FLOODPLAIN.  Any land area susceptible to being inundated by water from
any source (see definition of flooding).
      FLOODPROOFING.  Any combination of structural and non-structural
additions, changes or adjustments to structures which reduce or eliminate flood
damage to real estate or improved real property, water and sanitary facilities,
structures and their contents.
      FLOODWAY.  The channel of the river or other watercourse and the adjacent
land areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the base flood without
cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation more than a designated
height.
      HISTORIC STRUCTURE.  Any structure that is:
         (a)   Listed individually in the National Register of Historic Places
(a listing maintained by the Department of Interior) or preliminarily
determined by the Secretary of the Interior as meeting the requirements for
individual listing on the National Register;
         (b)   Certified or preliminarily determined by the Secretary of the
Interior as contributing to the historical significance of a registered
historic district or a district preliminarily determined by the Secretary to
qualify as a registered historic district;
         (c)   Individually listed on a state inventory of historic places in
states with historic preservation programs which have been approved by the
Secretary of the Interior; or
         (d)   Individually listed on a local inventory of historic places in
communities with historic preservation programs that have been certified
either:
            1.   By an approved state program as determined by the Secretary of
the Interior; or
            2.   Directly by the Secretary of the Interior in states without
approved programs.
      LOWEST FLOOR.  The lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area (including
basement).  An unfinished or flood-resistant enclosure, usable solely for
parking of vehicles, building access or storage, in an area other than a
basement area, is not considered a building's lowest floor, provided that such
enclosure is not built so as to render the structure in violation of the
applicable non-elevation design requirements of this section.
      MANUFACTURED HOME.  A structure, transportable in one or more sections,
which is built on a permanent chassis and is designed for use with or without a
permanent foundation when attached to the required utilities.  The term
MANUFACTURED HOME does not include a recreational vehicle.
      MANUFACTURED HOME PARK or SUBDIVISION.  A parcel (or contiguous parcels)
of land divided into two or more manufactured home lots for rent or sale.
      NEW CONSTRUCTION.  For floodplain management purposes, NEW CONSTRUCTION
means structures for which the start of construction commenced on or after the
effective date of the floodplain management regulation adopted by a community
and includes any subsequent improvements to such structures.
      NEW MANUFACTURED HOME PARK or SUBDIVISION.  A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including at a minimum the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed on or after the effective
date of floodplain management regulations adopted by a community.
      PRINCIPALLY ABOVE GROUND.  At least 51% of the actual cash value of the
structure is above ground.
      RECREATIONAL VEHICLE.  A vehicle which is (i) built on a single chassis;
(ii) 400 square feet or less when measured at the largest horizontal
projection; (iii) designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a
light duty truck; and (iv) designed primarily not for use as a permanent
dwelling but as temporary living quarters for recreational, camping, travel, or
seasonal use.
      REGULATORY FLOOD ELEVATION.  The water surface elevation of the 100-year
flood.
      SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA.  The land in the floodplain within a community
subject to 1% or greater chance of flooding in any given year.
      START OF CONSTRUCTION. [For other than new construction or substantial
improvements under the coastal Barrier Resources Act (Pub. L. 97-348)] includes
substantial improvement, and means the date the building permit was issued,
provided the actual start of construction, repair, reconstruction,
rehabilitation, addition, placement, or other improvement was within 180 days
of the permit date.  The actual start means the first placement of permanent
construction of a structure on a site, such as the pouring of slab or footings,
the installation of piles, the construction of columns, or any work beyond the
stage of excavation; or the placement of a manufactured home on a foundation. 
Permanent construction does not include land preparation, such as clearing,
grading and filling; nor does it include the installation of streets and/or
walkways; nor does it include excavation for a basement, footings, piers, or
foundations or the erection of temporary forms; nor does it include the
installation on the property of accessory buildings, such as garages or sheds
not occupied as dwelling units or not part of the main structure.  For a
substantial improvement, the actual start of construction means the first
alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor, or other structural part of a building,
whether or not the alteration affects the external dimensions of the building.
      STRUCTURE.  A walled and roofed building that is principally above
ground, as well as a manufactured home, and a gas or liquid storage tank that
is principally above ground.
      SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE.  Damage of any origin sustained by a structure
whereby the cost of restoring the structure to its before-damaged condition
would equal or exceed 50% of the market value of the structure before the
damage occurred.
      SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT.  Any reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition,
or other improvement of a structure, the cost of which equals or exceeds 50% of
the market value of the structure before “start of construction” of the
improvement.  This includes structures which have incurred
“substantial damage,” regardless of the actual repair work performed.  The term
does not, however, include either (1) any project for improvement of a
structure to correct existing violations of state or local health, sanitary, or
safety code specifications which have been identified by the local code
enforcement official and which are the minimum necessary to assure safe living
conditions, or (2) any alteration of a “historic structure,” provided that the
alteration will not preclude the structure's continued designation as a
“historic structure.”
      VARIANCE.  A grant of relief to a person from the terms of a floodplain
management ordinance.
      VIOLATION.  The failure of a structure or other development to be fully
compliant with the community's floodplain management regulations.
   (E)   Designation of current FHBM/FIRM.  The governing body of the city
hereby designates the current Flood Hazard Boundary Map/Flood Insurance Rate
Map dated  7-15-2009,  as the official map to be used in determining those
areas of special flood hazard.
   (F)   Permits required. No person, firm or corporation shall initiate any
floodplain development or substantial improvement or cause the same to be done
without first obtaining a separate permit for development as defined in this
section.
      (1)   When separate permits needed. Within special flood hazard areas on
the official map, separate floodplain development permits are required for all
new construction, substantial improvements and other developments, including
the placement of manufactured homes.
      (2)   Application.  To obtain a floodplain development permit, the
applicant shall first file an application therefore in writing on a form
furnished for that purpose.  Every such application shall:
         (a)   Identify and describe the development to be covered by the
floodplain development permit for which application is made.
         (b)   Describe the land on which the proposed development is to be
done by lot, block, tract and house and street address, or similar description
that will readily identify and definitely locate the proposed building or
development.
         (c)   Indicate the use or occupancy for which the proposed development
is intended.
         (d)   Be accompanied by plans and specifications for proposed
construction.
         (e)   Be signed by the permittee or his or her authorized agent who
may be required to submit evidence to indicate such authority.
         (f)   Within designated floodplain areas, be accompanied by elevations
of the lowest floor, including basement, or in the case of floodproofed non-
residential structures, the elevation to which it shall be floodproofed. 
Documentation or certification of such elevations will be maintained by the
Zoning Commissioner.
         (g)   Give such other information as reasonably may be required by
the  Zoning Commissioner (i.e., require a statement from the applicant that
they are aware that elevating or floodproofing structures above the minimum
levels will result in premium reduction, especially in the case of non-
residential floodproofing when a minus one-foot penalty is assessed at the time
of rating the structure for the policy premium.)
   (G)   Development permit applications review.  The Zoning Commissioner shall
review all development permit applications to determine if the site of the
proposed development is reasonably safe from flooding and that all necessary
permits have been received as required by federal or state law.
   (H)   All applications review (see section 21).  The Zoning Commissioner, in
reviewing all applications for new construction, substantial improvements,
prefabricated buildings, placement of manufactured homes and other development
(s) (as defined in Section 21 of the floodplain ordinance) will:
      (1)   Obtain, review and reasonably utilize, if available, any regulatory
flood elevation data and floodway data available from federal, state or other
sources, until such other data is provided by the Federal Insurance
Administration in a Flood Insurance Study; and require within special flood
hazard areas on the official map that the following performance standards be
met:
         (a)   Floodway designated. That until a floodway has been designated,
no development or substantial improvement may be permitted within the
identified floodplain unless the applicant has demonstrated that the proposed
development or substantial improvement, when combined with all other existing
and reasonably anticipated developments or substantial improvements, will not
increase the water surface elevation of the 100-year flood more than one foot
at any location.
         (b)   Residential construction. New construction or substantial
improvement of any residential structure shall have the lowest floor, including
basement, elevated at least one foot above the base flood elevation.
         (c)   Non-residential construction. New construction or substantial
improvement of any commercial, industrial or other non-residential structure
shall either have the lowest floor, including basement, elevated at least one
foot above the base flood elevation or, together with attendant utility and
sanitary facilities, be floodproofed so that below such a level the structure
is watertight with walls substantially impermeable to the passage of water and
with structural components having the capability of resisting hydrostatic and
hydrodynamic loads and effects of buoyancy.  A registered professional engineer
or architect shall certify that the standards of this subsection are
satisfied.  Such certification shall be provided to the local administrator.
         (d)   Require for all new construction and substantial improvements.
That fully enclosed areas below the lowest floor that are usable solely for
parking of vehicles, building access or storage in an area other than a
basement and which are subject to flooding shall be designed to automatically
equalize hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls by allowing for the entry
and exit of floodwaters.  Designs for meeting this requirement must either be
certified by a registered professional engineer or architect or meet or exceed
the following minimum criteria:  A minimum of two openings having a total net
area of not less than one square inch for every square foot of enclosed area
subject to flooding shall be provided.  The bottom of all openings shall be no
higher than one foot above grade.  Openings may be equipped with screens,
louvers, valves, or other coverings or devices provided that they permit the
automatic entry and exit of floodwaters.
      (2)   Require the use of construction materials that are resistant to
flood damage.
      (3)   Require the use of construction methods and practices that will
minimize flood damage.
      (4)   Require that new structures be designed (or modified) and
adequately anchored to prevent flotation, collapse, or lateral movement of the
structure resulting from hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads, including the
effects of buoyancy.
      (5)   New structures be constructed with electrical, heating,
ventilation, plumbing, and air conditioning equipment and other service
facilities that are designed and/or located so as to prevent water from
entering or accumulating within the components during conditions of flooding.
      (6)   Assure that all manufactured homes shall be anchored to resist
flotation, collapse, or lateral movement.  Manufactured homes must be anchored
in accordance with state laws, local building codes and FEMA guidelines.  In
the event that over-the-top frame ties to ground anchors are used, the
following specific requirements (or their equivalent) shall be met:
         (a)   Over-the-top ties be provided at each of the four corners of the
manufactured home with two additional ties per side at the intermediate
locations and manufactured homes less than 50 feet long requiring one
additional tie per side.
         (b)   Frame ties be provided at each corner of the home with five
additional ties per side at intermediate points and manufactured homes less
than 50 feet long requiring four additional ties per side.
         (c)   All components of the anchoring system be capable of carrying a
force of 4,800 pounds.
         (d)   Any additions to manufactured homes be similarly anchored.
      (7)   Assure that all manufactured homes that are placed or substantially
improved within special flood hazard areas on the community's official map on
sites:
         (a)   Outside of a manufactured home park or subdivision;
         (b)   In a new manufactured home park or subdivision;
         (c)   In an expansion to an existing manufactured home park or
subdivision; or
         (d)   In an existing manufactured home park or subdivision on which a
manufactured home has incurred "substantial damage" as the result of a flood,
be elevated on a permanent foundation such that the lowest floor of the
manufactured home is elevated at least one foot above the base flood elevation
and be securely anchored to an adequately anchored foundation system in
accordance with the provisions of division (H)(6).
      (8)   Assure that manufactured homes to be placed or substantially
improved on sites in an existing manufactured home park or subdivision within
special flood hazard areas on the community's official map that are not subject
to the provisions of division (H)(7) be elevated so that either:
         (a)   The lowest floor of the manufactured home is at least one foot
above the base flood elevation, or
         (b)   The manufactured home chassis is supported by reinforced piers
or other foundation elements of at least equivalent strength that are no less
than 36 inches in height above grade and be securely anchored to an adequately
anchored foundation system in accordance with the provisions of division (H)
(6).
      (9)   Require that recreational vehicles placed on sites within the
identified special flood hazard areas on the community's official map either
(i) be on the site for fewer than 180 consecutive days, (ii) be fully licensed
and ready for highway use, or (iii) meet the permit requirements and the
elevation and anchoring requirements for "manufactured homes" of this section. 
A recreational vehicle is ready for highway use if it is on its wheels or
jacking system is attached to the site only by quick disconnect type utilities
and security devices, and has no permanently attached additions.
      (10)   Appurtenant structures used exclusively for storage of motor
vehicles, and storage of other items readily removable in the event of a flood
warning may have their lowest floor below one foot above the base flood
elevation provided the structure is capable of withstanding hydrostatic and
hydrodynamic forces caused by the base flood and provided no utilities are
installed in the structure except elevated or flood proofed electrical
fixtures.  If the structure is converted to another use, it must be brought
into full compliance with the minimum standards governing such use.
   (I)   Subdivision applications.  The governing body of the city shall review
all subdivision applications and other proposed new developments (including
manufactured home parks or subdivisions) and shall make findings of fact and
assure that:
      (1)   All such proposed developments are consistent with the need to
minimize flood damage.
      (2)   Subdivision proposals and other proposed new developments
(including proposals for manufactured home parks and subdivisions), greater
than five acres or 50 lots, whichever is lesser, include within such proposals
regulatory flood elevation data in special flood hazard areas.
      (3)   Adequate drainage is provided so as to reduce exposure to flood
hazards.
      (4)   All public utilities and facilities are located so as to minimize
or eliminate flood damage.
   (J)   Water and sewage systems.  New and replacement water and sewage
systems shall be constructed to eliminate or minimize infiltration by, or
discharge into floodwaters.  Moreover, on-site waste disposal systems will be
designed to avoid impairment or contamination during flooding.
   (K)   Storage of material and equipment.  The storage or processing of
materials that are in time of flooding buoyant, flammable, explosive, or could
be injurious to human, animal or plant life is prohibited.  Storage of other
material or equipment may be allowed if not subject to major damage by floods
and firmly anchored to prevent flotation or if readily removable from the area
within the time available after flood warning.
   (L)   Flood-carrying capacity within any watercourse.  The governing body of
the city will ensure that the flood-carrying capacity within the altered or
relocated portion of any watercourse is maintained.  The city will notify, in
riverine situations, adjacent communities and the State Coordinating Office
(Nebraska Department of Natural Resources) prior to any alteration or
relocation of a watercourse, and submit copies of such notifications to the
Federal Emergency Management Agency.  Moreover, the city will work with
appropriate state and federal agencies in every way possible in complying with
the National Flood Insurance Program in accordance with the National Disaster
Protection Act of 1973.
   (M)   Variance procedures.
      (1)   The Board of Adjustment as established by the city shall hear and
decide appeals and requests for variances from the requirements of this
section.
      (2)   The Board of Adjustment shall hear and decide appeals when it is
alleged that there is an error in any requirement, decision, or determination
made by the Zoning Commissioner in the enforcement or administration of this
section.
      (3)   Any person aggrieved by the decision of the Board of Adjustment or
any taxpayer may appeal such decision to the District Court as provided in Neb.
RS 19-912.
      (4)   In passing upon such applications, the Board of Adjustment shall
consider all technical evaluation, all relevant factors, standards specified in
other sections of this section, and;
         (a)   The danger that materials may be swept onto other lands to the
injury of others;
         (b)   The danger to life and property due to flooding or erosion
damage;
         (c)   The susceptibility of proposed facility and its contents to
flood damage and the effect of such damage on the individual owner;
         (d)   The importance of the services provided by the proposed facility
to the community;
         (e)   The necessity to the facility of a waterfront location, where
applicable;
         (f)   The availability of alternative locations, not subject to
flooding or erosion damage, for the proposed use;
         (g)   The compatibility of the proposed use with existing and
anticipated development;
         (h)   The relationship of the proposed use to the comprehensive plan
and floodplain management program for that area;
         (i)   The safety of access to the property in times of flood for
ordinary and emergency vehicles;
         (j)   The expected heights, velocity, duration, rate of rise and
sediment transport of the flood waters and the effects of wave action, if
applicable, expected at the site; and,
         (k)   The costs of providing governmental services during and after
flood conditions including maintenance and repair of public utilities and
facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical, and water systems, and streets and
bridges.
      (5)   The following are conditions for variances:
         (a)   Generally variances may be issued for new construction and
substantial improvements to be erected on a lot of one-half acre or less in
size contiguous to and surrounded by lots with existing structures constructed
below the base flood level, providing items (b) through (e) below have been
fully considered.  As the lot size increases beyond the one-half acre, the
technical justification required for issuing the variance increases.
         (b)   Variances may be issued for the repair or rehabilitation of
historic structures upon a determination that the proposed repair or
rehabilitation will not preclude the structure's continued designation as a
historic structure and the variance is the minimum necessary to preserve the
historic character and design of the structure.
         (c)   Variances shall only be issued upon a determination that the
variance is the minimum necessary, considering the flood hazard, to afford
relief.
         (d)   Variances shall only be issued upon (i) a showing of good and
sufficient cause, (ii) a determination that failure to grant the variance would
result in exceptional hardship to the applicant, and (iii) a determination that
the granting of a variance will not result in increased flood heights,
additional threats to public safety, extraordinary public expense, create
nuisances, cause fraud on or victimization of the public, or conflict with
existing local laws or ordinances.
         (e)   The applicant shall be given a written notice over the signature
of a community official that:
            1.   The issuance of a variance to construct a structure below base
flood level will result in increased premium rates for flood insurance up to
amounts as high as $25 for $100 of insurance coverage; and
            2.   Such construction below the base flood level increases risks
to life and property.  Such notification shall be maintained with the record of
all variance actions as required by this section.
   (N)   Non-conforming use.
      (1)   A structure or the use of a structure or premises which was lawful
before the passage or amendment of the ordinance, but which is not in
conformity with the provisions of this section may be continued subject to the
following conditions:
         (a)   If such use is discontinued for 12  consecutive months, any
future use of the building premises shall conform to this section.  The Utility
Department shall notify the Zoning Commissioner in writing of instances of
nonconforming uses where utility services have been discontinued for a period
of 12 months.
         (b)   Uses or adjuncts thereof which are or become nuisances shall not
be entitled to continue as nonconforming uses.
      (2)   If any nonconforming use or structure is destroyed by any means,
including flood, it shall not be reconstructed if the cost is more than 50% of
the market value of the structure before the damage occurred except that if it
is reconstructed in conformity with the provisions of this section.  This
limitation does not include the cost of any alteration to comply with existing
state or local health, sanitary, building, or safety codes or regulations or
the cost of any alteration of a structure listed on the National Register of
Historic Places or a State Inventory of Historic Places.
   (O)   Penalties for violation.
      (1)   Violation of the provisions of this section or failure to comply
with any of its requirements (including violations of conditions and safeguards
established in connection with grants of variances or special exceptions) shall
constitute a misdemeanor.  Any person who violates this ordinance or fails to
comply with any of its requirements shall upon conviction thereof be fined not
more than $500, and in addition, shall pay all costs and expenses involved in
the case.  Each day such violation continues shall be considered a separate
offense.
      (2)   Nothing herein contained shall prevent the city or other
appropriate authority from taking such other lawful action as is necessary to
prevent or remedy any violation.
   (P)   Appeal.  Where a request for a permit to develop or a variance is
denied by the  Zoning Commissioner the applicant may apply for such permit or
variance directly to the Board of  Adjustment.
   (Q)   Abrogation and greater restrictions.  It is not intended by this
section to repeal, abrogate or impair any existent easements, covenants, or
deed restrictions.  However, where this section imposes greater restrictions,
the provision of this section shall prevail.  All other ordinances inconsistent
with this section are hereby repealed to the extent of the inconsistency only.
   (R)   Interpretation.  In their interpretation and application, the
provisions of this section shall be held to be minimum requirements and shall
be liberally construed in favor of the governing body and shall not be deemed a
limitation or repeal, of any other powers granted by state statutes.
   (S)   Warning and disclaimer of liability.  The degree of flood protection
required by this section is considered reasonable for regulatory purposes and
is based on engineering and scientific methods of study.  Larger floods may
occur on rare occasions or the flood height may be increased by man-made or
natural causes, such as ice jams and bridge openings restricted by debris. 
This section does not imply that areas outside floodplain district boundaries
or land uses permitted within such districts will be free from flooding or
flood damage.  This section shall not create liability on the part of  the city
or any officer or employee thereof for any flood damages that may result from
reliance on this section or any administrative decision lawfully made
thereunder.
   (T)   Severability.  If any section, clause, provision or portion of this
section is adjudged unconstitutional or invalid by a court of competent
jurisdiction, the remainder of this section shall not be affected thereby.
(Prior Code, § 11-410)  (Ord. 8-09, passed - -2009)
SUPPLEMENTARY DISTRICT REGULATIONS
§ 152.050  ACCESSORY BUILDINGS AND USES.
   (A)   (1)   Buildings and structures may be erected and land may be used for
purposes which are clearly incidental, subordinate to, and customarily
associated with the main permitted use of the same zone lot.
      (2)   The accessory building and uses shall be so constructed, maintained
and conducted as to not produce noise, vibration, concussion, dust, dirt, fly
ash, odor, noxious gases, heat or glare which is injurious, damaging,
unhealthful or distributing adjacent property or the users thereof and shall be
on the premises of the main use. The accessory activities shall be controlled
in the same manner as the main use, except as otherwise expressly provided for
hereinafter.
      (3)   The determination of the eligibility of a proposed use as an
accessory use shall be made by the Building Inspector and appeal can be made
from his or her decision as set out herein.
   (B)   No accessory buildings shall be erected in any required front or side
yard, and no detached accessory building shall be erected closer than five feet
to any other building. Accessory buildings may be located in the rear yard, but
shall not be closer that five feet to the rear lot line and shall not be closer
to the side lot line than the required side yard setback of the district,
except that if the building has a vehicular alley entrance, the sum of the
width of the alley and the setback of that structure shall not be less than 20
feet.
   (C)   None of the following shall be permitted as an accessory use:
      (1)   Outdoor storage or overnight parking in a residential district of
commercial trucks or buses over a one-ton manufacturer rated hauling capacity,
but not including pickup trucks;
      (2)   Outdoor storage, except as specifically permitted in the district
regulations;
      (3)   No accessory building will be created with more than 900 square
feet in any residential zone. Building height will have a maximum height of 18
feet defined as from floor of the structure to the top of the roof. This
includes any structure used as a detached garage, utility building or
miscellaneous building on the lot; and/or
      (4)   No accessory building of any structure may be built without a home
already being on the lot or side or rear lot owned by the same person.
(Prior Code, § 11-411)  (Ord. 10-07, passed 7-23-2007; Ord. 22-07, passed 9-10-
2007)  Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.051  ERECTION OF MORE THAN ONE PRINCIPAL STRUCTURE ON A LOT.
   In any nonresidential district, more than one structure housing a permitted
or permissible principal use may be erected on a single lot, provided that yard
and other requirements of this chapter shall be met for each structure as
though it were on an individual lot.
(Prior Code, § 11-411)  (Ord. 10-07, passed 7-23-2007; Ord. 22-07, passed 9-10-
2007)  Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.052  REGULATION APPLICATION; PARKING AND STORAGE OF CERTAIN VEHICLES.
   Motor vehicles including pickup campers and coaches, motorized dwellings,
buses, boats and recreational equipment including boat and tent trailers,
utility trailers, stock trailers, enclosed trailers, trailers used to haul
recreational equipment and any other kind or type of trailer without current
license plates shall not be parked or stored on any residentially owned
property other than in completely enclosed buildings.
(Prior Code, § 11-411)  (Ord. 10-07, passed 7-23-2007; Ord. 22-07, passed 9-10-
2007)  Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.053  STORAGE OF GOODS AND EQUIPMENT.
   Goods, equipment, supplies, materials, machinery and parts thereof used for
any industrial or commercial purposes shall not be stored on any residentially
zoned property, except as provided under §
152.019, other than in completely enclosed buildings or in spaces screened by
fencing and/or evergreen shrubbery providing at least an 80% screen and having
a height of at least six, but no more than eight feet.
(Prior Code, § 11-411)  (Ord. 10-07, passed 7-23-2007; Ord. 22-07, passed 9-10-
2007)  Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.054  LOT WIDTH.
   The minimum lot width shall be measured at the minimum front yard setback
line.
(Prior Code, § 11-411)  (Ord. 10-07, passed 7-23-2007; Ord. 22-07, passed 9-10-
2007)
§ 152.055  HEIGHT REGULATIONS.
   Chimneys, cooling towers, elevator headhouses, fire towers, flag poles,
grain elevators, monuments, stacks, stage towers or scenery lofts, tanks, water
towers, ornamental towers and spires, church steeples, radio and television
towers, or necessary mechanical appurtenances, usually required to be placed
above the roof level and not intended for human occupancy, are not subject to
the height limitations contained in the district regulations.
(Prior Code, § 11-411)  (Ord. 10-07, passed 7-23-2007; Ord. 22-07, passed 9-10-
2007)  Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.056  YARD REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Front yards. The front yards heretofore established shall be adjusted
in the following cases:
      (1)   Where 40% or more of the frontage on one side of a street between
two intersecting streets is developed and the buildings on this side of a block
have observed a front yard greater in depth than herein required, new buildings
shall not be erected closer to the street than the average front yard so
established by the existing buildings; provided that, no building shall be
required to have a front yard setback of more than 50 feet.
      (2)   Where 40% or more of the frontage on one side of a street between
two intersecting streets is developed with buildings that have a front yard
less than the required, new buildings shall not be erected closer to the street
than the nearest building on the block.
   (B)   Structural projections. The ordinary projections of chimneys and
flues, buttresses, eaves, overhangs, open-unenclosed steps or stoops up to five
feet in height may extend into required yards for a distance of not more than
two feet in the required side yard and not more than five feet in the required
front yard.
(Prior Code, § 11-411)  (Ord. 10-07, passed 7-23-2007; Ord. 22-07, passed 9-10-
2007)  Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.057  FENCES.
   Except as otherwise specifically provided in other codes and regulations,
the following regulations shall apply to the construction offenses.
   (A)   No fence shall be constructed which will constitute a traffic hazard.
   (B)   No fence shall be constructed in the manner or be of the design as to
be hazardous or dangerous to persons or animals.
   (C)   No fence in a residential district, except fences erected upon public
or parochial school grounds or in public parks and in public playgrounds, shall
be constructed of height greater than six feet; except in the required front
yard where no fence may be constructed of a height greater than four feet;
provided, however, that, the Board of Adjustment may, as an exception,
authorize the construction of a higher fence if the Board finds the public
welfare is preserved.
(Prior Code, § 11-411)  (Ord. 10-07, passed 7-23-2007; Ord. 22-07, passed 9-10-
2007)  Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.058  SATELLITE DISHES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to erect, install or maintain, either as
owner, agent or as contractor for the owner or otherwise, any parabolic type
television antennae, sometimes called a “satellite dish” until an inspection
permit shall have been issued by the City Clerk.
   (A)   Application for a permit shall be made at the City Clerk’s office on
forms provided by the City Clerk, furnishing information describing the
proposed antennae, its shape, dimensions and exact location. A fee as set by
the City Council shall be paid to the City Clerk.
   (B)   The antennae shall have no advertising thereon other than trademark.
It shall be mounted on a permanent concrete pad or on a permanent structure,
approved for the installation by the Building Inspector. Construction shall
meet the provisions of the Uniform Building Code, and shall be approved by the
Building Inspector.
   (C)   In all districts, the antennae shall be located in the back yard, no
closer than five feet to a property line.
   (D)   Small digital satellite dishes, 24 inches or less in diameter are
excluded from building permit requirements and may be located in a yard or on
any structure.
(Prior Code, § 11-411)  (Ord. 10-07, passed 7-23-2007; Ord. 22-07, passed 9-10-
2007)  Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.059  SIGHT TRIANGLE.
   On a corner lot in all districts, except C-1 Central Commercial District,
continuous unobstructed sight distance shall be provided for safe traffic
operations. No obstruction, including fences, hedges, walls, shrubbery or other
human-made of natural obstructions, shall exist between a height of two and
one-half and ten feet within sight triangle. The following diagrams depict
“sight triangles” in which obstructions are prohibited.
 
Collector and arterial streets 90 feet from centerline of intersecting streets
Local streets                  75 feet from centerline of intersecting street
 
(Prior Code, § 11-411)  (Ord. 10-07, passed 7-23-2007; Ord. 22-07, passed 9-10-
2007)  Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.060  HOME OCCUPATIONS.
   (A)   Restrictions and limitations. A home occupation may be carried on
within a dwelling unit under the following conditions.
      (1)   No person other than members of the family residing on the premises
shall be engaged in the occupation.
      (2)   The use of the dwelling unit for the one occupation shall be
clearly incidental and subordinate to its use for residential purposes by its
occupants. The maximum allowable area that may be utilized in conducting the
home occupation shall be equal to 25% of the floor area of the dwelling unit.
      (3)   There shall be no change in the outside appearance of the building
or premises or other visible evidence of the conduct of the home occupation
other than one sign, not exceeding two square foot in area, nonilluminated and
mounted flat against the wall of the principal building.
      (4)   An accessory building shall not be used for a home occupation.
      (5)   No traffic shall be generated by the home occupation in greater
volume than would normally be expected in a residential neighborhood, and any
need for parking generated by the conduct of the home occupation shall be met
off the street and other than in a required front yard.
      (6)   No equipment or process shall be used in the home occupation which
creates noise, vibration, glare, fumes, odors or electrical interference
detectable to the normal senses off the lot, if the occupation is conducted in
a single-family residence, or outside the dwelling unit if conducted in other
than a single-family residence. In the case of electrical interference, no
equipment or process shall be used which creates visual or audible interference
in any radio or television receivers off the premises or causes fluctuation in
the line voltage off the premises.
      (7)   No outdoor storage of materials or equipment used in the home
occupation shall be permitted.
      (8)   All home occupations must be registered on an application form
prescribed by the city and a permit must be received from the office of the
City Clerk upon approval of the Building Inspector on an annual basis. The
initial permit shall require a fee in the amount as set by resolution for the
permit. All annual renewals shall require a fee in the amount as set by
resolution. All home occupations must by registered by 2-1-1998.
   (B)   Particular home occupations permitted. Customary home occupations
include, but are not limited to, the following list of occupations; provided,
however, that, each listed occupation is subject to requirements of division
(A) above:
      (1)   Art, dancing and music schools; provided that, instruction is
limited to five pupils at one time;
      (2)   Professional offices for architects, engineers, planners, lawyers,
accountants, bookkeepers and similar professions;
      (3)   Offices for realtors, insurance agents, brokers, sales
representatives and manufacturing representatives when no exchange of tangible
goods is made on the premises;
      (4)   Radio, television, phonograph, recorder and all appliance repair
services;
      (5)   Home crafts and hobbies such as model making, rug weaving, lapidary
work, cabinet making and the like;
      (6)   Tailoring, alteration and seamstresses;
      (7)   Saw filing;
      (8)   Beauty parlor or barber services;
      (9)   Daycare facilities, providing for no more than six children
(excluding children residing at the property); and
      (10)   Bed and breakfast; provided, off-street parking is provided and no
more than four guests are allowed.
   (C)   Particular home occupations prohibited. Permitted home occupations
shall not in any event be deemed to include:
      (1)   Mortuaries or funeral homes;
      (2)   Restaurants;
      (3)   Stables or kennels;
      (4)   Antique shops;
      (5)   Physicians, dentist or other licensed medical practitioners;
      (6)   Auto repair; and
      (7)   Small engines/engine repair.
   (D)   Exception procedure. In the event a home occupation exceeds the
restrictions and limitations identified in division (A) above or is an
identified prohibited use in division (C) above, an applicant may apply for a
special use permit in conformance with §§
152.160 through
152.162.
(Prior Code, § 11-411)  (Ord. 10-07, passed 7-23-2007; Ord. 22-07, passed 9-10-
2007)  Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.061  TEMPORARY USES PERMITTED.
   (A)   Contractor’s office. Contractor’s office and equipment sheds
(containing no sleeping or cooking accommodations) accessory to a construction
project and to continue only during the duration of the project.
   (B)   Real estate office. Real estate offices (containing no sleeping or
cooking accommodations unless located in a model dwelling unit) incidental to a
new housing development to continue only until the sale or lease of all
dwelling units in the development.
   (C)   Seasonal sales. Seasonal sale of farm produce grown on the premises in
an agricultural district. Structures incidental to the sale need not comply
with the applicable front yard requirements if the structures are removed or
moved back of the required front yard setback line at the end of the season
during which they are used.
   (D)   Garage or yard sales. The sale of personal items on an infrequent
basis at a residential use. Sales shall be limited to no more than three days
in any one-month period and no more than three sales per year. Sales shall be
conducted on the owner’s or renter’s property and not on or within the public
right-of-way.
(Prior Code, § 11-411)  (Ord. 10-07, passed 7-23-2007; Ord. 22-07, passed 9-10-
2007)  Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.062  NEW WATER WELLS.
   (A)   No new water wells, except city wells, shall be drilled or constructed
within the zoning jurisdiction of the city.
   (B)   For a property that cannot be served by the city water system or by a
Rural Water District, an applicant may apply for a special use permit for a
single well per tract or lot; provided that, the well shall not be designed or
capable of producing more than 50 gallons of water per minute.
   (C)   An applicant may also seek a special use permit for replacement wells
and commercial or industrial wells, excluding irrigation wells, having more
than 50 gallons per minute capacity.
(Prior Code, § 11-411)  (Ord. 10-07, passed 7-23-2007; Ord. 22-07, passed 9-10-
2007)  Penalty, see §
152.999
CITY PLANNING
§ 152.075  SUBDIVISIONS AND ADDITIONS PERMITTED.
   The proprietor or proprietors of any land within the corporate limits of the
city, or of any land within the area designated as the city’s extraterritorial
jurisdiction pursuant to Neb. RS 17-1002, may lay out the land into lots,
blocks, streets, avenues, alleys and other grounds under the name of addition
to the city and may subdivide, plat or lay out any the land upon conformance to
and compliance with the conditions in this code and state law.
(Prior Code, § 11-120)  (Ord. 7-02, passed 7-8-2002)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 19-916
§ 152.076  SURVEY AND PLAT.
   (A)   The owner or proprietor of any tract or parcel of land who shall
subdivide the same into two or more parts for the purpose of laying out any
addition to the city or any part thereof, or suburban lots, shall cause a plat
of the subdivision, with references to known or permanent monuments, to be
made, which shall accurately describe all subdivisions of the tract or parcel
of land, numbering the same by progressive numbers, and giving the dimensions
and length and breadth thereof, and the breadth and courses of all streets and
alleys established therein.
   (B)   The map or plat of land within the corporate limits of the city or of
any land within the area designated as the city’s extraterritorial jurisdiction
pursuant to Neb. RS 17-1002 shall designate explicitly the land so laid out and
particularly describe the lots, blocks, streets, avenues, alleys and other
grounds belonging to the addition. The lots shall be designated by numbers, and
streets, avenues and other grounds, by names or numbers. The plat shall be
acknowledged before some other officer authorized to take the acknowledgments
of deeds, and shall contain a dedication of the streets, alleys and public
grounds therein to the use and benefit of the public, and have appended a
survey made by some competent surveyor with a certificate attached, certifying
that he or she has accurately surveyed the addition and that the lots, blocks,
streets, avenues, alleys, parks, commons and other grounds are well and
accurately staked off and marked. When the map or plat is so made out,
acknowledged and certified, and has been approved by the City Council, the same
shall be filed and recorded in the office of the Register of Deeds and County
Assessor.
(Prior Code, § 11-121)  (Ord. 7-02, passed 7-8-2002)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-415, 19-916
§ 152.077  ADDITIONS; INCORPORATION INTO CITY.
   All additions to the city laid out and previously located within the
corporate boundaries of the city shall remain a part of the city. All additions
laid out adjoining or contiguous to the corporate limits may be included within
the corporate limits and become a part of the city for all purposes whatsoever
at the time as the addition is approved as provided in Neb. RS 19-916. If the
City Council includes the addition within the corporate limits, the inhabitants
of the addition shall be entitled to all the rights and privileges and shall be
subject to all the laws, ordinances, rules and regulations of the city.
(Prior Code, § 11-122)  (Ord. 7-02, passed 7-8-2002)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 19-916
NONCONFORMING USES
§ 152.090  INTENT.
   (A)   Nonconformities are of three types: nonconforming lots of record,
nonconforming structures and nonconforming uses.
   (B)   A definition of each type is as follows.
      NONCONFORMING LOT OF RECORD. A lot which is part of a recorded
subdivision or a parcel of land, the deed to which was recorded prior to the
original adoption of zoning and/or subdivision regulations in the city, and
neither the lot nor parcel complies with the lot width or area requirements for
any permitted uses in the district in which it is located.
      NONCONFORMING STRUCTURE. An existing structure which does not comply with
the lot coverage, height or yard requirements which are applicable to new
structures in the zoning district in which it is located.
      NONCONFORMING USE. An existing use of a structure or of land which does
not comply with the use regulation applicable to new uses in the zoning
district in which it is located.
(Prior Code, § 11-201)
§ 152.091  LOTS OF RECORD.
   The Building Inspector may issue a building permit for any nonconforming lot
of record provided that:
   (A)   The lot is shown by a recorded plat or deed to have been owned
separately and individually from adjoining tracts of land at a time when the
creation of a lot of the size and width at the location would not have been
prohibited by any zoning regulations;
   (B)   The lot has remained in separate and individual ownership from
adjoining tracts of land continuously during the entire time that the creation
of the lot has been prohibited by any zoning regulations; and
   (C)   The lot can meet all yard regulations for the district in which it is
located.
(Prior Code, § 11-202)
§ 152.092  STRUCTURES.
   (A)   Authority to continue. Any structure which is devoted to a use which
is permitted in the zoning district in which it is located, but which is
located on a lot which does not comply with the applicable intensity of use
regulations and/or the applicable yard and height regulations, may be
continued, as long as it remains otherwise lawful.
   (B)   Enlargement, repair, alterations. Any nonconforming structure may be
enlarged, maintained, repaired, remodeled or rebuilt; provided, however, that,
no the enlargement, maintenance, repair or remodeling shall either create any
additional nonconformity or increase the degree of existing nonconformity of
all or any part of the structure. Notwithstanding the above, a porch which is
covered by a roof which extends into the front setback area may be enclosed but
not in excess of the area covered by the existing roof.
   (C)   Damage or destruction. In the event that any nonconforming structure
is damaged or destroyed, by any means, to the extent of more than 60% of its
structural value, the structure shall not be restored unless it shall
thereafter conform to the regulations for the zoning district in which it is
located. When a structure is damaged to the extent of 60% or less, no repairs
or restoration shall be made unless a building permit is obtained within six
months, and restoration is actually begun one year after the date of the
partial destruction and is diligently pursued to completion.
   (D)   Moving. No nonconforming structure shall be moved in whole or in part
for any distance whatever, to any other location on the same or any other lot
unless the entire structure shall thereafter conform to the regulations of the
zoning district in which it is located after being moved.
(Prior Code, § 11-204)  Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.093  AUTHORITY TO CONTINUE AND THE LIKE.
   (A)   Generally. Any lawfully existing nonconforming use of part or all of a
structure or any lawfully existing nonconforming use of land, not involving a
structure or only involving a structure which is accessory to the use or land,
may be continued, so long as otherwise lawful.
   (B)   Ordinary repair and maintenance.
      (1)   Normal maintenance and incidental repair, or replacement,
installation or relocation of nonbearing walls, nonbearing partitions,
fixtures, wiring or plumbing, may be performed on any structure that is devoted
in whole or in part to a nonconforming use.
      (2)   Nothing in these regulations shall be deemed to prevent the
strengthening or restoring to a safe condition of a structure in accordance
with an order of public official who is charged with protecting the public
safety who declares the structure to be unsafe and orders its restoration to a
safe condition.
   (C)   Extension. A nonconforming use shall not be extended, expanded,
enlarged or increased in intensity. The prohibited activities shall include,
without being limited to, the extension of the use to any structure or land
area other than that occupied by the nonconforming use on the effective date of
these regulations (or on the effective date of subsequent amendments hereto
that cause the use to become nonconforming).
   (D)   Enlargement. No structure that is devoted in whole or in part to a
nonconforming use shall be enlarged or added to in any manner unless the
structure and the use thereof shall thereafter conform to the regulations of
the district in which it is located.
   (E)   Damage or destruction. In the event that any commercial or industrial
structure that is devoted in whole or in part to a nonconforming use is damaged
or destroyed, by any means, no repairs or restoration shall be made unless a
building permit is obtained within six months and restoration is actually begun
within one year after the date of the partial destruction and is diligently
pursued to completion. When a residential structure is damaged to the extent of
60% or more, no repairs or restoration shall be made unless the use is in
conformance with these regulations.
   (F)   Moving. No structure that is devoted in whole or in part to a
nonconforming use and no nonconforming use of land shall be moved in whole or
in part for any distance whatever, to any location on the same or any other
lot, unless the entire structure and the use thereof or the use of land shall
thereafter conform to all regulations of the zoning district in which it is
located after being so moved.
   (G)   Change in state.
      (1)   If no external structural alterations are made which will expand
the area or change the dimensions of the existing structure, any nonconforming
use of a structure, or structure and premises, may be changed to another
nonconforming use; provided that, the City Council after receiving a
recommendation from the Planning Commission, by making findings in the specific
case, shall find that the proposed use is more appropriate to the district than
the existing nonconforming use.
      (2)   More appropriate shall mean creating less traffic, noise, glare,
odor or other characteristics of the proposed use.
      (3)   In permitting the change, the City Council may require appropriate
conditions and safeguards to protect surrounding areas and properties.
      (4)   Once the use has changed, it may no longer be returned to the
original use or any other less appropriate use.
   (H)   Abandonment or discontinuance. When a nonconforming use is
discontinued or abandoned, for a period of 12 consecutive months, the use shall
not thereafter be re-established or resumed, and any subsequent use or
occupancy of the land shall comply with the regulations of the zoning district
in which the land is located.
   (I)   Nonconforming accessory uses. No use which is accessory to a principal
nonconforming use shall continue after the principal use shall cease or
terminate.
   (J)   Nonconforming residential uses. Any structure which is devoted to
residential uses which is located in a business or industrial district, may be
remodeled, extended, expanded and enlarged up to 40% of the present residential
structure, but not rebuilt; provided that, after any the remodeling, the
structure shall not be used to accommodate a greater number of dwelling or
lodging units than the structure accommodated prior to any the work.
   (K)   Storage. The storage of unlicensed vehicles, trailers or salvaged or
junked materials not in conformance with these regulations shall be
discontinued, and the vehicles or salvaged or junked materials shall be removed
within three months after the effective date of the zoning regulations.
(Prior Code, § 11-204)
§ 152.094  STATUS OF SPECIAL PERMITTED OR CONDITIONAL USES.
   (A)   Status of existing permitted or conditional uses. Where a use exists
at the effective or passage date of these regulations and is permitted by these
regulations only as a special or conditional use in the zoning district in
which it is located, the use shall not be deemed to be a nonconforming use, but
shall, without further action, be deemed a lawful conforming use in the zoning
district, as provided by prior approval.
   (B)   Status of future special permitted or conditional uses. Any use for
which a special or conditional use permit has been issued, as provided in these
regulations, shall not be deemed to be a nonconforming use, but shall, without
further action, be deemed a lawful conforming use.
(Prior Code, § 11-205)
§ 152.095  FORMER VARIANCES AS NONCONFORMITY.
   Any variance from the requirements of a zoning district granted by the Board
of Adjustment under the provision of any previous or existing zoning ordinance
of the city shall not be considered a nonconforming use, structure or land
unless the variance would not be necessary to comply with these regulations.
(Prior Code, § 11-206)
SIGNS
§ 152.110  GENERAL REQUIREMENT SIGNS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to erect, move, alter, change,
repair, place, suspend or cause or permit to be erected, moved, altered,
changed, repaired, placed, suspended or attached any sign in violation of this
chapter.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to fasten, paste,
place, post, paint or attach in any way any sign, handbill, poster,
advertisement or notice of any kind or sort, whether political or otherwise, or
to cause the same to he done, in or upon any curbstone, lamp post, telephone,
telegraph or electric light pole, tree or bridge. It shall be unlawful to
paste, place, paint or attach any sign on any building, street or property of
the city; provided, however, that any property owner or the occupant of any
property abutting on any public street in the city or the planning area may
paint or stamp the address of the property upon the curbing directly in front
of the building or to have same painted thereon.
(Prior Code, § 11-502)  Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.111  DISTRICT SIGN REGULATIONS.
   Signs shall be permitted in the various districts as follows:
   (A)   Sign regulations for AGR, R-1, R-2, R-3 and R-4.
      (1)   Nonilluminated nameplates subject to the following restrictions:
         (a)   The nameplate shall not exceed two square feet in area;
         (b)   The nameplate shall show only the name and/or address of the
occupant;
         (c)   There shall be no more than one nameplate for each dwelling
unit; and
         (d)   The nameplate shall be affixed to the principal building, flat
against the wall.
      (2)   In the R-2, R-3 and MR-4M districts, multiple-family dwellings
shall be allowed:
         (a)   One on-premise wall sign or ground sign, not to exceed ten
square feet of sign area, nonilluminated and nonreflecting, identifying the
name and use of the building; and
         (b)   One on-premise wall sign or ground sign, not to exceed one
square foot in sign area, nonilluminated and nonreflecting, identifying the
quarters of an on-premise building manager or custodian.
      (3)   In the AGR, R-1, R-2, R-3 and R-4 Districts, bed and breakfast
guest homes shall be allowed:
         (a)   Only one sign per establishment;
         (b)   Sign shall be nonilluminated;
         (c)   Sign face shall not exceed three square feet;
         (d)   Sign shall be located no closer than five feet from any property
line and shall not obstruct the view of traffic approaching a street
intersection nor extend onto public right-of-way;
         (e)   A wall or projecting sign affixed to a building shall not have
the top of the sign project higher than ten feet from grade; and
         (f)   Freestanding or pole signs shall not exceed four feet in height
from the top of the sign to grade.
      (4)   Nonilluminated “For Sale” and “For Rent” single-or double-faced
business signs subject to the following regulations.
         (a)   Only one sign shall be permitted per lot.
         (b)   No sign shall exceed four square feet in area.
         (c)   Signs shall be located no closer than five feet from any
property line and shall not obstruct the view of traffic approaching a street
intersection.
         (d)   When the sign is affixed to a building, it shall not project
higher than ten feet above the ground level.
         (e)   Ground signs shall not project higher than four feet above
ground grade.
      (5)   Bulletin boards and signs for churches and other public
institutions subject to the following regulations.
         (a)   One sign or bulletin board shall be permitted on each street
side if located on the same site as the principal building.
         (b)   If the sign or bulletin board is illuminated, the lights shall
be directed away from adjoining residential uses.
         (c)   No sign or bulletin board shall exceed 20 square feet in area.
         (d)   No sign shall be located closer than eight feet from any side or
rear property line.
         (e)   A sign or bulletin board located in the front yard shall be no
closer to the street line than one-half the required front yard.
         (f)   A sign or bulletin board, affixed to a building, shall not
project higher than ten feet above the ground level.
         (g)   Ground signs shall be permanently anchored to the ground and
shall not exceed a height of six feet above normal grade.
         (h)   Buildings constructed on the property line prior to the adoption
of this chapter shall be allowed one identification sign providing the sign is
a flat wall sign and permanently attached to the building.
         (i)   On corner lots, no sign shall be constructed or located that
will obstruct the view of traffic approaching the street intersection.
   (B)   Sign regulations for the C-1 Central Commercial District. Where
buildings or structures are established or are hereafter established on the
property line, in C-1 District, advertising and business signs shall conform
with the following requirements, providing they are constructed and maintained
in accordance with the Building Code of the city.
      (1)   The business sign shall be affixed flat against the face of the
building or the front edge of a marquee and shall not extend more than six feet
from the building line into the front yard.
      (2)   The front edge of the marquee shall be considered that portion of
the marquee which is parallel to the street.
      (3)   There may be one pole sign located in the front yard for every lot
or each 25 feet of street frontage and there shall not be more than two signs
for each business.
      (4)   Where a sign is illuminated by light directed upon it, the direct
rays of light shall not beam upon any part of existing residential district.
      (5)   Lighted signs in direct vision of traffic shall not be in red,
green or amber illumination.
      (6)   Flashing signs shall be allowed only upon approval of the Building
Official; provided, it is first determined that the sign will in no way create
a traffic hazard or confusion with traffic lights or with lights on emergency
vehicles.
      (7)   The gross surface area, in square feet, on one side of any side of
an advertising or business sign shall not exceed three times the lineal feet of
separate frontage of the lot occupied by the building; each side of the lot
which abuts upon a street shall be considered as a separate frontage, and the
gross surface area of all signs located on each side of a building shall not
exceed three times the lineal feet in the separate frontage. The total surface
area shall not exceed 400 square feet for each face of the sign.
      (8)   Any sign located within three feet of a driveway or parking area or
within 50 feet of the intersection of two or more streets shall have the lowest
elevations at least ten feet above the curb level.
      (9)   Advertising signs shall only be affixed flat against the face of a
building.
   (C)   Sign regulations for C-R Commercial Residential District. Business and
advertising signs (single or double face) shall be allowed in C-R Districts
subject to the following.
      (1)   Outdoor advertising signs shall not extend more than six feet from
the building line into the front yard.
      (2)   In the front yard, there may be one other sign for each lot or each
50 feet of street frontage and there shall not be more than two for each
business.
      (3)   Flashing signs are not permitted in C-R Districts within 75 feet of
a residential district zone.
      (4)   Non-flashing signs shall be permitted; providing that, where the
sign is illuminated, direct rays of light shall not beam upon any residential
building or into any street.
      (5)   Lighted signs in direct vision of a traffic signal shall not be in
red, green or amber illumination.
      (6)   The gross surface area, in square feet, on one side of any business
sign on a lot shall not exceed three times the lineal feet of frontage of the
building; each side of a lot which abuts upon a street shall be considered as a
separate frontage, and the gross surface area of all signs located on each side
of a structure shall not exceed three times the lineal feet in the separate
frontage. The total surface area shall not exceed 400 square feet for each face
of the sign.
      (7)   Any sign located within three feet of a driveway or parking area or
within 50 feet of the intersection of two or more streets shall have its lowest
elevation at least ten feet above curb level.
      (8)   A maximum of three signs (only one on a facade) shall be allowed
for a business or profession conducted on the premises.
      (9)   No sign shall be permitted in or overhanging the road, street or
alley right-of-way and no sign shall be located in a manner to constitute a
traffic hazard.
      (10)   Sandwich board signs may be allowed providing the sign is
permanently affixed to the surface on which it rests.
      (11)   Advertising signs and billboards shall conform to the provisions
specified.
   (D)   Sign regulations for M Industrial District. No signs shall be allowed
in the M Industrial District, except those in conformance with the following:
      (1)   Shall be limited to one sign on each street frontage of a lot;
      (2)   Flashing or intermittently illuminated signs shall be prohibited;
      (3)   Nonflashing signs shall be permitted; providing that, where the
sign is illuminated by a light or lights reflected upon it, direct rays of
lights shall not beam upon any residential building, or into any residential
district or into any street;
      (4)   Lighted signs in direct vision of a traffic signal shall not be in
red, green or amber illumination;
      (5)   The gross surface area, in square feet on one side of any business
sign on a lot shall not exceed one square foot for each lineal foot of street
frontage of the building; each side of a lot which abuts upon a street shall be
considered as a separate frontage;
      (6)   Any sign located within three feet of a driveway or parking area or
within 50 feet of the intersection of two or more streets shall have its lowest
elevation at least ten feet above curb level;
      (7)   Signs within 50 feet of a residential district shall be affixed to
or be a part of the building;
      (8)   A maximum of two signs (only one on a facade) shall be allowed for
a business or profession conducted on the premises; and
      (9)   No sign shall project over any alley, road, street or highway
right-of-way.
   (E)   General regulations.
      (1)   In any zoning district, a subdivision promotion sign for the
original sale of lots shall be permitted in conformance with the following
requirements.
         (a)   The original subdivision must include a minimum of five acres.
         (b)   Only one non-illuminated sign shall be permitted.
         (c)   The gross square footage of the sign shall not exceed 75 square
feet in area.
      (2)   In any zoning district, one temporary sign shall be permitted at a
construction site to identify the nature of the construction and those persons
or firms associated with it, including contractors, architects, finance
companies and owners. The sign shall not exceed 16 square feet in area when
located in residential districts. In any other zoning districts, the signs
shall not exceed 40 square feet of area, and shall be removed within 15 days of
completion of project.
      (3)   Banners or mobile or temporary signs will be permitted in the C-
1 and C-R Districts if they conform to the following provisions.
         (a)   The sign must only identify special sales and/or openings.
         (b)   The sign must be located on the premises of the commercial
establishments for no more than 60 days in any calendar year.
         (c)   The gross square footage of the sign shall not exceed 60 square
feet in area.
         (d)   The sign shall not exceed ten feet in height.
      (4)   Non-illuminated “For Sale” and “For Rent” signs shall be permitted
in the C-1, C-R and M Districts if they conform to the following provisions.
         (a)   Only one sign shall be permitted per lot or structure.
         (b)   No sign shall exceed 32 square feet in area.
         (c)   Signs shall be located no closer than five feet from any
property line and shall not obstruct the view of traffic approaching a street
intersection.
         (d)   When the sign is affixed to a building, it shall not project
higher than ten feet above ground level.
         (e)   Ground signs shall not project higher than four feet above
ground grade.
(Prior Code, § 11-503)  Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.112  PERMITS AND FEES REQUIRED.
   (A)   A permit shall be required for the erection, construction or
alteration of any sign in the city and the planning area.
   (B)   Application for permits by other than the property owner shall be
accompanied, in each instance, by either a letter authorizing the placement of
a sign on the land or building, signed by the owner or his or her duly
authorized agent, or accompanied by a lease showing the right of the applicant.
The application shall conform to the regulations herein provided and no
signboard shall be erected or painted on any area until the application is
acted upon and granted.
   (C)   A fee as determined by resolution of the City Council.
   (D)   If a sign, for which a permit is granted, is not erected within 60
days from the date of the permit, the permit shall, unless renewed, become
void.
   (E)   Advertising painted or placed on a structure shall be deemed subject
to these regulations if permanent.
   (F)   All signs shall be constructed, located and placed in accordance with
local ordinances and the laws of the state.
   (G)   Permits are issued for the life of the sign so long as it is kept in
good condition, and changing conditions do not make it a hazard or undesirable
to adjoining property owners. In the case, the city may direct its removal.
   (H)   For sale signs as indicated in §
152.111 shall be excluded from permit and fee requirements.
(Prior Code, § 11-504)  Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.113  NONCONFORMING SIGNS.
   The lawful use of land for advertising, business signs or bulletin boards
which are not installed or maintained in accordance with this subchapter and
other city, county, state and federal requirements pertaining to construction,
location and size which existed prior to the effective date of this chapter,
shall be removed within 15 days after the sign becomes obsolete due to
construction deterioration or when the advertised business, service or event
ceases operation.
(Prior Code, § 11-505)
§ 152.114  REMOVAL OF SIGNS.
   All signs be removed within 15 days when a business ceases operation. This
includes advertising, sandwich, business, billboard, pole, temporary and mobile
signs. Signs located on vacant buildings shall be removed by the property owner
or his or her authorized agent within 15 days after the premises are vacated.
(Prior Code, § 11-506)  Penalty, see §
152.999
FAIR HOUSING
§ 152.125  PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to promote the general welfare of the
residents of the city by endorsing the provisions of the State Fair Housing
Act, Neb. RS 20-301 through 20-344, to the effect that there shall be no
discrimination in the city, in the acquisition, ownership, possession or
enjoyment of housing in accordance with Article 1, § 25, of the Constitution of
the state.
(Prior Code, § 11-112)  (Ord. 7-92, passed 8-3-1992)
§ 152.126  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AGGRIEVED PERSON. Any person who:
      (1)   Claims to have been injured by a discriminatory housing practice;
or
      (2)   Believes that he or she will be injured by a discriminatory housing
practice that is about to occur.
   COMMISSION. The State Equal Opportunity Commission.
   DWELLING. Any building, structure or portion thereof which is occupied as or
designed or intended for occupancy as a residence for one or more families and
any vacant land which is offered for sale or lease for the construction or
location thereon of any the building, structure or portion thereof.
   FAMILIAL STATUS. One or more minors being domiciled with:
      (1)   A parent or another person having legal custody of the individual;
or
      (2)   The designee of a parent or other person having legal custody, with
written permission of the parent or other person.
   HANDICAP. With respect to a person:
      (1)   A physical or mental impairment, excluding the current illegal use
of or addiction to a controlled substance, as defined in Neb. RS 28-401, which
substantially limits one or more of the person’s major life activities;
      (2)   A record of having an impairment; or
      (3)   Being regarded as having an impairment.
   PERSON. One or more individuals, corporations, partnerships, associations,
labor organizations, legal representatives, mutual companies, joint-stock
companies, trusts, unincorporated organizations, trustees, trustees in
bankruptcy, receivers and fiduciaries.
   RENT. Lease, sublease, let and otherwise grant for consideration the right
to occupy premises not owned by the occupant.
   RESTRICTIVE COVENANT. Any specification limiting the transfer, rental, or
lease of any housing because of race, creed, religion, color, national origin,
sex, handicap, familial status or ancestry.
(Prior Code, § 11-113)  (Ord. 7-92, passed 8-3-1992)
§ 152.127  UNLAWFUL ACTS.
   (A)   Except as exempted by §
152.131, it shall be unlawful to:
      (1)   Refuse to sell or rent after the making of a bona fide offer,
refuse to negotiate for the sale or rental of or otherwise make unavailable or
deny, refuse to show, or refuse to receive and transmit an offer for a dwelling
to any person because of race, color, religion, national origin, familial
status or sex;
      (2)   Discriminate against any person in the terms, conditions or
privileges of sale or rental of a dwelling or in the provision of  services or
facilities in connection therewith because of race, color religion, national
origin, familial status or sex;
      (3)   Make, print, publish or cause to be made, printed or published any
notice, statement or advertisement with respect to the sale or rental of a
dwelling that indicates any preference, limitation or discrimination based on
race, color, religion, national origin, handicap, familial status or sex or an
intention to make any the preference, limitation or discrimination;
      (4)   Represent to any person because of race, color, religion, national
origin, handicap, familial status or sex that any dwelling is not available for
inspection, sale or rental when the dwelling is in fact so available;
      (5)   Cause to be made any written or oral inquiry or record concerning
the race, color, religion, national origin, handicap, familial status or sex of
a person seeking to purchase, rent or lease any housing;
      (6)   Include in any transfer, sale, rental or lease of housing any
restrictive covenants or honor or exercise or attempt to honor or exercise any
restrictive covenant pertaining to housing;
      (7)   Discharge or demote an employee or agent or discriminate in the
compensation of the employee or agent because of the employee’s compliance with
this subchapter or the State Fair Housing Act; and/or
      (8)   Induce or attempt to induce, for profit, any person to sell or rent
any dwelling by representations regarding the entry or prospective entry into
the neighborhood of a person or persons of a particular race, color, religion,
national origin, handicap, familial status or sex.
   (B)   The protections afforded against discrimination on the basis of
familial status shall apply to any person who is pregnant or is in the process
of securing legal custody of any minor.
(Prior Code, § 11-114)  (Ord. 7-92, passed 8-3-1992)  Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.128  HANDICAPPED PERSON; DISCRIMINATORY PRACTICES PROHIBITED; DESIGN AND
CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS.
   (A)   Except as exempted by §
152.131, it shall be unlawful to:
      (1)   Discriminate in the sale or rental of or otherwise make unavailable
or deny a dwelling to any buyer or renter because of a handicap of:
         (a)   The buyer or renter;
         (b)   Any person associated with the buyer or renter; or
         (c)   A person residing in or intending to reside in the dwelling
after it is so sold, rented or made available.
      (2)   Discriminate against any person in the  terms, conditions or
privileges of sale or rental of a dwelling or in the provision of services or
facilities in connection with a dwelling because of a handicap of:
         (a)   The person;
         (b)   Any person associated with the person; or
         (c)   A person residing in or intending to reside in the dwelling
after it is so sold, rented or made available.
   (B)   For purposes of this section, discrimination shall include:
      (1)   A refusal to permit, at the expense of the handicapped person
reasonable modifications of existing premises occupied or to be occupied by the
person if the modifications may be necessary to afford the person full
enjoyment of the premises, except that in the case of rental, the landlord may,
when it is reasonable to do so, condition permission for a modification on the
renter agreeing to restore the interior of the premises to the condition that
existed before the modification, reasonable wear and tear excepted;
      (2)   A refusal to make reasonable accommodations in rules, policies,
practices, or services when the accommodations may be necessary to afford the
handicapped person equal opportunity to use or enjoy a dwelling; and
      (3)   In connection with the design and construction of covered multi-
family dwellings for first occupancy after 9-1-1991, a failure to design and
construct the dwellings in the a manner that:
         (a)   The public use and common use portions of the dwelling are
readily accessible to and usable by handicapped persons;
         (b)   All the doors designed to allow passage into and within all
premises within the dwellings are sufficiently wide to allow passage by
handicapped persons in wheelchairs; and
         (c)   All premises within the dwellings contain the following features
of adaptive design:
            1.   An accessible route into and through the dwelling;
            2.   Light switches, electrical outlets, thermostats and other
environmental controls in accessible locations;
            3.   Reinforcements in bathroom walls to allow later installation
of grab bars;
            4.   Kitchens and bathrooms the that a handicapped person in a
wheelchair can maneuver about the space; and
            5.   Compliance with the appropriate requirements of the American
National Standards Institute standard for buildings and facilities providing
accessibility and usability for physically handicapped people. ANSI A117.1,
shall satisfy the requirements hereof.
   (C)   For purposes of this section, COVERED MULTI-FAMILY DWELLINGS shall
mean:
      (1)   Buildings consisting of four or more units if the buildings have
one or more elevators; and
      (2)   Ground floor units in other buildings consisting of four or more
units.
   (D)   Nothing in this section shall require that a dwelling be made
available to an individual whose tenancy would constitute a direct threat to
the health or safety of other individuals or whose tenancy would result in
substantial physical damage to the property of others.
(Prior Code, § 11-115)  (Ord. 7-92, passed 8-3-1992)  Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.129  TRANSACTION RELATED TO RESIDENTIAL REAL ESTATE; DISCRIMINATORY
PRACTICES PROHIBITED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person or other entity whose business
includes engaging in transactions related to residential real estate to
discriminate against any person in making available the transaction because of
race, color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status or national origin.
   (B)   For purposes of this section, TRANSACTION RELATED TO RESIDENTIAL REAL
ESTATE shall mean any of the following:
      (1)   The making or purchasing of loans or providing other financial
assistance:
         (a)   For  purchasing, constructing, improving, repairing or
maintaining a dwelling; or
         (b)   Secured by residential real estate.
      (2)   The selling, brokering or appraising of residential real property;
and/or
      (3)   Nothing in this section shall prohibit a person engaged in the
business of furnishing appraisals of real property from taking into
consideration factors other than race, color, religion, national origin,
handicap, familial status or sex.
(Prior Code, § 11-116)  (Ord. 7-92, passed 8-3-1992)  Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.130  MULTIPLE LISTING SERVICE; OTHER SERVICE; DISCRIMINATORY PRACTICES
PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful to deny any person access to or membership or
participation in any multiple listing service, real estate brokers organization
or other service, organization or facility relating to the business of selling
or renting dwellings or to discriminate against any person in the terms or
conditions of the access, membership or participation on account of race,
color, religion, national origin, handicap, familial status or sex.
(Prior Code, § 11-117)  (Ord. 7-92, passed 8-3-1992)  Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.131  RELIGIOUS ORGANIZATION; PRIVATE HOME, PRIVATE CLUB OR HOUSING FOR
OLDER PERSONS; RESTRICTING USE NOT PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Nothing in this subchapter shall prohibit a religious organization,
association or society or any nonprofit institution or organization operated,
supervised or controlled by or in conjunction with a religious organization,
association or society from limiting the sale, rental or occupancy of a
dwelling which it owns or operates for other than commercial purposes to
persons of the same religion or from giving preferences to the persons unless
membership in the religion is restricted on account of race, color, national
origin, handicap, familial status or sex.
   (B)   Nothing in this subchapter shall prohibit a private club not in fact
open to the public, which as an incident to its primary purpose or purposes
provides lodgings which it owns or operates for other than commercial purposes,
from limiting the rental or occupancy of the lodging to its members or from
giving preference to its members.
   (C)   Nothing in this subchapter shall prohibit or limit the right of any
person or his or her authorized representative to refuse to rent a room or
rooms in his or her own home for any reason or for no reason or to change
tenants in his or her own home as often as desired, except that the exception
shall not apply to any person who makes available for rental or occupancy more
than four sleeping rooms to a person or family within his or her home.
   (D)   Nothing in this subchapter regarding familial status shall apply with
respect to housing for older persons. For purposes of this division, HOUSING
FOR OLDER PERSONS shall mean housing:
      (1)   Provided under any state program that the commission determines is
specifically designed and operated to assist elderly persons or defined in the
program;
      (2)   Intended for and solely occupied by persons 62 years of age or
older; or
      (3)   Intended and operated for occupancy by at least one person 55 years
of age or older per unit.
(Prior Code, § 11-118)  (Ord. 7-92, passed 8-3-1992)  Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.132  INFORMATION.
   The City Clerk upon request shall make available to an aggrieved person, or
any other person, information regarding the State Fair Housing Act and the
State Equal Opportunity Commission without cost to the individual.
(Prior Code, § 11-119)  (Ord. 7-92, passed 8-3-1992)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 20-301 through 20-322
OFF-STREET PARKING AND LOADING
§ 152.145  REQUIREMENTS.
   The following off-street parking requirements and spaces are hereby
established and required for all new construction for which building permits
are required for new structures. The requirements shall be and constitute the
minimum off-street parking or loading requirements and shall not prevent the
City Council from requiring additional parking spaces for new structures if the
minimum off-street parking requirements are insufficient to provide adequate
parking of vehicles. Off-street parking requirements will not apply to the
renovation/rehabilitation of existing structures in the C-1 Central Commercial
District.
                    Minimum Off-Street Parking    Minimum Off-Street Loading
Uses and Structures Requirements (applicable in   Requirements (applicable in
                    all zoning districts to the   all districts to the uses or
                    uses or structures indicated) structures indicated
                          Minimum Off-Street Parking Minimum Off-Street Loading
                          Requirements (applicable   Requirements (applicable
Uses and Structures       in all zoning districts to in all districts to the
                          the uses or structures     uses or structures
                          indicated)                 indicated
All other educational     Parking spaces equal to
services                  40% of capacity of         2 spaces per structure
                          students
Bed and breakfast guest   1 space per 2 rental guest None required
home                      rooms
Bowling alleys            4 spaces per alley         1 space per establishment
Child care centers        1 space per employee       1 space per 10 children
Churches, synagogues and  1 space per 4 seats in     None required
temples                   main unit of worship
                          1 space for every 4
Domestic shelters         residents, plus 1 space    None required
                          per 2 employees
Eating and drinking       Parking spaces equal to    2 spaces per establishment
places                    30% of capacity in persons
Funeral homes and chapels 8 spaces per reposing room 2 spaces per establishment
Hospitals                 1 space per 2 beds         3 spaces per structure
Hotels                    1 space per each rental    1 space per establishment
                          unit
Libraries                 1 space per 500 sq. ft. of 1 space per structure
                          floor area
Lodging and boarding      1 space per each rental    None required
houses                    unit
Medical clinics           5 spaces per staff doctor  None required
                          or dentist
Mobile home park          2 spaces per dwelling unit None required
Motels                    1 space per each rental    None required
                          unit
Nursery and primary       Parking spaces equal to
educational services      20% of capacity of         2 spaces per structure
                          students
Private clubs and lodges  1 space per 3 seats        1 space per establishment
Residential structures
(including mobile home    2 spaces per dwelling unit None required
dwellings and multiple-
family dwellings)
Retail sales              1 space per 200 sq. ft. of 1 space per establishment
establishments            gross floor area
Roadside stands           4 spaces per establishment None required
Sanitariums, convalescent 1 space per 3 beds plus 1  1 space per establishment
and rest home services    space per employee
Service establishment     1 space per 200 sq. ft. of
(including office         gross floor area           1 space per establishment
buildings)
Theaters, auditoriums and 1 space per 3 people in    1 space per establishment
places of assembly        designed capacity
Uses permitted by virtue
of complying with the     1 space per 2 employees on 2 spaces per establishment
industrial performance    largest shift
standards
Veterinary establishments 3 spaces per staff doctor  None required
Wholesaling and           1 space per 2 employees on 2 spaces per establishment
distribution operations   largest shift
 
   (B)   The following general conditions shall apply, except as otherwise
noted in this subchapter.
      (1)   Parking spaces are permitted in the required front and rear yards
in all districts and may be permitted in the adjacent unpaved right-of-way,
subject to approval by the City Council.
      (2)   No parking space is permitted in the required side yard.
      (3)   All required parking spaces shall be provided on the same lot as
the use for which they are required.
      (4)   Any parking requirement resulting in a partial parking space shall
be rounded up to the next whole number.
(Prior Code, § 11-1201)
§ 152.146  BUILDING PERMITS.
   No building permit for new structures shall be granted unless the minimum
parking and minimum loading requirements as set forth in §
152.145 are met and provided for in the plan or plans and specifications for
the construction of the structure for which the building permit is applied. The
Council may require additional parking and loading space requirements if the
minimum parking and loading requirements set forth are insufficient for the
structure for which the building permit is applied for and may require that the
plan or plans and specifications for each new structure provide for the
additional off-street parking or loading requirements in addition to the
minimum off-street parking and loading requirements set forth in §
152.145. All parking spaces shall be at least 19 feet by eight feet, six
inches, in size and be provided adequate driveways.
(Prior Code, § 11-1202)
§ 152.147  ON STREETS.
   Where the site of any new construction of any structure for which a building
permit has been applied for is located on any street of the platted width of
not less than 80 feet and the site of the structure to be built borders or
adjoins the street, the Council may permit off-street parking between curb or
outside ditch line and the sidewalk or property line; provided, the street is
not an arterial or collector street as designated in the Comprehensive Plan,
and the parking is not located in the sight triangle as defined by these
regulations. In granting the permit, the Council may specify the requirements
as to the construction of the off-street parking as in its determination will
provide an adequate and proper off-street parking facility.
(Prior Code, § 11-1203)
§ 152.148  PARKING LOTS.
   Parking lots consisting of 12 or more parking spaces located in any zoning
district, except for nonpermanent lots that are allowed for no more than a
period of two years, and lots for the purpose of sale, resale or servicing of
vehicles shall be constructed in accordance with the following requirements.
   (A)   Design standards. All parking lots authorized by this chapter shall be
constructed pursuant to and in conformance with the design standards adopted by
the city and on file with the City Clerk.
   (B)   Entrances and exits. The location and design of all entrances and
exits shall be subject to the approval of the city.
   (C)   Lighting. If lighting is used to illuminate parking lots, it shall be
so arranged as to reflect lighting away from the adjacent properties and public
street.
   (D)   Signs. Only one sign, not to exceed three square feet in area and not
located on public right-of-way, is permitted at each entrance and/or exit
designating that entrance or exit and may state conditions of use of the
parking lot. No other signs except as otherwise permitted in the zoning
district shall be permitted, except for signs for parking spaces for the
handicapped.
   (E)   Waiver of surfacing requirement. Upon application to the City Council,
the owner of a parking lot may be relieved of the surfacing requirements of
this section if the Council finds:
      (1)   The parking lot is:
         (a)   To be used in conjunction with nonprofit, religious, educational
or philanthropic institution; and
         (b)   In excess of the parking required by the provisions of this
chapter and not paid parking or used for employee parking and located wholly
within an industrial district.
      (2)   Alternative materials or techniques shall be utilized which provide
reasonable control of dust, runoffs and safe circulation; and
      (3)   (a)   The location of the parking lot is a sufficient distance from
surrounding uses that it will not adversely affect the surrounding uses; or
         (b)   The frequency of use of the parking lot is so low that
compliance with the surfacing requirement would cause undue hardship upon the
owner as compared with minimal impact upon surrounding uses.
(Prior Code, § 11-1204)
SPECIAL EXCEPTION USES
§ 152.160  PURPOSE.
   The City Council may authorize by special permit after public hearing, any
of the following buildings or uses designated in this chapter as special
exception uses. Any conditional use permit may be authorized by the City
Council in the same manner as special exception uses.
(Prior Code, § 11-701)
§ 152.161  PROCEDURE.
   (A)   The applicant for a special exception use permit shall submit at least
four copies of a site plan for the proposed use. The site plan shall show the
location of all existing and proposed buildings, landscaping, parking areas and
individual spaces, points of egress and ingress, fencing, lot dimensions,
adjoining streets and structures, and all water courses and flood designated
areas. Upon receipt of the application, the Zoning Administrator shall forward
the application to the Planning Commission for its recommendation. Upon
hearing, the Planning Commission shall forward its recommendation to the City
Council, as soon as is practicable. Upon hearing, the City Council may allow or
deny the application in whole or in part, or prescribe conditions for the use
of the property. No special exception use permit shall become effective until
after separate public hearings are held by both the Planning Commission and the
City Council in relation thereto, at which parties in interest and citizens
shall have an opportunity to be heard. Notice of the purpose, time and place of
the hearing shall be given by publication thereof in a paper of general
circulation.
   (B)   In addition to the publication of the notice herein prescribed, a
notice of the purpose, time and place of the hearing shall be posted in a
conspicuous place on or near the property on which the action is pending. The
notice shall be placed at least ten days prior to the date of each hearing. If
the record title owners of any lots included in the proposed change be
nonresidents of the city, then a written notice of the hearing shall be mailed
by certified mail to them addressed to their last known address at least ten
days prior to the hearing.
(Prior Code, § 11-702)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 19-904, 19-905
§ 152.162  STANDARDS.
   The City Council and the Planning Commission in considering an application
for a special exception use may consider, among other things, the most
appropriate use of the land; the conservation and stabilization of the value of
property; adequate open space for light and air; concentration of population;
congestion of public streets; and the promotion of public safety, health,
convenience and comfort. The City Council, upon recommendation of the Planning
Commission, may stipulate and require the conditions and restrictions upon the
special exception use and operation deemed necessary for the protection of the
public interest and to secure compliance with this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 11-703)
PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENTS
§ 152.175  DEFINITION; PLAN; INTENTION.
   (A)   The owner or owners of any tract of land, comprising an area of not
less than two acres for residential development, four acres for a commercial
development or ten acres for an industrial development located in any zoning
district, may submit a plan for the total development of the area in accordance
with the following standards and requirements as a planned unit development.
   (B)   The Planned Unit Development (PUD) District is intended to permit
private or public development or redevelopment of areas throughout the city
which shall be substantially in accordance with goals and objectives of the
comprehensive plan for the city. The proposed development shall provide a
desirable environment and shall be harmonious with the general surrounding uses
while permitting flexibility in overall development.
(Prior Code, § 11-801)
§ 152.176  PURPOSES.
   Some specific purposes of the planned development procedure are:
   (A)   Residential planned development. To offer recreational opportunities
close to residents, to enhance the appearance of neighborhoods by the
conservation of streams and local spots of natural beauty, to add to the sense
of spaciousness through the preservation of natural green spaces, to counteract
the effects of urban monotony and congestion in the streets, to encourage
cooperative relationships between neighbors and participation by all age groups
in the use and care of local open space tracts in new residential subdivisions,
to promote harmonious architecture between adjacent dwellings or institutional
buildings, and to encourage the placement of structures in proper relationship
to the natural characteristics of the site;
   (B)   Business planned development. To promote the cooperative development
of business centers, each with adequate off-street parking to control access
points on thoroughfares, to separate pedestrian and automobile traffic, to aid
in stabilizing property values, to develop centers of size and location
compatible with the market potential, to buffer adjacent residential areas with
landscaped green spaces, and to encourage harmonious architecture between
adjacent commercial structures and between homes and commercial structures; and
   (C)   Industrial planned development. To promote the establishment of
industrial parks, to permit groups of industrial buildings with integrated
design and a coordinated physical plan, to encourage recreational facilities
within industrial areas and to buffer adjacent residential areas with
landscaped green spaces.
(Prior Code, § 11-802)
§ 152.177  REQUIRED INFORMATION.
   The development shall be required to submit the following information and
any other information that may be required by the Planning Commission.
   (A)   A site plan which shall be accurately, clearly and legibly drawn in
sufficient size and scale to show the details of the plan clearly and which
shall contain the following:
      (1)   Location, right-of-way, pavement width of all proposed and existing
streets, private roadways and other public ways;
      (2)   Location and size of existing and proposed public utilities and
easements;
      (3)   All lot lines, building setback lines and dimensions of all lot
lines, setbacks and building envelope lines. Chord distances shall be shown for
lot lines abutting curvilinear streets;
      (4)   Lot numbers shall begin with the number “one” and shall continue
consecutively through a block with no omission or duplication. Blocks shall be
numbered in the same manner. Letters shall be used to designate outlots in
alphabetical order;
      (5)   Proposed areas for parks and playgrounds. Any parcels other than
streets which are dedicated or reserved for public use shall be clearly shown,
and the parcels shall be designated as outlots and assigned an alphabetical
designation;
      (6)   The location of all proposed and existing sidewalks, walkways and
other pedestrian ways;
      (7)   The location, floor area, number of dwelling units and height of
proposed and existing buildings with an indication as to whether an existing
building is to be removed or to be retained;
      (8)   Vicinity map;
      (9)   Parking areas and capacity;
      (10)   Open spaces for residential uses and for required landscaping and
screening;
      (11)   Use of buildings, such as retail, service, restaurant, office,
residential, industrial and other uses;
      (12)   Conceptual landscape plan; and
      (13)   Location of proposed freestanding signs.
   (B)   A draft of the proposed protective covenants whereby the owner
proposes to regulate land use and otherwise protect the proposed development.
   (C)   A draft of any proposed incorporation agreement and a draft of any
bylaws of easement declarations concerning maintenance of recreational and
other common facilities.
   (D)   Data on the market potential necessary to support the location of the
site and the size of uses in any planned development.
   (E)   A draft discussing the adverse environmental effects of the project
and proposed steps to minimize these effects and indicate where any portion of
the proposal differs from regulatory or design requirements.
   (F)   Accompanying the plans, the following shall be submitted:
      (1)   Name, address and telephone number of developer;
      (2)   Certified record owner or owners and their address; and
      (3)   Legal description of the proposed planned unit development,
including the number of acres.
(Prior Code, § 11-803)
§ 152.178  USE EXCEPTIONS.
   The Planning Commission may recommend and the City Council may authorize
that there be in part of the area of the development, specified uses not
permitted by the use regulations of the district in which the development is
located; provided, that the Planning Commission shall find:
   (A)   The uses permitted by the exception are necessary or desirable and are
appropriate with respect to the primary purpose of the development;
   (B)   The uses permitted by the exception are not of a nature or so located
as to exercise a detrimental influence on the surrounding neighborhood; and
   (C)   Not more than 20% of the ground area of the gross floor of the
development shall be devoted to the uses permitted by the exception.
(Prior Code, § 11-804)
§ 152.179  DENSITY REGULATIONS.
   In the case of any planned development, the Planning Commission may
recommend and the City Council may authorize exceptions to the applicable
density regulations of this chapter within the boundaries of the development,
providing that the Planning Commission shall find:
   (A)   The exception shall be solely for the purpose of promoting an
integrated site plan no less beneficial to the residents or occupants of the
development, as well as the neighboring property, than would be obtained under
the bulk regulations of this chapter for buildings developed on separate zoning
lots;
   (B)   Along the periphery of the planned developments, yards shall be
provided as required by the regulations of the district in which the
development is located; and
   (C)   A residential planned development, the maximum number of dwelling
units permitted shall be determined by dividing the net development area by the
minimum lot area per dwelling unit required by the district or districts in
which the area is located and increasing the resulting figure by 15%. Net
development area shall be determined by subtracting the area set aside for
nonresidential uses from the gross development area and deducting 10% of the
remainder for streets, regardless of the amount of land actually required for
streets. The area of land set aside for common open space or recreational use
may be included in determining the number of dwelling units permitted.
(Prior Code, § 11-805)
§ 152.180  DESIGNATION OF PERMANENT COMMON OPEN SPACE.
   (A)   Definition. For the purpose of this section, the following definition
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      PERMANENT COMMON OPEN SPACE. Parks, playgrounds, parkway medians,
landscaped green space, schools, community centers or other similar areas in
public ownership or covered by an open space easement.
   (B)   Designation. A planned development may be required to provide for
permanent common open space at the determination of the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 11-806)
§ 152.181  MINIMUM LOT AREA IN RESIDENTIAL PLANNED DEVELOPMENTS.
   Provided the overall number of dwelling units per acre (density) is not
increased beyond the provisions of §
152.179(C) and provided that the permanent common open space is in accord with
§
152.180, the planned development may include minimum lot areas per dwelling
unit which are less than required in the applicable zoning district.
(Prior Code, § 11-807)
§ 152.182  BUILDING PERMITS.
   No building permit shall be issued for any construction or use of a
development which does not conform to the approved plans, terms and conditions
of the planned unit development. No changes shall be made in the planned unit
development except by approval in the same procedure by which the original plan
was approved. No planned unit development shall be approved until a public
hearing is held in accordance with §
152.002.
(Prior Code, § 11-808)
GENERAL REGULATIONS
§ 152.195  MANUFACTURED HOMES.
   (A)   A manufactured home may be used as a residential structure in any zone
in which residential uses are permitted if the manufactured home bears an
appropriate seal which indicates that it was constructed in accordance with the
standards of the Department of Health or the United States Department of
Housing and Urban Development.
   (B)   Manufactured homes permitted pursuant to this section shall be located
and installed according to the following standards which are applicable to
site-built, single-family dwellings:
      (1)   The home shall be located and installed on a permanent perimeter
foundation;
      (2)   The home shall be installed with permanent utility connections;
      (3)   The home shall comply with all setback and lot requirements of the
residential zone in which it is located; and
      (4)   The home shall comply with the minimum square footage requirements
of the residential zone in which it is located.
   (C)   Manufactured homes shall also meet the following standards:
      (1)   The home shall have no less than 900 square feet of floor area;
      (2)   The home shall have no less than an 18-foot exterior width;
      (3)   The roof shall be pitched with a minimum vertical rise of two and
one-half inches for each 12 inches of horizontal run;
      (4)   The exterior material shall be of a color, material and scale
comparable with those existing in residential site-built, single-family
construction;
      (5)   The home shall have a nonreflective roof material which is or
simulates asphalt or wood shingles, tile or rock; and
      (6)   The home shall have wheels, axles, transporting lights and
removable towing apparatus removed.
   (D)   Nothing in this section shall be deemed to supersede any valid
restrictive covenants of record.
   (E)   For purposes of this section, MANUFACTURED HOME shall mean:
      (1)   A factory-built structure which is to be used as a place for human
habitation, which is not constructed or equipped with a permanent hitch or
other device allowing it to be moved other than to a permanent site, which does
not have permanently attached to its body or frame any wheels or axles, and
which bears a label certifying that it was built in compliance with National
Manufactured Home Construction and Safety Standards, 24 C.F.R. §§ 3280 et seq.
promulgated by the United States Department of Housing and Urban Development;
or
      (2)   A modular housing unit as defined in Neb. RS 71-1557, bearing the
seal of the Department of Health.
(Prior Code, § 11-110)  (Ord. 20-95, passed 8-7-1995)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 19-902
§ 152.196  APPROVAL OF PLATS.
   The City Council, pursuant to Neb. RS 19-916, hereby appoints the Zoning
Commissioner to approve further subdivision of existing lots and blocks
whenever all required public improvements have been installed, no new
dedication of public rights-of-way or assessments are involved, and the
subdivision complies with the ordinance requirements concerning minimum areas
and dimensions of the lots and blocks. The approval shall be inscribed on the
plat before it is recorded.
(Prior Code, § 11-111)
§ 152.197  INDUSTRIAL PERFORMANCE STANDARDS.
   The industrial performance standards indicated shall be considered minimum
standards in those districts for which they are specified.
   (A)   Physical appearance. Automobile junk, salvage, wrecking, storage and
similar operations shall be shielded from view from streets and from adjacent
properties in another district by means of a sturdy, sight obscuring fence in
good repair. All other operations shall be carried on within enclosed buildings
except that new materials or equipment in operable condition may be stored in
the open. Normal daily wastes of an inorganic nature may be stored in
containers not in a building when the containers are not readily visible from a
street. The provisions of this division (A) shall not be construed to prohibit
the display of merchandise or vehicles for sale or the storage of vehicles,
boats, farm machinery, trailers, mobile homes or similar equipment in operable
condition.
   (B)   Fire hazard. No operation shall involve the use of highly flammable
gases, acid, liquids, grinding processes or other inherent fire hazards. This
provision shall not be construed to prohibit the use of normal heating fuels,
motor fuels and welding gases when handled in accordance with other ordinances
of the city.
   (C)   Noise. No operation shall be carried on which involves noise in excess
of the normal traffic noise of the adjacent street at the time of the daily
peak hour of traffic volume. Noise shall be measured at the property line and,
when the level of the noise cannot be determined by observation with the
natural senses, a suitable instrument may be used and measurement may include
categorizations into a reasonable number of frequency ranges. All noises shall
be muffled so as not to be objectionable due to intermittence, beat frequency
or shrillness.
   (D)   Sewage and liquid wastes. No operation shall be carried on which
involves the discharge into a sewer, water course or the ground liquid wastes
of any radioactive nature or liquid wastes of a chemical nature which are
detrimental to normal sewage plant operations or coercive and damaging to sewer
pipes and installations.
   (E)   Air contaminants. There shall be applied the general rule that there
shall not be discharged from any sources whatsoever the quantities of air
contaminants or other material in the quantity as to cause injury, detriment,
nuisance or annoyance to any considerable number of persons or to the public in
general or to endanger the comfort, repose, health or safety to any the
considerable number of persons or have a natural tendency to cause injury or
damage to business, vegetation or property.
   (F)   Odor. The emission of odors that are generally agreed to be obnoxious
to any considerable number of persons shall be prohibited. Observations of odor
shall be made at the property line of the establishment causing the odor. As a
guide to classification of odor, it shall be deemed that strong odors of
putrefaction and fermentation tend to be obnoxious and that the odors as
associated with baking or the roasting of nuts and coffee shall not normally be
considered obnoxious within the meaning of this chapter.
   (G)   Glare and heat. All glare, such as welding arcs and open furnaces,
shall be shielded so that they shall not be visible from the lot line. No heat
from furnaces or processing equipment shall be sensed at the lot line to the
extent of raising the temperature of air or materials more than 5°F.
(Prior Code, § 11-501)
BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT
§ 152.215  ESTABLISHMENT.
   A Board of Adjustment is hereby established, which shall consist of five
regular members, plus one additional member designated as an alternate who
shall attend and serve only when one of the regular members is unable to attend
for any reason, each to be appointed by the City Council for a term of three
years and removable for cause by the appointing authority upon written charges
and after public hearings. Vacancies shall be filled for the unexpired term of
any member whose term becomes vacant. One member only of the Board of
Adjustment shall be appointed from the membership of the Planning Commission,
and the loss of membership on the Planning Commission by the members shall also
result in his or her immediate loss of membership on the Board of Adjustment
and the appointment of another Planning Commissioner to the Board of
Adjustment.
(Prior Code, § 11-901)
§ 152.216  PROCEEDINGS.
   (A)   The Board of Adjustment shall adopt rules necessary to the conduct of
its affairs and in keeping with the provisions of this chapter. Meetings shall
be held at the call of the Chairperson and at the other times as the Board may
determine. The Chairperson or, in his or her absence, the acting Chairperson,
may administer oaths and compel the attendance of witnesses. All meetings shall
be open to the public.
   (B)   The Board of Adjustment shall keep minutes of its proceedings, showing
the vote of each member upon each question or, if absent or failing to vote,
indicating the fact and shall keep records of its examination and other
official actions, all of which shall be immediately filed in the office of the
Board and shall be of public record.
(Prior Code, § 11-902)
§ 152.217  HEARING APPEALS; NOTICE.
   (A)   Appeals to the Board of Adjustment may be taken by any person
aggrieved, or by any officer, department, board of bureau of the city affected
by any decision of the administrative official. The appeal shall be taken
within a reasonable time, as provided by the rules of the Board, by filing with
the officer from whom the appeal is taken and, with the Board of Adjustment, a
notice of appeal specifying the grounds thereof. The officer from whom the
appeal is taken shall forthwith transmit to the Board all the papers
constituting the record upon which the action appealed from was taken.
   (B)   The Board of Adjustment shall fix a reasonable time for the hearing of
the appeal, giving public notice thereof, as well as due notice to the parties
in interest and decide the same within a reasonable time. Upon the hearing, any
party may appear in person or by attorney.
(Prior Code, § 11-903)
§ 152.218  STAY OF PROCEEDINGS.
   An appeal stays all proceedings in the furtherance of the action appealed
from, unless the officer from whom the appeal is taken certifies to the Board
of Adjustment, after the notice of appeal shall have been filed with him or
her, that by reason of facts stated in the certificate a stay would, in his or
her opinion, cause imminent peril to life or property. In the case, proceedings
shall not be stayed otherwise than by a restraining order which may be granted
by the Board of Adjustment or by a court of record on application on notice to
the officer from whom the appeal is taken and due cause shown.
(Prior Code, § 11-904)
§ 152.219  POWERS.
   The Board of Adjustment shall have only the following powers:
   (A)   Administrative review. To hear and decide appeals where it is alleged
there is error in any order, requirements, decision or determination made by
any administrative official or agency based on or made in the enforcement of
this chapter or any regulation relating to the location or soundness of
structures;
   (B)   Interpretation: special questions. To hear and decide, in accordance
with the provisions of this chapter, requests for interpretation of any map,
requirement or provision of this chapter; and
   (C)   Variances; conditions governing applications: procedures.
      (1)   Where by reason of exceptional narrowness, shallowness or shape of
a specific piece of property at the time of the enactment of this chapter, or
by reason of exceptional topographical conditions or other extraordinary and
exceptional situations or conditions of the piece of property, the strict
practical difficulties to, or exceptional and undue hardships upon the owner of
the property, to authorize, upon an appeal relating to the property, a variance
from the strict application so as to relieve the difficulties or hardship, if
the relief may be granted without substantial detriment to the public good and
without substantially impairing the intent and purpose of this chapter.
      (2)   No variance shall be authorized by the Board unless it finds that:
         (a)   The strict application of this chapter would produce undue
hardship;
         (b)   The hardship is not shared generally by other properties in the
same zoning district and the same vicinity;
         (c)   The authorization of the variance will not be of substantial
detriment to adjacent property and the character of the district will not be
changed by the granting of the variance;
         (d)   The granting of the variance is based upon reason of
demonstrable and exceptional hardship as distinguished from variations for
purposes of convenience, profit or caprice;
         (e)   The hardship does not result from the actions of the owner of
the property; and
         (f)   The granting of the variance will not confer on the owner of the
property any special privilege that is denied by this chapter to other lands,
structures or buildings in the same district.
      (3)   No variance shall be authorized unless the Board finds that the
condition or situation of the property concerned or the intended use of the
property is not so general or recurring a nature as to make reasonably
practicable the formulation of a general regulation to be adopted as an
amendment to this chapter.
      (4)   No nonconforming use of neighboring land, structures or buildings
in the same district and no permitted or nonconforming use of lands, structures
or buildings in other districts shall be considered grounds for issuance of a
variance.
      (5)   A variance from the terms of this chapter shall not be granted by
the Board of Adjustment unless and until:
         (a)   A written application for a variance is submitted indicating the
terms of this chapter under which the variance is sought, stating the ground on
which it is requested, and the specific variance requested;
         (b)   Notice shall be given at least 15 days in advance of public
hearing. The owner of the property for which variance is sought or his or her
agent shall be notified by mail. Notice of the hearing shall be posted on the
property for which variance is sought, at the City Hall and in one other public
place, at least 15 days prior to the public hearing;
         (c)   The public hearing shall be held. Any party may appear in
person, or by agent or attorney;
         (d)   The Board of Adjustment shall make a finding that the reasons
set forth in the application justify the granting of the variance under the
terms of this chapter, and that the variance is the minimum variance that will
make possible the reasonable use of the land, building or structure; and
         (e)   The Board of Adjustment shall further make a finding that the
granting of the variance will be in harmony with the general purpose and intent
of this chapter and will not be injurious to the neighborhood or otherwise
detrimental to the public welfare.
      (6)   In granting any variance, the Board of Adjustment may prescribe
appropriate conditions and safeguards in conformity with this chapter.
Violation of the conditions and safeguards when made a part of the terms under
which the variance is granted, shall be deemed a violation of this chapter and
punishable under §
152.999.
      (7)   Under no circumstances shall the Board of Adjustment grant a
variance to allow a use not permissible under the terms of this chapter in the
district involved or any use expressly or by implication prohibited by the
terms of this chapter in the district.
      (8)   In exercising the above-mentioned powers, the Board may, in
conformity with the provisions of this chapter, reverse or affirm, wholly or
partly, or may modify the order, requirement, decision or determination
appealed from, and may make the order, requirement, decision or determination
as ought to be made, and to that end, shall have all the powers of the officer
from whom the appeal is taken.
      (9)   The concurring vote of four members of the Board shall be necessary
to reverse any order, requirement, decision or determination of any the
administrative official, or to decide in favor of the applicant on any matter
upon which it is required to pass under this chapter or to effect any variation
in the application of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 11-905)
§ 152.220  APPEALS FROM.
   Any persons or persons, or any board, taxpayer, department, board or bureau
of the city aggrieved by any decision of the Board of Adjustment may seek
review by a court of record of the decision, in the manner provided by the laws
of the state and particularly by Neb. RS Chapter 19 within 15 days of the
filing of the decision of the Board.
(Prior Code, § 11-906)
§ 152.221  DUTIES OF CITY OFFICERS.
   (A)   It is the intent of this chapter that all questions of interpretation
and enforcement shall be first presented to the administrative official, and
that the questions shall be presented to the Board of Adjustment only on appeal
from the decision of the administrative official and recourse from the decision
of the Board of Adjustment shall be to the courts as provided by law and
particularly by Neb. RS Chapter 19.
   (B)   Under this chapter, the City Council’s duties are:
      (1)   To hear and decide on any matters upon which the City Council is
authorized by the provisions of this chapter;
      (2)   Of considering and adopting or rejecting proposed amendments or the
repeal of this chapter, as provided by law; and
      (3)   Of establishing a schedule of fees and charges as stated in §
152.236.
(Prior Code, § 11-907)
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 152.235  GENERALLY.
   (A)   An administrative official designated by the City Council shall
administer and enforce this chapter. He or she may be provided with the
assistance of the other persons as the Mayor and Council may direct.
   (B)   If the administrative official shall find that any of the provisions
of this chapter are being violated, he or she shall notify in writing the
person responsible for the violations, indicating the nature of this violation
and ordering the action necessary to correct it. He or she shall order
discontinuance of illegal use of land, buildings or structures; removal of
illegal buildings or structures or illegal additions, alterations or structural
changes; discontinuance of any illegal work being done; or shall take any other
action authorized by this chapter to ensure compliance with or to prevent
violation of its provisions.
(Prior Code, § 11-601)
§ 152.236  SCHEDULE OF FILING FEES.
   Until all application fees, charges and expenses have been paid in full, no
action shall be taken on any application or appeal.
   (A)   All fees and charges shall be determined by resolution of the City
Council and shall accompany each application for filing an appeal or request to
the Board of Adjustment, rezoning and special use permits.
   (B)   For the purpose of wholly or partially defraying the cost of special
use permit hearings, including publication costs, mailing of notices and the
like, the applicant, upon filing of the application shall pay to the
administrative official a fee as determined by the City Council. Promptly upon
the filing of any the application, the administrative official shall refer the
application to the Planning Commission for study and recommendation, and shall
report to the City Council concerning the nature of the application and that
the application has been referred to the Planning Commission.
(Prior Code, § 11-602)
§ 152.237  OCCUPANCY PERMITS.
   (A)   No structure or addition thereto constructed, built, moved, remodeled
or reconstructed after the effective date of these regulations shall be
occupied or used for any purpose; and no land vacant on the effective date of
these regulations shall be used for any purpose; and no use of land or
structure shall be changed to any other use, unless an occupancy permit shall
first have been obtained from the Building Inspector certifying that the
proposed use of occupancy complies with all the provisions of these zoning
regulations.
   (B)   Every application for a building permit shall be deemed to be an
application for an occupancy permit. Every application for an occupancy permit
for a new or changed use of land or structures where no building permit is
required shall be filed with the Building Inspector and be in the form and
contain the information as the Building Inspector shall provide by general
rule.
   (C)   No occupancy permit for a structure or addition thereto constructed,
built, moved, remodeled or reconstructed after the effective date of these
regulations shall be issued until the work has been completed and the premises
inspected and certified by the Building Inspector to be in full and complete
compliance with the plans and specifications upon which the building permit was
issued. No occupancy permit for a new use of any structure or land shall be
issued until the premises have been inspected and certified by the Building
Inspector to be in full and complete compliance with all the applicable
regulations for the zoning district in which it is located. Pending the
issuance of a permanent occupancy permit, a temporary occupancy permit may be
issued to be valid for a period not to exceed six months from its date pending
the completion of any addition or during partial occupancy of the premises. An
occupancy permit shall be issued, or written notice; shall be given to the
applicant stating the reasons why a permit cannot be issued, within ten days
after the receipt of any application therefore, or after the Building Inspector
is notified in writing that the structure or premises are ready for occupancy.
   (D)   The special exceptions uses shall conform to the intent and purpose of
this chapter and the following requirements.
      (1)   The use shall, in all other respects, conform to the applicable
regulations of the district in which it is located.
      (2)   The use shall conform to all other applicable ordinances, laws and
regulations of any governmental jurisdiction.
      (3)   The use shall have adequate water, sewer and drainage facilities
approved by the City Council.
      (4)   The use shall not interfere with permitted agricultural uses in the
surrounding area.
      (5)   The use shall be in harmony with the character of the area and the
most appropriate use of the land.
   (E)   In case of protest against the special use permit, signed by the
owners of 20% or more either of the area of the lots included in the proposed
change, or of those immediately adjacent on the side and in the rear thereof
extending 300 feet, therefrom, and of those directly opposite thereto extending
300 feet from the street frontage of the opposite lots, the special use permit
shall not become effective, except by the favorable vote of three-fourths of
all members of the City Council.
   (F)   Special conditions shall be required for the following uses:
      (1)   Child care center/pre-schools.
         (a)   The application shall be accompanied by the following
information:
            1.   Number and ages of children to be cared for at facility;
            2.   Number of full-time and part-time staff members; and
            3.   Physical description and layout of facility, including
proposed improvements and alterations to existing facility; parking spaces,
loading and unloading area(s), proposed traffic flow including ingress and
egress, fence, play area and floor plan.
         (b)   Shall provide at least 100 square feet of open space per child.
This open space shall be 100% enclosed by a solid fence or wall at least four
feet, but not more than six high. Open space/play area shall be readily
accessible to the main facility, free from hazards and set away from main
street;
         (c)   Shall provide the parking and loading spaces as required in §
152.145;
         (d)   Shall conform with all requirements of the state and shall
acquire a state day care center license or a state pre-school license; and
         (e)   The use of mobile homes for the facility is prohibited.
      (2)   Private swimming pools.
         (a)   Shall be located at least ten feet from the nearest property
line;
         (b)   Shall be walled or fenced as to prevent uncontrolled access by
children from the street or any adjacent property;
         (c)   Shall be screened by a solid or semi-solid wall or fence at
least six feet, but not more than eight feet high, and having a density of not
less than 80% per square foot, where the property on which the pool is located
abuts a residential district; and
         (d)   Shall conform to the National Electric Safety Code and all
applicable city codes.
      (3)   Kennels (breeding and boarding).
         (a)   The minimum lot size shall be not less than two acres.
         (b)   No kennel buildings or runs shall be located nearer than 75 feet
to any property line.
         (c)   All kennel runs or open areas shall be screened around the areas
or at the property lines to prevent the distraction or excitement of the dogs.
The screening may be mature, dense deciduous foliage (double row), solid
masonry, brick or stone wall, louvered wood, stockade or chainlink fence with
aluminum strip intertwined, or other equivalent fencing, providing a sight
barrier to the dogs.
      (4)   Auto wrecking yards, junk yards, salvage yards and scrap processing
yards.
         (a)   Shall be located on a tract of land at least 300 feet from a
residential district zone.
         (b)   The operation shall be conducted wholly within a noncombustible
building or within an area completely surrounded on all sides by a fence or
wall at least eight feet high. The fence or wall shall be of uniform height,
uniform texture and color, and shall be so maintained by the proprietor as to
ensure maximum safety to the public, obscure the junk from normal view of the
public and preserve the general welfare of the neighborhood. The fence or wall
shall be installed in the a manner as to retain all scrap, junk or other
material within the yard. No scrap, junk or other salvaged materials may be
piled so to exceed the height of this enclosing fence or wall.
         (c)   No junk shall be loaded, unloaded or otherwise placed either
temporarily or permanently outside the enclosed building, fence or wall, or
within the public right-of-way.
         (d)   Burning of paper, trash, junk or other waste materials shall be
prohibited.
         (e)   No junk, salvage, scrap or other materials shall be piled or
stacked higher than the top of the required fence or wall.
      (5)   Funeral, mortuary or crematory services. Shall be located on a
collector or arterial street as shown in the Comprehensive Plan.
      (6)   Tower, propeller, generation system.
         (a)   No tower or propeller snail be so located as to ever be within
100 feet of any structure, power line or antenna located on other than the
property on which the system is located.
         (b)   The height of a wind generation system shall not exceed by more
than 50% the height requirement of the district in which it is located and the
bottom tip of any propeller shall be at least ten feet above any accessible
pedestrian area.
         (c)   The system and component parts must be totally surrounded by a
fence having a minimum height of six feet and a maximum height of eight feet
unless otherwise physically inaccessible to the public.
         (d)   The system shall not cause interference to the radio and
television reception on adjoining property.
         (e)   The system shall contain a breaking device for speeds above 40
mph.
         (f)   The safety results of an approved testing laboratory shall be
submitted.
(Prior Code, § 11-603)
§ 152.999  PENALTY.
   (A)   Ordinance declared to be minimum requirement. In their interpretation
and application, the provisions of this chapter shall be held to be minimum
requirements, adopted for the promotion of the public health, safety, morals or
general welfare. Wherever the requirements of this chapter are at variance with
the requirements of any other lawfully adopted rules, regulations, ordinances,
deed restrictions or covenants, the most restrictive, or that imposing the
higher standards, shall govern.
(Prior Code, § 11-1101)
   (B)   Complaints regarding violations. Whenever a violation of this chapter
occurs, or is alleged to have occurred, any person may file a written
complaint. The complaint stating fully the causes and basis thereof shall be
filed with the administrative official. He or she shall record properly the
complaint, immediately investigate and take action thereon as provided by this
chapter.
(Prior Code, § 11-1102)
   (C)   Penalties.
      (1)   Violation of the provisions of this chapter or failure to comply
with any of its requirements (including violations of conditions and safeguards
established in connection with grants of variances of special exceptions) shall
constitute a misdemeanor. Any person who violates this chapter or fails to
comply with any of its requirements shall, upon conviction thereof, be fined
not more than $100 for any one offense. Each day the violation continues after
notice of violation is given to the offender may be considered a separate
offense.
      (2)   The owner or tenant of any building, structure, premises or part
thereof, and any architect, builder, contractor, agent or other person who
commits, participates in, assists in or maintains the violation may each be
found guilty of a separate offense and suffer the penalties herein provided.
      (3)   In case any building or structure is erected, constructed,
reconstructed, altered, repaired, converted or maintained, or any building,
structure or land is used in violation of this chapter or other regulations,
the city may institute any appropriate action or proceedings to prevent the
unlawful erection, construction, reconstruction, alteration, repair,
conversion, maintenance or use, to restrain, correct or abate the violation, to
prevent the occupancy of the building, structure or land, or to prevent any
illegal act, conduct, business or use in or about the premises.
(Prior Code, § 11-1103)
   (D)   Violations; penalty.
      (1)   Any person, or any person’s agent or servant, who violates any of
the provisions of this chapter, unless otherwise specifically provided herein,
shall be deemed guilty of an offense and, upon conviction thereof, shall be
fined in any sum not exceeding $500. A new violation shall be deemed to have
been committed every 24 hours of failure to comply with the provisions of this
chapter.
      (2)   (a)   Whenever a nuisance exists as defined in this chapter, the
city may proceed by a suit in equity to enjoin, abate and remove the same in
the manner provided by law.
         (b)   Whenever, in any action, it is established that a nuisance
exists, the court may, together with the fine or penalty imposed, enter an
order of abatement as a part of the judgment in the case.
(Prior Code, § 11-1301)
   (E)   Penalties for violation of §
152.039.
      (1)   Violation of the provisions of this section or failure to comply
with any of its requirements (including violations of conditions and safeguards
established in connection with grants of variances or special exceptions) shall
constitute a misdemeanor.  Any person who violates this section or fails to
comply with any of its requirements shall upon conviction thereof be fined not
more than $500, and in addition, shall pay all costs and expenses involved in
the case.  Each day such violation continues shall be considered a separate
offense.
      (2)   Nothing herein contained shall prevent the city or other
appropriate authority from taking such other lawful action as is necessary to
prevent or remedy any violation.
(Ord. 6-00, passed 7-10-2000; Ord. 8-09, passed - -2009)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-505, 18-1720, 18-1722
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
[Reserved]
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Nebraska Revised Statutes
References to Prior Code
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO NEBRASKA REVISED STATUTES
Neb. RS Cites Code Section
Neb. RS Cites         Code Section
2-946.02              92.06
2-963                 92.06
9-114                 113.20-
                      113.22
9-121                 113.20-
                      113.22
9-646                 110.02
10-101–10-143       37.15
10-606–10-612       37.15
Ch. 11, Art. 11       34.02
11-101                31.002
11-103                31.001
11-104                31.001
11-109                31.001
11-109–11-120       31.001
11-114                31.001
11-118                31.001
11-119                31.001
11-120                31.001
13-403                92.13
13-504                37.35;
                      37.36
13-505                37.35
13-506                37.21;
                      37.36
13-507                37.36
13-508                37.02
13-509.01             37.03
13-509.02             37.03
13-511                37.21
13-518–13-522       37.21
13-609                37.20
13-1802               34.03
16-691.01             32.06
16-714–16-716       37.13
17-103                31.054
17-104                30.16;
                      31.054
17-105                30.25
17-106                30.26
                      31.053;
                      31.054;
                      31.065;
17-107                31.072;
                      31.073;
                      34.01;
                      34.04
                      31.015;
17-108                31.071;
                      37.07
                      31.015;
17-108.02             31.051;
                      31.066;
                      36.07
17-110–17-114       31.053
17-114                31.071;
                      99.04
17-115                31.054
                      31.072;
17-118                31.073;
                      34.01
17-119                31.077
17-120                114.15
                      31.054;
                      31.071;
                      31.072;
17-121                32.07;
                      53.23;
                      99.01;
                      99.56
                      31.071;
                      97.24;
                      99.01;
                      99.21;
17-123                99.56;
                      99.58;
                      99.57;
                      99.60;
                      114.46
17-124                31.073;
                      34.01
17-128                113.04
17-131                31.074;
                      31.078
17-132                113.02-
                      113.06
                      112.01;
                      112.16-
17-134                112.19;
                      112.21-
                      112.23
                      92.07;
17-140                94.06;
                      112.02
                      53.23;
                      92.04;
17-141                93.02;
                      93.03;
                      95.02
                      51.022;
                      53.23;
                      54.10;
17-142                92.04;
                      92.05;
                      94.02;
                      95.02;
                      110.06
                      53.01;
17-145                53.21;
                      53.32
                      31.074;
17-147                33.01;
                      33.08
17-148                31.054
                      53.21;
17-149                53.22;
                      53.27
17-149–17-151       53.01
17-149.01             53.22
17-153                53.02
17-154                53.01
17-405                31.075
17-405–17-413       38.01
17-415                152.076
17-451                31.076
17-502                30.01
17-503                31.074;
                      92.08
17-503.01             92.08
17-503.02             92.08
                      10.99;
                      31.054;
17-505                33.08;
                      35.01;
                      152.999
17-506                31.054;
                      51.001
17-508                53.01
17-508.02             53.01
17-509–17-515       96.01
17-510                51.029;
                      94.10
17-511                94.11
17-522                93.04
17-523                93.04
                      111.01;
17-525                111.05;
                      112.20;
                      119.01
                      98.004;
                      98.020-
17-526                98.022;
                      98.024;
                      98.027;
                      98.029
17-528                54.01
17-528.02             115.01
17-528.03             54.01
17-531                51.001
17-533                32.06;
                      51.001
17-534                51.001
17-535                39.01
                      51.033;
17-536                51.073;
                      99.04;
                      99.57
                      51.021;
                      51.022;
17-537                51.030;
                      51.031;
                      51.034;
                      51.035
                      51.001;
17-538                51.026-
                      51.029
17-539                51.001
17-540                32.06
                      31.001;
17-541                31.065;
                      31.076;
                      51.001
17-542                51.026;
                      51.029
                      31.015;
17-543                31.076;
                      32.06;
                      51.001
17-545                51.001
17-546                51.001
17-547                98.002;
                      98.028
17-548                98.027;
                      98.028
                      97.19;
17-549                97.41;
                      97.44;
                      97.45
                      97.21;
17-550                97.27;
                      97.40
                      32.08;
                      54.12;
17-555                92.04;
                      92.07;
                      99.62
                      97.19;
                      97.24;
                      97.41;
                      97.44;
                      97.45;
17-556                99.55-
                      99.58;
                      99.60;
                      132.02-
                      132.04;
                      132.07;
                      132.08
17-557.01             92.04
17-558                94.08;
                      94.14
17-559                94.08;
                      94.14
17-562                112.01
17-563                99.59
17-567                92.01;
                      99.56
                      94.01;
17-567(1)             94.03;
                      95.02
                      31.075;
17-568.01             32.06;
                      37.08
17-568-01(2)          32.06
17-568.02             37.08
17-604                31.001;
                      31.015
17-605                31.070
17-606                31.069
17-607                37.13
17-608                37.14
17-609                37.14
17-610                31.015;
                      31.068
17-611                32.06
17-612                31.015
                      35.05;
17-613                35.07-
                      35.09;
                      37.08
                      10.15;
                      35.03;
17-614                35.04;
                      35.06;
                      35.10
17-616                35.03;
                      53.02
17-701                37.01
17-702                37.05
17-702(2)             37.12
17-705                152.999
17-706                37.06
17-710                37.11
17-711                37.10
17-714                37.07;
                      37.09
17-715                37.07;
                      37.09
17-718                31.074;
                      33.01
17-720                37.13
17-801–17-808       32.06
                      51.001;
17-802                53.01;
                      54.01
17-802–17-806       32.06
17-803                32.06
17-804                31.076
                      32.06;
                      51.026;
17-810                53.25;
                      53.28;
                      54.05
17-828                54.01
                      54.02-
17-901                54.04;
                      54.07-
                      54.09
17-902                54.01;
                      54.13
17-903                54.01
17-905                51.001
17-906–17-909       54.01
17-913                53.02
17-913–17-916       53.02
17-913–17-917       53.02
17-914                53.02
17-915                53.02
17-916                53.02
17-919                31.075;
                      53.02
17-919–17-925       53.02
17-920                53.02
17-921                53.02
17-923                53.02
17-925                53.02
17-925.01             53.01;
                      53.30
17-925.01–17-925.04 53.01
17-948–17-952       90.01
17-953                33.01;
                      92.09
17-953.01             92.09
17-954                92.09
17-971                51.002
17-976j               51.002
17-992                53.02
17-1001               116.03;
                      150.61
                      152.016;
17-1002               152.075;
                      152.076
17-1003               152.016
                      97.15;
                      97.16;
18-132                150.30;
                      150.45-
                      150.48
18-301                32.06
18-401                51.003;
                      52.03
18-401–18-409       51.003;
                      53.03
18-403                51.003
18-404                52.03;
                      51.003
18-405                51.003;
                      52.03
18-406                51.003;
                      52.03
18-411                51.003;
                      52.03
18-412                40.15;
                      54.01
18-412.01             37.08
18-412.02             40.15;
                      54.01
18-412.02–18-412.05 54.01
18-412.06             54.01
18-501(1)             53.01
18-501(3)             53.01
18-501(4)             53.01
                      51.004;
18-502                53.01;
                      53.04
18-503                53.01;
                      53.21
18-504                53.01
18-506                53.01
18-506.01             53.01
18-506.10             53.01
18-508                53.01
18-509                53.01
18-509(1)             53.30
18-512                99.04
18-801–18005        37.12
18-808                32.06
18-1001–18-1006     92.08
18-1201               33.01
18-1202               33.01
18-1216               37.17
18-1303               31.015
18-1706               33.07
18-1708               33.07
18-1719               92.06
                      10.99;
                      97.24;
18-1720               99.55-
                      99.60;
                      150.03;
                      152.999
                      10.99;
                      31.078;
18-1722               97.24;
                      99.56;
                      150.03;
                      152.999
18-1722.01            150.03
18-1736               74.30;
                      74.31
                      74.31;
18-1737               74.32;
                      74.38
                      74.30;
18-1738               74.33;
                      74.99
18-1738.01            74.99
18-1738.02            74.33;
                      74.34
                      74.31;
18-1739               74.32;
                      74.35
18-1740               74.36
18-1741               74.37;
                      74.99
18-1741.01            74.30;
                      74.99
18-1741.04            74.99
18-1741.06            74.99
18-1743               150.31
18-1751               92.11
18-1752               99.37—
                      99.40
18-1755               92.09;
                      92.13
18-1756               37.08
18-1803               51.001;
                      53.01
18-1803–18-1805     51.001;
                      53.01
18-1804               51.001;
                      53.01
18-1917               117.01
18-1919               117.01
18-2101–18-2144     32.10
18-2146               150.45
18-2501–18-2511     40.01
18-2501–18-2531     40.99
18-2512               40.02
18-2513               40.02
18-2514               40.03
18-2515               40.03
18-2516               40.05
18-2517               40.06
18-2518               40.13
18-2520               40.09
18-2521               40.10
18-2522               40.11
18-2523–18-2526     40.12
18-2524               40.13
18-2526               40.13
18-2527               40.13
18-2528               40.13
18-2529               40.13
18-2529–18-2531     40.14
18-2530               40.13
18-2532–18-2535     40.99
18-2538               40.04
18-2803–18-2808     37.16
                      152.015;
Ch. 19                152.220;
                      152.221
19-701–19-709       39.01
19-901–19-914       32.05
19-901–19-915       32.05
19-902                152.195
                      31.078;
19-904                152.002;
                      152.161
19-905                40.13;
                      152.161
19-908                32.03
19-908–19-910       32.05
19-912                32.05;
                      152.039
19-913                31.078
                      38.01;
19-916                152.075-
                      152.077;
                      152.196
19-917                38.03
19-918                38.02
19-919                38.01
19-920                38.01
19-924–19-929       32.03
19-929                32.03
19-1101               31.069
19-1102               31.070
19-1103               31.069
19-1104               31.070
19-1301–19-1304     37.12
19-1302               37.12
19-1303               37.12
                      51.001;
19-1305–19-1307     53.01;
                      54.01
19-1305–19-1404     54.01
19-1307               54.01
19-1309               37.19
19-1309–19-1312     37.19
19-1401–19-1403     54.01
19-1402               54.01
19-1403               54.01
19-1404               54.05
19-1405               31.076;
                      54.01
19-2101–19-2113     50.01
19-2102               50.01
19-2103               50.01
19-2106               99.36
19-2201–19-2204     38.04
19-2401               96.02
                      51.004;
19-2402               53.04;
                      152.016
19-2402–19-2405     51.004;
                      53.04
19-2403               51.004;
                      53.04
19-2404               51.004;
                      53.04
19-2405               51.004;
                      53.04
19-2406               51.004;
                      53.04
19-2407               51.004;
                      53.04
19-2408–19-2415     96.01
19-2410               96.01
19-2411               96.01
19-2414               96.01
19-2416               95.01
19-2418               93.04
19-2419               93.04
19-2427               92.12
19-2428–19-2431     92.11;
                      94.12
19-2901–19-2909     37.04
19-2903               32.06
19-3101               31.050
19-3701               35.07
19-5001               38.01
20-203                98.050
20-301–20-322       152.132
20-301–20-344       152.125
21-147                31.073
21-1316.01            37.14
23-1233(3)            97.45
24-2403               31.054
25-1151               71.02
25-1801               54.13
25-21,147             31.073
25-21,149–25-21,164 40.04
25-21,185             71.02
25-21,275             54.14
25-21,276             54.14
25-21,277             54.14
25-21,278             54.14
Ch. 28                114.17
Ch. 28, Art. 3        114.17
Ch. 28, Art. 4        114.17
Ch. 28, Art. 7        114.17
Ch. 28, Art. 8        114.17
Ch. 28, Art. 10       114.17
Ch. 28, Art. 11       114.17
Ch. 28, Art. 12       114.17
28-311.02             131.03
28-311.03             131.03
28-378.01             92.03
28-401                152.126
28-409                131.01
28-410                131.01
28-411                131.01
28-412                131.02
28-413                131.01
28-431                132.11
28-502–28-504.05    134.01
28-509                134.02
28-511                134.02
28-511(4)             134.02
28-512                134.02
28-513                134.02;
                      134.04
28-514                134.02
                      132.06;
28-515                134.02;
                      134.06
28-515(1)             134.03
28-515.01             134.03
28-515.02             54.14
28-517                134.02
28-519                132.05
28-520                98.050
28-521                98.050
28-523                134.07
28-565–28-568       92.03
28-578                92.03
28-580                92.03
28-586                92.03
28-590–28-593       92.03
28-638                131.04
28-729                130.07
28-801–28-803       132.04
28-818                132.02
28-844                31.003
28-907                132.18
28-910–28-918       133.02
28-1004               98.008
28-1005               98.008
28-1008               98.008
28-1009               98.008
28-1009.01            130.11
                      98.008;
28-1012               99.55;
                      99.56
28-1012–28-1016     99.55
28-1014               98.033
28-1017               99.21
                      97.41;
28-1213               97.44;
                      97.45
                      97.41;
28-1229               97.44;
                      97.45
                      97.41;
28-1233               97.44;
                      97.45
28-1233(3)            97.41;
                      97.44
28-1241               132.08
28-1244               132.08
28-1245               132.08
28-1321               99.62
28-1422               110.03
28-1423               110.03
28-1465               34.03
28-1466               34.03
28-1472               34.03
29-215                34.03
29-422 - 29-429       98.009
29-426                74.99
                      31.071;
                      31.074;
29-830–29-835       31.078-
                      31.080;
                      150.01
29-830–29-935       31.071
31-1001–31-1022     152.039
32-109                31.051
32-404                36.01;
                      36.02
32-405                35.05
32-556                36.01
32-559                36.05
32-560                31.050
32-561                31.050
32-568(4)             31.050
32-569                31.050
32-603                31.051
32-604                31.051
32-606                36.09
                      31.052;
32-607                36.06;
                      36.09
32-608                36.06
32-615                36.06
32-616                36.06
32-616–32-618       31.052
32-617                36.06
32-618                36.06
32-621                31.052;
                      36.06
32-622                36.09
32-625                36.06;
                      36.09
32-625(2)             36.06
32-626                31.052
32-628                31.052;
                      35.06
32-627                36.06;
                      36.09
32-628–32-631       37.18
32-629                31.052;
                      36.06
32-630                31.052;
                      36.06
32-710                36.06
32-802                37.18
32-952–32-959       36.05
33-102                31.074
33-139.01             33.02
35-102                31.074
35-106                111.02
35-107                31.003
35-108                33.02
37-1254.01            34.03
37-1254.02            34.03
Ch. 39                75.99
39-519                71.02
39-6,131              93.05
39-703                92.04
39-704                92.04
39-2512               94.07
39-2514               94.07
44-4303               41.01
44-4304               41.01
46-1212               92.13
48-115(d)             33.07
49-801(16)            10.05
49-1408               31.016
49-1425               31.016
49-1499.04            31.016
49-14,102             31.016
49-14,103.01          31.016
49-14,103.02          31.016
49-14,103.03          31.016
49-14,103.05          31.016
51-201                37.18;
                      91.01
51-201–51-219       91.02
51-201.01             91.06
51-202                32.02
51-204                32.02
51-205                91.02
51-206                91.05
51-207                91.02
51-209                91.01
51-210                91.03
                      91.02;
51-211                91.03;
                      91.06;
                      91.07
51-212                91.06
51-213                91.08
51-214                91.09
51-215                91.10
51-216                91.04
51-501                37.18
53-101.01             114.21
53-103                114.01;
                      132.06
53-103.01 - 43.103.42 132.06
53-103.23             132.06
53-116.01             114.50
53-123.04(3)          132.06
53-123.11(1)(c)       132.06
53-124                114.20
53-124.01             114.20
53-124.03             114.17
53-124.12             114.23
53-125                114.17
53-131                114.18;
                      114.20
53-132                114.18;
                      114.20
53-133                114.20
                      114.15;
                      114.16;
                      114.18;
53-134                114.20-
                      114.22;
                      114.35;
                      114.36
53-134.03             114.20
53-134.04             114.37
53-135                114.19
53-135.01             114.20
53-148                114.16
53-160                114.01
53-168.02             114.01
53-168.03             114.01
53-168.06             114.21;
                      114.48
53-177                114.35
53-177.01             114.35
53-178                114.36
53-179                114.45
53-180                114.41
53-180.01             132.06
53-180.02             114.47;
                      132.06
53-183                114.42
53-184                114.44
53-186                70.035;
                      132.06
53-186.01             132.06
53-186(1)             132.06
53-186(2)             132.06
53-1,101              114.38
53-1,102              114.39
53-1,115              114.37
53-1,121              114.49;
                      132.06
53-124(5)             114.20;
                      114.23
54-601                98.021
54-602                98.021
54-603                98.024;
                      98.025
54-603(3)             98.024
Ch. 60                75.99
Ch. 60, Art. 1        75.15
                      72.30;
Ch. 60, Art. 3        72.31;
                      75.15
Ch. 60, Art. 4        72.30
Ch. 60, Art. 5        75.15
Ch. 60, Art. 6        70.001
Ch. 60, Art. 17       75.15
60-302                72.30;
                      72.31
60-311                72.31
                      72.30;
60-320                72.31;
                      132.11
60-321                72.30;
                      72.31
60-323                72.30
60-324                72.01
60-3,113              74.31;
                      74.32
60-498.01–60-498.04 70.020
60-4,126              75.51
60-4,163              34.03
60-4,164              34.03
60-4,186              72.30
60-606–60-676       70.001
60-658.01             73.075
60-680                74.01
60-682.01             73.075
60-6,134.01           73.075;
                      73.076
60-6,142              73.015
60-6,146–60-6,154   73.003
60-6,167              74.01
60-6,196              34.03
60-6,196(1)           70.020
60-6,196(1)(b)        70.021
60-6,196(1)(c)        70.021
60-6,197              34.03
60-6,197(1)           70.020
60-6,197(2)           70.020
60-6,197(3)           70.020
60-6,197(4)           70.020
60-6,201              70.021
60-6,203              70.021
60-6,211.01           34.03;
                      70.021
60-6,211.02           34.03;
                      70.021
60-6,211.08           132.06
60-6,213              75.18
60-6,219              72.03;
                      75.01
60-6,220              72.03
60-6,224              72.03
60-6,235              72.03
60-6,244              72.03
60-6,265              72.15;
                      72.16
60-6,266              72.16
60-6,267              72.15;
                      72.16
60-6,268              72.15;
                      72.16
60-6,270              72.16
60-6,271              72.16
60-6,272              72.16
60-6,275–60-6,282   75.02
60-6,285              72.03
60-6,304              70.041
60-6,310              75.16
60-6,311              75.17
60-6,312              75.18
60-6,313              75.17
60-6,315              73.015
60-6,316              70.042
60-6,317              73.015
60-6,318              73.015
60-6,354              70.042
60-6,355              75.50
60-6,356              75.51
60-1901–60-1911     132.11
60-2101.01            75.35
60-2402               74.15
68-601–68-623       31.030
69-2427–69-2447     132.07
70-504                40.15
70-624.04             31.016
70-650.01             40.15
70-650.02             40.15
70-1601–70-1615     54.13
70-1602 et seq.       51.038
71-501                99.03
71-503                99.20
71-503.01             99.20
71-1523               32.09
71-1557               152.195
71-1572–71-1580     32.09
71-1576               32.09
71-1637               37.18
71-1908–71-1918     152.001
71-4401–71-4412     98.024
71-4406               98.006;
                      98.030
71-4407               98.031
71-4408               98.027;
                      98.028
71-4410               98.020
71-4412               98.024
73-101 et seq.        37.08
76-701–76-724       39.01
76-704–76-724       91.03
77-1343               94.12
77-1601               37.16;
                      37.18
77-1606               37.18
77-1702               37.20
77-2201               31.069
77-2202               31.069
77-2209               31.069
77-2210               31.069
77-2337               37.12
77-2341               37.12;
                      37.14
77-2362               37.13
77-2365.01            37.13
77-2366               37.13
77-3442               37.18;
                      37.19
77-3442–77-3444     37.18
77-3444               36.05;
                      37.18
77-2201–77-2215     31.069
80-202                37.18
80-203–80-205       40.15
81-145                37.08
81-162                37.08
81-506                31.074;
                      33.09
                      31.074;
81-512                33.04;
                      97.17
81-520.01             97.19;
                      97.28
81-1438               31.065
81-1444               34.02
81-1501–81-1532     99.57;
                      99.58
81-3423               92.13
81-3445               92.13
81-3449               92.13;
                      92.14
81-3453               92.13
81-3449–81-3453     92.14
84-712                31.070
84-1201–84-1220     31.070
84-1408               30.15
84-1409               30.15;
                      30.27
84-1409(1)            30.20
84-1409(2)            30.20
84-1410               30.22
                      30.15;
                      30.18;
84-1411               30.23;
                      30.27;
                      30.28
84-1412               30.24
84-1413               30.15
                      
 
REFERENCES TO PRIOR CODE
Prior Code 2010 Code
Prior Code 2010 Code
1-101      31.053
1-102      31.054
1-103      31.054
1-104      31.054
1-105      31.050
1-106      31.051
1-107      31.052
1-108      31.050
1-202      31.066
1-203      31.067
1-204      31.068
1-206      31.069
1-207      31.070
1-208      31.071
1-209      31.072
1-210      31.073
1-211      31.074
1-212      31.075
1-213      31.076
1-214      31.077
1-215      31.078
1-216      31.079
1-217      31.080
1-218      31.078
1-301      31.001
1-302      31.002
1-303      31.003
1-401      30.01
1-501      30.15
1-502      30.16
1-503      30.17
1-505      30.18
1-506      30.19
1-507      30.20
1-508      30.20
1-509      30.21
1-509.1    30.22
1-510      30.23
1-511      30.24
1-512      30.25
1-513      30.26
1-514      30.27
1-515      30.28
1-601      35.01
1-602      35.02
1-603      35.03
1-604      35.04
1-605      35.05
1-606      35.06
1-607      35.07
1-608      35.08
1-609      35.09
1-610      35.10
1-701      36.01
1-702      36.02
1-703      36.03
1-704      36.04
1-706      36.05
1-707      36.06
1-708      36.07
1-709      36.08
1-801      37.01
1-802      37.35
1-803      37.36
1-804      37.02
1-804.01   37.03
1-805      37.04
1-806      37.04
1-807      37.05
1-808      37.06
1-809      37.07
1-810      37.08
1-811      37.09
1-812      37.10
1-814      37.11
1-815      37.12
1-817      37.13
1-817.01   37.13
1-818      37.14
1-819      37.15
1-820      37.16
1-821      37.17
1-822      37.18
1-823      37.18
1-824      37.19
1-825      37.20
1-826      37.21
1-901      31.015
1-902      31.016
1-1001     38.01
1-1002     38.02
1-1003     38.03
1-1004     38.04
1-1101     31.030
1-1102     31.031
1-1103     31.032
1-1104     31.033
1-1105     31.034
1-1106     31.035
1-1201     39.01
1-1301     40.01
1-1302     40.02
1-1303     40.03
1-1303.01  40.04
1-1304     40.05
1-1305     40.06
1-1306     40.07
1-1307     40.08
1-1308     40.09
1-1309     40.10
1-1310     40.11
1-1311     40.12
1-1312     40.13
1-1313     40.14
1-1314     40.99
1-1315     40.15
1-1401     41.01
2-101      32.01
2-201      32.02
2-202      32.03
2-205      32.05
2-206      32.06
2-207      32.06
2-208      32.06
2-209      32.06
2-210      32.06
2-211      32.06
2-212      32.06
2-213      32.07
2-214      32.08
2-215      32.08
2-215.01   32.08
2-216      32.09
2-217      32.09
2-218      32.10
3-201      33.01
3-202      33.02
3-203      33.03
3-204      33.04
3-205      33.05
3-206      33.06
3-207      33.07
3-208      33.08
3-209      33.09
3-210      33.10
3-301      90.01
3-401      34.01
3-402      34.02
3-403      34.03
3-501      50.01
3-601      91.01
3-602      91.02
3-603      91.03
3-604      91.04
3-605      91.05
3-606      91.06
3-607      91.07
3-608      91.08
3-609      91.09
3-610      91.10
3-611      91.11
3-701      51.001;
           51.003
3-702      51.002
3-704      51.004
3-705      51.005
3-706      51.020
3-707      51.021
3-708      51.022
3-709      51.023
3-709.01   51.024
3-710      51.025
3-711      51.026
3-712      51.027
3-713      51.028
3-714      51.029
3-715      51.030
3-716      51.031
3-717      51.032
3-718      51.033
3-719      51.034
3-720      51.035
3-721      51.036
3-722      51.037
3-723      51.038
3-724      52.01
3-725      52.02
3-726      52.03
3-727      52.04
3-728      52.05
3-729      52.06
3-730      52.07
3-731      52.08
3-732      51.050
3-733      51.051
3-734      51.052
3-735      51.065
3-736      51.066
3-737      51.067
3-738      51.068
3-739      51.069;
           51.070
3-741      51.071
3-742      51.072
3-743      51.073;
           51.999
3-801      53.01
3-802      53.02
3-803      52.03
3-804      53.04
3-805      53.05
3-806      53.20
3-807      53.21
3-808      53.22
3-809      53.23
3-810      53.24
3-811      53.25
3-811.01   53.26
3-812      53.27
3-813      53.28
3-814      53.29
3-815      53.30
3-816      53.31
3-817      53.32
3-818      53.33
3-819      53.34
3-820      53.35
3-821      53.36
3-822      53.37
3-823      53.38
3-901      54.01
3-902      54.02
3-903      54.03
3-904      54.04
3-905      54.05
3-907      54.06
3-908      54.07
3-909      54.08
3-910      54.09
3-911      54.10
3-912      54.11
3-913      54.12
3-914      54.13
3-915      54.14
3-916      54.14
4-101      99.01
4-102      99.02
4-104      99.03
4-105      99.04
4-106      99.05
4-201      99.20
4-202      99.21
4-203      99.22
4-301      99.35
4-302      99.35
4-303      99.35
4-304      99.36
4-305      99.37
4-306      99.38
4-307      99.39
4-308      99.40
4-309      99.35
4-401      99.55
4-402      99.55
4-403      99.56
4-404      99.57
4-405      99.58
4-406      99.59
4-407      99.60
4-408      99.61
4-409      99.62
5-101      70.001
5-201      70.002
5-202      70.003
5-203      70.004
5-204      70.004
5-205      70.005
5-206      71.01
5-207      71.02
5-207.01   71.03
5-208      71.04
5-209      73.001
5-210      73.002
5-211      73.003
5-215      73.004
5-216      73.005
5-217      73.006
5-218      76.01
5-219      76.02
5-220      76.03
5-221      73.007
5-222      73.008
5-223      73.030
5-224      73.031
5-225      73.032
5-226      73.033
5-227      73.034
5-228      73.009
5-229      73.010
5-230      73.045
5-231      73.046
5-232      73.047
5-233      73.048
5-234      73.049
5-235      73.060
5-236      73.061
5-237      73.062
5-238      73.011
5-239      73.012
5-240      73.012
5-241      70.020
5-241.1    70.021
5-242      73.063
5-243      70.022
5-244      70.035
5-245      70.036
5-246      70.037
5-247      70.055
5-248      70.056
5-249      70.057
5-250      70.038
5-251      70.070
5-252      70.071
5-253      73.013
5-254      70.039
5-255      76.04
5-256      70.044
5-257      73.014
5-258      73.015
5-259      73.075
5-260      73.076
5-261      70.040
5-262      70.041
5-301      74.01
5-302      74.02
5-303      74.03
5-304      74.04
5-305      74.05
5-306      74.06
5-307      74.07
5-308      74.08
5-309      74.09
5-310      74.10
5-311      74.11
5-312      74.12
5-313      74.13
5-314      74.14
5-315      74.15;
           74.99
5-316      74.16
5-317      74.31
5-318      74.32
5-319      74.30
5-320      74.33
5-321      74.34
5-322      74.35
5-323      74.36
5-324      74.37;
           74.99
5-325      74.38
5-326      70.042
5-327      74.99
5-401      72.30
5-402      72.31
5-404      72.01
5-405      72.02
5-406      72.03
5-407      75.01
5-408      75.02
5-410      72.04
5-411      72.05
5-412      72.06
5-413      72.07
5-414      72.08
5-415      72.09
5-416      72.10
5-417      72.11
5-418      72.12
5-419      72.13
5-420      72.14
5-421      70.043
5-422      72.15
5-423      72.16
5-501      75.15
5-502      75.16
5-503      75.17
5-504      75.18
5-505      75.19
5-506      75.20
5-507      75.35
5-508      75.50
5-509      75.51
5-510      75.52
5-511      75.53
5-512      75.54
5-513      75.55
5-514      75.56
5-515      75.99
5-516      75.99
6-101      98.020
6-102      98.020
6-103      98.021
6-104      98.022
6-105      98.023
6-106      98.024
6-106.01   98.025
6-107      98.026
6-108      98.027
6-109      98.028
6-110      98.028
6-111      98.029
6-112      98.030
6-113      98.031
6-114      98.032
6-115      98.033
6-118      98.050
6-119      98.051
6-120      98.052
6-121      98.053
6-122      98.034
6-123      98.035
6-201      98.001
6-202      98.002
6-202.01   98.003
6-202.02   98.004
6-203      98.005
6-204      98.006
6-205      98.007
6-206      98.008
6-208      98.008
6-209      98.009
6-210      98.009
6-211      98.009
6-301      131.01
6-302      132.01
6-303      131.02
6-304      130.07
6-305      132.02
6-305.01   132.03
6-306      132.04
6-307      132.05
6-308      134.01
6-309      134.02
6-309.01   134.03
6-310      134.04
6-311      134.05
6-311.01   134.05
6-312      133.01
6-314      133.02
6-315      133.02
6-316      133.02
6-317      133.02
6-318      133.03
6-319      133.04
6-320      133.04
6-321      133.04
6-322      133.04
6-323      133.05
6-324      133.05
6-325      133.05
6-326      133.05
6-327      132.06
6-328      132.06
6-329      132.06
6-330      132.06
6-330.01   132.06
6-331      132.06
6-332      132.07
6-333      132.07
6-334      132.07
6-335      132.07
6-336      132.08
6-337      132.08
6-338      132.09
6-339      132.10
6-340      132.11
6-342      132.13
6-343      132.14
6-344      132.15
6-345      132.15
6-346      132.16
6-347      132.17
6-348      130.08
6-349      130.09
6-350      132.18
6-351      132.19
6-352      132.20
6-353      130.10
6-354      130.01
6-355      130.02
6-356      130.03
6-357      130.04
6-358      130.05
6-359      130.06
6-360      134.06
6-361      132.08;
           134.07
6-362      131.03
6-364      130.11
6-365      131.04
7-101      97.01
7-102      97.02
7-103      97.03
7-201      97.15
7-202      97.16
7-203      97.17
7-204      97.18
7-205      97.19
7-206      97.20
7-207      97.21
7-208      97.22
7-209      97.23
7-210      97.24
7-211      97.25
7-212      97.26
7-213      97.27
7-214      97.40
7-215      97.28
7-216      97.41
7-217      97.42
7-218      97.43
7-219      97.44
7-220      97.45
8-101      92.01
8-101.05   92.02
8-102      92.03
8-103      92.04
8-104      92.05
8-105      92.06
8-107      92.07
8-108      92.08
8-108.01   92.08
8-109      92.09
8-110      92.10
8-111      92.11
8-112      92.12
8-113      92.13
8-114      92.13
8-115      92.14
8-201      93.01
8-202      93.02
8-203      93.03
8-204      93.04
8-205      93.05
8-301      94.01
8-303      94.02
8-304      94.03
8-305      94.04
8-306      94.05
8-307      94.06
8-308      94.07
8-309      94.08
8-310      94.09
8-311      94.10
8-312      94.11
8-313      94.12
8-314      94.13
8-316      94.14
8-401      95.01
8-402      95.02
8-501      96.01
8-502      96.02
9-101      150.01
9-102      150.01
9-103      150.02
9-104      150.03;
           150.15
9-105      150.16
9-106      150.17
9-108      150.04
9-201      150.30
9-202      150.31
9-203      150.32
9-301      150.45
9-401      150.46
9-501      150.47
9-601      150.48
9-801      150.60
9-802      150.61
10-101     112.15
10-102     112.16
10-103     112.17
10-104     112.18
10-105     112.19
10-106     112.20
10-107     112.21
10-108     112.22
10-109     112.23
10-110     112.01
10-111     112.02
10-201     113.01
10-202     113.02
10-203     113.03
10-204     113.04
10-205     113.05
10-206     113.06
10-221     113.20
10-222     113.21
10-223     113.22
10-301     114.01
10-302     114.15
10-303     114.35
10-304     114.36
10-305     114.16
10-306     114.17
10-307     114.18
10-308     114.19
10-309     114.20
10-310     114.37
10-311     114.38
10-312     114.39
10-313     114.40
10-314     114.41
10-315     114.42
10-317     114.44
10-318     114.45
10-319     114.46
10-320     114.47
10-322     114.48
10-323     114.49
10-324     114.50
10-325     114.21
10-326     114.22
10-327     114.23
10-328     114.24
10-401     116.01
10-402     116.02
10-403     116.03
10-404     116.04
10-405     116.05
10-406     116.06
10-407     116.07
10-408     116.08
10-409     116.09
10-410     116.10
10-411     117.01
10-412     117.02
10-413     117.03
10-414     117.04
10-415     118.01
10-416     118.02
10-417     118.03
10-418     118.04
10-419     119.01
10-420     119.02
10-421     119.03
10-422     119.04
10-423     110.04
10-424     110.05
10-425     110.06
10-426     110.06
10-501     115.01
10-502     115.02
10-503     115.03
10-504     115.04
10-601     111.01
10-602     111.02
10-603     111.03
10-604     111.04
10-605     111.05
10-701     110.01
10-801     110.02
10-901     110.03
11-101     152.015
11-101.01  152.016
11-102     152.017
11-103     152.018
11-104     152.019
11-110     152.195
11-111     152.196
11-112     152.125
11-113     152.126
11-114     152.127
11-115     152.128
11-116     152.129
11-117     152.130
11-118     152.131
11-119     152.132
11-120     152.075
11-121     152.076
11-122     152.077
11-201     152.090
11-202     152.091
11-204     152.092;
           152.094
11-205     152.094
11-206     152.095
11-301     152.001
11-401     152.030
11-402     152.031
11-403     152.032
11-404     152.033
11-405     152.034
11-406     152.035
11-407     152.036
11-408     152.037
11-409     152.038
11-411     152.050-
           152.062
11-501     152.197
11-502     152.110
11-503     152.111
11-504     152.112
11-505     152.113
11-506     152.114
11-601     152.235
11-602     152.236
11-603     152.237
11-701     152.160
11-702     152.161
11-703     152.162
11-801     152.175
11-802     152.176
11-803     152.177
11-804     152.178
11-805     152.179
11-806     152.180
11-807     152.181
11-808     152.182
11-901     152.215
11-902     152.216
11-903     152.217
11-904     152.218
11-905     152.219
11-906     152.220
11-907     152.221
11-1001    152.002;
           152.999
11-1102    152.999
11-1103    152.999
11-1201    152.145
11-1202    152.146
11-1203    152.147
11-1204    152.148
11-1301    152.999
1          151.001
2          151.002
3          151.003
4          151.004
5          151.005
6.1        151.020
6.2        151.021
6.3        151.022
6.4        151.023
6.5        151.024
6.6        151.025
6.7        151.026
6.8        151.027
6.9        151.028
6.10       151.029
6.11       151.030
6.12       151.031
6.13       151.032
6.14       151.033
7.1        151.045
7.2        151.046
7.3        151.047
7.4        151.048
7.5        151.049
7.6        151.050
7.7        151.051
7.8        151.052
7.9        151.053
7.10       151.054
7.11       151.055
7.12       151.056
7.13       151.057
7.14       151.058
7.15       151.059
7.16       151.060
7.17       151.061
7.18       151.062
7.19       151.063
7.20       151.064
8.1        151.075
8.2        151.076
8.3        151.077
8.4        151.078
8.5        151.079
9.1        151.090
9.2        151.091
9.3        151.092
9.4        151.093
9.5        151.094
9.6        151.095
9.7        151.096
9.8        151.097
9.9        151.098
10.1       151.110
10.2       151.111
10.3       151.112
10.4       151.113
11.1       151.125
11.2       151.126
11.3       151.127
11.4       151.128
11.5       151.129
11.6       151.130
11.7       151.131
11.8       151.132
11.9       151.133
11.10      151.134
12.1       151.145
12.2       151.146
12.3       151.147
13         151.006
14         151.007
           
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
2-95     - -         152.015
32       2-8-1982    73.063
                     73.014;
                     74.16;
                     98.008;
7-88     11-7-1988   99.35;
                     99.37-
                     99.40;
                     132.08
                     37.14;
11-89    1-2-1990    71.03;
                     114.21;
                     114.22
                     51.068;
12-89    1-2-1990    52.01-
                     52.08
                     97.15;
6-90     8-6-1990    97.16;
                     150.45-
                     150.47
9-90     8-13-1990   97.42;
                     97.43
10-90    12-3-1990   98.003
                     31.066;
1-91     2-4-1991    98.008;
                     98.009;
                     150.03
                     114.18;
2-92     3-2-1992    114.44;
                     152.125-
                     152.132
7-92     8-3-1992    152.125-
                     152.132
3-93     5-3-1993    30.20;
                     31.070
02-93    11-1-1993   53.32
12-93    11-1-1993   132.06
4-94     4-4-1994    36.04
                     37.16;
                     70.001;
                     70.021;
                     70.042;
                     73.003;
                     73.015;
                     74.01;
                     75.01;
11-94    12-19-1994  75.02;
                     75.16-
                     75.19;
                     75.51;
                     97.41;
                     97.44;
                     97.45;
                     114.24;
                     131.03
9-95     8-7-1995    35.04
10-95    8-7-1995    37.03
14-95    8-7-1995    134.07
15-95    8-7-1995    99.62
16-95    8-7-1995    97.28
17-95    8-7-1995    92.13
18-95    8-7-1995    92.13
20-95    8-7-1995    152.195
                     98.020;
                     98.021;
                     98.023;
4-95     11-6-1995   98.024;
                     98.026-
                     98.035;
                     98.050-
                     98.053
2-96     1-8-1996    37.01
3-96     1-8-1996    37.06
7-96     1-8-1996    72.30;
                     72.31
9-96     1-8-1996    72.03
19-96    1-8-1996    94.11
20-96    1-8-1996    92.09
9-97     6-2-1997    99.36
2-97     7-7-1997    98.004
11-97    8-4-1997    74.99
3-98     5-11-1998   54.03;
                     54.05
                     51.050-
                     51.052;
                     51.065-
13-98    12-14-1998  51.067;
                     51.070;
                     51.072;
                     51.073;
                     51.999
3-99     6-14-1999   32.06
11-99    12-13-1999  132.08
12-99    12-13-1999  92.02
1-00     1-10-2000   70.040
6-00     7-10-2000   152.999
11-00    11-13-2000  132.03
6-01     6-11-2001   32.10
10-01    9-10-2001   51.068
                     30.24;
                     31.016;
                     31.050;
                     31.069;
                     32.02;
                     37.13;
                     41.01;
                     70.020;
                     74.30-
7-02     7-8-2002    74.38;
                     74.99;
                     91.01-
                     91.11;
                     94.08;
                     94.14;
                     114.48;
                     152.016;
                     152.075-
                     152.077
13-02    9-9-2002    51.001;
                     53.01
                     31.050;
                     36.06;
                     37.18;
                     37.20;
                     37.21;
                     37.35;
4-03     4-14-2003   37.36;
                     40.13;
                     54.14;
                     70.041;
                     131.04;
                     134.02;
                     134.03
6-03     10-13-2003  150.30
                     33.02;
                     34.03;
                     36.05;
                     37.13;
1-04     4-12-2004   40.03;
                     40.04;
                     75.50;
                     75.52;
                     92.08;
                     150.31
6-04     4-12-2004   51.999
9-04     6-14-2004   99.59
8-04     7-12-2004   32.08;
                     54.12
10-04    7-12-2004   32.08
11-04    8-9-2004    90.01
                     30.21;
                     30.22;
                     30.27;
                     30.28;
                     32.05;
                     36.01;
                     36.02;
                     72.15;
1-05     1-10-2005   92.14;
                     111.01;
                     114.19;
                     114.20;
                     114.23;
                     114.37;
                     114.45;
                     114.50;
                     150.04
4-05     2-14-2005   132.01;
                     134.05
7-05     6-13-2005   151.052
10-05    7-11-2005   30.16;
                     30.25
8-06     12-26-2006  92.15
                     51.027;
1-07     1-8-2007    53.29;
                     54.05
9-07     5-14-2007   95.02
                     111.01;
10-07    7-23-2007   150.17;
                     152.050-
                     152.062
19-07    9-10-2007   152.031
22-07    9-10-2007   152.050-
                     152.062
                     98.065-
                     98.071;
33-07    12-10-2007  98.073-
                     98.077;
                     98.999
1-08     1-14-2008   98.070-
                     98.072
6-08     3-24-2008   53.26
7-08     3-24-2008   51.024
8-09     - -2009     152.039;
                     152.999
3-11     1-24-2011   Repeals
                     32.04
5-11     2-14-2011   30.25
11-11    4-25-2011   51.028
12-11    4-25-2011   53.30
13-11    6-27-2011   36.09
14-11    6-27-2011   98.009
15-11    6-27-2011   98.008
16-11    6-27-2011   98.024
17-11    6-27-2011   114.01
18-11    6-27-2011   114.17
19-11    6-27-2011   114.20
20-11    6-27-2011   114.23
21-11    6-27-2011   114.35
22-11    6-27-2011   114.45
23-11    6-27-2011   Repeals
                     114.43
24-11    6-27-2011   132.06
25-11    6-27-2011   132.06
26-11    6-27-2011   98.999
27-11    7-25-2011   99.59; Repeals
                     132.12
28-11    8-22-2011   98.027
37-11    11-25-2011  36.04
38-11    12-27-2011  36.09
39-11    12-27-2011  36.06
40-11    12-27-2011  37.08
41-11    12-27-2011  92.14
42-11    12-27-2011  132.06
43-11    12-27-2011  114.20
44-11    12-27-2011  114.42
45-11    12-27-2011  114.35
46-11    12-27-2011  132.06
47-11    12-27-2011  132.07
48-11    12-27-2011  98.078
1-12     2-27-2012   114.45
2-12     2-27-2012   30.25
                    
 
