CITY OF AURORA, NEBRASKA
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2020 S-2 Supplement contains:
Local legislation current through Ord. 1100, passed 1-14-2020
Published by:
American Legal Publishing Corporation
One West Fourth Street, Third Floor
Cincinnati, Ohio  45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Fax: (513) 763-3562
Internet: http://www.amlegal.com
ADOPTING ORDINANCE
ORDINANCE NO. 987
AN ORDINANCE TO REVISE ALL THE ORDINANCES OF THE CITY OF AURORA, NEBRASKA, TO
REPEAL PRIOR ORDINANCES, TO REQUIRE FILING, AND TO PROVIDE AN EFFECTIVE DATE.
   BE IT ORDAINED BY THE MAYOR AND COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF AURORA, NEBRASKA:
   Section 1.   The general ordinances of the City of Aurora, Nebraska, are
hereby revised,  codified, and printed in book form as the "Code of Ordinances
of the City of Aurora, Nebraska" consisting of the following Titles:
         Title I:  General Provisions
         Title III:  Administration
         Title V:  Public Works
         Title VII:  Traffic Code
         Title IX:  General Regulations
         Title XI:  Business Regulations
         Title XIII:  General Offenses
         Title XV:  Land Usage
   Section 2.   The Code of Ordinances contains all of the provisions of a
general nature pertaining to the subjects enumerated and embraced in the code.
All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated by the code are
repealed, except that nothing shall affect any rights acquired under, actions
involving, or fines, penalties, forfeitures, or liabilities incurred pursuant
to such ordinances prior to repeal.
   Section 3.   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other
ordinances pertaining to subjects not embraced in the Code of Ordinances,
including ordinances specified in this section, shall remain in full force and
effect unless repealed expressly or by necessary implication.
         1.   Vacating  or  setting  the  boundaries  of streets, alleys, or
other public places.
         2.   Annexing or detaching territory.
         3.   Granting or accepting easements, plats, or dedication of land to
public use.
         4.   Providing for the acquisition or conveyance of real or personal
property.
         5.   Authorizing or directing public improvements to be made.
         6.   Levying taxes or special assessments.
         7.   Appropriating money.
         8.   Granting franchises or special licenses.
         9.   Providing for the issuance of bonds or other instruments of
indebtedness.
   Section 4.   At least one copy of the Code of Ordinances shall be on file in
the office of the City Clerk and available for inspection by members of the
public during the hours the office is kept open for the ordinary transaction of
business. The Clerk shall file a copy of the ordinances with the County Court.
   Section 5.   This ordinance shall be in full force and shall take effect
from and after its passage, approval, and publication according to law.
   Passed and approved this 10th day of September, 2013.
                              Marlin L. Seeman /s/ 
                              Mayor
ATTEST:
Barbra Mikkelsen \s\   
City Clerk
TITLE I:  GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
CHAPTER 10:  GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Interpretation
   
10.03   Application to future ordinances
   
10.04   Captions
   
10.05   Definitions
   
10.06   Rules of interpretation
   
10.07   Severability
   
10.08   Reference to other sections
   
10.09   Reference to offices
   
10.10   Errors and omissions
   
10.11   Official time
   
10.12   Reasonable time
   
10.13   Ordinances repealed
   
10.14   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.15   Repeal or modification of ordinance
   
10.16   Section histories; statutory references
 
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01  TITLE OF CODE.
   This codification of ordinances shall be designated as the City of Aurora
code of ordinances and may be so cited.
§ 10.02  INTERPRETATION.
   Unless otherwise provided herein, or by law or implication required, the
same rules of construction, definition and application shall govern the
interpretation of this code as those governing the interpretation of state law.
§ 10.03  APPLICATION TO FUTURE ORDINANCES.
   All provisions of Title I compatible with future legislation shall apply to
ordinances hereafter adopted amending or supplementing this code unless
otherwise specifically provided.
§ 10.04  CAPTIONS.
   Headings and captions used in this code other than the title, chapter and
section numbers are employed for reference purposes only and shall not be
deemed a part of the text of any section.
§ 10.05  DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   General rule.  Words and phrases shall be taken in their plain, or
ordinary and usual sense. However, technical words and phrases having a
peculiar and appropriate meaning in law shall be understood according to their
technical import.
   (B)   Definitions.  For the purpose of this code, the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      CITY, MUNICIPAL CORPORATION or MUNICIPALITY.  The City of Aurora.
      CITY COUNCIL or GOVERNING BODY.  The City Council of the City of Aurora.
      CODE,THIS CODE or THIS CODE OF ORDINANCES.  This city code as modified by
amendment, revision and adoption of new titles, chapters or sections.
      COUNTY.  The County of Hamilton.
      MAY.  The act referred to is permissive.
      MONTH.  A calendar month.
      OATH.  Includes an affirmation in all cases in which, by law, an
affirmation may be substituted for an oath, and in those cases the words SWEAR
and SWORN shall be equivalent to the words AFFIRM and AFFIRMED.
      OFFICER, OFFICE, EMPLOYEE, COMMISSION or DEPARTMENT.  An officer, office,
employee, commission or department of this city unless the context clearly
requires otherwise.
      PERSON.  Includes bodies politic and corporate, societies, communities,
the public generally, individuals, partnerships, limited liability companies,
joint-stock companies and associations.
(Neb. RS 49-801(16))
      PRECEDING or FOLLOWING.  Next before or next after, respectively.
      SHALL.  The act referred to is mandatory.
      SIGNATURE or SUBSCRIPTION.  Includes a mark when the person cannot write.
      STATE.  The State of Nebraska.
      SUBCHAPTER.  A division of a chapter, designated in this code by a
heading in the chapter analysis and a capitalized heading in the body of the
chapter, setting apart a group of sections related by the subject matter of the
heading. Not all chapters have SUBCHAPTERS.
      WRITTEN.  Any representation of words, letters or figures, whether by
printing or otherwise.
      YEAR.  A calendar year, unless otherwise expressed.
§ 10.06  RULES OF INTERPRETATION.
   The construction of all ordinances of this city shall be by the following
rules, unless that construction is plainly repugnant to the intent of the Mayor
and City Council or of the context of the same ordinance:
   (A)   ANDorOR.  Either conjunction shall include the other as if written
“and/or,” if the sense requires it.
   (B)   Acts by assistants.  When a statute or ordinance requires an act to be
done which, by law, an agent or deputy as well may do as the principal, the
requisition shall be satisfied by the performance of the act by an authorized
agent or deputy.
   (C)   Gender; singular and plural; tenses.  Words denoting the masculine
gender shall be deemed to include the feminine and neuter genders; words in the
singular shall include the plural, and words in the plural shall include the
singular; the use of a verb in the present tense shall include the future, if
applicable.
   (D)   General term.  A general term following specific enumeration of terms
is not to be limited to the class enumerated unless expressly so limited.
§ 10.07  SEVERABILITY.
   If any provision of this code as now or later amended or its application to
any person or circumstance is held invalid, the invalidity does not affect
other provisions that can be given effect without the invalid provision or
application.
§ 10.08  REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   Whenever a section refers to another section hereof, that reference shall
extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently amended, revised,
recodified or renumbered unless the subject matter is materially altered by the
amendment or revision.
§ 10.09  REFERENCE TO OFFICES.
   Reference to a public office or officer shall be deemed to apply to any
office, officer or employee of this city exercising the powers, duties or
functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any transfer of
functions or change in the official title of the functionary.
§ 10.10  ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error is discovered, consisting of the misspelling of any
words; the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention of
the provisions affected; the use of a word or words to which no meaning can be
attached; or the use of a word or words when another word or words was clearly
intended to express the intent, the spelling shall be corrected and the word or
words supplied, omitted or substituted as will conform with the manifest
intention, and the provisions shall have the same effect as though the correct
words were contained in the text as originally published. No alteration shall
be made or permitted if any question exists regarding the nature or extent of
the error.
§ 10.11  OFFICIAL TIME.
   The official time, as established by applicable state/federal laws, shall be
the official time within this city for the transaction of all city business.
§ 10.12  REASONABLE TIME.
   (A)   In all cases where an ordinance requires an act to be done in a
reasonable time or requires reasonable notice to be given, reasonable time or
notice shall be deemed to mean the time which is necessary for a prompt
performance of the act or the giving of the notice.
   (B)   The time within which an act is to be done, as herein provided, shall
be computed by excluding the first day and including the last. If the last day
is Sunday, it shall be excluded.
§ 10.13  ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   This code contains all of the provisions of a general nature pertaining to
the subjects enumerated and embraced in this code. All prior ordinances
pertaining to the subjects treated by this code are repealed, except that
nothing shall affect any rights acquired under, actions involving or fines,
penalties, forfeitures or liabilities incurred pursuant to those ordinances
prior to repeal.
§ 10.14  ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not embraced in this code, including ordinances
specified in this section, shall remain in full force and effect unless
repealed expressly or by necessary implication:
   (A)   Vacating or setting the boundaries of streets, alleys or other public
places;
   (B)   Annexing or detaching territory;
   (C)   Granting or accepting easements, plats or dedication of land to public
use;
   (D)   Providing for the acquisition or conveyance of real or personal
property;
   (E)   Authorizing or directing public improvements to be made;
   (F)   Levying taxes or special assessments;
   (G)   Appropriating money;
   (H)   Granting franchises or special licenses; or
   (I)   Providing for the issuance of bonds or other instruments of
indebtedness.
§ 10.15  REPEAL OR MODIFICATION OF ORDINANCE.
   (A)   Whenever any ordinance or part of an ordinance is repealed or modified
by a subsequent ordinance, the ordinance or part of an ordinance thus repealed
or modified shall continue in force until the publication of the ordinance
repealing or modifying it to give effect thereto.
   (B)   No suit, proceedings, right, liability, fine, forfeiture or penalty
instituted, created, given, secured or accrued under any ordinance previous to
its repeal shall in any way be affected, released or discharged, but may be
prosecuted, enjoyed and recovered as fully as if the ordinance had continued in
force, unless it is otherwise expressly provided.
   (C)   When any ordinance repealing a former ordinance, clause or provision
is itself repealed, the repeal shall not be construed to revive the former
ordinance, clause or provision, unless it is expressly provided.
Statutory reference:
   Requirements for amendments and revisions, see Neb. RS 17-614
§ 10.16  SECTION HISTORIES; STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   A statutory cite included in the history indicates that the text of
the section reads substantially the same as the statute. Example:  (Neb. RS 18-
132)
   (B)   A statutory cite set forth as a “statutory reference” following the
text of the section indicates that the reader should refer to that statute for
further information. Example:
   § 39.01  PUBLIC RECORDS AVAILABLE.
      This municipality shall make available to any person for inspection or
copying all public records, unless otherwise exempted by state law.
   Statutory reference:
      Inspection of public records, see Neb. RS 84-712 et seq.
§ 10.99  GENERAL PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who violates any of the provisions of this city code,
unless otherwise specifically provided herein, shall be deemed guilty of an
offense and upon conviction thereof shall be fined in any sum not exceeding
$500. A new violation shall be deemed to have been committed every 24 hours of
failure to comply with the provisions of this code.
   (B)   (1)   Whenever a nuisance exists as defined in §
92.01 of this code, the city may proceed by a suit in equity to enjoin and
abate the same, in the manner provided by law.
      (2)   Whenever, in any action, it is established that a nuisance exists,
the court may, together with the fine or penalty imposed, enter an order of
abatement as a part of the judgment in the case.
Statutory reference:
   Authority to abate nuisances, see Neb. RS 18-1720 and 18-1722
   Authority to impose fines, see Neb. RS 17-505
TITLE III:  ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
31.   MEETINGS AND LEGISLATION
      
32.   CITY OFFICIALS
      
33.   COMMITTEES, COMMISSIONS AND BOARDS
      
34.   CITY DEPARTMENTS
      
35.   ELECTIONS
      
36.   FISCAL MANAGEMENT
CHAPTER 30:  GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
Bonds and Oath
   
30.01   Bonds; requirements
   
30.02   Oath of office; city officials
Seal
   
30.15   Adoption
Compensation
   
30.30   Compensation; how fixed; limitations
   
30.31   Conflict of interest
 
   
30.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   City Departments, see
Ch. 34
   City Officials, see
Ch. 32
BONDS AND OATH
§ 30.01  BONDS; REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The city may enact ordinances or bylaws to require from all officers
and servants, elected or appointed, bonds and security or evidence of
equivalent insurance for the faithful performance of their duties. The city may
pay the premium for such bonds or insurance coverage.
(Neb. RS 17-604)
   (B)   (1)   All official bonds of officers of the city shall be in form
joint and several and made payable to the city in such penalty as the City
Council may fix.
      (2)   In place of the individual bonds required to be furnished by
municipal officers, a schedule, position, blanket bond or undertaking, or
evidence of equivalent insurance may be given by municipal officers, or a
single corporate surety fidelity, schedule, position, or blanket bond or
undertaking, or evidence of insurance coverage covering all the officers,
including officers required by law to furnish an individual bond or
undertaking, may be furnished. The municipality may pay the premium for the
bond or insurance coverage. The bond or insurance coverage shall be, at a
minimum, an aggregate of the amounts fixed by law or by the City Council, and
with such terms and conditions as may be required.
(Neb. RS 11-104)
      (3)   The penalty amount on any bond shall not fall below the legal
minimum, when one has been set by the state, for each particular official.
   (C)   Official bonds, with the oath endorsed thereon, shall be filed in the
City Clerk's office within the following time:
      (1)   Of all appointed officers, within 30 days after their appointment;
and
      (2)   Of elected city officers, within 30 days after the canvass of the
votes of the election at which they were chosen.
(Neb. RS 11-105)
   (D)   All official bonds of city officers shall be executed by the principal
named in such bonds and by at least 2 sufficient sureties who shall be
freeholders of the county in which such bonds are given, or any official bond
of a city officer may be executed by the officer as principal and by a
guaranty, surety, fidelity, or bonding company as surety, or by 2 or more such
companies. Only such companies as are legally authorized to transact business
in this state shall be eligible to suretyship on the bond of a city officer.
(Neb. RS 11-109)
   (E)   The City Clerk shall carefully record and preserve the bonds in his or
her office and shall give certified copies thereof, when required, under the
seal of his or her office, and shall be entitled to receive for the same the
usual fee allowed by law for certified copies of records in other cases.
(Neb. RS 11-110)
   (F)   (1)   The approval of each official bond shall be endorsed upon such
bond by the officer approving the same, and no bond shall be filed and recorded
until so approved.
(Neb. RS 11-111)
      (2)   No bond shall be deemed to be given or complete until the approval
of the City Council and all sureties are endorsed in writing on the instrument
by the Mayor and City Clerk pursuant to the approval of the City Council.
   (G)   All official bonds shall obligate the principal and sureties for the
faithful discharge of all duties required by law of such principal and shall
inure to the benefit of any persons injured by a breach of the conditions of
such bonds.
(Neb. RS 11-112)
   (H)   No official bond shall be rendered void by reason of any informality
of irregularity in its execution or approval.
(Neb. RS 11-113)
   (I)   No city official shall be taken as security on the bond of any
administrator, executor, or other officer from whom by law bond is or may be
required.
(Neb. RS 11-114)
   (J)   If any person elected or appointed to any office neglects to have his
or her official bond executed and approved as provided by law and filed for
record within the time limited by this section, the City Clerk shall
immediately issue an order to such person to show cause why he or she has
failed to properly file such bond and why his or her office should not be
declared vacant. If such person properly files the official bond within 10 days
of the issuance of the show cause order for appointed officials or before the
date for taking office for elected officials, such filing shall be deemed to be
in compliance with this section. If such person does not file the bond within
the required time and sufficient cause is not shown within that time, his or
her office shall thereupon ipso facto become vacant and such vacancy shall
thereupon immediately be filled by election or appointment as the law may
direct in other cases of vacancy in the same office.
(Neb. RS 11-115)
   (K)   Any person appointed to fill a vacancy, before entering upon the
duties of the office, must give a bond corresponding in substance and form with
the bond required of the officer originally elected or appointed, as herein
provided.
(Neb. RS 11-116)
   (L)   When the incumbent of an office is reelected or reappointed, he or she
shall qualify by taking the oath and giving the bond as above directed, but
when such officer has had public funds or property in his or her control, his
or her bond shall not be approved until he or she has produced and fully
accounted for such funds and property. When it is ascertained that the
incumbent of an office holds over by reason of the nonelection or
nonappointment of a successor or of the neglect or refusal of the successor to
qualify, he or she shall qualify anew within 10 days from the time at which his
or her successor, if elected, should have qualified.
(Neb. RS 11-117)
   (M)   No person shall be surety for the same officer for more than 2
successive terms of the same office, but this provision shall not apply to
incorporated surety companies.
(Neb. RS 11-118)
   (N)   If the sureties on the official bond of any appointed officer of the
city, in the opinion of the City Council, become insufficient, the Council may,
by resolution, fix a reasonable time within which the officer may give a new
bond or additional sureties as directed. If the officer fails, refuses, or
neglects to give a new bond or additional sureties to the satisfaction and
approval of the Council, the office shall, by such failure, refusal, or
neglect, become vacant and it shall be the duty of the Council to appoint a
competent and qualified person to fill the office.
§ 30.02  OATH OF OFFICE; CITY OFFICIALS.
   (A)   All officials of the city, whether elected or appointed, except when a
different oath is specifically provided herein, shall before entering upon
their respective duties take and subscribe the following oath, which shall be
endorsed upon their respective bonds:
      “I, ______________________________, do solemnly swear that I will support
the Constitution of the United States and the Constitution of the State of
Nebraska, against all enemies foreign and domestic; that I will bear true faith
and allegiance to the same; that I take this obligation freely and without
mental reservation or for the purpose of evasion; and that I will faithfully
and impartially perform the duties of the office of ____________________,
according to law and to the best of my ability.  And I do further swear that I
do not advocate nor am I a member of any political party or organization that
advocates the overthrow of the government of the United States or of this state
by force or violence; and that during such time as I am in this position I will
not advocate nor become a member of any political party or organization that
advocates the overthrow of the government of the United States or of this state
by force or violence.  So help me God.”
   (B)   If any such officer is not required to give bond, the oath shall be
filed with the City Clerk.
(Neb. RS 11-101)
SEAL
§ 30.15  ADOPTION.
   (A)   The official corporate seal of the city shall be kept in the office of
the City Clerk-Treasurer and shall bear the following inscription:
   Seal, City of Aurora, Nebraska
   (B)   The City Clerk-Treasurer shall affix an impression of the seal to all
warrants, licenses, permits, ordinances and all other official papers issued by
order of the City Council and countersigned by the City Clerk-Treasurer.
(1998 Code, § 1-401)
COMPENSATION
§ 30.30  COMPENSATION; HOW FIXED; LIMITATIONS.
   (A)   The officers and employees of the city shall receive such compensation
as the Mayor and Council shall fix by ordinance. 
(Neb. RS 17-108)
   (B)   The city may enact ordinances or bylaws to regulate and prescribe the
compensation of officers not provided for in state law.
(Neb. RS 17-604)
   (C)   No officer shall receive any pay or perquisites from the city other
than his or her salary.  The City Council shall not pay or appropriate any
money or other valuable thing to any person not an officer for the performance
of any act, service, or duty, the doing or performance of which shall come
within the proper scope of the duties of any officer of the city. 
(Neb. RS 17-611)
   (D)   The emoluments of any elective officer shall not be increased or
diminished during the term for which he or she shall have been elected, except
when there has been a combination and merger of offices as provided in §
31.03, except that when there are officers elected to the Council, or any other
board or commission having more than one member and the terms of one or more
members commence and end at different times, the compensation of all members of
such council, board or commission may be increased or diminished at the
beginning of the full term of any member thereof.  No person who shall have
resigned or vacated any office shall be eligible to the same during the time
for which he or she was elected if during the same time the emoluments thereof
were increased. 
(Neb. RS 17-612)
§ 30.31  CONFLICT OF INTEREST.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      BUSINESS ASSOCIATION.
         (a)   A business:
            1.   In which the individual is a partner, limited liability
company member, director, or officer; or
            2.   In which the individual or a member of the individual’s
immediate family is a stockholder of closed corporation stock worth $1,000 or
more at fair market value or which represents more than a 5% equity interest or
is a stockholder of publicly traded stock worth $10,000 or more at fair market
value or which represents more than 10% equity interest.
         (b)   An individual who occupies a confidential professional
relationship protected by law shall be exempt from this definition.  This
definition shall not apply to publicly traded stock under a trading account if
the filer reports the name and address of the stockbroker.
(Neb. RS 49-1408)
      IMMEDIATE FAMILY.  A child residing in an individual’s household, a
spouse of an individual, or an individual claimed by that individual or that
individual’s spouse as a dependent for federal income tax purposes.
(Neb. RS 49-1425)
      OFFICER.
         (a)   Includes:
            1.   A member of any board or commission of the city which spends
and administers its own funds, who is dealing with a contract made by such
board or commission; or
            2.   Any elected city official.
         (b)   OFFICER does not mean volunteer firefighters or ambulance
drivers with respect to their duties as firefighters or ambulance drivers.
   (B)   (1)   Except as provided in Neb. RS 49-1499.04 or 70-624.04, no
officer may have an interest in any contract to which his or her governing
body, or anyone for its benefit, is a party.  The existence of such an interest
in any contract shall render the contract voidable by decree of a court of
competent jurisdiction as to any person who entered into the contract or took
assignment of the contract with actual knowledge of the prohibited conflict. 
An action to have a contract declared void under this section may be brought by
the County Attorney, the governing body, or any resident within the
jurisdiction of the governing body and shall be brought within 1 year after the
contract is signed or assigned.  The decree may provide for the reimbursement
of any person for the reasonable value of all money, goods, material, labor, or
services furnished under the contract, to the extent that the governing body
has benefitted thereby.
      (2)   The prohibition in this division (B) shall apply only when the
officer or his or her parent, spouse, or child:
         (a)   Has a business association with the business involved in the
contract; or
         (b)   Will receive a direct pecuniary fee or commission as a result of
the contract.
   (C)   Division (B) of this section does not apply if the contract is an
agenda item approved at a meeting of the governing body and the interested
officer:
      (1)   Makes a declaration on the record to the governing body responsible
for approving the contract regarding the nature and extent of his or her
interest prior to official consideration of the contract;
      (2)   Does not vote on the matters of granting the contract, making
payments pursuant to the contract, or accepting performance of work under the
contract, or similar matters relating to the contract, except that if the
number of members of the governing body declaring an interest in the contract
would prevent the body with all members present from securing a quorum on the
issue, then all members may vote on the matters; and
      (3)   Does not act for the governing body which is a party to the
contract as to inspection or performance under the contract in which he or she
has an interest.
   (D)   An officer who has no business association with the business involved
in the contract, or will not receive a direct pecuniary fee or commission as a
result of the contract, shall not be deemed to have an interest within the
meaning of this section.
   (E)   The receiving of deposits, cashing of checks, and buying and selling
of warrants and bonds of indebtedness of any such governing body by a financial
institution shall not be considered a contract for purposes of this section. 
The ownership of less than 5% of the outstanding shares of a corporation shall
not constitute an interest within the meaning of this section.
   (F)   If an officer’s parent, spouse, or child is an employee of the
officer’s governing body, the officer may vote on all issues of the contract
which are generally applicable to all employees, or all employees within a
classification, and do not single out his or her parent, spouse, or child for
special action.
   (G)   Neb. RS 49-14,102 does not apply to contracts covered by this section.
(Neb. RS 49-14,103.01)
   (H)   (1)   The person charged with keeping records for the governing body
shall maintain separately from other records a ledger containing the
information listed in divisions (H)(1)(a) through (H)(1)(e) of this section
about every contract entered into by the governing body in which an officer of
the body has an interest and for which disclosure is made pursuant to division
(C) of this section.  This information shall be kept in the ledger for 5 years
from the date of the officer’s last day in office and shall include:
         (a)   The names of the contracting parties;
         (b)   The nature of the interest of the officer in question;
         (c)   The date that the contract was approved by the governing body;
         (d)   The amount of the contract; and
         (e)   The basic terms of the contract.
      (2)   The information supplied relative to the contract shall be provided
no later than 10 days after the contract has been signed by both parties.  The
ledger kept pursuant to this division (H) shall be available for public
inspection during the normal working hours of the office in which it is kept.
(Neb. RS 49-14,103.02)
   (I)   An open account established for the benefit of any governing body with
a business in which an officer has an interest shall be deemed a contract
subject to this section.  The statement required to be filed by division (H) of
this section shall be filed within 10 days after the account is opened. 
Thereafter, the person charged with keeping records for the governing body
shall maintain a running account of amounts purchased on the open account. 
Purchases made from petty cash or a petty cash fund shall not be subject to
this section.
(Neb. RS 49-14,103.03)
   (J)   Notwithstanding divisions (A) through (I) of this section, the
governing body may prohibit contracts over a specific dollar amount in which an
officer of the governing body may have an interest.
(Neb. RS 49-14,103.05)
   (K)   The governing body may exempt from divisions (A) through (I) of this
section, contracts involving $100 or less in which an officer of that body may
have an interest.
(Neb. RS 49-14,103.06)
Statutory reference:
   Other provisions on conflicts of interest, see Neb. RS 18-305 through 18-312
and 49-1499.03 through 49-14,103
   Penalty for violation of restrictions on contracts, see Neb. RS 49-14,103.04
(1998 Code, § 1-902)  Penalty, see §
30.99
§ 30.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   In accordance with the statutes of the State of Nebraska, including
Neb. RS 17-505, any person who shall violate or refuse to comply with the
enforcement of any of the provisions of this title shall be deemed guilty of a
misdemeanor and upon conviction thereof shall be fined not more than $500 for
any one offense, recoverable with costs.
   (B)   A new violation shall be deemed to have been committed every 24 hours
of failure to comply.
(1998 Code, § 3-801)  (Ord. 724, passed 1-25-2000; Ord. 950, passed 6-22-2010)
CHAPTER 31:  MEETINGS AND LEGISLATION
Section
Meetings
   
31.01   City Council
   
31.02   Public; notice
   
31.03   Rights of public
   
31.04   Minutes; roll call vote; secret ballot
   
31.05   Closed session
   
31.06   Parliamentary procedure
Ordinances, Resolutions and Motions
   
31.20   Grant of power
   
31.21   Procedure for resolutions and motions
   
31.22   Ordinances; style, title
   
31.23   Reading and passage of ordinances, resolutions, orders, bylaws
   
31.24   Publication or posting
   
31.25   Certificate of publication or posting
   
31.26   Effective date; emergency ordinances
   
31.27   Amendments and revisions
MEETINGS
§ 31.01  CITY COUNCIL.
   (A)   Regular meetings of the City Council shall be held every second and
fourth Tuesday of every month at 7:30 p.m. at the City Hall Council Chambers
located at Aurora City Hall, 905 13th Street, Aurora, NE 68818. A majority of
all the members elected to the Council shall constitute a quorum for the
transaction of any business, but a fewer number may adjourn from time to time
and compel the attendance of absent members. Unless a greater vote is required
by law, an affirmative vote of at least ½ of the elected members shall be
required for the transaction of any business.
(Neb. RS 17-105)
   (B)   (1)   The Mayor or any 3 Councilmembers shall have power to call
special meetings of the City Council, the object of which shall be submitted to
the Council in writing; and the call and object, as well as the disposition
thereof, shall be entered upon the journal by the City Clerk.
(Neb. RS 17-106)
      (2)   On filing the call for a special meeting, the City Clerk shall
notify the Mayor and Councilmembers of the special meeting, stating the time
and purpose.
   (C)   Unless otherwise provided by the Council, on the request of any 2
members, whether a quorum is present or not, all absent members shall be sent
for and compelled to attend.
   (D)   At the hour appointed for a meeting, the City Clerk shall proceed to
call the roll of members and announce whether a quorum is present. If a quorum
is present, the Council shall be called to order by the Mayor, if present, or
if absent, by the President of the Council.
(1998 Code, § 1-501)
§ 31.02  PUBLIC; NOTICE.
   (A)   The formation of public policy is public business and may not be
conducted in secret.  Every meeting of a public body shall be open to the
public in order that citizens may exercise their democratic privilege of
attending and speaking at meetings of public bodies, except as otherwise
provided by the Constitution of Nebraska, federal statutes, and the Open
Meetings Act.
(Neb. RS 84-1408)
   (B)   Each public body shall give reasonable advance publicized notice of
the time and place of each meeting by a method designated by the public body
and recorded in its minutes. The notice shall be transmitted to all members of
the public body and to the public.  The notice shall contain an agenda of
subjects known at the time of the publicized notice or a statement that the
agenda, which shall be kept continually current, is readily available for
public inspection at the office of the public body during normal business
hours.  Agenda items shall be sufficiently descriptive to give the public
reasonable notice of the matters to be considered at the meeting. Except for
items of an emergency nature, the agenda shall not be altered later than 24
hours before the scheduled commencement of the meeting or 48 hours before the
scheduled commencement of a meeting of the City Council scheduled outside the
corporate limits of the city.  The public body shall have the right to modify
the agenda to include items of an emergency nature only at such public meeting.
(Neb. RS 84-1411)
   (C)   When it is necessary to hold an emergency meeting without reasonable
advance public notice, the nature of the emergency shall be stated in the
minutes and any formal action taken in that meeting shall pertain only to the
emergency.  Such emergency meetings may be held by means of electronic or
telecommunication equipment.  The provisions of §
31.03  shall be complied with in conducting emergency meetings.  Complete
minutes of such emergency meetings specifying the nature of the emergency and
any formal action taken at the meeting shall be made available to the public by
no later than the end of the next regular business day.
(Neb. RS 84-1411)
§ 31.03  RIGHTS OF PUBLIC.
   The public shall have the right to attend and to speak at public meetings.
Except when in closed sessions, all or any part of a meeting may be videotaped,
televised, photographed, broadcast or recorded by any person in attendance. The
public body may make and enforce reasonable rules and regulations regarding the
conduct of persons in attendance. There shall be no requirement that members of
the public identify themselves as a condition for admission to the meeting, but
there may be a requirement for those desiring to address the public body. The
meeting place of a public body shall not be too small to accommodate the
anticipated audience for the purpose of circumventing the public meetings law.
No public meeting shall be held outside the State of Nebraska. The public body
shall make reasonable efforts to accommodate the public’s right to hear the
discussion and shall make available for the public at least one copy of all
reproducible written material to be discussed at an open meeting.
(1998 Code, § 1-503)
§ 31.04  MINUTES; ROLL CALL VOTE; SECRET BALLOT.
   (A)   (1)   Each public body shall keep minutes of all meetings showing the
time, place, members present and absent, and the substance of all matters
discussed.
      (2)   The minutes of all meetings and evidence and documentation received
or disclosed in open session shall be public records and open to public
inspection during normal business hours.
      (3)   Minutes shall be written and available for inspection within 10
working days or prior to the next convened meeting, whichever occurs earlier,
except that the city may have an additional 10 working days if the employee
responsible for writing the minutes is absent due to a serious illness or
emergency.
(Neb. RS 84-1413)
   (B)   Any action taken on any question or motion duly moved and seconded
shall be by roll call vote of the public body in open session, and the record
shall state how each member voted, or if the member was absent or not voting. 
The requirements of a roll call or viva voce vote shall be satisfied by a city
which utilizes an electronic voting device which allows the yeas and nays of
each member of the City Council to be readily seen by the public.
   (C)   The vote to elect leadership within a public body may be taken by
secret ballot, but the total number of votes for each candidate shall be
recorded in the minutes.
(Neb. RS 84-1413)
§ 31.05  CLOSED SESSION.
   (A)   (1)   Any public body may hold a closed session by the affirmative
vote of a majority of its voting members if a closed session is clearly
necessary for the protection of the public interest or for the prevention of
needless injury to the reputation of an individual and if that individual has
not requested a public meeting.  The subject matter and the reason
necessitating the closed session shall be identified in the motion to close.
Closed sessions may be held for, but shall not be limited to, such reasons as:
         (a)   Strategy sessions with respect to collective bargaining, real
estate purchases, pending litigation, or litigation which is imminent as
evidenced by communication of a claim or threat of litigation to or by the
public body;
         (b)   Discussion regarding deployment of security personnel or
devices;
         (c)   Investigative proceedings regarding allegations of criminal
misconduct; or
         (d)   Evaluation of the job performance of a person when necessary to
prevent needless injury to the reputation of a person and if that person has
not requested a public meeting.
      (2)   Nothing in this section shall permit a closed meeting for
discussion of the appointment or election of a new member to any public body.
   (B)   The vote to hold a closed session shall be taken in open session.  The
entire motion, the vote of each member on the question of holding a closed
session, and the time when the closed session commenced and concluded shall be
recorded in the minutes.  If the motion to close passes, then the presiding
officer immediately prior to the closed session shall restate on the record the
limitation of the subject matter of the closed session. The public body holding
such a closed session shall restrict its consideration of matters during the
closed portions to only those purposes set forth in the motion to close as the
reason for the closed session.  The meeting shall be reconvened in open session
before any formal action may be taken.  For purposes of this section, formal
action means a collective decision or a collective commitment or promise to
make a decision on any question, motion, proposal, resolution, order, or
ordinance or formation of a position or policy but shall not include
negotiating guidance given by members of the public body to legal counsel or
other negotiators in closed sessions authorized under division (A)(1)(a) of
this section.
   (C)   Any member of any public body shall have the right to challenge the
continuation of a closed session if the member determines that the session has
exceeded the reason stated in the original motion to hold a closed session or
if the member contends that the closed session is neither clearly necessary for
the protection of the public interest or the prevention of needless injury to
the reputation of an individual.  Such challenge shall be overruled only by a
majority vote of the members of the public body.  The challenge and its
disposition shall be recorded in the minutes.
   (D)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to require that any meeting
be closed to the public.
(Neb. RS 84-1410)
§ 31.06  PARLIAMENTARY PROCEDURE.
   The Mayor shall preside over the City Council, to keep and maintain order
thereof, and to do and perform the duties devolving on him or her by general
parliamentary usage, and the rules adopted by ordinance. No motion shall be put
or debated unless seconded. When seconded, it shall be stated by the Mayor
before being debatable. Before the vote is actually taken, any motion,
resolution or proposed ordinance may be withdrawn from consideration by the
sponsor thereof with the consent of the member seconding it. In those cases in
which provisions are not made by these rules, Robert’s Rules of Order is the
authority by which procedural disputes shall be decided.
(1998 Code, § 1-506)
ORDINANCES, RESOLUTIONS AND MOTIONS
§ 31.20  GRANT OF POWER.
   In addition to its special powers, the city shall have the power to make all
ordinances, bylaws, rules, regulations, and resolutions, not inconsistent with
the laws of the state, as may be expedient for maintaining the peace, good
government, and welfare of the city and its trade, commerce, and manufactories,
and to enforce all ordinances by inflicting fines or penalties for the breach
thereof, not exceeding $500 for any one offense, recoverable with costs.
(Neb. RS 17-505)
Statutory reference:
   Adoption of standard codes, see Neb. RS 18-132 and 19-922
   Prosecution in county court, see Neb. RS 25-2703
§ 31.21  PROCEDURE FOR RESOLUTIONS AND MOTIONS.
   Unless the City Council provides otherwise,  resolutions and motions shall
be introduced in one of the methods for the introduction of ordinances.  The
issue raised by the resolution or motion shall be disposed of in accordance
with the usage of parliamentary law adopted for the guidance of the City
Council.  A majority vote shall be required to pass any resolution or motion. 
The vote on any resolution or motion shall be by roll call vote.
§ 31.22  ORDINANCES; STYLE, TITLE.
   (A)   Style.  The style of all city ordinances shall be:  “Be it ordained by
the Mayor and Council of the City of __________, Nebraska:….”
(Neb. RS 17-613)
   (B)   Title.  No ordinance shall contain a subject which is not clearly
expressed in the title.
(Neb. RS 17-614)
§ 31.23  READING AND PASSAGE OF ORDINANCES, RESOLUTIONS, ORDERS, BYLAWS.
   (A)   All ordinances and resolutions or orders for the appropriation or
payment of money shall require for their passage or adoption the concurrence of
a majority of all members elected to the City Council. The Mayor may vote when
his or her vote would provide the additional vote required to attain the number
of votes equal to a majority of the number of members elected to the Council,
and the Mayor shall, for the purpose of such vote, be deemed to be a member of
the Council. Ordinances of a general or permanent nature shall be read by title
on three different days unless three-fourths of the City Council vote to
suspend this requirement, except that this requirement shall not be suspended
for any ordinance for the annexation of territory. In case this requirement is
suspended, the ordinance shall be read by title and then moved for final
passage. Three-fourths of the City Council may require a reading of any such
ordinance in full before enactment under either procedure set out in this
section.
   (B)   On the passage or adoption of every bylaw or ordinance, and every
resolution or order to enter into a contract by the City Council, the yeas and
nays shall be called and recorded. To pass or adopt any bylaw, ordinance, or
any such resolution or order, a concurrence of a majority of the whole number
of members elected to the City Council shall be required. All appointments of
the officers by the City Council shall be made viva voce, and the concurrence
of a like majority shall be required, and the names of those, and for whom they
voted, on the vote resulting in an appointment, shall be recorded. The
requirements of a roll call or viva voce vote shall be satisfied by a city
which utilizes an electronic voting device which allows the yeas and nays of
each member of the City Council to be readily seen by the public.
(Ord. 995, passed 3-11-2014)
Statutory reference:
   Reading and passage of ordinances, see Neb. RS 17-614 and 17-616
§ 31.24  PUBLICATION OR POSTING.
   All ordinances of a general nature shall, before they take effect, be
published one time, within 15 days after they are passed:
   (A)   In newspaper in or of general circulation in the city; or
   (B)   In book or pamphlet form.
(Neb. RS 17-613)  (Ord. 1058, passed 4-10-2018)
Statutory reference:
   Additional provisions, see Neb. RS 18-131
§ 31.25  CERTIFICATE OF PUBLICATION OR POSTING.
   The passage, approval, and publication or posting of an ordinance shall be
sufficiently proved by a certificate under the seal of the city from the City
Clerk showing that the ordinance was passed and approved, and when and in what
paper the ordinance was published, or when and by whom and where the ordinance
was posted.
(Neb. RS 17-613)
Statutory reference:
   Passage; rules and regulations, see Neb. RS 17-615
§ 31.26  EFFECTIVE DATE; EMERGENCY ORDINANCES.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (B) of this section, an ordinance for
the government of the city which has been adopted by the City Council without
submission to the voters of the city shall not go into effect until 15 days
after the passage of the ordinance.
(Neb. RS 19-3701)
   (B)   In the case of riot, infectious or contagious diseases, or other
impending danger, failure of a public utility, or any other emergency requiring
its immediate operation, an ordinance shall take effect upon the proclamation
of the Mayor and the posting thereof in at least 3 of the most public places in
the city.  The emergency ordinance shall recite the emergency, be passed by a
3/4 vote of the City Council, and be entered of record on the City Clerk’s
minutes.
(Neb. RS 17-613)
§ 31.27  AMENDMENTS AND REVISIONS.
   No ordinance or section thereof shall be revised or amended unless the new
ordinance contains the entire ordinance or section as revised or amended and
the ordinance or section so amended is repealed, except that an ordinance
revising all the ordinances of the city and modifications to zoning or building
districts may be adopted as otherwise provided by law.
(Neb. RS 17-614)
Statutory reference:
   Modifications to zoning or building districts, see Neb. RS 19-915
   Ordinances revising all the ordinances of the city, see Neb. RS 17-614
CHAPTER 32:  CITY OFFICIALS
Section
Elected Officials
   
32.01   City Mayor; election; duties; powers; vacancy
   
32.02   President and Acting President of the Council; election; powers
   
32.03   City Council; number of members; qualifications; elections; vacancy;
organization
Appointed Officials
   
32.15   General authority
   
32.16   City Administrator; establishment; duties, responsibilities; and powers
   
32.17   Clerk-Treasurer; position created; duties
   
32.18   Deputy Clerk-Treasurer; position created; duties
   
32.19   Utilities Superintendent, Street Commissioner, Building Inspector and
Zoning Administrator; position created; duties
   
32.20   Water and Sewer Commissioner; position created; duties
   
32.21   Waste Water Plant Superintendent
   
32.22   Park Superintendent
   
32.23   Cemetery Superintendent
   
32.24   Chief of Police; police officers; duties
   
32.25   Fire Chief; duties
   
32.26   City physician; duties
   
32.27   City Engineer; duties
   
32.28   City Attorney; duties
   
32.29   Public Works Director; duties
Indemnification of Officers and Employees
   
32.40   Definitions
   
32.41   Representation
   
32.42   Indemnification; good faith
   
32.43   Governmental immunity
   
32.44   Notice
ELECTED OFFICIALS
§ 32.01  CITY MAYOR; ELECTION; DUTIES; POWERS; VACANCY.
   (A)   Election; term.
      (1)   The Mayor shall be elected as provided in the Election Act.  The
Mayor shall take office on the date of the first regular meeting of the City
Council held in December following the statewide general election.  The Mayor
shall be a resident and registered voter of the city.
(Neb. RS 17-107)
      (2)   The Mayor shall serve for a term of 4 years or until his or her
successor is elected and qualified.
(Neb. RS 32-533)
   (B)   Powers; duties.
      (1)   The Mayor shall preside at all meetings of the City Council. The
Mayor may vote when his or her vote would provide the additional vote required
to attain the number of votes equal to a majority of the number of members
elected to the City Council on any pending matter, legislation, or transaction,
and the mayor shall, for the purpose of such vote, be deemed to be a member of
the Council. He or she shall have superintendence and control of all the
officers and affairs of the city, and shall take care that the ordinances of
the city and all laws governing cities of the second class are complied with.
      (2)   The Mayor shall have the power to veto or sign any ordinance passed
by the City Council and to approve or veto any order, bylaw, resolution, award
of or vote to enter into any contract, or the allowance of any claim. If the
Mayor approves the ordinance, order, bylaw, resolution, contract, or claim, he
or she shall sign it, and it shall become effective. If the Mayor vetoes the
ordinance, order, bylaw, resolution, contract, or any item or items of
appropriations or claims, he or she shall return it to the City Council stating
that the measure is vetoed. The Mayor may issue the veto at the meeting at
which measure passed or within seven calendar days after the meeting. If the
Mayor issues the veto after the meeting, the Mayor shall notify the City Clerk
of the veto in writing. The Clerk shall notify the City Council in writing of
the Mayor's veto. Any order, bylaw, resolution, award of or vote to enter into
any contract, or the allowance of any claim vetoed by the Mayor may be passed
over his or her veto by a vote of two-thirds of the members of the Council. If
the Mayor neglects or refuses to sign any ordinance, order, bylaw, resolution,
award of or vote to enter into any contract, or the allowance of any claim, but
fails to veto the measure within the time required by this section, the measure
shall become effective without his or her signature. The Mayor may veto any
item or items of any appropriation bill or any claims bill, and approve the
remainder thereof, and the item or items vetoed may be passed by the Council
over the veto as in other cases.
      (3)   The Mayor shall, from time to time, communicate to the City Council
such information and recommend such measures as, in his or here opinion, may
tend to the improvement of the finances, the police, health, security,
ornament, comfort, and general prosperity of the city.
      (4)   The Mayor shall have the power, when he or she deems it necessary,
to require any officer of the city to exhibit his or her accounts or other
papers, and to make reports to the Council, in writing, touching any subject or
matter pertaining to his or her office.
      (5)   The Mayor shall have such jurisdiction as may be vested in him or
her by ordinance, over all places within five miles of the corporate limits of
the city, for the enforcement of any health or quarantine ordinance and
regulation thereof, and shall have jurisdiction in all matters vested in him or
her by ordinance, excepting taxation, within the extraterritorial zoning
jurisdiction of the city.
      (6)   The Mayor shall have the power to remit fines and forfeitures, and
to grant reprieves and pardons for all offenses arising under the ordinances of
the city.
      (7)   The Mayor shall hold no other elective or appointive office or
employment with the city.
      (8)   The Mayor shall sign the City Clerk's minutes of all meetings of
the City Council, and he or she shall sign all resolutions that have been
passed and warrants for the payment of money when ordered by the Council.
      (9)   The Mayor shall have such other duties as are reposed in the Mayor
by the laws of the State of Nebraska or as the Council may by resolution confer
upon the Mayor.
   (C)   Vacancy.
      (1)   The office of Mayor shall be vacant upon the happening of any of
the events specified in Neb. RS 32-560 except as provided in Neb. RS 32-561.
      (2)   (a)   In case of any vacancy in the office of Mayor, or in case of
his or her disability or absence, the President of the City Council shall
exercise the office of Mayor for the unexpired term, until such disability is
removed, or in case of temporary absence, until the Mayor returns.
(Neb. RS 32-568)
         (b)   If the President of the Council assumes the office of Mayor for
the unexpired term, there shall be a vacancy on the Council.
(Neb. RS 17-107, 32-568)
(Ord. 994, passed 3-11-2014; Ord. 1008, passed 2-10-2015; Ord. 1057, passed 4-
10-2018)
Statutory reference:
   Mayor powers; duties, see Neb. RS 17-110 through 17-114
   Restrictions on holding other office or employment, see Neb. RS 17-108.02,
32-109, 32-603, and 32-604
§ 32.02  PRESIDENT AND ACTING PRESIDENT OF THE COUNCIL; ELECTION; POWERS.
   (A)   The City Council shall elect one of its own body who shall be styled
the President of the Council and who shall preside at all meetings of the
Council in the absence of the Mayor.
   (B)   In the absence of the President, the Council shall elect one of its
own body to occupy his or her place temporarily, who shall be styled Acting
President of the Council.
   (C)   The President, and Acting President, when occupying the place of the
Mayor, shall have the same privileges as other members of the Council; and all
acts of the President or Acting President, while so acting, shall be as binding
upon the Council and upon the city as if done by the Mayor.
(Neb. RS 17-148)
(1998 Code, § 1-102)
§ 32.03  CITY COUNCIL; NUMBER OF MEMBERS; QUALIFICATIONS; ELECTIONS; VACANCY;
ORGANIZATION.
   (A)   Number of members; qualifications; election; vacancies. The city shall
be divided into three wards with each ward containing, as nearly as
practicable, an equal portion of the population. From each ward there shall be
elected, in accordance with the statutes of the State of Nebraska, including
Neb. RS 17-102 through 17-104, two Council members. Vacancies shall be filled
in accordance with statutes of the State of Nebraska, including Neb. RS 32-
1406.
(1998 Code, § 1-103)
   (B)   Organization. City Council members shall take office and commence
their duties on the first regular meeting in December following their election.
The newly elected members, together with the members holding over, shall
reorganize by electing the Council President and by approving the assignments
to standing committees of the Council.
(1998 Code, § 1-104)
   (C)   Vacancies due to unexcused absences.
      (1)   In addition to the events listed in Neb. RS 32-560 and any other
reasons for a vacancy provided by law, after notice and a hearing, a vacancy on
the City Council shall exist if a member is absent from more than 5 consecutive
regular meetings of the Council unless the absences are excused by a majority
vote of the remaining members.
(Neb. RS 19-3101)
      (2)   The City Council shall take a vote on whether to excuse a member's
absence from a meeting upon either:
         (a)   A written request from the member submitted to the City Clerk;
or
         (b)   A motion of any other Councilmember.
      (3)   If a Councilmember has been absent from 6 consecutive regular
meetings and none of the absences have been excused by a majority vote of the
remaining members, the City Clerk shall include this as an item on the agenda
for the next regular meeting.  At that meeting, the Council shall set a date
for a hearing and direct the City Clerk to give the member notice of the
hearing by personal service or first class mail to the member's last known
address.
      (4)   At the hearing, the Councilmember shall have the right to present
information on why one or more of the absences should be excused.  If the
Council does not excuse one or more of the member's absences by a majority vote
at the conclusion of the hearing, there shall be a vacancy on the Council.
APPOINTED OFFICIALS
§ 32.15  GENERAL AUTHORITY.
   (A)   (1)   The Mayor, with the consent of the City Council, may appoint
such officers as shall be required by ordinance or otherwise required by law.
Such officers may be removed from office by the Mayor.
      (2)   The terms of office for all officers, except regular police
officers, appointed by the Mayor and confirmed by the Council shall be
established by the City Council by ordinance.  The ordinance shall provide that
either:
         (a)   The officers hold the office to which they have been appointed
until the end of the Mayor’s term of office and until their successors are
appointed and qualified unless sooner removed; or
         (b)   The officers hold office for one year unless sooner removed.
(Neb. RS 17-107)
   (B)   (1)   The city may enact ordinances or bylaws to regulate and
prescribe the powers and duties of officers not provided for in state law.
(Neb. RS 17-604)
      (2)   If the Mayor and City Council appoint any of the officials
specified in this chapter or any other officials, the officials shall have the
powers and duties, if any, provided in this chapter or as otherwise provided by
city ordinances and state law.
(1998 Code, § 1-201)
§ 32.16  CITY ADMINISTRATOR; ESTABLISHMENT; DUTIES, RESPONSIBILITIES; AND
POWERS.
   (A)   Establishment. The office of City Administrator is hereby established
pursuant to the statutes of the State of Nebraska, including Neb. RS 17-604.
The City Administrator shall act as an agent of the Mayor in the discharge of
all duties, responsibilities and powers set forth in this chapter; and in the
event the City Administrator shall be absent from the city, or is incapable of
discharging those duties, responsibilities and powers for any reason, the Mayor
shall so act during this absence or incapacity.
(1998 Code, § 1-202)
   (B)   Duties; responsibilities; and powers. The duties, responsibilities and
powers of the City Administrator shall be:
      (1)   To serve as public relations officer of the city; to endeavor to
investigate and adjust all complaints made or filed against the city and
against any department, division, service, officer or employee thereof; and to
cooperate with all community organizations whose aims and purposes are to
advance the best interests of the city and its citizens;
      (2)   To administer, supervise, be responsible for and coordinate all
departments, divisions and services of the city which are under the control and
jurisdiction of the Mayor; provided, however, the office of City Physician
shall not come under the administration and supervision nor under the
responsibility of the City Administrator, although the City Administrator shall
be available to assist that office in any administrative matter which may arise
and the offices shall be available to assist the City Administrator in the
discharge of the duties, responsibilities and powers of the City Administrator
as set forth in this section;
      (3)   To analyze the functions, activities, duties and responsibilities
of the various departments, divisions and services of the city and of all
officers and employees thereof; to make recommendations respecting the same to
the Mayor; and to administer any decisions made respecting those functions,
activities, duties and responsibilities;
      (4)   To recommend to the Mayor the appointment and dismissal of all
department heads, supervisors and subordinate employees of the city;
      (5)   To prepare and recommend to the Mayor a position classification and
compensation plan respecting city officers and employees;
      (6)   To keep the Mayor fully advised as to the financial condition and
needs of the city; to be responsible for and prepare the annual estimate of
expenditures for presentation by the Mayor to the City Council prior to the
time for the passage and adoption of the annual appropriation ordinance; and
upon the adoption of the ordinance to properly administer and execute the same;
      (7)   To prepare and submit to the Mayor at the end of each fiscal year a
complete report respecting the finances and administrative activities of the
city for the preceding fiscal year which report shall include recommended short
and long range improvements and any necessary facts to substantiate those
recommendations;
      (8)   To exercise general supervision and control over all real and
personal property and other public property of the city;
      (9)   To prepare and keep up-to-date an inventory of all real and
personal property and other public property that the city owns or has an
interest in, and to coordinate the purchase of all supplies, goods, services,
wares, merchandise, equipment and material which may be required for the
various departmental divisions and services of the city;
      (10)   To properly manage the affairs of the city, any department,
division or service thereof, and any contract or obligation running to the
city;
      (11)   To attend all regularly scheduled meetings of the City Council and
those other meetings of the Council and city departments, divisions, services,
boards, commissions, committees and officers as the City Administrator’s duties
may require; to report at those meetings on any matter concerning city affairs;
to recommend to the Mayor measures, resolutions and ordinances deemed necessary
or expedient; and
      (12)   To perform other duties and exercise other powers as may be
delegated to the City Administrator from time to time by the Mayor.
(1998 Code, § 1-203)
§ 32.17  CLERK-TREASURER; POSITION CREATED; DUTIES.
   (A)   The offices of Municipal Clerk and Municipal Treasurer are hereby
combined and merged pursuant the statutes of the State of Nebraska, including
Neb. RS 17-108.02, so that these offices may be held by one officer at the same
time.
   (B)   The City Clerk shall have the custody of all laws and ordinances and
shall keep a correct journal of the proceedings fo the City Council. After the
period of time specified by the State Records Administrator pursuant to the
Records Management Act, the Clerk may transfer the journal of the proceedings
of the City Council to the State Archives of the Nebraska State Historical
Society for permanent preservation. The Clerk shall also perform such other
duties as may be required by the ordinances of the city.
   (C)   (1)   It shall be the duty of the Clerk to prepare and publish the
official proceedings of the City Council within 30 days after any meeting of
the Council. The publication shall be in a newspaper of general circulation in
the city, shall set forth a statement of the proceedings of the meeting, and
shall also include the amount of each claim allowed, the purpose of the claim,
and the name of the claimant, except that the aggregate amount of all payroll
claims may be included as one item. Between July 15 and August 15 of each year,
the employee job titles and the current annual, monthly, or hourly salaries
corresponding to such job titles shall be published. Each job title published
shall be descriptive and indicative of the duties and functions of the
position. The charge for the publication shall not exceed the rates provided
for in Neb. RS 23-122.
(Neb. RS 19-1102)
      (2)   Publication under division (B)(1) shall be made in one legal
newspaper of general circulation in the city. If no legal newspaper is
published in the city, then the publication shall be made in one legal
newspaper published or of general circulation within the county in which the
city is located. The cost of publication shall be paid out of the general funds
of the city.
(Neb. RS 19-1103)
   (D)   The Clerk shall dispose of or destroy city public records when the
records have been determined to be of no further legal, administrative, fiscal,
or historical value by the State Records Administrator pursuant to Neb. RS 84-
1201 through 84-1220, provided the provisions of this division shall not apply
to the minutes of the Clerk and the permanent ordinance and resolution books,
or any other record classified as permanent by the State Records Administrator.
(Neb. RS 18-1701)
   (E)   (1)   The Clerk shall permit any person to examine and copy the public
records in the Clerk's custody, and may charge a fee for providing copies of a
public record, as provided in Neb. RS 84-712 through 84-712.09.
      (2)   The Clerk may charge a reasonable fee for certified copies of any
record in his or her office as set by resolution of the City Council.
   (F)   The Clerk shall permit no records, public papers, or other documents
of the city kept and preserved in his or her office to be taken therefrom,
except by such officers of the city as may be entitled to the use of the same,
but only upon their leaving a receipt therefor, and except pursuant to Neb. RS
84-712(2). He or she shall keep all the records of his or her office, including
a record of all licenses issued by him or her, in a blank book with a proper
index. He or she shall include as part of his or her records all petitions
under which the City Council shall order public work to be done at the expense
of the property fronting thereon, together with references to all resolutions
and ordinances relating to the same. He or she shall endorse the date and hour
of filing upon every paper or document so filed in his or her office. All such
filings made by him or her shall be properly docketed. Included in his or her
records shall be all standard codes, amendment thereto, and other documents
incorporated by reference and arranged in triplicate in a manner convenient for
reference. He or she shall keep an accurate and complete account of the
appropriation of the several funds and draw, sign and attest all warrants
ordered for payment of money on the particular fund from which the same is
payable. At the end of each month, he or she shall them make a report of the
amounts appropriated to the various funds and the amount of the warrants drawn
thereon.
   (G)   The Clerk shall deliver all warrants, ordinances, and resolutions
under his or her charge to the Mayor for his or her signature. He or she shall
also deliver to officers, employees, and committees all resolutions and
communications which are directed at such officers, employees, or committees.
With the seal of the city, he or she shall duly attest the Mayor's signature to
all ordinances, deeds, and papers required to be attested to when ordered to do
so by the City Council.
   (H)   The Clerk shall issue and sign all licenses, permits, and occupation
tax receipts authorized by law and required by the city ordinances. He or she
shall collect all occupation taxes and license money, except where some other
city officer is specifically charged with that duty. He or she shall keep a
register of all licenses granted in the city and the purpose for which they
have been issued.
   (I)   The Clerk shall keep in a book with proper index, copies of all
notices required to be published or posted by the Clerk by order of the City
Council or under the ordinances of the city. To each of the file copies of the
notices shall be attached the printer's affidavit of publication, if the
notices are required to be published, or the Clerk's certificate under seal
where the same are required to be posted only.
   (J)   The Clerk shall receive all objections to creation of paving districts
and other street improvements. He or she shall receive the claims of any person
against the city, in the event that the claim is disallowed in part or in
whole, the Clerk shall notify the claimant or his or her agent or attorney by
letter within five days after the disallowance, and the Clerk shall then
prepare transcripts on appeals of any disallowance of a claim in the proper
cases.
   (K)   (1)   The City Treasurer shall be the custodian of all money belonging
to the city. He or she shall keep a separate account of each fund or
appropriation and the debts and credits belonging thereto. He or she shall give
every person paying money into the treasury a receipt therefor, specifying the
date of payment and on what account paid. He or she shall also file copies of
such receipts with his or her monthly reports. The Treasurer shall, at the end
of every month, and as often as may be required, render an account to the City
Council, under oath, showing the state of the treasury at the date of such
account and the balance of money in the treasury. He or she shall also
accompany such accounts with a statement of all receipts and disbursements,
together with all warrants redeemed and paid by him or her, which warrants,
with any and all vouchers held by him or her, shall be filed with his or her
account in the City Clerk's office. If the Treasurer fails to render his or her
account within 20 days after the end of the month, or by a later date
established by the City Council, the Mayor with the advice and consent of the
Council may use this failure as cause to remove the Treasurer from office.
      (2)   The Treasurer shall keep a record of all outstanding bonds against
the city, showing the number and amount of each bond, for and to whom the bonds
were issued, and the date upon which any bond is purchased, paid, or canceled.
The Treasurer shall accompany the annual statement submitted pursuant to Neb.
RS 19-1101 with a description of the bonds issued and sold in that year and the
terms of sale, with every item of expense thereof.
   (L)   (1)   The Treasurer shall prepare and publish annually within 60 days
after the close of the city fiscal year a statement of the receipts and
expenditures of funds of the city for the preceding fiscal year. The statement
shall also include the information required by Neb. RS 16-318(3) or Neb. RS 17-
606(2). Not more than the legal rate provided for in Neb. RS 33-141 shall be
charged and paid for such publication.
      (2)   Publication shall be made in one legal newspaper of general
circulation in the city. If no legal newspaper is published in the city then
such publication shall be made in one legal newspaper published or of general
circulation within the county in which the city is located.
   (M)   (1)   All warrants upon the Treasurer shall be paid in the order of
their presentation therefor and as otherwise provided in Neb. RS 77-2201
through 77-2215.
      (2)   The Treasurer shall keep a warrant register, which register shall
show in columns arranged for that purpose the number, the date, and the amount
of each warrant presented and registered, the particular fund upon which the
same is drawn, the date of presentation, the name and address of the person in
whose name the warrant is registered, the date of payment, the amount of
interest, and the total amount paid thereon, with the date when notice to the
person in whose name such warrant is registered is mailed.
      (3)   The Treasurer shall make duplicate receipts for all sums which
shall be paid into his or her office, which receipts shall show the source from
which such funds are derived, and shall, by distinct lines and columns, show
the amount received to the credit of each separate fund, and whether the same
was paid in cash, in warrants, or otherwise. The Treasurer shall deliver one of
the duplicates to the person making the payment and retain the other in his or
her office.
      (4)   The Treasurer shall daily, as money is received, foot the several
columns of the cash book and of the register, and carry the amounts forward,
and at the close of the year, in case the amount of money received by the
Treasurer is insufficient to pay the warrants register, he or she shall close
the account for that year in the register and shall carry forward the excess.
      (5)   The cash book, register, and retained receipts of the Treasurer
shall at all times be open to the inspection of any person in whose name any
warrants are registered and unpaid.
   (N)   The Treasurer shall permit any person to examine and copy the public
records in the Treasurer's custody, and may charge a fee for providing copies
of public record, as provided in Neb. RS 84-712 through 84-712.09.
   (O)   The Treasurer shall keep all money belonging to the city separate and
distinct from his or her own money. He or she shall cancel all bonds, coupons,
warrants, and other evidences of debt against the city, whenever paid by him or
her, by writing or stamping on the face thereof, "Paid by the City Treasurer,"
with the date of payment written or stamped thereon. He or she shall collect
all special taxes, allocate special assessment to the several owners, and
obtain from the County Treasurer a monthly report as to the collection of
delinquent taxes.
(Ord. 996, passed 3-11-2014)
Statutory reference:
   City Treasurer, see Neb. RS 19-1101, 19-1103, 77-2201, 77-2202, 77-2209, 77-
2210, and 77-2212
§ 32.18  DEPUTY CLERK-TREASURER; POSITION CREATED; DUTIES.
   The position of Deputy Clerk-Treasurer is hereby created which shall be
filled by appointment of the Mayor with the consent of the Council. The duties
of the Deputy Clerk-Treasurer shall be as assigned by the Clerk-Treasurer or as
otherwise directed by the City Administrator in the absence of the Clerk-
Treasurer.
(1998 Code, § 1-205)
§ 32.19  UTILITIES SUPERINTENDENT, STREET COMMISSIONER, BUILDING INSPECTOR AND
ZONING ADMINISTRATOR; POSITION CREATED; DUTIES.
   (A)   The offices of Utilities Superintendent, Street Commissioner, Building
Inspector and Zoning Administrator are hereby combined and merged pursuant to
the statutes of the State of Nebraska, including Neb. RS 17-108.02, so that
these offices may be held by one officer at the same time.
   (B)   As Utilities Superintendent, this officer shall have supervisory
control over all city utilities.
   (C)   (1)   The Overseer of Streets shall, subject to the order of the Mayor
and Council, have general charge, direction, and control of all works on the
streets, sidewalks, culverts, and bridges of the city, and shall perform such
other duties as the Council may require.
(Neb. RS 17-119)
      (2)   It shall be his or her responsibility to see that gutters and
drains in the city function properly and that they are kept in good repair.
      (3)   He or she shall, at the request of the City Council make a detailed
report to the Council on the condition of the streets, sidewalks, culverts,
alleys, and bridges of the city and shall direct their attention to such
improvements, repairs, and extension thereof as he or she may think proper.
      (4)   The Overseer of Streets shall issue such permits and perform such
other duties as may be prescribed by ordinance.
   (D)   As Building Inspector, this officer shall perform the duties specified
by the statutes of the State of Nebraska, including Neb. RS 18-1722 and 18-
1722.01 and the ordinances of the city.
   (E)   As Zoning Administrator, this officer shall perform the duties
specified by the statutes of the State of Nebraska and those specified by
Ordinance No. 957, the zoning ordinance of the city, including § 601 thereof.
(1998 Code, § 1-206)
§ 32.20  WATER AND SEWER COMMISSIONER; POSITION CREATED; DUTIES.
   (A)   The offices of Water Commissioner and Sewer Commissioner are hereby
combined and merged pursuant to the statutes of the State of Nebraska,
including Neb. RS 17-108.02.
   (B)   As Water Commissioner, this officer shall have the immediate control
and supervision over all property and employees of the water system and shall
perform the duties specified by the statutes of the State of Nebraska,
including Neb. RS 17-541 and 17-543 and the ordinances of the city, including
but not limited to the following:
      (1)   The Water Commissioner shall collect all money received by the city
on account of its system of waterworks and shall faithfully account for and pay
over the same to the City Treasurer, taking his or her receipt therefor in
duplicate, filing one of the same with the City Clerk.
      (2)   He or she shall make a detailed report to the City Council, at
least once every 6 months, of the condition of the water system, of all mains,
pipes, hydrants, reservoirs, and machinery, and such improvements, repairs, and
extension thereof as he or she may think proper. The report shall show the
amount of receipts and expenditures on account thereof for the preceding 6
months. No money shall be expended for improvements, repairs, or extension of
the waterworks system except upon recommendation of the Water Commissioner.
      (3)   The Water Commissioner shall perform such other duties as may be
prescribed by ordinance.
   (C)   As Sewer Commissioner, this officer shall have the immediate control
and supervision over all property and employees of the sewer system and shall
perform the duties specified by the statutes of the State of Nebraska and the
ordinances of the city, including the following duties listed in this section.
The Water and Sewer Commissioner shall be subject to the general control and
directives of the Utilities Superintendent.
      (1)   He or she shall collect all money received by the city on account
of its sewer system and shall faithfully account for and pay over the same to
the City Treasurer, taking his or her receipt therefor in duplicate, filing one
of the same with the City Clerk.
      (2)   He or she shall make a detailed report to the City Council, at
least once every 6 months, of the condition of the sewer system and such
improvements, repairs, and extension thereof as he or she may think proper. The
report shall show the amount of receipts and expenditures on account thereof
for the preceding 6 months.
      (3)   He or she shall issue permits for all connections to the sewer
system and inspect and supervise all repairs made to the system.
      (4)   The Sewer Commissioner shall perform such other duties as may be
prescribed by ordinance.
(1998 Code, § 1-207)
§ 32.21  WASTE WATER PLANT SUPERINTENDENT.
   The Waste Water Plant Superintendent shall be filled by appointment of the
Mayor with the consent of the Council, to have general supervision and control
over the city’s waste water treatment plant, including all employees thereof,
subject to the general directives and control of the City Administrator.
(1998 Code, § 1-208)
§ 32.22  PARK SUPERINTENDENT.
   The Park Superintendent shall have the immediate control and supervision
over all property and employees of the parks and recreational facilities,
including the swimming pool, and shall perform the duties specified by the
statutes of the State of Nebraska, including Neb. RS 17-948 through 17-951 and
71-4301 through 71-4307 and the ordinances of the city.
(1998 Code, § 1-209)
§ 32.23  CEMETERY SUPERINTENDENT.
   The Cemetery Superintendent shall have the immediate control and supervision
over all property and employees of the city cemetery and shall perform the
duties specified by the statutes of the State of Nebraska, including Neb. RS
17-926 through 17-943 and the ordinances of the city.
(1998 Code, § 1-210)
§ 32.24  CHIEF OF POLICE; POLICE OFFICERS; DUTIES.
   The Chief, of Police shall supervise the Police Department and shall have,
together with the police officers, the power and the duty to arrest all
offenders against the laws of the state or of the city in the same manner as
the Sheriff and to keep offenders to prevent their escape until a trial or
examination may be had before a proper officer. The Chief of Police shall have
additional duties as specified by the statutes of the State of Nebraska,
including Neb. RS 17-118, 17-121 and 17-124 and the ordinances of the city.
(1998 Code, § 1-211)
§ 32.25  FIRE CHIEF; DUTIES.
   (A)   The Fire Chief, who shall be appointed by the Mayor with the consent
of the Council, shall manage the Fire Department and shall keep the Mayor and
Council advised of its general condition, proposed additions and improvements
thereto, and requirements thereof. The Fire Chief shall cause the repair,
improvement and maintenance of the equipment and shall personally supervise the
same. The Fire Chief may authorize members of the Fire Department to attend
fire training schools as permitted by the statutes of the State of Nebraska,
including Neb. RS 18-1712 through 18-1714. In accordance with Neb. RS 81-506,
the Fire Chief shall investigate or cause to be investigated the cause, origin
and circumstances of every fire occurring in the city by which property has
been destroyed or damaged and shall notify the State Fire Marshal of the facts
thereof. The Fire Chief may enter into all buildings and upon all premises for
the purposes of examination at all reasonable hours, pursuant to Neb. RS 81-
512.
   (B)   The Fire Chief may waive the statewide open burning ban on all
bonfires, outdoor rubbish fires and fires for the purpose of clearing land,
pursuant to Neb. RS 81-520.01.
(1998 Code, § 1-212)
§ 32.26  CITY PHYSICIAN; DUTIES.
   The City Physician shall be a member of the Board of Health and perform the
duties specified by the statutes of the State of Nebraska, including Neb. RS
17-121 and 17-123 and the ordinances of the city.
(1998 Code, § 1-213)
§ 32.27  CITY ENGINEER; DUTIES.
   (A)   (1)   The City Engineer shall, when requested by the Mayor or City
Council, make estimates of the cost of labor and material which may be done or
furnished by contract with the city and make all surveys, estimates, and
calculations necessary to be made for the establishment of grades, building of
culverts, sewers, electric light system, waterworks, power plant, public
heating system, bridges, curbing, and gutters, the improvement of streets, and
the erection and repair of buildings and shall perform such other duties as the
City Council may require.
      (2)   When the city has appointed a Board of Public Works and the Mayor
and City Council have by ordinance so authorized, the Board may utilize its own
engineering staff and may hire consulting engineers for the design and
installation of extensions and improvements of the works under the jurisdiction
of the Board.
(Neb. RS 17-568.01)
   (B)   The Mayor and City Council may, when they deem it expedient, employ a
special engineer to make, or assist in making, any estimate necessary or to
perform any other duty provided for in Neb. RS 17-568.01.  Any work executed by
such special engineer shall have the same validity and serve in all respects as
though executed by the City Engineer.
(Neb. RS 17-568)
   (C)   The City Engineer shall make a record of the minutes of his or her
surveys and of all work done for the city and, when directed by the Mayor and
City Council, shall accurately make such plats, sections, profiles, and maps as
may be necessary in the prosecution of any public work, which shall be public
records and belong to the city and be turned over to his or her successor.
Statutory reference:
   Duties related to areas to be annexed, see Neb. RS 17-405
   Duties related to sewerage systems, see Neb. RS 17-150 and 17-919
(1998 Code, § 1-214)
§ 32.28  CITY ATTORNEY; DUTIES.
   (A)   The City Attorney shall be the legal advisor of the City Council. He
or she shall commence, prosecute, and defend all suits and actions necessary to
be commenced, prosecuted, or defended on behalf of the city, or that may be
ordered by the Council. When requested, he or she shall attend meetings of the
Council and give them his or her opinion upon any matters submitted to him or
her, either orally or in writing, as may be required. He or she shall draft or
review for legal correctness ordinances, contracts, franchises, and other
instruments as may be required, and he or she shall perform such other duties
as may be imposed upon him or her by general law or ordinance. The Council
shall have the right to pay the City Attorney compensation for legal services
performed by him or her for it on such terms as the Council and Attorney may
agree, and to employ additional legal assistance and to pay for such legal
assistance out of the funds of the city.
(Neb. RS 17-610)
   (B)   The City Attorney shall also examine, when requested to do so by the
City Council, the ordinance records and advise and assist the City Clerk as
much as may be necessary to the end that each procedural step will be taken in
the passage of each ordinance to insure that it will be a valid and subsisting
local law in so far as its passage and approval are concerned.
(1998 Code, § 1-215)
§ 32.29  PUBLIC WORKS DIRECTOR; DUTIES.
   (A)   Establishment.  The position of Public Works Director is hereby
established pursuant to the statutes of the state, including Neb. RS 17-604.
The Public Works Director shall serve under the direction of the City
Administrator, performing administrative work in directing all activities of
public works; planning and organizing staff and directing the activities of
several departments including water, sewer, wastewater, streets, parks, and
cemetery. The Public Works Director shall administer planning, zoning, and
floodplain requirements.
   (B)   Duties; responsibilities and powers.  The duties, responsibilities and
powers of the Public Works Director shall be the following:
      (1)   To oversee, confer with and advise department personnel on issues
related to the design, construction, and maintenance of various projects/
programs for the Water Department, Sewer Department, wastewater treatment
plant, Streets Department, Parks Department, cemetery and other public works
projects and structures;
      (2)   To plan, oversee, and review the activities of subordinates engaged
in carrying out the several public works projects/programs including street
construction, repair and cleaning, water system and sewer system, and
wastewater treatment plant operation and maintenance;
      (3)   To review plans, engineering reports, and budget estimates
submitted for proposed projects;
      (4)   To participate in the design of water, sewer, street improvements,
storm sewer systems, and other municipal public works projects;
      (5)   To attend meetings of the Mayor and City Council, Planning
Commission, Board of Zoning Adjustment, and various other boards as directed by
the City Administrator;
      (6)   To provide information to the Planning Commission for determining
issues related to subdivision development, planning and zoning amendments
including information regarding requests for conditional use permits, and other
information as requested by the Planning Commission, and to make appropriate
public notices as required;
      (7)   To provide information to the Board of Zoning Adjustment to
determine variance request applications as submitted, make appropriate public
notices for submitted variance request applications, review and approve zoning
permit applications, oversee and direct subordinate inspector, and review and
recommend amendments in planning and zoning regulations; and
      (8)   To perform other duties and exercise other powers as may be
delegated to the Public Works Director from time to time by the Mayor or City
Administrator.
(Ord. 981, passed 12-11-2012)
INDEMNIFICATION OF OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES
§ 32.40  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   EMPLOYEE.  Includes all current and former employees of the city, whether
under civil service or not.
   OFFICER. Include all current and former elected, appointed or hired
officials of the city.
(Ord. 959, passed 2-8-2011)
§ 32.41  REPRESENTATION.
   The city shall provide, free of charge, representation to any city officer
or employee in connection with any claim, suit for damages or other action
against that person arising in connection with the performance by that officer
or employee of his or her public duties; provided that the employee or officer
may have his or her own counsel to assist in defense, at the expense of the
employee or officer.
(Ord. 959, passed 2-8-2011)
§ 32.42  INDEMNIFICATION; GOOD FAITH.
   Any officer or employee who is held liable for the payment of any claims or
damages, by way of judgment or settlement, shall be entitled to indemnification
by the city, where the acts resulting in the liability were done in good faith,
without malice, within the scope of authority of the employee or officer.
(Ord. 959, passed 2-8-2011)
§ 32.43  GOVERNMENTAL IMMUNITY.
   Nothing in this subchapter shall be construed as waiving the city’s defense
of governmental immunity to it or its employees or officers in any action
brought against the city or the officer or employee.
(Ord. 959, passed 2-8-2011)
§ 32.44  NOTICE.
   The provisions of this subchapter shall apply only where the city has been
given notice of any actions brought against any city employee or officer, based
upon any action of the employee or officer within the scope of his or her
authority as such.
(Ord. 959, passed 2-8-2011)
CHAPTER 33:  COMMITTEES, COMMISSIONS AND BOARDS
Section
Standing Committees
   
33.01   General provisions
Commissions and Boards
   
33.15   Library Board
   
33.16   Planning Commission
   
33.17   Board of Adjustment
   
33.18   Board of Health
   
33.19   Housing Authority Board
   
33.20   Airport Authority Board
   
33.21   Community Redevelopment Authority
STANDING COMMITTEES
§ 33.01  GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Members to the following standing committees of the Council shall be
appointed or reappointed by the Mayor for a one-year term at its organizational
meeting:
      (1)   Fees/Claims;
      (2)   Public Works;
      (3)   Contracts;
      (4)   Public Safety;
      (5)   Recreation/Facilities; and
      (6)   Special Projects.
   (B)   The membership of these standing committees may be changed at any time
by the Mayor. The Mayor shall be a member ex officio of each standing
committee.
(1998 Code, § 2-101) (Ord. 813, passed 1-25-2005)
COMMISSIONS AND BOARDS
§ 33.15  LIBRARY BOARD.
   (A)   When the City Council has decided by ordinance to establish and
maintain a public library and reading room under Neb. RS 51-201 to 51-219, and
except as otherwise provided by the Council pursuant to Neb. RS 51-202, the
Library Board shall have 5 appointed members who shall be residents of the city
and who shall serve terms of 4 years.  The Board members shall be appointed by
a majority vote of the members of the City Council.  Neither the Mayor nor any
member of the City Council shall be a member of the Library Board.  The terms
of members serving on the effective date of a change in the number of members
shall not be shortened, and any successors to those members shall be appointed
as the terms of those members expire.  In cases of vacancies by resignation,
removal, or otherwise, the City Council shall fill the vacancy for the
unexpired term.  No member shall receive any pay or compensation for any
services rendered as a member of the Library Board.
(Neb. RS 51-202)
   (B)   (1)   The members of the Library Board shall immediately after their
appointment meet and organize by electing from their number a president, a
secretary, and such other officers as may be necessary.  A majority of the
members of the Library Board shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of
business.
(Neb. RS 51-204)
      (2)   No member of the Board shall serve in the capacity of both the
president and secretary of the Board.  It shall be the duty of the secretary to
keep the full and correct minutes and records of all meetings and to file the
same with the City Clerk where they shall be available for public inspection at
any reasonable time.
      (3)   The Board shall meet at such times as the Board may designate. 
Special meetings may be held upon the call of the president or a majority of
the members of the Board.
(1998 Code, § 2-201)
§ 33.16  PLANNING COMMISSION.
   (A)   (1)   If the City Council adopts zoning or other regulations pursuant
to Neb. RS 19-901 et seq., the Planning Commission shall consist of 5, 7, or 9
regular members, as specified by the City Council by ordinance, who shall
represent, insofar as is possible, the different professions or occupations in
the city and shall be appointed by the Mayor, by and with the approval of a
majority vote of the members elected to the City Council. Two of the regular
members may be residents of the area over which the city is authorized to
exercise extraterritorial zoning and subdivision regulation. When there are 500
residents in the area over which the city exercises extraterritorial zoning and
subdivision regulation, 1 regular member of the Commission shall be a resident
from such area. If it is determined by the City Council that 500 residents
reside in the area subject to extraterritorial zoning or subdivision
regulation, and no such resident is a regular member of the Commission, the
first available vacancy on the Commission shall be filled by the appointment of
such an individual. A number of commissioners equal to a majority of the number
of regular members appointed to the Commission shall constitute a quorum for
the transaction of any business. All regular members of the Commission shall
serve without compensation and shall hold no other city office except when
appointed to serve on the Board of Adjustment as provided in Neb. RS 19-908.
The term of each regular member shall be 3 years, except that 1/3 or fewer of
the regular members of the first commission to be so appointed shall serve for
terms of 1 year, 1/3 or fewer for terms of 2 years, and the remaining members
for terms of 3 years. All regular members shall hold office until their
successors are appointed. Any member may, after a public hearing before the
Council, be removed by the Mayor with the consent of a majority vote of the
members elected to the Council for inefficiency, neglect of duty, or
malfeasance in office or other good and sufficient cause. Vacancies occurring
otherwise than through the expiration of term shall be filled for the unexpired
portion of the term by the Mayor.
      (2)   The Mayor may, with the approval of a majority vote of the elected
members of the Council, appoint 1 alternate member to the Planning Commission.
The alternate member shall serve without compensation and shall hold no other
city office. The term of the alternate member shall be 3 years, and he or she
shall hold office until his or her successor is appointed and approved. The
alternate member may be removed from office in the same manner as a regular
member. If the alternate member position becomes vacant other than through the
expiration of the term, the vacancy shall be filled for the unexpired portion
of the term by the Mayor with the approval of a majority vote of the elected
members of the Council. The alternate member may attend any meeting and may
serve as a voting and participating member of the Commission at any time when
less than the full number of regular Commission members is present and capable
of voting.
(Neb. RS 19-926)
      (3)   A regular or alternate member of the Planning Commission may hold
any other municipal office except:
         (a)   Mayor;
         (b)   A member of the governing body;
         (c)   A member of any community redevelopment authority or limited
community redevelopment authority created under Neb. RS 18-2101.01; or
         (d)   A member of any citizen advisory review committee under Neb. RS
18-2715.
   (B)   The Commission shall elect its Chairperson from its members and create
and fill such other of its offices as it may determine. The term of the
Chairperson shall be 1 year, and he or she shall be eligible for reelection.
The Commission shall hold at least 1 regular meeting in each calendar quarter,
except the City Council may require the Commission to meet more frequently and
the Chairperson of the Commission may call for a meeting when necessary to deal
with business pending before the Commission. The Commission shall adopt rules
and regulations for the transaction of business and shall keep a record of its
resolutions, transactions, findings, and determinations, which shall be a
public record.
(Neb. RS 19-927)
   (C)   No member of the Commission shall serve in the capacity of both the
Chairperson and Secretary of the Commission. The Secretary shall keep the full
and correct minutes and records of all meetings and file them with the City
Clerk where they shall be available for public inspection during office hours.
   (D)   The City Council may provide the funds, equipment, and accommodations
necessary for the work of the Commission, but the expenditures of the
Commission, exclusive of gifts, shall be within the amounts appropriated for
that purpose by the Council; and no expenditures nor agreements for
expenditures shall be valid in excess of such amounts.
(Neb. RS 19-928)
   (E)   (1)   (a)   Except as provided in Neb. RS 19-930 to 19-933, the
Planning Commission shall:
            (i)   Make and adopt plans for the physical development of the
city, including any areas outside its boundaries which in the Commission's
judgment bear relation to the planning of such city and including a
comprehensive development plan as defined by Neb. RS 19-903;
            (ii)   Prepare and adopt such implemental means as a capital
improvement program, subdivision regulations, building codes, and a zoning
ordinance in cooperation with other interested city departments; and
            (iii)   Consult with and advise public officials and agencies,
public utilities, civic organizations, educational institutions, and citizens
with relation to the promulgation and implementation of the comprehensive
development plan and its implemental programs. The Commission may delegate
authority to any such group to conduct studies and make surveys for the
commission, make preliminary reports on its findings, and hold public hearings
before submitting its final reports.
         (b)   The City Council shall not take final action on matters relating
to the comprehensive development plan, capital improvements, building codes,
subdivision development, the annexation of territory, or zoning until it has
received the recommendation of the Planning Commission, provided that the
Planning Commission shall make its recommendation so that it is received by the
City Council within 60 days after the Commission begins consideration of a
matter or within such other number of days as the City Council has set by
ordinance.
         (c)   A recommendation from the Planning Commission shall not be
required for subdivision of existing lots and blocks whenever all required
public improvements have been installed, no new dedication of public rights-of-
way or easements is involved, and such subdivision complies with the ordinance
requirements concerning minimum areas and dimensions of such lots and blocks,
if the City Council has designated, by ordinance, an agent pursuant to Neb. RS
19-916.
      (2)   (a)   The Commission may, with the consent of the City Council, in
its own name (i) make and enter into contracts with public or private bodies,
(ii) receive contributions, bequests, gifts, or grant funds from public or
private sources, (iii) expend the funds appropriated to it by the city, (iv)
employ agents and employees, and (v) acquire, hold, and dispose of property.
         (b)   The Commission may on its own authority make arrangements
consistent with its program, conduct or sponsor special studies or planning
work for any public body or appropriate agency, receive grants, remuneration,
or reimbursement for such studies or work, and at its public hearings, summon
witnesses, administer oaths, and compel the giving of testimony.
      (3)   (a)   The Commission may grant conditional uses or special
exceptions to property owners for the use of their property if the City Council
has, through a zoning ordinance or special ordinance, generally authorized the
Commission to exercise such powers and has approved the standards and
procedures adopted by the Commission for equitably and judiciously granting
such conditional uses or special exceptions. The granting of a conditional use
permit or special exception shall only allow property owners to put their
property to a special use if it is among those uses specifically identified in
the zoning ordinance as classifications of uses which may require special
conditions or requirements to be met by the owners before a use permit or
building permit is authorized.
         (b)   The power to grant conditional uses or special exceptions shall
be the exclusive authority of the Commission, except that the City Council may
choose to retain for itself the power to grant conditional uses or special
exceptions for those classifications of uses specified in the zoning ordinance.
The Council may exercise such power if it has formally adopted standards and
procedures for granting such conditional uses or special exceptions in a manner
that is equitable and will promote the public interest.
         (c)   An appeal of a decision by the Commission or Council regarding a
conditional use or special exception shall be made to the district court.
(Neb. RS 19-929)
(1998 Code, § 2-202)  (Ord. 1059, passed 4-10-2018)
§ 33.17  BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT.
   (A)   If the City Council adopts zoning or other regulations pursuant to
Neb. RS 19-901 et seq., except as provided in division (B), the Council shall
provide for the appointment of a Board of Adjustment. Any actions taken by the
Board of Adjustment shall not exceed the powers granted by division (F).
(Neb. RS 19-907)
   (B)   If the county has adopted a comprehensive development plan, as defined
by Neb. RS 23-114.02, and is enforcing zoning regulations based upon such a
plan, the zoning board of adjustment of the county shall, upon request of the
City Council, serve as the zoning Board of Adjustment for the city. If the city
is located in more than one county, it shall be served by request or otherwise
only by the county zoning board of adjustment of the county in which the
greatest area of the city is located, and the jurisdiction of such county
zoning board of adjustment shall include all portions of the city and its area
of extraterritorial control, regardless of county lines.
(Neb. RS 19-912.01)
   (C)   (1)   The Board of Adjustment shall consist of 5 regular members, plus
1 additional member designated as an alternate who shall attend and serve only
when 1 of the regular members is unable to attend for any reason, each to be
appointed for a term of 3 years and removable for cause by the appointing
authority upon written charges and after public hearings. Vacancies shall be
filled for the unexpired term of any member whose term becomes vacant. One
member only of the Board of Adjustment shall be appointed from the membership
of the Planning Commission, and the loss of membership on the Planning
Commission by such member shall also result in his or her immediate loss of
membership on the Board of Adjustment and the appointment of another Planning
Commissioner to the Board of Adjustment. The first vacancy occurring on the
Board of Adjustment shall be filled by the appointment of a person who resides
in the extraterritorial zoning jurisdiction of the city at such time as more
than 200 persons reside within such area if the Board does not already include
such a person. Thereafter, at all times, at least 1 member of the Board of
Adjustment shall reside outside of the corporate boundaries of the city but
within its extraterritorial zoning jurisdiction.
      (2)   The Board of Adjustment shall adopt rules in accordance with the
provisions of any ordinance adopted pursuant to Neb. RS 19-901 to 19-914.
Meetings of the Board of Adjustment shall be held at the call of the
Chairperson and at such other times as the Board may determine. Such
Chairperson, or in his or her absence the Acting Chairperson, may administer
oaths and compel the attendance of witnesses. All meetings of the Board shall
be open to the public. The Board shall keep minutes of its proceedings, showing
the vote of each member upon each question, or, if absent or failing to vote,
indicating such fact, and shall keep records of its examinations and other
official actions, all of which shall be immediately filed in the office of the
Board and shall be a public record.
(Neb. RS 19-908)
   (D)   A number of members equal to a majority of the number of regular
members appointed to the Board of Adjustment shall constitute a quorum for the
transaction of any business. All members of an appointed Board of Adjustment
shall serve without compensation and shall hold no other city office except for
the member of the Planning Commission appointed to serve on the Board of
Adjustment. No member of the Board of Adjustment shall serve in the capacity of
both Chairperson and Secretary of the Board. The Secretary shall keep the full
and correct minutes and records of all meetings and file them with the City
Clerk where they shall be available for public inspection during office hours.
   (E)   Appeals to the Board of Adjustment may be taken by any person
aggrieved or by any officer, department, board or bureau of the city affected
by any decision of the administrative officer. Such appeal shall be taken
within a reasonable time, as provided by the rules of the Board, by filing with
the officer from whom the appeal is taken and with the Board of Adjustment a
notice of appeal specifying the grounds thereof. The officer from whom the
appeal is taken shall forthwith transmit to the Board all the papers
constituting the record upon which the action appealed from was taken. An
appeal stays all proceedings in furtherance of the action appealed from, unless
the officer from whom the appeal is taken certifies to the Board of Adjustment,
after the notice of appeal shall have been filed with him or her, that by
reason of facts stated in the certificate a stay would, in his or her opinion,
cause imminent peril to life or property. In such case proceedings shall not be
stayed otherwise than by a restraining order which may be granted by the Board
of Adjustment or by a court of record on application on notice to the officer
from whom the appeal is taken and on due cause shown. The Board of Adjustment
shall fix a reasonable time for the hearing of the appeal, give public notice
thereof, as well as due notice to the parties in interest, and decide the same
within a reasonable time. Upon the hearing any party may appear in person or by
agent or by attorney.
(Neb. RS 19-909)
   (F)   (1)   The Board of Adjustment shall, subject to such appropriate
conditions and safeguards as may be established by the City Council, have only
the following powers:
         (a)   To hear and decide appeals when it is alleged there is error in
any order, requirement, decision, or determination made by an administrative
official or agency based on or made in the enforcement of any zoning regulation
or any regulation relating to the location or soundness of structures, except
that the authority to hear and decide appeals shall not apply to decisions made
by the City Council or Planning Commission regarding a conditional use or
special exception under Neb. RS 19-929(3);
         (b)   To hear and decide, in accordance with the provisions of any
zoning regulation, requests for interpretation of any map; and
         (c)   When by reason of exceptional narrowness, shallowness, or shape
of a specific piece of property at the time of the enactment of the zoning
regulations, or by reason of exceptional topographic conditions or other
extraordinary and exceptional situation or condition of such piece of property,
the strict application of any enacted regulation under Neb. RS 19-901 and 19-
903 to 19-904.01 and divisions (C) and (F) would result in peculiar and
exceptional practical difficulties to or exceptional and undue hardships upon
the owner of such property, to authorize, upon an appeal relating to the
property, a variance from such strict application so as to relieve such
difficulties or hardship, if such relief may be granted without substantial
detriment to the public good and without substantially impairing the intent and
purpose of any ordinance or resolution.
      (2)   (a)   No such variance shall be authorized by the Board unless it
finds that:
            (i)   The strict application of the zoning regulation would produce
undue hardship;
            (ii)   Such hardship is not shared generally by other properties in
the same zoning district and the same vicinity;
            (iii)   The authorization of such variance will not be of
substantial detriment to adjacent property and the character of the district
will not be changed by the granting of the variance; and
            (iv)   The granting of such variance is based upon reason of
demonstrable and exceptional hardship as distinguished from variations for
purposes of convenience, profit, or caprice.
         (b)   No variance shall be authorized unless the Board finds that the
condition or situation of the property concerned or the intended use of the
property is not of so general or recurring a nature as to make reasonably
practicable the formulation of a general regulation to be adopted as an
amendment to the zoning regulations.
      (3)   In exercising the powers granted in this division (F), the Board
may, in conformity with Neb. RS 19-901 to 19-915, reverse or affirm, wholly or
partly, or may modify the order, requirement, decision, or determination
appealed from, and may make such order, requirement, decision, or determination
as ought to be made, and to that end shall have all the powers of the officer
from whom the appeal is taken. The concurring vote of 4 members of the board
shall be necessary to reverse any order, requirement, decision, or
determination of any such administrative official or to decide in favor of the
applicant on any matter upon which it is required to pass under any such
regulation or to effect any variation in such regulation.
(Neb. RS 19-910)
   (G)   Any person or persons, jointly or severally, aggrieved by any decision
of the Board of Adjustment, or any taxpayer, or any officer, department, board,
or bureau of the city, may present to the district court a petition duly
verified, setting forth that such decision is illegal, in whole or in part, and
specifying the grounds of such illegality. Such petition must be presented to
the court within 15 days after the filing of the decision in the office of the
board. Upon the filing of such petition a summons shall be issued and be served
upon the Board of Adjustment, together with a copy of the petition. Return of
service shall be made within 4 days after the issuance of the summons. Within
10 days after the return day of such summons, the Board of Adjustment shall
file an answer to the petition which shall admit or deny the substantial
averments of the petition and shall state the contentions of the Board with
reference to the matters in dispute as disclosed by the petition. The answer
shall be verified in like manner as required for the petition. At the
expiration of the time for filing answer, the court shall proceed to hear and
determine the cause without delay and shall render judgment thereon according
to the forms of law. If, upon the hearing, it appears to the court that
testimony is necessary for the proper disposition of the matter, it may take
evidence or appoint a referee to take such evidence as it may direct and report
the same to the court with his or her findings of fact and conclusions of law,
which shall constitute a part of the proceedings upon which the determination
of the court shall be made. The court may reverse or affirm, wholly or partly,
or may modify the decision brought up for review. The appeal to the district
court shall not stay proceedings upon the decision appealed from, but the court
may, on application, on notice to the Board and on due cause shown, grant a
restraining order. Any appeal from such judgment of the district court shall be
prosecuted in accordance with the general laws of the state regulating appeals
in actions at law.
(Neb. RS 19-912)
(1998 Code, § 2-203)
§ 33.18  BOARD OF HEALTH.
   (A)   (1)   The Board of Health shall consist of 4 members: The Mayor, who
shall be chairperson, the President of the City Council, and 2 other members.
One member shall be a physician or health care provider, if 1 can be found who
is willing to serve. Such physician or health care provider, if appointed,
shall be the Board's medical advisor. If the Mayor has appointed a Chief of
Police, the Chief of Police shall serve on the Board as secretary and
quarantine officer.
      (2)   A majority of the Board of Health shall constitute a quorum and
shall enact rules and regulations, which shall have the full force and effect
of law, to safeguard the health of the people of the city, may enforce them,
and may provide fines and punishments for the violation thereof. The Board
shall have power to and shall make all needful rules and regulations relating
to matters of sanitation of the city, including the removal of dead animals,
the sanitary condition of the streets, alleys, vacant grounds, stockyards,
cattle and hog pens, wells, cisterns, privies, waterclosets, cesspools,
stables, and all buildings and places not specified where filth, nuisances, or
offensive matter is kept or is liable to or does accumulate. It may regulate,
suppress, and prevent the occurrence of nuisances and enforce all laws of the
state and ordinances of the city relating to nuisances or to matters of
sanitation of the city. The Board shall also have control of hospitals,
dispensaries, places for treatment of sick, and matters relating to the same
under such restrictions and provisions as may be provided by ordinance of the
city.
(Neb. RS 17-121)
   (B)   The members of the Board of Health other than the Mayor, President of
the Council, and Chief of Police shall serve terms of office of the length
specified by the City Council and may be reappointed.
   (C)   The Board of Health shall reorganize at its meeting after appointments
are regularly considered by the City Council and, if necessary, select a member
to serve as secretary.  No member of the Board of Health shall hold more than
one Board of Health position. The secretary shall keep full and correct minutes
and records of all meetings and file the same with the City Clerk where they
shall be available for public inspection during office hours.
   (D)   The Board shall meet at such times as the City Council may designate. 
Special meetings may be held upon the call of the Chairperson or any 2 members
of the Board of Health.
   (E)   The members of the Board of Health shall serve without compensation.
The Board of Health shall be funded by the City Council from time to time out
of the general fund.
   (F)   The Board of Health shall regularly inspect such premises and
businesses as the City Council may direct.
   (G)   All members of the Board of Health shall be responsible for making
such reports and performing such other duties as the City Council may, from
time to time, designate.
(1998 Code, § 2-204)
§ 33.19  HOUSING AUTHORITY BOARD.
   The Housing Authority Board shall consist of five Commissioners, residing
within the area of operation, appointed for five-year terms by the Mayor whose
appointments shall be referred for approval or denial by a majority of the
elected members of the Council within 30 days. Vacancies shall be filled in a
like manner for the unexpired term. A certificate of appointment or
reappointment shall be filed with the City Clerk-Treasurer. A Commissioner
shall receive no compensation but shall be entitled to necessary expenses
incurred in performing duties. At its first meeting in June of each year, the
Housing Authority Board shall organize by electing from its membership a
Chairperson and a Vice-Chairperson. The Board shall have authority to employ an
Executive Director who shall serve as ex officio Secretary. The Housing
Authority Board shall have the powers and exercise the duties as provided by
the statutes of the State of Nebraska, including Neb. RS 71-1572 through 71-
1580.
(1998 Code, § 2-205)
§ 33.20  AIRPORT AUTHORITY BOARD.
   The Airport Authority Board shall consist of five members nominated and
elected in the manner provided by law for the election of officers of the city.
They shall be residents of the city, shall take office at the same time as the
officers of the city and shall serve six-year terms. Vacancies shall be filled
by temporary appointment by the Mayor, with approval of a majority of the
elected members of the Council, until a successor can be elected at the next
general city election to serve the unexpired portion, if any, of the term.
Members are not entitled to compensation for their services but are entitled to
reimbursement of expenses incurred. The Airport Authority Board shall have the
powers and exercise the duties as provided by the statutes of the State of
Nebraska, including Neb. RS 3-501 through 3-514.
(1998 Code, § 2-206)
§ 33.21  COMMUNITY REDEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY.
   (A)   The Community Redevelopment Authority shall consist of five members,
all of whom shall be residents of the city, nominated by the Mayor and approved
by the Council. The Mayor shall designate the term of office for each member,
as provided in Neb. RS 18-2102.01. The Authority shall select one of its
members as Chairperson and one as Vice-Chairperson. A total of four members
shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business. The Authority shall
adopt rules for the transaction of its business and shall keep a record of its
resolutions, transactions, findings and determinations, which records shall be
made available for public inspection during regular business hours. The
Authority shall select a person to serve as the Director and ex officio
Secretary of the Community Redevelopment Authority, and that person shall
perform those duties as may be assigned by the Authority, including the
necessary administrative functions described in the statutes of the State of
Nebraska, including Neb. RS 18-2102.01 et seq.
   (B)   All income, revenue, profits and other funds received by the Authority
shall be deposited with the City Clerk-Treasurer as ex officio Treasurer of the
Authority without commingling the money with any other money under the
Treasurer’s control and disbursed by check or draft only upon warrants, orders
or requisitions by the Chairperson of the Authority or other person authorized
by the Authority, which shall state distinctly the purposes for which the same
are drawn; and a permanent record shall be kept by the Authority of any
activity.
(1998 Code, § 2-207)
CHAPTER 34:  CITY DEPARTMENTS
Section
Fire Department
   
34.01   Operation and funding
   
34.02   Fire Chief
   
34.03   Membership
   
34.04   Records
   
34.05   Fires
   
34.06   Inspections
   
34.07   Notice of violation
   
34.08   Fire investigation
Police Department
   
34.15   Duties
   
34.16   Reserve officer bond
   
34.17   Arrest and enforcement jurisdiction
   
34.18   Officers; discipline or removal from duty
Parks Department
   
34.30   Operation and funding
City Library
   
34.40   Funding
   
34.41   Library Board; general powers and duties
   
34.42   Grounds and building
   
34.43   Sale and conveyance of real estate
   
34.44   Mortgages; release or renewal
   
34.45   Cost of use
   
34.46   Discrimination prohibited
   
34.47   Annual report
   
34.48   Penalties; recovery; disposition
   
34.49   Donations
   
34.50   Improper book removal
City Cemetery
   
34.60   Operation and funding
   
34.61   Conveyance of lots
   
34.62   Perpetual care
   
34.63   Interment
FIRE DEPARTMENT
§ 34.01  OPERATION AND FUNDING.
   (A)   The city may operate a Fire Department through the Fire Chief and
firefighters.
   (B)   The city shall have power to procure fire engines, hooks, ladders,
buckets, and other apparatus, to organize fire engine, hook and ladder, and
bucket companies, to prescribe rules of duty and the government thereof with
such penalties as the City Council may deem proper, not exceeding $100, and to
make all necessary appropriations therefor.
(Neb. RS 17-147)
   (C)   If the city has only a voluntary fire department or companies, the
City Council may levy a tax annually of not more than $0.07 on each $100 upon
the taxable value of all the taxable property within the city for the
maintenance and benefit of the fire department or companies. The amount of such
tax shall be established at the beginning of the year and shall be included in
the adopted budget statement. Upon collection of such tax, the City Treasurer
shall disburse the same upon the order of the Fire Chief with the approval of
the City Council.
(Neb. RS 17-718)
Statutory reference:
   Fire station acquisition, construction, and maintenance, see Neb. RS 17-953
et seq.
§ 34.02  FIRE CHIEF.
   The Fire Chief shall manage the Fire Department, and it shall be his or her
duty to inform the City Council when any of the fire engines, hose, ladders, or
other apparatus needs repair.  Upon the written consent and directive of the
City Council, the Fire Chief shall cause the repair, improvement, or
maintenance of the equipment and shall personally supervise and approve of the
same.  It shall be the duty of the Fire Chief to come before the City Council
at the regular meeting in January of each year to give an annual report to the
City Council of the general condition and the proposed additions or
improvements recommended by him or her.
§ 34.03  MEMBERSHIP.
   (A)   The Fire Department shall consist of so many members as may be decided
by the City Council. The members may organize themselves in any way they may
decide, subject to the review of the City Council.
   (B)   The volunteer Fire Department shall not have upon its rolls at one
time more than 25 persons, for each engine and hose company in the Fire
Department, and no hook and ladder company shall have upon its rolls at any one
time more than 25 members. The foreman and secretary of every such company
shall, on the first day of April and October in each year, file in the office
of the Clerk of the District Court in and for the county a certified copy of
the rolls of their respective companies so as to obtain for the members thereof
the privilege of the exemption from militia duty in time of peace mentioned in
Neb. RS 35-101. No organization shall be deemed to be a bona fide fire or hook
and ladder company until it has procured for active service apparatus for the
extinguishment or prevention of fires, in case of a hose company, to the value
of $700, and of a hook and ladder company to the value of $500.
(Neb. RS 35-102)
   (C)   Members in good standing are those who keep their dues promptly paid
up and are present and render active service when called out for the legitimate
purposes of the Fire Department.
(Neb. RS 35-103)
   (D)   Volunteer firefighters of the Fire Department shall be deemed
employees of the city while in the performance of their duties as members of
the Department. Members of the volunteer Fire Department, before they are
entitled to benefits under the Nebraska Workers' Compensation Act, shall be
recommended by the Fire Chief or some person authorized to act for the Chief
for membership therein to the Mayor and City Council and upon confirmation
shall be deemed employees of the city. Members of the Fire Department after
confirmation to membership may be removed by a majority vote of the City
Council and thereafter shall not be considered employees of the city.
Firefighters of the Fire Department shall be considered as acting in the
performance and within the course and scope of their employment when performing
activities outside of the corporate limits of the city, but only if directed to
do so by the Fire Chief or some person authorized to act for the Chief.
(Neb. RS 48-115)
   (E)   The City Council shall purchase and maintain in force a policy of
group term life insurance to age 65 covering the lives of all of the active
volunteer fire and rescue personnel, except that when any such person serves
more than 1 city or rural or suburban fire protection district, the policy
shall be purchased only by the first city or district which he or she serves. 
The policy shall provide a minimum death benefit of $10,000 for death from any
cause and shall, at the option of the insured, be convertible to a permanent
form of life insurance at age 65.  The coverage of such policy shall terminate
as to any individual who ceases to be an active volunteer member of the Fire
Department.
(Neb. RS 35-108)
   (F)   For purposes of the prohibition on receipt of any witness fee,
attendance fee, or mileage fee by an employee of the city called as a witness
in connection with his or her officially assigned duties, volunteer
firefighters and rescue squad members testifying in that capacity alone shall
not be deemed employees of the city.
(Neb. RS 33-139.01)
   (G)   The City Council may compensate or reimburse any member of the Fire
Department for expenses incurred in carrying out his or her duties in an amount
set by resolution.
   (H)   All members of the Fire Department shall be subject to such rules and
regulations, and shall perform such duties, as may be prescribed or required of
them by the Fire Chief or the City Council.
   (I)   Members of the Fire Department may hold meetings and engage in social
activities with the approval of the City Council. The secretary shall, upon
request, keep a record of all meetings and shall make a report to the City
Council of all meetings and activities of the Fire Department.
§ 34.04  RECORDS.
   The Fire Chief shall keep or cause to be kept a record of all meetings of
the Fire Department, the attendance record of all members, and a record of all
fires and shall make a full report of these records to the City Clerk during
the last week in April each year.  The record of any fire shall include the
cause, origin, circumstances, property involved, and whether criminal conduct
may have been involved.  In the event of sizable property damage, the Fire
Chief shall include the information of whether the losses were covered by
insurance, and if so, in what amount.  All records shall be available to the
public at any reasonable time.
§ 34.05  FIRES.
   It shall be the duty of the Fire Department to use all proper means for the
extinguishment of fires, to protect property within the city, and to secure the
observance of all ordinances, laws, and other rules and regulations with
respect to fires and fire prevention.
§ 34.06  INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   The Fire Chief where a Fire department is established or the Mayor
where no Fire Department exists, at all reasonable hours, may enter into all
buildings and upon all premises within his or her jurisdiction for the purposes
of examination, in harmony with Neb. RS 81-501.01 to 81-531, the Nebraska
Natural Gas Pipeline Safety Act of 1969, the Petroleum Products and Hazardous
Substances Storage and Handling Act, and any other statutory duties imposed
upon the State Fire Marshal.
(Neb. RS 81-512)
   (B)   It shall be the duty of the Fire Chief, when directed to do so by the
City Council, to inspect or cause to be inspected by Fire Department officers,
members, or some other official as often as may be necessary, but not less than
2 times a year, all buildings, premises, and public thoroughfares, except the
interiors of private dwellings, for the purpose of ascertaining and causing to
be corrected any conditions liable to create a fire hazard. The inspection
shall be of the storage, sale, and use of flammable liquids, combustibles, and
explosives; electric wiring and heating; the means and adequacy of exits, in
case of fire in schools, churches, hotels, halls, theaters, factories,
hospitals, and all other buildings in which numbers of persons congregate from
time to time for any purpose whether publicly or privately owned; the design,
construction, location, installation, and operation of equipment for storing,
handling, and utilizing liquefied petroleum gases, specifying the odorization
of such gases and the degree thereof; and chemicals, prozylin plastics,
nitrocellulose films, or any other hazardous material that may now or hereafter
exist.
§ 34.07  NOTICE OF VIOLATION.
   (A)   Upon the finding that the city code has been violated, the Fire Chief
shall notify, or cause to be notified, the owner, occupant, or manager of the
premise where a violation has occurred.  Notice may be made personally or by
delivering a copy to the premise and affixing it to the door of the main
entrance of the premise.  Whenever it may be necessary to serve such an order
upon the owner, the order may be served personally, or by mailing a copy to the
owner’s last known post office address if the owner is absent from the
jurisdiction.
   (B)   Any such order shall be immediately complied with by the owner,
occupant, or manager of the premise or building.  The owner, occupant, or
manager may, within 5 days after the order by the Fire Chief or his or her
agent, appeal the order with the City Council requesting a review, and it shall
be the duty of the City Council to hear the same within not less than 5 days
nor more than 10 days from the time when the request was filed in writing with
the City Clerk.  The City Council shall then affirm, modify, or rescind the
order as safety and justice may require, and the decision shall then be final,
subject only to any remedy which the aggrieved person may have at law or
equity.  The order shall be modified or rescinded only where it is evident that
reasonable safety exists and that conditions necessitate a variance due to the
probable hardship in complying literally with the order of the Fire Chief.  A
copy of any decision so made shall be sent to both the Fire Chief and the
owner, occupant, or manager making the appeal.
§ 34.08  FIRE INVESTIGATION.
   The Fire Chief shall investigate or cause to be investigated the cause,
origin, and circumstances of every fire occurring in the city by which property
has been destroyed or damaged. All fires of unknown origin shall be reported,
and such officer shall especially make an investigation and report as to
whether the fire was the result of carelessness, accident, or design.  The
investigation shall begin immediately after of the occurrence of the fire, and
the State Fire Marshal shall have the right to supervise and direct the
investigation whenever he or she deems it expedient or necessary.  The officer
making the investigation of fires occurring in the city shall forthwith notify
the State Fire Marshal and shall within 1 week of the occurrence of the fire
furnish him or her written statement of all the facts relating to the cause and
origin of the fire and such further information as he or she may call for.
(Neb. RS 81-506)
POLICE DEPARTMENT
§ 34.15  DUTIES.
   (A)   If the Mayor and City Council have provided for the appointment of a
Police Chief, the Police Department shall consist of the Chief of Police and
such further number of regular police officers as may be duly ordered by
resolution of the Council. 
   (B)   The Chief of Police shall, subject to the direction of the Mayor, have
control and management of all matters relating to the Police Department and its
officers and members and shall have the custody and control of all property and
books belonging to the Department.  The Chief shall devote his or her whole
time to the city affairs and interests of the city and to the preservation of
peace, order, safety, and cleanliness thereof. 
   (C)   The Department shall execute and enforce all laws and also the orders
of the Mayor.  It shall be the duty of the Department to protect the rights of
persons and property.  The Department shall take notice of all nuisances,
impediments, obstructions, and defects in the streets, avenues, alleys,
business places, and residences of the city.  The Department shall execute, or
cause to be executed, the processes issued and shall cause all persons arrested
to be brought before the proper court for trial as speedily as possible.  The
Chief of Police and all regular and special police officers shall become
thoroughly conversant with the laws of the city and shall see that the same are
strictly enforced and shall make sworn complaints against any person or persons
for violation of the same. It shall be the duty of every city police officer
making a lawful arrest to search all persons in the presence of some other
person, whenever possible, and to carefully keep and produce to the proper
judicial official upon the trial everything found upon the person of such
prisoners. All personal effects so taken from prisoners shall be restored to
them upon their release. The Police Chief and other police officers shall file
such reports as may be required by the city ordinances and the laws of the
state. No law enforcement official shall have any interest in any establishment
having a liquor license.
   (D)   Suitable badges shall be furnished to the city police by the city. Any
police officer who loses or destroys the same shall be required to pay the
replacement costs. If a police officer leaves the city police force, he or she
shall immediately deliver his or her badge to the Police Chief.
   (E)   City police officers shall have full power and authority to call on
any person whenever necessary to assist them in performing public duties, and
failure, neglect, or refusal to render such assistance shall be deemed an
offense.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 34.16  RESERVE OFFICER BOND.
   No appointment of a law enforcement reserve officer shall be valid until a
bond in the amount of $2,000, payable to the city, has been filed with the City
Clerk by the individual appointed or a blanket surety bond arranged and paid
for by the City Council and bonding all such officers of the City Council has
been filed.  These bonds shall be subject to the provisions of Neb. RS Ch. 11,
art. 1.
(Neb. RS 81-1444)
§ 34.17  ARREST AND ENFORCEMENT JURISDICTION.
   (A)   The police officers of the city shall have the power to arrest all
offenders against the laws of the state or of the city, by day or by night, in
the same manner as the County Sheriff and to keep such offenders in the city
prison, county jail or other place to prevent their escape until trial can be
had before the proper officer.
(Neb. RS 17-118)
   (B)   Every city law enforcement officer has the power and authority to
enforce the laws of this state and the city or otherwise perform the functions
of that office anywhere within his or her primary jurisdiction.
   (C)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      LAW ENFORCEMENT OFFICER IN NEED OF ASSISTANCE.
         (a)   A law enforcement officer whose life is in danger; or
         (b)   A law enforcement officer who needs assistance in making an
arrest and the suspect:
            (i)   Will not be apprehended unless immediately arrested;
            (ii)   May cause injury to himself or herself or others or damage
to property unless immediately arrested; or
            (iii)   May destroy or conceal evidence of the commission of a
crime.
      PRIMARY JURISDICTION.  The geographic area within territorial limits of
the city.
   (D)   Any city law enforcement officer who is within this state, but beyond
his or her primary jurisdiction, has the power and authority to enforce the
laws of this state or any legal ordinance of any city or incorporated village
or otherwise perform the functions of his or her office, including the
authority to arrest and detain suspects, as if enforcing the laws or performing
the functions within his or her primary jurisdiction in the following cases:
      (1)   Any city law enforcement officer, if in a fresh attempt to
apprehend a person suspected of committing a felony, may follow that person
into any other jurisdiction in this state and there arrest and detain that
person and return that person to the officer’s primary jurisdiction;
      (2)   Any city law enforcement officer, if in a fresh attempt to
apprehend a person suspected of committing a misdemeanor or a traffic
infraction, may follow that person anywhere in an area within 25 miles of the
boundaries of the officer’s primary jurisdiction and there arrest and detain
that person and return that person to the officer’s primary jurisdiction;
      (3)   Any city law enforcement officer has this enforcement and arrest
and detention authority when responding to a call in which a local, state, or
federal law enforcement officer is in need of assistance; and
      (4)   If the city, under the provisions of the Interlocal Cooperation Act
or the Joint Public Agency Act, enters into a contract with any other city or
county for law enforcement services or joint law enforcement services, law
enforcement personnel may have this enforcement authority within the
jurisdiction of each of the participating political subdivisions if provided
for in the agreement.  Unless otherwise provided in the agreement, the city
shall provide liability insurance coverage for its own law enforcement
personnel as provided in Neb. RS 13-1802.
   (E)   When probable cause exists to believe that a person is operating or in
the actual physical control of any motor vehicle, motorboat, personal
watercraft, or aircraft while under the influence of alcoholic liquor or of any
drug or otherwise in violation of Neb. RS 28-1465, 28-1466, 28-1472, 37-
1254.01, 37-1254.02, 60-4,163, 60-4,164, 60-6,196, 60-6,197, 60-6,211.01, or
60-6,211.02, a city law enforcement officer has the power and authority to do
any of the following or any combination thereof:
      (1)   Transport that person to a facility outside of the law enforcement
officer’s primary jurisdiction for appropriate chemical testing of the person;
      (2)   Administer outside of the law enforcement officer’s primary
jurisdiction any post-arrest test advisement to the person; or
      (3)   With respect to that person, perform other procedures or functions
outside of the law enforcement officer’s primary jurisdiction which are
directly and solely related to enforcing the laws that concern a person
operating or being in the actual physical control of any motor vehicle,
motorboat, or aircraft while under the influence of alcoholic liquor or of any
other drug or otherwise in violation of Neb. RS 28-1465, 28-1466, 28-1472, 37-
1254.01, 37-1254.02, 60-4,163, 60-4,164, 60-6,196, 60-6,197, 60-6,211.01, or
60-6,211.02.
(Neb. RS 29-215)
   (F)   If city law enforcement personnel are rendering aid in their law
enforcement capacity outside the limits of the city in the event of disaster,
emergency, or civil defense emergency or in connection with any program of
practice or training for a disaster, emergency, or civil defense emergency when
that program is conducted or participated in by the Nebraska Emergency
Management Agency or with any other related training program, the law
enforcement personnel have the power and authority to enforce the laws of this
state or any legal ordinances or resolutions of the local government where they
are rendering aid or otherwise perform the functions of their office, including
the authority to arrest and detain suspects, as if enforcing the laws or
performing the functions within their primary jurisdiction.  The city shall
self-insure or contract for insurance against any liability for personal
injuries or property damage that may be incurred by it or by its personnel as
the result of any movement made pursuant to this division.
(Neb. RS 81-829.65)  (Ord. 1056, passed 4-10-2018)
§ 34.18  OFFICERS; DISCIPLINE OR REMOVAL FROM DUTY.
   (A)   (1)   The City Council shall by ordinance adopt rules and regulations
governing the removal or discipline of any police officer, including the Chief
of Police. The ordinance shall include a procedure for making application for
an appeal, specifications on the period of time within which such application
shall be made, and provisions on the manner in which the appeals hearing shall
be conducted.
      (2)   Both the police officer and the individual imposing the
disciplinary action shall have the right at the hearing to be heard and to
present evidence to the Council for its consideration.
      (3)   Not later than 30 days following the adjournment of the meeting at
which the hearing was held, the Council shall vote to uphold, reverse, or
modify the removal or disciplinary action. The failure of the Council to act
within 30 days or the failure of a majority of the elected Councilmembers to
vote to reverse or modify the removal or disciplinary action shall be construed
as a vote to uphold the removal or disciplinary action. The decision of the
Council shall be based upon its determination that, under the facts and
evidence presented at the hearing, the challenged removal or disciplinary
action was necessary for the proper management and the effective operation of
the Police Department in the performance of its duties under the statutes of
the state.
      (4)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to prevent the
preemptory suspension or immediate removal from duty of an officer by the
appropriate authority, pending the hearing authorized by this division, in
cases of gross misconduct, neglect of duty, or disobedience of orders.
(Neb. RS 17-107)
   (B)   (1)   Except as provided otherwise in an ordinance adopted by the
Council, the procedures specified in this division (B) shall constitute the
rules and regulations required by Neb. RS 17-107.
      (2)   No police officer, including the Chief of Police, shall be
disciplined, suspended, demoted, removed, or discharged except upon written
notice stating the reasons for such disciplinary action, suspension, demotion,
removal, or discharge.  Such notice shall also contain a statement informing
the police officer of his or her right to a hearing before the City Council.
      (3) Any police officer so disciplined, suspended, demoted, removed, or
discharged may, within 10 days after being notified of such disciplinary
action, suspension, demotion, removal, or discharge, file with the City Clerk a
written demand for a hearing before the City Council.  The Council shall set
the matter for hearing not less than 10 nor more than 20 days after the filing
of the written demand for a hearing.  The Council shall give the police officer
written notice of the hearing not less than 7 days prior to the hearing.
      (4)   At the hearing, the police officer shall have the right to:
         (a)   Respond in person to the charges and to present witnesses and
documentary evidence;
         (b)   Confront and cross-examine available adverse witnesses; and
         (c)   To be represented by counsel.
PARKS DEPARTMENT
§ 34.30  OPERATION AND FUNDING.
   The city parks and recreation areas, including its swimming pool and ball
fields, shall be operated in accordance with the rules, regulations and
ordinances of the Mayor and Council and the statutes of the State of Nebraska,
including Neb. RS 17-948 through 17-951 and 71-4301 through 71-4307. The Mayor,
by and with the consent of the City Council, shall appoint a Park
Superintendent and the necessary number of employees to lay out, improve,
beautify, maintain and manage the parks and recreational facilities. To fund
the operations of the Parks Department, the Mayor and Council may authorize
admission and rental charges for the use of the facilities, may make and levy a
tax annually, and may issue bonds, all in accordance with the above referenced
statutes. These revenues shall be known as the Park and Swimming Pool Fund and
shall be placed in the custody of the City Clerk- Treasurer.
(1998 Code, § 3-501)
CITY LIBRARY
§ 34.40  FUNDING.
   (A)   (1)   If the City Council has established a public library free of
charge for the use of the inhabitants of the city or contracted for the use of
a public library already established, the Council may levy a tax of not more
than $0.105 on each $100 upon the taxable value of all the taxable property in
the city annually to be levied and collected in like manner as other taxes in
the city. The levy shall be subject to Neb. RS 77-3442 and 77-3443. The amount
collected from such levy shall be known as the library fund.
(Neb. RS 51-201)
      (2)   The fund shall also include all gifts, grants, deeds of conveyance,
bequests, or other valuable income-producing property and real estate from any
source for the purpose of endowing the public library.
   (B)   All taxes levied or collected and all funds donated or in any way
acquired for the erection, maintenance, or support of the public library shall
be kept for the use of the library separate and apart from all other funds of
the city, shall be drawn upon and paid out by the City Treasurer upon vouchers
signed by the president of the Library Board and authenticated by the secretary
of the Board, and shall not be used or disbursed for any other purpose or in
any other manner.  The city may establish a public library sinking fund for
major capital expenditures.
(Neb. RS 51-209)
   (C)   Any money collected by the library shall be turned over at least
monthly by the Librarian to the City Treasurer along with a report of the
sources of the revenue.
§ 34.41  LIBRARY BOARD; GENERAL POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   The Library Board shall have the power to make and adopt such bylaws,
rules, and regulations for its own guidance and for the government of the
library and reading room as it may deem expedient, not inconsistent with Neb.
RS 51-201 through 51-219.
(Neb. RS 51-205)
   (B)   The Library Board shall have exclusive control of expenditures, of all
money collected or donated to the credit of the library fund, of the renting
and construction of any library building, and the supervision, care, and
custody of the grounds, rooms, or buildings constructed, leased, or set apart
for that purpose.
(Neb. RS 51-207)
   (C)   The Library Board may erect, lease, or occupy an appropriate building
for the use of such a library, and appoint a suitable librarian and assistants,
fix the compensation of such appointees, and remove such appointees at the
pleasure of the Board. The governing body of the city shall approve any
personnel administrative or compensation policy or procedure before
implementation of such policy or procedure by the Library Board.
   (D)   The Library Board may establish rules and regulations for the
government of the library as may be deemed necessary for its preservation and
to maintain its usefulness and efficiency.  The Library Board may fix and
impose, by general rules, penalties and forfeitures for trespasses upon or
injury to the library grounds, rooms, books, or other property, for failure to
return any book, or for violation of any bylaw, rule, or regulation.  The Board
shall have and exercise such power as may be necessary to carry out the spirit
and intent of Neb. RS 51-201 through 51-219 in establishing and maintaining the
library and reading room.
(Neb. RS 51-211)
§ 34.42  GROUNDS AND BUILDING.
   The Library Board may purchase or lease grounds, exercise the power of
eminent domain, and condemn real estate for the purpose of securing a site for
a library building.  The procedure to condemn property shall be exercised in
the manner set forth in Neb. RS 76-704 through 76-724.
(Neb. RS 51-210)
§ 34.43  SALE AND CONVEYANCE OF REAL ESTATE.
   (A)   The Library Board may, by resolution, direct the sale and conveyance
of any real estate owned by the Board or by the public library, which is not
used for library purposes, or of any real estate so donated or devised to the
Board or to the library upon such terms as the Board may deem best.
   (B)   Before any such sale is made the Library Board shall advertise the
sale once each week for 3 consecutive weeks in a legal newspaper published or,
if none is published, of general circulation in the city. The notice shall set
out the time, place, terms, manner of sale, legal description of such real
estate, and the right to reject any and all bids. If the bid or bids have not
been rejected, then the real estate shall be sold to the highest bidder for
cash, and the Chairperson of the Library Board, upon resolution of the Library
Board directing him or her so to do, shall convey the real estate to the
purchaser of such real estate upon his or her payment of his or her bid. If
within 30 days after the third publication of the notice a remonstrance against
the sale is signed by 30% of the registered voters of the city voting at the
last regular city election and is filed with the City Council, the property
shall not then, nor within 1 year thereafter, be sold. If the date for filing
the remonstrance falls upon a Saturday, Sunday, or legal holiday, the
signatures shall be collected within the 30-day period, but the filing shall be
considered timely if filed or postmarked on or before the next business day.
(Neb. RS 51-216)
§ 34.44  MORTGAGES; RELEASE OR RENEWAL.
   The president of the Library Board shall have the power to release, upon
full payment, any mortgage constituting a credit to the library fund and
standing in the name of the Library Board.  The signature of the president on
any such release shall be authenticated by the secretary of the Board.  The
president and secretary in like manner, upon resolution duly passed and adopted
by the Board, may renew any such mortgage.
(Neb. RS 51-206)
§ 34.45  COST OF USE.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (B) of this section, the library and
reading room shall be free of charge for the use of the inhabitants of the
city, subject always to such reasonable regulations as the Library Board may
adopt to render the library of the greatest use to the inhabitants.  The
Library Board may exclude from the use of the library and reading rooms any
person who willfully violates or refuses to comply with rules and regulations
established for the government thereof.
(Neb. RS 51-212)
   (B)   The public library shall make its basic services available without
charge to all residents of the city.  The Board may fix and impose reasonable
fees, not to exceed the library’s actual cost, for nonbasic services.
(Neb. RS 51-211)
   (C)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      BASIC SERVICES.  Include, but are not limited to, free loan of
circulating print and nonprint materials from the local collection and general
reference and information services.
      NONBASIC SERVICES.  Include, but are not limited to, use of:
         (a)   Photocopying equipment;
         (b)   Telephones, facsimile equipment, and other telecommunications
equipment;
         (c)   Media equipment;
         (d)   Personal computers; and
         (e)   Videocassette recording and playing equipment.
(Neb. RS 51-201.01)
§ 34.46  DISCRIMINATION PROHIBITED.
   No library service shall be denied to any person because of race, sex,
religion, age, color, national origin, ancestry, physical handicap, or marital
status.
(Neb. RS 51-211)
§ 34.47  ANNUAL REPORT.
   The Library Board shall, on or before the second Monday in February in each
year, make a report to the City Council of the condition of its trust on the
last day of the prior fiscal year.  The report shall show all money received
and credited or expended; the number of materials held, including books, video
and audio materials, software programs, and materials in other formats; the
number of periodical subscriptions on record, including newspapers; the number
of materials added and the number withdrawn from the collection during the
year; the number of materials circulated during the year; and other statistics,
information, and suggestions as the Library Board may deem of general interest
or as the City Council may require.  The report shall be verified by affidavit
of the president and secretary of the Library Board.
(Neb. RS 51-213)
§ 34.48  PENALTIES; RECOVERY; DISPOSITION.
   Penalties imposed or accruing by any bylaw or regulation of the Library
Board and any court costs and attorney’s fees may be recovered in a civil
action before any court having jurisdiction, such action to be instituted in
the name of the Library Board.  Money, other than any court costs and
attorney’s fees, collected in such actions shall be placed in the treasury of
the city to the credit of the library fund.  Attorney’s fees collected pursuant
to this section shall be placed in the treasury of the city and credited to the
budget of the City Attorney’s office.
(Neb. RS 51-214)
§ 34.49  DONATIONS.
   Any person may make donation of money, lands, or other property for the
benefit of the public library.  The title to property so donated may be made to
and shall vest in the Library Board and their successors in office, and the
Board shall thereby become the owners thereof in trust to the uses of the
public library.
(Neb. RS 51-215)
§ 34.50  IMPROPER BOOK REMOVAL.
   It shall be unlawful for any person not authorized by the regulations made
by the Library Board to take a book from the public library without the consent
of the Librarian or an authorized employee of the library.  Any person removing
a book from the library without properly checking it out shall be deemed to be
guilty of an offense.
Penalty, see §
10.99
CITY CEMETERY
§ 34.60  OPERATION AND FUNDING.
   The city owns and operates the city cemetery through its Cemetery
Superintendent. The City Council, for the purpose of defraying the cost of the
care, management, maintenance and beautification of the cemetery may each year
levy a tax in accordance with the statutes of the State of Nebraska, including
Neb. RS 17-926 through 17-947. The revenue from the tax shall be known as the
Cemetery Fund and shall include income from all gifts, grants, deeds of
conveyance, bequests, money stocks, bonds or other valuable income-producing
personal property and real estate from any source for the purpose of endowing
the city cemetery. The Cemetery Fund shall at all times be in the custody of
the City Clerk-Treasurer. The Mayor, with the consent of the City Council,
shall appoint the Cemetery Superintendent and other employees as may be deemed
necessary for the efficient operation of the cemetery. Necessary rules and
regulations shall be effective for the governance of the cemetery upon their
approval of the City Council.
(1998 Code, § 3-701)
Cross-reference:
   Cemetery Superintendent, see §
32.23
§ 34.61  CONVEYANCE OF LOTS.
   Upon receipt of payment of an amount set by City Council resolution, the
city shall convey cemetery lots by certificate signed by the Mayor, and
countersigned by the City Clerk-Treasurer, under seal of the city, specifying
that the person to whom the same is issued is the owner of the lot or lots
described therein by number as laid down on the map or plat, for the purpose of
interment.
(1998 Code, § 3-702)
§ 34.62  PERPETUAL CARE.
   The City Clerk-Treasurer shall set apart the amount paid for perpetual care
into a separate, permanent fund which shall be invested in interest bearing
accounts as are authorized by state statutes. The income earned thereon shall
be used solely for the purpose of the general care, maintenance and
embellishment of the cemetery.
(1998 Code, § 3-703)
§ 34.63  INTERMENT.
   Pursuant to the statutes of the State of Nebraska, including Neb. RS 71-605
and 38-1425, interment of a dead human body at the city cemetery shall be
performed under the direct supervision of a licensed funeral director. The
charge to open and close each grave shall be in the amount set by City Council
resolution.
(1998 Code, § 3-704)
CHAPTER 35:  ELECTIONS
Section
   
35.01   Generally
   
35.02   Notice
   
35.03   Registered voters; qualifications
   
35.04   Special elections
   
35.05   Election of officers; certifications required
   
35.06   Partisan ballot; when allowed; requirements
   
35.07   Candidate filing forms; deadlines; filing officer
   
35.08   Filing fee
   
35.09   Petition, write-in, and other candidates for general election ballot;
procedures
   
35.10   Recall procedure
   
35.11   Exit polls
   
35.12   Wards
Statutory reference:
   Election Act, see Neb. RS 32-101
§ 35.01  GENERALLY.
   (A)   All city issues and offices shall be combined on the statewide primary
and general election ballots whenever possible.  The issuance of separate
ballots shall be avoided in a statewide election if city offices or issues can
reasonably be combined with the nonpartisan ballot and state law does not
require otherwise.  All city elections involving the election of officers shall
be held in accordance with the Election Act and in conjunction with the
statewide primary or general election.
(Neb. RS 32-556)
   (B)   When the city holds an election in conjunction with the statewide
primary or general election, the election shall be held as provided in the
Election Act.  Any other election held by the city shall be held as provided in
the Election Act unless otherwise provided by the charter, code, or bylaws of
the city.
(Neb. RS 32-404)
§ 35.02  NOTICE.
   The notice of election required to be published by the Election Commissioner
or County Clerk pursuant to Neb. RS 32-802 shall serve as the notice
requirement for all city elections which are held in conjunction with the
statewide primary or general election.
§ 35.03  REGISTERED VOTERS; QUALIFICATIONS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      REGISTERED VOTER.  An elector who has a current voter registration record
on file with the Election Commissioner or County Clerk in the county of his or
her residence.
(Neb. RS 32-115)
   (B)   All registered voters residing within the corporate limits of the city
on or before election day shall be entitled to vote at all city elections.
(Neb. RS 17-602)
Statutory reference:
   Definition of elector, see Neb. RS 32-110
§ 35.04  SPECIAL ELECTIONS.
   (A)   (1)   Except as provided in Neb. RS 77-3444, any issue to be submitted
to the registered voters at a special election by the city shall be certified
by the City Clerk to the Election Commissioner or County Clerk at least 50 days
prior to the election.  A special election may be held by mail as provided in
Neb. RS 32-952 through 32-959.  Any other special election under this section
shall be subject to division (B) of this section.
      (2)   In lieu of submitting the issue at a special election, the city may
submit the issue at a statewide primary or general election or at any scheduled
county election, except that no such issue shall be submitted at a statewide
election or scheduled county election unless the issue to be submitted has been
certified by the City Clerk to the Election Commissioner or County Clerk by
March 1 for the primary election and by September 1 for the general election.
      (3)   After the Election Commissioner or County Clerk has received the
certification of the issue to be submitted, he or she shall be responsible for
all matters relating to the submission of the issue to the registered voters,
except that the City Clerk shall be responsible for the publication or posting
of any required special notice of the submission of the issue other than the
notice required to be given of the statewide election issues.  The Election
Commissioner or County Clerk shall prepare the ballots and issue ballots for
early voting and shall also conduct the submission of the issue, including the
receiving and counting of ballots on the issue.  The election returns shall be
made to the Election Commissioner or County Clerk.  The ballots shall be
counted and canvassed at the same time and in the same manner as the other
ballots.  Upon completion of the canvass of the vote by the County Canvassing
Board, the Election Commissioner or County Clerk shall certify the election
results to the City Council.  The canvass by the County Canvassing Board shall
have the same force and effect as if made by the City Council.
(Neb. RS 32-559)
   (B)   Any special election under the Election Act shall be held on the first
Tuesday following the second Monday of the selected month unless otherwise
specifically provided.  No special election shall be held under the Election
Act in April, May, June, October, November, or December of an even- numbered
year unless it is held in conjunction with the statewide primary or general
election.
(Neb. RS 32-405)
§ 35.05  ELECTION OF OFFICERS; CERTIFICATIONS REQUIRED.
   No later than January 5 of each even-numbered year, the City Council shall
certify to the Secretary of State, the Election Commissioner, or the County
Clerk the name of the city, the number of officers to be elected, the length of
the terms of office, the vacancies to be filled by election and length of
remaining term, and the number of votes to be cast by a registered voter for
each office. The Secretary of State, Election Commissioner, and County Clerk
shall prescribe the forms to be used for certification to him or her.
(Neb. RS 32-404)
§ 35.06  PARTISAN BALLOT; WHEN ALLOWED; REQUIREMENTS.
   All elective city officers shall be nominated and elected on a nonpartisan
basis unless the city provides for a partisan ballot by ordinance.  No
ordinance providing for nomination and election on a partisan ballot shall
permit affiliation with any party not recognized as a political party for
purposes of the Election Act.  Such ordinance providing for nomination and
election on a partisan ballot shall be adopted and effective not less than 60
days prior to the filing deadline.
(Neb. RS 32-557)
§ 35.07 CANDIDATE FILING FORMS; DEADLINES; FILING OFFICER.
   (A)   Any candidate may place his or her name on the primary election ballot
by filing a candidate filing form prescribed by the Secretary of State as
provided in division (B). If a candidate is an incumbent of any elective
office, the filing period for filing the candidate filing form shall be between
December 1 and February 15 prior to the date of the primary election. No
incumbent who resigns from elective office prior to the expiration of his or
her term shall file for any office after February 15 of that election year. All
other candidates shall file for office between December 1 and March 1 prior to
the date of the general election.
(Neb. RS 32-606)
   (B)   Candidate filing forms shall be filed in the office of the Election
Commissioner or County Clerk.
(Neb. RS 32-607)
Statutory reference:
   Filling of vacancy on ballot, see Neb. RS 32-625 and 32-627
   Withdrawal after filing, see Neb. RS 32-622
§ 35.08  FILING FEE.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (D) or (E) of this section, a filing
fee shall be paid to the City Treasurer by or on behalf of each candidate for
city office prior to filing for office. The fee shall be placed in the general
fund of the city. No candidate filing forms shall be filed until the proper
payment or proper receipt showing the payment of such filing fee is presented
to the filing officer. On the day of the filing deadline, the City Treasurer's
office shall remain open to receive filing fees until the hour of the filing
deadline.
   (B)   Except as provided in division (D) or (E) of this section, the filing
fee shall be a sum equal to 1 % of the annual salary as of November 30 of the
year preceding the election for the office for which he or she files as a
candidate.
   (C)   All declared write-in candidates shall pay the filing fees that are
required for the office at the time that they present the write-in affidavit to
the filing officer. Any undeclared write-in candidate who in nominated or
elected by write-in votes shall pay the filing fee required for the office
within ten days after the canvass of votes by the county canvassing board and
shall file the receipt with the person issuing the certificate of nomination or
the certificate of election prior to the certificate being issued.
   (D)   No filing fee shall be required for any candidate filing for office in
which a per diem is paid rather than a salary or for which there is a salary of
less than $500 per year.
   (E)   (1)   No filing fee shall be required of any candidate completing an
affidavit requesting to file for elective office in forma pauperis.
      (2)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
         AVAILABLE RESOURCES.  Includes every type of property or interest in
property that an individual owns and may convert into cash except:
            1.   Real property used as a home;
            2.   Household goods of a moderate value used in the home; and
            3.   Assets to a maximum value of $3,000 used by a recipient in a
planned effort directed towards self-support.
         PAUPER. A person whose income and other resources for maintenance are
found under assistance standards to be insufficient for meeting the cost of his
or her requirements and whose reserve of cash or other available resources does
not exceed the maximum available resources that an eligible individual may own.
   (F)   If any candidate dies prior to an election, the spouse of the
candidate may file a claim for refund of the filing fee with the City Council
prior to the date of the election. Upon approval of the claim by the City
Council, the filing fee shall be refunded.
(Ord. 1009, passed 2-10-2015)
Statutory reference:
   Filing fees, See Neb. RS 32-608
§ 35.09  PETITION, WRITE-IN, AND OTHER CANDIDATES FOR GENERAL ELECTION BALLOT;
PROCEDURES.
   (A)   (1)   Any registered voter who was not a candidate in the primary
election and who was not registered to vote with a party affiliation on or
after March 1 and before the general, in the calendar year of the general
election may have his or her name placed on the general election ballot for a
partisan office by filing petitions as prescribed in this section and Neb. RS
32-621 or by nomination by political party convention or committee pursuant to
Neb. RS 32-627 or 32-710.
      (2)   Any candidate who was defeated in the primary election and any
registered voter who was not a candidate in the primary election may have his
or her name placed on the general election ballot if a vacancy exists on the
ballot under Neb. RS 32-625(2) and the candidate files for the office by
petition as prescribed in divisions (B) and (C) of this section, files as a
write-in candidate as prescribed in Neb. RS 32-615, or is nominated by
political party convention or committee pursuant to Neb. RS 32-710.
   (B)   Petitions for nominations shall conform to the requirements of Neb. RS
32-628. Petitions shall state the office to be filled and the name and address
of the candidate. Petitions for partisan office shall also indicate the party
affiliation of the candidate. A sample copy of the petition shall be filed with
the filing officer prior to circulation. Petitions shall be signed by
registered voters residing in the city, if candidates are chosen at large, or
in the ward in which the officer is to be elected, if candidates are chosen by
ward, and shall be filed with the filing officer in the same manner as provided
for candidate filing forms in § 35.07. Petition signers and petition
circulators shall conform to the requirements of Neb. RS 32-629 and 32-630. No
petition for nomination shall be filed unless there is attached thereto a
receipt showing the payment of the filing fee required pursuant to Neb. RS 32-
608. The petitions shall be filed by September 1 in the year of the general
election.
   (C)   (1)   The number of signatures of registered voters needed to place
the name of a candidate upon the nonpartisan ballot for the general election
shall be at least 10% of the total number of registered voters voting for
Governor or President of the United States at the immediately preceding general
election in the city or in the ward in which the officer is to be elected, not
to exceed 2,000.
      (2)   The number of signatures of registered voters needed to place the
name of a candidate upon the partisan ballot for the general election shall be
at least 20% of the total vote for Governor or President of the United States
at the immediately preceding general election within the city or in the ward in
which the officer is to be elected, as appropriate, not to exceed 2,000.
(Ord. 1010, passed 2-10-2015)
Statutory reference:
   Petitions, see Neb. RS 32-616 and 32-617
§ 35.10  RECALL PROCEDURE.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      FILING CLERK. The Election Commissioner or County Clerk.
(Neb. RS 32-1301)
   (B)   (1)   The Mayor, any member of the City Council, and any other elected
official of the city may be removed from office by recall pursuant to this
section.
      (2)   The recall procedure and special election provisions of this
section shall apply to members of the City Council who are elected by ward.
Only registered voters of such member's ward may sign a recall petition or vote
at the recall election. The recall election shall be held within the member's
ward. When a member of the City Council is nominated by ward in the primary
election and elected at large in the general election, the recall provisions
shall apply to the registered voters at the general election.
(Neb. RS 32-1302)
   (C)   (1)   A petition demanding that the question of removing the Mayor, a
member of the City Council, or any other elected official be submitted to the
registered voters shall be signed by registered voters equal in number to at
least 35% of the total vote cast for that office in the last general election,
except that for City Council office for which more than one candidate is
chosen, the petition shall be signed by registered voters equal in number to at
least 35% of the number of votes cast for the person receiving the most votes
for such office in the last general election. The signatures shall be affixed
to petition papers and shall be considered part of the petition.
      (2)   Petition circulators shall conform to the requirements of Neb. RS
32-629 and 32-630.
      (3)    The petition papers shall be procured from the filing clerk. Prior
to the issuance of such petition papers, a recall petition filing form shall be
signed and filed with the filing clerk by at least 1 registered voter. Such
voter or voters shall be deemed to be the principal circulator or circulators
of the recall petition. The filing form shall state the name and office of the
official sought to be removed, shall include in concise language of 60 words or
less the reason or reasons for which recall is sought, and shall request that
the filing clerk issue initial petition papers to the principal circulator for
circulation. The filing clerk shall notify the official sought to be removed by
any method specified in Neb. RS 25-505.01 or, if notification cannot be made
with reasonable diligence by any of the methods specified in Neb. RS 25-505.01,
by leaving a copy of the filing form at the official's usual place of residence
and mailing a copy by first-class mail to the official's last-known address. If
the official chooses, he or she may submit a defense statement in concise
language of 60 words or less for inclusion on the petition. Any such defense
statement shall be submitted to the filing clerk withii120 days after the
official receives the copy of the filing form. The filing clerk shall prepare
the petition papers within 5 business days after receipt of the defense
statement. The principal circulator or circulators shall gather the petition
papers within 20 days after being notified by the filing clerk that the
petition papers are available. The filing clerk shall notify the principal
circulator or circulators that the necessary signatures must be gathered within
30 days from the date of issuing the petitions.
      (4)   The filing clerk, upon issuing the initial petition papers or any
subsequent petition papers, shall enter in a record, to be kept in his or her
office, the name of the principal circulator or circulators to whom the papers
were issued, the date of issuance, and the number of papers issued. The filing
clerk shall certify on the papers the name of the principal circulator or
circulators to whom the papers were issued and the date they were issued. No
petition paper shall be accepted as part of the petition unless it bears such
certificate. The principal circulator or circulators who check out petitions
from the filing clerk may distribute such petitions to persons who may act as
circulators of such petitions.
      (5)   Petition signers shall conform to the requirements of Neb. RS 32-
629 and 32-630. Each signer of a recall petition shall be a registered voter
and qualified by his or her place of residence to vote for the office in
question.
(Neb. RS 32-1303)
   (D)   Each petition paper shall conform to the requirements of Neb. RS 32-
1304.
   (E)   (1)   The principal circulator or circulators shall file, as one
instrument, all petition papers comprising a recall petition for signature
verification with the filing clerk within 30 days after the filing clerk issues
the initial petition papers to the principal circulator or circulators as
provided in division (C) of this section.
      (2)   Within 15 days after the filing of the petition, the filing clerk
shall ascertain whether or not the petition is signed by the requisite number
of registered voters. No new signatures may be added after the initial filing
of the petition papers.  No signatures may be removed unless the filing clerk
receives an affidavit signed by the person requesting his or her signature be
removed before the petitions are filed with the filing clerk for signature
verification. If the petition is found to be sufficient, the filing clerk shall
attach to the petition a certificate showing the result of such examination. If
the requisite number of signatures has not been gathered, the filing clerk
shall file the petition in his or her office without prejudice to the filing of
a new petition for the same purpose.
(Neb. RS 32-1305)
   (F)   (1)   If the recall petition is found to be sufficient, the filing
clerk shall notify the official whose removal is sought and the City Council
that sufficient signatures have been gathered. Notification of the official
sought to be removed may be by any method specified in Neb. RS 25-505.01 or, if
notification cannot be made with reasonable diligence by any of the methods
specified in Neb. RS 25-505.01, by leaving such notice at the official's usual
place of residence and mailing a copy by first-class mail to the official's
last-known address.
      (2)   The City Council shall order an election to be held not less than
50 nor more than 80 days after the notification of the official whose removal
is sought under division (F)(1) of this section, except that if any other
election is to be held in the city within 90 days after such notification, the
City Council shall provide for the holding of the recall election on the same
day. All resignations shall be tendered as provided in Neb. RS 32-562. If the
official whose removal is sought resigns before the recall election is held,
the City Council may cancel the recall election if the City Council notifies
the Election Commissioner or County Clerk of the cancellation at least 24 days
prior to the election, otherwise the recall election shall be held as scheduled
      (3)   If the City Council fails or refuses to order a recall election
within the time required, the election may be ordered by the district court
having jurisdiction over a county in which the elected official serves. If a
filing clerk is subject to a recall election, the Secretary of State shall
conduct the recall election.
(Neb. RS 32-1306)
   (G)   The form of the official ballot at a recall election held pursuant to
division (F) of this section shall conform to the requirements of Neb. RS 32-
1307.
   (H)   (1)   If a majority of the votes cast at a recall election are against
the removal of the official named on the ballot or the election results in a
tie, the official shall continue in office for the remainder of his or her term
but may be subject to further recall attempts as provided in division (I) of
this section.
      (2)   If a majority of the votes cast at a recall election are for the
removal of the official named on the ballot, he or she shall, regardless of any
technical defects in the recall petition, be deemed removed from office unless
a recount is ordered. If the official is deemed removed, the removal shall
result in a vacancy in the office which shall be filled as otherwise provided
in this section and Neb. RS 32-567 to 32-570.
      (3)   If the election results show a margin of votes equal to 1% or less
between the removal or retention of the official in question, the Secretary of
State, Election Commissioner, or County Clerk shall order a recount of the
votes cast unless the official named on the ballot files a written statement
with the filing clerk that he or she does not want a recount.
      (4)   If there are vacancies in the offices of a majority or more of the
members of the City Council or any other governing body at one time due to the
recall of such members, a special election to fill such vacancies shall be
conducted as expeditiously as possible by the Secretary of State, Election
Commissioner, or County Clerk.
      (5)   No official who is removed at a recall election or who resigns
after the initiation of the recall process shall be appointed to fill the
vacancy resulting from his or her removal or the removal of any other member of
the same governing body during the remainder of his or her term of office.
(Neb. RS 32-1308)
   (I)   No recall petition shall be filed against an elected official within
12 months after a recall election has failed to remove him or her from office
or within 6 months after the beginning of his or her term of office or within 6
months prior to the incumbent filing deadline for the office.
(1998 Code, § 1-702)  (Ord. 758, passed 9-11-2001; Ord. 794, passed 2-10-2004;
Ord. 966, passed 10-25-2011)
 § 35.11  EXIT POLLS.
   No person shall conduct an exit poll, a public opinion poll, or any other
interview with voters on election day seeking to determine voter preference
within 20 feet of the entrance of any polling place or, if inside the polling
place or building, within 100 feet of any voting booth.
(Neb. RS 32-1525)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 35.12  WARDS.
   The municipality shall redistrict as often as necessary using the most
recent federal census to ensure that each ward is substantially equal in
population. The municipality shall stand divided into the following wards as
set forth herein.
   (A)   Ward One. Ward One of the city shall constitute all that part of the
city lying east of a line extending from a point on the southern boundary of
the city (refer to Exhibit A) north along the center of Sixteenth Street
(Highway 14) to the center of A Street, thence west two blocks along the center
of A Street to the center of Fourteenth Street, thence north 11 blocks along
the center of Fourteenth Street to the center of M Street, thence east two
blocks along the center of M Street to the west side of Sixteenth Street
(Highway 14), thence north along the center of Sixteenth Street (Highway 14)
taking in Northridge subdivision and ending at the center of Sixteenth Street
(Highway 14), the northern boundary of the city (refer to Exhibit A). Census
population 1,498.
   (B)   Ward Two. Ward Two of the city shall constitute all that part of the
city lying west and south of a line extending from a point on the southern
boundary of the city (refer to Exhibit A) north along the center of Sixteenth
Street (Highway 14) to the center of A Street, thence west two blocks along the
center of A Street to the center of Fourteenth Street, thence north ten blocks
along the center of Fourteenth Street to the center of L Street, thence west
four blocks along the center of L Street to the center of Tenth Street, thence
south one block along the center of Tenth Street to the center of K Street,
thence west six blocks along the center of K Street to the center of Fourth 
Street, thence north two blocks along the center of Fourth Street to the center
of M Street, thence west again along the center of M Street extended to the
western boundary of the city (refer to Exhibit A). Census population 1,488.
   (C)   Ward Three. Ward Three of the city shall constitute all that part of
the city lying west and north of a line running from a point on the northern
boundary of the city (refer to Exhibit A) south along the center of Sixteenth
Street (Highway 14) to the center of M Street, thence west two blocks along the
center of M Street to the center of Fourteenth Street, thence south one block
along the center of Fourteenth Street to the center of L Street, thence west
four blocks along the center of L Street to the center of Tenth Street, thence
south one block along the center of Tenth Street to the center of K Street,
thence west six blocks along the center of K Street to the center of Fourth
Street, thence north two blocks along the center of Fourth Street to the center
of M Street, thence west again along the center of M Street extended to the
western boundary of the city (refer to Exhibit A). Census population 1,487.
(1998 Code, § 1-702)  (Ord. 758, passed 9-11-2001; Ord. 794, passed 2-10-2004;
Ord. 966, passed 10-25-2011)
Editor’s note:
   Exhibit A is on file and available for public inspection during regular city
office hours.
CHAPTER 36:  FISCAL MANAGEMENT
Section
General Provisions
   
36.01   Public funds defined
   
36.02   Annual audit; financial statements
   
36.03   Contracts and purchases; bidding and other requirements
   
36.04   Orders or warrants for money; contracts; expenditures; requirements
   
36.05   Claims and accounts payable
   
36.06   Collection of special assessments; procedure
   
36.07   Special assessment fund
   
36.08   Sinking funds; gifts of money or property
   
36.09   Deposit of funds
   
36.10   Certificates of deposit; time deposits; conditions
   
36.11   Investment and use of surplus funds
   
36.12   Bond issues
   
36.13   Debt collection; authority to contract with collection agency
   
36.14   Credit cards; authority to accept
City Sales and Use Tax
   
36.25   Imposition of tax
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 36.01  PUBLIC FUNDS DEFINED.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PUBLIC FUNDS.  All money, including non-tax money, used in the operation and
functions of governing bodies.  If the city has a lottery established under the
Nebraska County and City Lottery Act, only those net proceeds which are
actually received by the city from a licensed lottery operator shall be
considered PUBLIC FUNDS, and PUBLIC FUNDS shall not include amounts awarded as
prizes.
(Neb. RS 13-503)
§ 36.02  ANNUAL AUDIT; FINANCIAL STATEMENTS.
   (A)   (1)   For the purpose of this division (A), the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
         ACCOUNTANT.  A duly licensed public accountant or certified public
accountant who otherwise is not an employee of or connected in any way with the
city.
         ANNUAL AUDIT REPORT.  The written report of the accountant and all
appended statements and schedules relating thereto presenting or recording the
findings of an examination or audit of the financial transactions, affairs, or
financial condition of the city and its proprietary functions for the fiscal
year immediately prior to the making of the annual report.
         FISCAL YEAR.  The fiscal year for the city or the fiscal year
established in Neb. RS 18-2804 for a proprietary function if different than the
city fiscal year.
(Neb. RS 19-2902)
      (2)   The City Council shall cause an audit of the city’s accounts to be
made by a recognized independent and qualified accountant as expeditiously as
possible following the close of the fiscal year and to cover all financial
transactions and affairs of the city for that preceding fiscal year.  The audit
shall be made on a cash or accrual method at the discretion of the City
Council.  The audit shall be completed and the annual audit report made by the
accountant shall be submitted within 6 months after the close of the fiscal
year in any event, unless an extension of time is granted by a written
resolution adopted by the City Council. If the city owns or operates any type
of public utility or other enterprise which substantially generates its own
revenue, that phase of the affairs of the city shall be audited separately from
other functions of the city and the result shall appear separately in the
annual audit report made by the accountant to the city and such audit shall be
on an accrual basis and shall contain statements and materials which conform to
generally accepted accounting principles.  For the utilities operated through
the Board of Public Works, the City Council may provide for an entirely
separate audit, on an accrual basis, of such operations and report and by a
different accountant than the one making the general audit.
(Neb. RS 19-2903)
      (3)   The annual audit report shall set forth, insofar as possible, the
financial position and results of financial operations for each fund or group
of accounts of the city.  When the accrual method is selected for the annual
audit report, the report shall be in accordance with generally accepted
accounting principles.  The annual audit report shall also include the
professional opinion of the accountant with respect to the financial
statements, or, if an opinion cannot be expressed, a declaration that the
accountant is unable to express such an opinion with an explanation of the
reasons why he or she cannot do so.
(Neb. RS 19-2904)
      (4)   At least 3 copies of such annual audit report shall be properly
signed and attested by the accountant; 2 copies shall be filed with the City
Clerk, and 1 copy shall be filed with the Auditor of Public Accounts.  The
annual audit report filed, together with any accompanying comment or
explanation, shall become a part of the public records of the City Clerk and
shall at all times thereafter be open and subject to public inspection.
(Neb. RS 19-2905)
   (B)   The City Council shall provide and file with the City Clerk, not later
than August 1 of each year, financial statements showing the city’s actual and
budgeted figures for the most recently completed fiscal year.
(Neb. RS 13-606)
Statutory reference:
   Other provisions on audits, Neb. RS 19-2906 through 19-2909
§ 36.03  CONTRACTS AND PURCHASES; BIDDING AND OTHER REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Except as provided in Neb. RS 18-412.01 for a contract with a public
power district to operate, renew, replace, or add to the electric distribution,
transmission, or generation system of the city, no contract for enlargement or
general improvements, such as water extensions, sewers, public heating system,
bridges, work on streets, or any other work or improvement when the cost of the
enlargement or improvement is assessed to the property, costing over $30,000,
shall be made unless it is first approved by the City Council.
   (B)   Except as provided in Neb. RS 18-412.01, before the City Council makes
any contract in excess of $30,000 for enlargement or general improvements, such
as water extensions, sewers, public heating system, bridges, work on streets,
or any other work or improvement when the cost of the enlargement or
improvement is assessed to the property, an estimate of the cost shall be made
by the City Engineer and submitted to the City Council.  In advertising for
bids as provided in divisions (C) and (E) of this section, the City Council may
publish the amount of the estimate.
   (C)   Advertisements for bids shall be required for any contract costing
over $30,000 entered into:
      (1)   For enlargement or general improvements, such as water extensions,
sewers, public heating system, bridges, work on streets, or any other work or
improvement when the cost of the enlargement or improvement is assessed to the
property; or
      (2)   For the purchase of equipment used in the construction of the
enlargement or general improvements.
   (D)   A city electric utility may enter into a contract for the enlargement
or improvement of the electric system or for the purchase of equipment used for
the enlargement or improvement without advertising for bids if the price is:
      (1)   $30,000 or less;
      (2)   $60,000 or less and the city electric utility has gross annual
revenue from retail sales in excess of $1,000,000;
      (3)   $90,000 or less and the city electric utility has gross annual
revenue from retail sales in excess of $5,000,000; or
      (4)   $120,000 or less and the city electric utility has gross annual
revenue from retail sales in excess of $10,000,000.
   (E)   The advertisement provided for in division (C) of this section shall
be published at least 7 days prior to the bid closing in a legal newspaper
published in or of general circulation in the city, and if there is no legal
newspaper published in or of general circulation in the city, then in some
newspaper of general circulation published in the county in which the city is
located, and if there is no legal newspaper of general circulation published in
the county in which the city is located, then in a newspaper, designated by the
County Board, having a general circulation within the county where bids are
required, and if no newspaper is published in the city or county, or if no
newspaper has general circulation in the county, then by posting a written or
printed copy thereof in each of 3 public places in the city at least 7 days
prior to the bid closing.  In case of a public emergency resulting from
infectious or contagious diseases, destructive windstorms, floods, snow, war,
or an exigency or pressing necessity or unforeseen need calling for immediate
action or remedy to prevent a serious loss of or serious injury or damage to
life, health, or property, estimates of costs and advertising for bids may be
waived in the emergency ordinance authorized by Neb. RS 17-613 when adopted by
a 3/4 vote of the City Council and entered of record.
   (F)   If, after advertising for bids as provided in this section, the City
Council receives fewer than 2 bids on a contract or if the bids received by the
City Council contain a price which exceeds the estimated cost, the City Council
may negotiate a contract in an attempt to complete the proposed enlargement or
general improvements at a cost commensurate with the estimate given.
   (G)   If the materials are of such a nature that, in the opinion of the
manufacturer and with the concurrence of the City Council or Board of Public
Works, no cost can be estimated until the materials have been manufactured or
assembled to the specific qualifications of the city, the City Council or Board
of Public Works may authorize the manufacture and assemblage of those materials
and may thereafter approve the estimated cost expenditure when it is provided
by the manufacturer.
(Neb. RS 17-568.01)
   (H)   Any city bidding procedure may be waived by the City Council or Board
of Public Works:
      (1)   When materials or equipment are purchased at the same price and
from the same seller as materials or equipment which have formerly been
obtained pursuant to the state bidding procedure in Neb. RS 81-145 through 81-
162;
      (2)   When the contract is negotiated directly with a sheltered workshop
pursuant to Neb. RS 48-1503; or
      (3)   When required to comply with any federal grant, loan, or program.
(Neb. RS 17-568.02)
   (I)   (1)   Notwithstanding any other provisions of law or a home rule
charter, a city which has established, by an interlocal agreement with any
county, a joint purchasing division or agency may purchase personal property
without competitive bidding if the price for the property has been established
by the federal General Services Administration or the materiel division of the
Department of Administrative Services.
      (2)   For the purpose of this division (I), the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
         PERSONAL PROPERTY.  Includes but is not limited to supplies,
materials, and equipment used by or furnished to any officer, office,
department, institution, board, or other agency.
         PURCHASING or PURCHASE.  The obtaining of personal property by sale,
lease, or other contractual means.
(Neb. RS 18-1756)
Statutory reference:
   Requirements for public lettings, see Neb. RS 73-101 et seq.
§ 36.04  ORDERS OR WARRANTS FOR MONEY; CONTRACTS; EXPENDITURES; REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The Mayor and City Council shall have no power to appropriate, issue,
or draw any order or warrant on the City Treasurer for money, unless the same
has been appropriated or ordered by ordinance, or the claim for the payment of
which such order or warrant is issued has been allowed according to the
provisions of §
36.05, and funds for the class or object out of which such claim is payable
have been included in the adopted budget statement or transferred according to
law.
(Neb. RS 17-708)
   (B)   No contract shall be hereafter made by the City Council, or any
committee or member thereof, and no expense shall be incurred by any of the
officers or departments of the city, whether the object of the expenditures
shall have been ordered by the City Council or not, unless an appropriation
shall have been previously made concerning such expense, except as otherwise
expressly provided in division (A).
(Neb. RS 17-709)
   (C)   All warrants drawn upon the City Treasurer must be signed by the Mayor
and countersigned by the City Clerk, stating the particular fund to which the
same is chargeable, the person to whom payable, and for what particular object.
No money shall be otherwise paid than upon such warrants so drawn. Each warrant
shall specify the amount included in the adopted budget statement for such fund
upon which it is drawn and the amount already expended of such fund.
(Neb. RS 17-711)
§ 36.05  CLAIMS AND ACCOUNTS PAYABLE.
   (A)   (1)   All liquidated and unliquidated claims and accounts payable
against the city shall:
         (a)   Be presented in writing;
         (b)   State the name and address of the claimant and the amount of the
claim; and
         (c)   Fully and accurately identify the items or services for which
payment is claimed or the time, place, nature, and circumstances giving rise to
the claim.
      (2)   As a condition precedent to maintaining an action for a claim,
other than a tort claim as defined in Neb. RS 13-903, the claimant shall file
such claim within 90 days of the accrual of the claim in the office of the City
Clerk.
      (3)   The City Clerk shall notify the claimant or his or her agent or
attorney by letter mailed to the claimant's address within 5 days if the claim
is disallowed by the City Council.
      (4)   No costs shall be recovered against the city in any action brought
against it for any claim or for any claim allowed in part which has not been
presented to the City Council to be audited, unless the recovery is for a
greater sum than the amount allowed with the interest due.
(Neb. RS 17-714)
   (B)   Upon the allowance of claims by the City Council, the order for their
payment shall specify the particular fund or appropriation out of which they
are payable as specified in the adopted budget statement; and no order or
warrant shall be drawn in excess of 85% of the current levy for the purpose for
which it is drawn, unless there is sufficient money in the treasury at the
credit of the proper fund for its payment; provided that if there exists at the
time such warrant is drawn, obligated funds from the federal government or the
state, or both from the federal government and the state, for the general
purpose or purposes of such warrant, then such warrant may be drawn in excess
of 85% of the current levy for the purpose for which it is drawn to the
additional extent of 100% of such obligated federal or state funds. No claim
shall be audited or allowed unless an order or warrant for the payment thereof
may legally be drawn.
(Neb. RS 17-715)
§ 36.06  COLLECTION OF SPECIAL ASSESSMENTS; PROCEDURE.
   (A)   The city shall have authority to collect the special assessments which
it levies and to perform all other necessary functions related thereto
including foreclosure.
   (B)   The City Council of any city collecting its own special assessments
shall direct that notice that special assessments are due shall be mailed or
otherwise delivered to the last known address of the person against whom those
special assessments are assessed or to the lending institution or other party
responsible for paying those special assessments.  Failure to receive the
notice shall not relieve the taxpayer from any liability to pay the special
assessments and any interest or penalties accrued thereon.
   (C)   A city collecting its own assessments shall:
      (1)   File notice of the assessments and the amount of assessment being
levied for each lot or tract of land to the Register of Deeds; and
      (2)   File a release of assessment upon final payment of each assessment
with the Register of Deeds.
(Neb. RS 18-1216)
Statutory reference:
   Refunding erroneously paid special assessments, see Neb. RS 17-703
§ 36.07  SPECIAL ASSESSMENT FUND.
   All money received on special assessments shall be held by the City
Treasurer as a special fund to be applied to the payment of the improvement for
which the assessment was made, and this money shall be used for no other
purpose whatever, unless to reimburse the city for money expended for any such
improvement.
(Neb. RS 17-710)
§ 36.08  SINKING FUNDS; GIFTS OF MONEY OR PROPERTY.
   (A)   The city is hereby empowered to receive money or property by donation,
bequest, gift, devise, or otherwise for the benefit of any one or more of the
public purposes for which sinking funds are established by the provisions of
this section, as stipulated by the donor. The title to the money or property so
donated shall vest in the City Council, or in its successors in office, who
shall become the owners thereof in trust to the uses of the sinking fund or
funds; provided, if the donation is real estate, the City Council may manage
the same as in the case of real estate donated to the city for city library
purposes under the provisions of Neb. RS 51-215 and 51-216.
(Neb. RS 19-1301)
   (B)   The City Council, subject to all the limitations set forth in this
section, shall have the power to levy a tax of not to exceed $0.105 on each
$100 in any one year upon the taxable value of all the taxable property within
the city for a term of not to exceed 10 years, in addition to the amount of tax
which may be annually levied for the purposes of the adopted budget statement
of the city, for the purpose of establishing a sinking fund for the
construction, purchase, improvement, extension, original equipment, or repair,
not including maintenance, of any one or more of the following public
improvements, including acquisition of any land incident to the making thereof:
City library; city auditorium or community house for social or recreational
purposes; city hall; city public library, auditorium, or community house in a
single building; city swimming pool and appurtenances thereto; city jail; city
building to house equipment or personnel of a fire department, together with
firefighting equipment or apparatus; city park; city cemetery; city medical
clinic building, together with furnishings and equipment; or city hospital. The
city shall not be authorized to levy the tax or to establish the sinking fund
as provided in this division if, having bonded indebtedness, such city has been
in default in the payment of interest thereon or principal thereof for a period
of 10 years prior to the date of the passage of the resolution providing for
the submission of the proposition for establishment of the sinking fund as
required in division (C).
(Neb. RS 19-1302)
   (C)   Before any sinking fund or funds are established or before any annual
tax is levied for any such planned city improvement mentioned in division (B)
by the city, the City Council shall declare its purpose by resolution to submit
to the qualified electors of the city at the next general city election the
proposition to provide the city with the specific city improvement planned for
consummation under this section. The resolution of submission shall, among
other things, set forth a clear description of the improvement planned, the
estimated cost according to the prevailing costs, the amount of annual levy
over a definite period of years, not exceeding 10 years, required to provide
such cost, and the specific name or designation for the sinking fund sought to
be established to carry out the planned improvement, together with a statement
of the proposition for placement upon the ballot at the election. Notice of the
submission of the proposition, together with a copy of the official ballot
containing the same, shall be published in its entirety 3 successive weeks
before the day of the election in a legal newspaper published in the city or,
if no legal newspaper is published therein, in some legal newspaper published
in the county in which the city is located and of general circulation.  If no
legal newspaper is published in the county, such notice shall be published in
some legal newspaper of general circulation in the county in which the city is
located. No such sinking fund shall be established unless the same has been
authorized by a majority or more of the legal votes of the city cast for or
against the proposition. If less than a majority of the legal votes favor the
establishment of the sinking fund, the planned improvement shall not be made,
no annual tax shall be levied therefor, and no sinking fund or sinking funds
shall be established in connection therewith, but such resolution of submission
shall immediately be repealed. If the proposition shall carry at such election
in the manner prescribed in this division, the City Council and its successors
in office shall proceed to do all things authorized under such resolution of
submission but never inconsistent with this section. Provisions of the statutes
of this state relating to election of officers, voting places, election
apparatus and blanks, preparation and form of ballots, information to voters,
delivery of ballots, conduct of elections, manner of voting, counting of votes,
records and certificates of elections, and recounts of votes, so far as
applicable, shall apply to voting on the proposition under this section.
(Neb. RS 19-1303)
   (D)   All funds received by the City Treasurer, by donation or by tax levy,
as hereinbefore provided, shall, as they accumulate, be immediately invested by
the Treasurer, with the written approval of the City Council, in the manner
provided in §
36.11. Whenever investments of such sinking fund or funds are made, as
aforesaid, the nature and character of the same shall be reported to the City
Council, and the investment report shall be made a matter of record by the City
Clerk in the proceedings of the City Council. The sinking fund, or sinking
funds, accumulated under the provisions of this section, shall constitute a
special fund, or funds, for the purpose or purposes for which the same was
authorized and shall not be used for any other purpose unless authorized by 60%
of the qualified electors of the city voting at a general election favoring
such change in the use of the sinking fund or sinking funds; provided that the
question of the change in the use of the sinking fund or sinking funds, when it
fails to carry, shall not be resubmitted in substance for a period of 1 year
from and after the date of such election.
(Neb. RS 19-1304)
Statutory reference:
   Additional levy limitations, see Neb. RS 17-702
   Investment in warrants, see Neb. RS 77-2337
§ 36.09  DEPOSIT OF FUNDS.
   (A)   (1)   The City Treasurer shall deposit, and at all times keep on
deposit, for safekeeping, in banks, capital stock financial institutions, or
qualifying mutual financial institutions of approved and responsible standing,
all money collected, received, or held by him or her as City Treasurer.  These
deposits shall be subject to all regulations imposed by law or adopted by the
City Council for the receiving and holding thereof.  The fact that a
stockholder, director, or other officer of the bank, capital stock financial
institution, or qualifying mutual financial institution is also serving as
Mayor, a member of the City Council, as a member of the Board of Public Works,
or as any other officer of the city shall not disqualify the bank, capital
stock financial institution, or qualifying mutual financial institution from
acting as a depository for the city funds.
      (2)   The City Council shall require from all banks, capital stock
financial institutions, or qualifying mutual financial institutions a bond in
such penal sum as may be the maximum amount on deposit at any time less the
amount insured or guaranteed by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation or,
in lieu thereof, security given as provided in the Public Funds Deposit
Security Act, to secure the payment of all such deposits and accretions.  The
City Council shall approve this bond or giving of security.  The City Treasurer
shall not be liable for any loss of any money sustained by reason of the
failure of any such depository so designated and approved.
(Neb. RS 17-607)
   (B)   The insurance afforded to depositors in banks, capital stock financial
institutions, or qualifying mutual financial institutions through the Federal
Deposit Insurance Corporation shall be deemed and construed to be a surety bond
or bonds to the extent that the deposits are insured or guaranteed by that
corporation, and for deposits so insured or guaranteed, no other surety bond or
bonds or other security shall be required.
(Neb. RS 77-2362)
   (C)   Neb. RS 77-2366 shall apply to deposits in capital stock financial
institutions.  Neb. RS 77-2365.01 shall apply to deposits in qualifying mutual
financial institutions.
(Neb. RS 17-607 and 77-2362)
Statutory reference:
   Other provisions on deposits of public funds, see Neb. RS 77-2363 and 77-
2364
   Public Funds Deposit Security Act, see Neb. RS 77-2386
§ 36.10  CERTIFICATES OF DEPOSIT; TIME DEPOSITS; CONDITIONS.
   The City Treasurer may, upon resolution of the Mayor and City Council
authorizing the same, purchase certificates of deposit from and make time
deposits in any bank, capital stock financial institution, or qualifying mutual
financial institution in the state to the extent that those certificates of
deposit or time deposits are insured or guaranteed by the Federal Deposit
Insurance Corporation.  Deposits may be made in excess of the amounts so
secured by the corporation, and the amount of the excess deposit shall be
secured by a bond or by security given in the same manner as is provided for
cities of the first class in Neb. RS 16-714 through 16-716 as of the time the
deposit is made.  Neb. RS 77-2366 shall apply to deposits in capital stock
financial institutions.  Neb. RS 77-2365.01 shall apply to deposits in
qualifying mutual financial institutions.
(Neb. RS 17-720)
§ 36.11  INVESTMENT AND USE OF SURPLUS FUNDS.
   (A)   When the City Treasurer holds funds of the city in excess of the
amount required for maintenance or set aside for betterments and improvements,
the Mayor and City Council may, by resolution, direct and authorize the
Treasurer to invest the surplus funds in the outstanding bonds or registered
warrants of the city, bonds and debentures issued either singly or collectively
by any of the 12 federal land banks, the 12 intermediate credit banks, or the
13 banks for cooperatives under the supervision of the Farm Credit
Administration, or in interest-bearing bonds or the obligations of the United
States. The interest on such bonds or warrants shall be credited to the fund
out of which the bonds or warrants were purchased.
(Neb. RS 17-608)
   (B)   All income received by the city from public utilities and from the
payment and collection of water taxes, rents, rates or assessments shall be
applied to the payment of running expenses, interest on bonds or money borrowed
and the erection and construction of public utilities; should there be any
surplus, it shall be annually created into a sinking fund for the payment of
public utility bonds or for the improvements of the works, or into the general
fund as the Council may direct. The surplus remaining, if any, may, if the
Council, be invested in interest-bearing bonds or obligations of the United
States.
(Neb. RS 17-540)
   (C)   The Mayor and City Council may, by resolution, direct and authorize
the Treasurer to dispose of the surplus electric light, water, or gas funds, or
the funds arising from the sale of electric light, water, or natural gas
distribution properties, by the payment of outstanding electric light, water,
or gas distribution bonds or water warrants then due. The excess, if any, after
such payments, may be transferred to the general fund of the city.
(Neb. RS 17-609)
   (D)   Any surplus funds arising out of the operation of any system of
waterworks, power plant, ice plant, gas plant, sewerage, heating or lighting
plant, or distribution system by the Board of Public Works, or by the City
Council, where any of such utilities are not being operated by such a Board,
may be invested, if not invested pursuant to the provisions of any other law
upon the subject, in like manner and subject to the same conditions as the
investment of similar funds of cities of the first class, as provided in Neb.
RS 16-691.01.
(Neb. RS 17-803)
   (E)   (1)   Whenever the city has accumulated a surplus of any fund in
excess of its current needs or has accumulated a sinking fund for the payment
of its bonds and the money in such sinking fund exceeds the amount necessary to
pay the principal and interest of any such bonds which become due during the
current year, the City Council may invest any such surplus in excess of current
needs or such excess in its sinking fund in certificates of deposit, in time
deposits, and in any securities in which the State Investment Officer is
authorized to invest pursuant to the Nebraska Capital Expansion Act and the
Nebraska State Funds Investment Act and as provided in the authorized
investment guidelines of the Nebraska Investment Council in effect on the date
the investment is made. The State Investment Officer shall upon request furnish
a copy of current authorized investment guidelines of the Nebraska Investment
Council.
      (2)   Nothing in division (E)(1) shall be construed to authorize
investments in venture capital.
(Neb. RS 77-2341)
§ 36.12  BOND ISSUES.
   The City Council may, after meeting all the requirements of state law, issue
bonds, fund bonds, and retire bonds for such purposes as may be permitted by
state law.  The City Council shall have the authority to levy special
assessments for the payment of interest and principal on these bonds and may
spread the payments up to the maximum number of years permitted by state law.
Statutory reference:
   Bonds in general, see Neb. RS 18-1801 through 18-1805
   Funding and refunding bonds, see Neb. RS 10-606 through 10-612
   General provisions, see Neb. RS 10-101 through 10-143
§ 36.13  DEBT COLLECTION; AUTHORITY TO CONTRACT WITH COLLECTION AGENCY.
   (A)   The city may contract to retain a collection agency licensed pursuant
to Neb. RS 45-601 through 45-622, within or without this state, for the purpose
of collecting public debts owed by any person to the city.
   (B)   No debt owed pursuant to division (A) of this section may be assigned
to a collection agency unless:
      (1)   There has been an attempt to advise the debtor by first-class mail,
postage prepaid, at the last known address of the debtor:
         (a)   Of the existence of the debt; and
         (b)   That the debt may be assigned to a collection agency for
collection if the debt is not paid; and
      (2)   At least 30 days have elapsed from the time the notice was sent.
   (C)   A collection agency which is assigned a debt under this section shall
have only those remedies and powers which would be available to it as an
assignee of a private creditor.
   (D)   For purposes of this section, debt shall include all delinquent fees
or payments except delinquent property taxes on real estate.  In the case of
debt arising as a result of an order or judgment of a court in a criminal or
traffic matter, a collection fee may be added to the debt.  The collection fee
shall be $25 or 4.5% of the debt, whichever is greater.  The collection fee
shall be paid by the person who owes the debt directly to the person or agency
providing the collection service.
(Neb. RS 45-623)
§ 36.14  CREDIT CARDS; AUTHORITY TO ACCEPT.
   (A)   If authorized by the City Council, any city official may accept credit
cards, charge cards, or debit cards, whether presented in person or
electronically, or electronic funds transfers as a method of cash payment of
any tax, levy, excise, duty, custom, toll, interest, penalty, fine, license,
fee, or assessment of whatever kind or nature, whether general or special, as
provided by Neb. RS 77-1702.
   (B)   The total amount of the taxes, levies, excises, duties, customs,
tolls, interest, penalties, fines, licenses, fees, or assessments of whatever
kind or nature, whether general or special, paid for by credit card, charge
card, debit card, or electronic funds transfer shall be collected by the city
official.
   (C)   With respect to a facility which it operates in a proprietary
capacity, the City Council may choose to accept credit cards, charge cards, or
debit cards, whether presented in person or electronically, or electronic funds
transfers as a means of cash payment and may adjust the price for services to
reflect the handling and payment costs.
   (D)   The city official shall obtain, for each transaction, authorization
for use of any credit card, charge card, or debit card used pursuant to this
section from the financial institution, vending service company, credit card or
charge card company, or third-party merchant bank providing that service.   
   (E)   The types of credit cards, charge cards, or debit cards accepted and
the payment services provided shall be determined by the State Treasurer and
the Director of Administrative Services with the advice of a committee convened
by the State Treasurer and the director. The committee shall consist of the
State Treasurer, the Tax Commissioner, the director, and representatives from
counties, cities, and other political subdivisions as may be appropriate. The
committee shall develop recommendations for the contracting of such services.
The State Treasurer and the director shall contract with one or more credit
card, charge card, or debit card companies or third-party merchant banks for
services on behalf of the state and those counties, cities, and political
subdivisions that choose to participate in the state contract for such
services. The State Treasurer and the director shall consider, for purposes of
this section, any negotiated discount, processing, or transaction fee imposed
by a credit card, charge card, or debit card company or third-party merchant
bank as an administrative expense. If the City Council chooses not to
participate in the state contract, it may choose types of credit cards, charge
cards, and debit cards and may negotiate and contract independently or
collectively as a governmental entity with 1 or more financial institutions,
vending service companies, credit card, charge card, or debit card companies,
or third-party merchant banks for the provision of these services.
   (F)   Subject to the direction of the City Council, a city official 
authorizing acceptance of credit card or charge card payments shall be
authorized but not required to impose a surcharge or convenience fee upon the
person making a payment by credit card or charge card so as to wholly or
partially offset the amount of any discount or administrative fees charged to
the city, but the surcharge or convenience fee shall not exceed the surcharge
or convenience fee imposed by the credit card or charge card companies or
third-party merchant banks which have contracted under division (E) of this
section.  The surcharge or convenience fee shall be applied only when allowed
by the operating rules and regulations of the credit card or charge card
involved or when authorized in writing by the credit card or charge card
company involved.  When a person elects to make a payment to the city by credit
card or charge card and such a surcharge or convenience fee is imposed, the
payment of the surcharge or convenience fee shall be deemed voluntary by that
person and shall be in no case refundable.  If a payment is made electronically
by credit card, charge card, debit card, or electronic funds transfer as part
of a system for providing or retrieving information electronically, the city
official shall be authorized but not required to impose an additional surcharge
or convenience fee upon the person making a payment.
   (G)   For the purpose of this section, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      ELECTRONIC FUNDS TRANSFER.  The movement of funds by nonpaper means,
usually through a payment system, including, but not limited to, an automated
clearinghouse or the Federal Reserve’s Fedwire system.
(Neb. RS 13-609)
CITY SALES AND USE TAX
§ 36.25  IMPOSITION OF TAX.
   (A)   The qualified electors of the city, at the primary election held May
13, 2008, approved the imposition of a 1% city sales and use tax.
   (B)   The city does hereby impose a 1% sales and use tax upon the same
transactions within the municipality on which the State of Nebraska is
authorized to impose that tax, effective October 1, 2008.
   (C)   The tax so collected shall be used to fund the city’s Recreation Plan
as created by the Citizen Recreation Advisory Committee and adopted by the City
Council on March 14, 2006.
(Ord. 898, passed 5-21-2008)
TITLE V:  PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
51.   WATER
      
52.   SEWERS
      
53.   NATURAL GAS
CHAPTER 50:  GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
50.01   Public utilities; service outside city; authorization; limitation on
length of contracts
   
50.02   Late payment charge
 
   
50.99   Penalty
§ 50.01  PUBLIC UTILITIES; SERVICE OUTSIDE CITY; AUTHORIZATION; LIMITATION ON
LENGTH OF CONTRACTS.
   A city of the first or second class may enter into a contract or contracts
to sell electric, water or sewer service to persons beyond the corporate limits
of the city when, in the judgment of the Mayor and Council of the city not
having a Board of Public Works or of its Board of Public Works in the city
having a Board, it is beneficial to any city to do so. No contract shall run
for a period in excess of 25 years. A city is hereby authorized and empowered
to enter into contracts for the furnishing of electric service to persons,
firms, associations and corporations beyond the corporate limits of the city.
(Neb. RS 19-2701)
§ 50.02  LATE PAYMENT CHARGE.
   In the event that a bill assessed under this title goes unpaid on or after
the delinquent date, the amount due will be increased by a 1% late payment
charge.
(Ord. 925, passed 1-13-2009)
§ 50.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   In accordance with the statutes of the State of Nebraska, including
Neb. RS 17-505, any person who shall violate or refuse to comply with the
enforcement of any of the provisions of this chapter shall be deemed guilty of
a misdemeanor and upon conviction thereof shall be fined not more than $500 for
any one offense, recoverable with costs.
   (B)   A new violation shall be deemed to have been committed every 24 hours
of failure to comply.
(1998 Code, § 3-801)  (Ord. 724, passed 1-25-2000; Ord. 950, passed 6-22-2010)
CHAPTER 51:  WATER
Section
Water Department
   
51.01   Operation and control
   
51.02   Definitions
   
51.03   Consumer’s application
   
51.04   Water contract
   
51.05   Installation procedure
   
51.06   Meters
   
51.07   Flood waters avoidance
   
51.08   Repair, replacement and service charges
   
51.09   Fees and collection
   
51.10   Rate setting
   
51.11   Water bills
   
51.12   Delinquent bills
   
51.13   Liens
   
51.14   Restricted use
   
51.15   Fire hydrants
   
51.16   Pollution
   
51.17   Inspections
   
51.18   Licensed plumber
   
51.19   Private wells; permit required
   
51.20   Fluoride
   
51.21   Drilling or installation of other facilities within designated
distances from municipal water sources
Backflow/Backsiphonage Prevention
   
51.35   Generally
   
51.36   Surveys
   
51.37   Protection devices
   
51.38   Denial/discontinuance of service
   
51.39   Required installations
   
51.40   Appeals
   
51.41   Employee liability
 
   
51.99   Penalty
WATER DEPARTMENT
§ 51.01  OPERATION AND CONTROL.
   The Water Department under the direction of the Water Commissioner shall
have the direct management and control of the city’s water works system,
subject to the supervision and review of Utilities Superintendent. The water
works system shall provide for a supply of water for the purpose of fire
protection and public use and for the use of the inhabitants of the city and
may be situated in whole or in part within the city. The Council shall make and
enforce all needful rules and regulations in the construction, use and
management of the system of water works and water supply and for the use of the
water therefrom, all in accordance with the statutes of the State of Nebraska,
including Neb. RS 17-531 through 17-546 and 19-2701.
(1998 Code, § 3-101)
§ 51.02  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning. Where no
definition is specified, the normal dictionary usage of the word shall apply.
   MAIN. Any pipe, other than a supply or service pipe, that is used for the
purpose of carrying water to and disbursing the same in the city.
   SERVICE PIPE. Any pipe extending from the shut-off, stop box or curb cock at
or near the lot line to and inside the property line of the consumer to the
location on the premises where the water is to be disbursed.
   SUPPLY PIPE. Any pipe tapped into a main and extending from there to a point
at or near the lot line of a consumer’s premises where the shut-off, stop box
or curb cock is located.
   UNIT. Each separate residential or business space. This term shall include
each apartment, each mobile home and each business entity.
(1998 Code, § 3-102)
§ 51.03  CONSUMER’S APPLICATION.
   (A)   All persons within the city, whose property abuts a water main that is
now or may be laid hereafter shall be required to connect to the municipal
water system upon notice by the City Council. Where a parcel of property within
the city is now connected to the municipal water system or where the municipal
water system is now available or may be hereafter, no owner or occupant of the
said property or any other person shall construct, connect, or use any private
water supply or well on said property, except for such uses determined
permittable by the City Council, in accordance with §
51.19.
   (B)   Every person desiring a supply of water, or required to connect, shall
make application therefor to the Water Commissioner. The Commissioner shall
require a service deposit in an amount as may be set by resolution of the
Council. Water may not be supplied to any house or private service pipe except
upon the written order of the Water Commissioner. The Department shall not
supply water to any person outside the corporate limits without special
permission from the Council, which may require that the entire cost of laying
mains, supply pipe and service pipe be paid by the consumer. Nothing herein
shall be construed to obligate the city to provide water service to
nonresidents.
(1998 Code, § 3-103)  (Ord. 1080, passed 5-28-2019)   Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.04  WATER CONTRACT.
   (A)   The Water Department shall furnish water to persons within the
corporate limits of the city whose premises abut a street or alley in which a
main now is or may hereafter be laid. The city may furnish water to persons
within its corporate limits whose premises do not abut a street or alley in
which a main is now or may hereafter be laid and may also furnish water to
persons whose premises are situated outside the corporate limits of the city,
as and when, according to law, the Council may see fit to do so. The rules,
regulations and water rates hereinafter named in this chapter, shall be
considered a part of every application hereafter made for water service and
shall be considered a part of the contract between every consumer now or
hereafter served. Without further formality, the making of application on the
part of any applicant or the use or consumption of water service by present
consumers thereof and the furnishing of water service to the consumer shall
constitute a contract between the consumer and the city, to which contract both
parties are bound. If the consumer shall violate any of the provisions of the
contract or any reasonable rules and regulations that the Council may hereafter
adopt pursuant to the statutes, including Neb. RS 17-537, the Water
Commissioner may cut off or disconnect the water service to the building,
premises or place of the violation. No further connection for water service to
the building, premises or place shall again be made save or except by order of
the Commissioner.
   (B)   Contracts for water service are not transferable. Any person wishing
to change from one location to another shall make a new application and sign a
new contract. If any consumer shall move from the premises where service is
furnished, or if the premises is destroyed by fire or other casualty, the
consumer shall at once inform the Water Commissioner who shall cause the water
service to be shut off at the premises. If the consumer should fail to give
notice, he or she shall be charged for all water used on the premises until the
Water Commissioner is otherwise advised of the circumstances.
   (C)   No consumer shall supply water to other families, or allow them to
take water from the consumer’s premises; nor after water is supplied into a
building shall any person make or employ a plumber or other person to make a
tap or connection with a pipe upon the premises for alteration, extension or
attachment without the written permission of the Water Commissioner.
(1998 Code, § 3-104)
§ 51.05  INSTALLATION PROCEDURE.
   No person except the Water Commissioner shall under any circumstances tap
the mains of the city or insert ferrules therein. The city, by its Water
Commissioner will, regardless of whether a long or short tap is necessary, and
computed on the basis of construction to the center of the street in each
instance, tap the main to which a consumer’s service pipe will be joined and
will furnish the ferrules or clamps and corporation cocks and put the same in
the main, and will furnish and install supply pipe, trenching, labor and all
fittings and attachments to bring water service from the main in the street to
a point at or near the property line where the stop box is placed; provided,
the above rule shall apply only if the consumer’s property abuts a street where
a main is now laid or will hereafter be laid. The tap fee shall be set by
resolution of the City Council. If the consumer’s property does not abut a
street where a main is now laid or will hereafter be laid, the consumer shall
at the consumer’s expense construct and bring water service from a point at or
near the property line on a street where there is a main and where a stop box
shall be placed to the consumer’s premises regardless of the distance from the
stop box. Applicants for water service whose property is situated outside the
city shall pay tap and installation fees double those of residents.
(1998 Code, § 3-105)  Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.06  METERS.
   (A)   Placement.  Meters shall hereafter be placed, at the expense of the
consumer, in the basement or inside the residence or business building on the
premises of the consumer and shall have an outdoors remote reader, both with
the specifications as are hereinafter provided; provided, hereafter water
meters may be placed in a pit to be located at or near the inner line of the
sidewalk on applicant’s property if the Water Commissioner is convinced that
the water meter so placed will be properly protected and conveniently set for
reading.
   (B)   Meter pits. Meter pits shall have an inside measurement of not less
than 48 inches for a distance of 30 inches from the bottom of the pit, tapering
to the top to accommodate a 24-inch cast iron ring and cover.
   (C)   Specifications. All parts and apparatus to be placed in the water
service connection shall be approved by the Water Commissioner. Hereafter,
water meters and remote readers required for measuring water used by the
applicant or consumer shall be provided by the city at the expense of the
property owner. All meters and remote readers so furnished by the city shall
remain the property of the city.
   (D)   Setting and sealing. Meters and remote readers shall be so set that
the dial or face shall be easily accessible to the Water Commissioner when
reading or testing the same. All meters and remote readers shall be sealed, and
no person shall deface, injure or break any of the seals unless authorized to
do so by the Water Commissioner.
   (E)   Tampering. It is hereby declared unlawful for any person to tamper
with any water meter or remote reader, or by means of any contrivance or
device, to divert the water from the service pipe so that the same will not
pass through the meter, or while passing through the meter cause the meter or
remote reader to register inaccurately. If any water meter or remote reader is
found to have been tampered with, the water rent shall be estimated for the
rental period and the meter and/or remote reader shall be repaired and tested.
Upon repetition of the offense, it will be optional with the Water Commissioner
to discontinue the water service or to collect the amount estimated to be due.
   (F)   Frozen or recklessly destroyed. If the consumer permits or allows a
water meter or a remote reader to be damaged, injured or destroyed through his
or her own recklessness, carelessness or neglect so that the water meter or
remote reader must necessarily be repaired or replaced, the Water Commissioner
shall bill and collect from the consumer the cost of the meter and/or remote
reader repair or replacement, the same as water rent; and permitting a water
meter to be damaged or destroyed by freezing shall be deemed and considered
always as negligence on the part of the consumer.
(1998 Code, § 3-106)  Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.07  FLOOD WATERS AVOIDANCE.
   New and replacement water systems shall be constructed to eliminate or
minimize infiltration by, or discharge into, flood waters.
(1998 Code, § 3-107)
§ 51.08  REPAIR, REPLACEMENT AND SERVICE CHARGES.
   Any required repairs and/or replacements to the main or the supply pipe,
including the shut-off, stop box or curb cock, shall be at the expense of the
Water Department, while repairs and/or replacements required to the service
pipe from the shut-off, stop box or curb cock shall be paid by the consumer;
provided, that damage or destruction by freezing shall be deemed and considered
always as negligence on the part of the consumer and the cost of repairs and
replacements to the service pipe and any service calls and service to thaw
frozen pipes are the sole responsibility of the consumer. After-hours call-outs
shall be charged to the consumer at an amount set by resolution of the Council.
(1998 Code, § 3-108)
§ 51.09  FEES AND COLLECTION.
   The Council has the power and authority to fix the rates to be paid by the
consumers for the use of water from the Water Department. All fees shall be on
file for public inspection at the office of the City Clerk-Treasurer. The Water
Commissioner or designated agent shall bill the consumers and collect all money
received by the city on the account of the Water Department and shall
faithfully account for and pay to the City Clerk-Treasurer all revenue
collected.
(1998 Code, § 3-109)
§ 51.10  RATE SETTING.
   (A)   All water consumers shall be liable for the rates, fees and other
charges as the Council shall by resolution hereafter provide from time to time
unless and until the consumer shall, by written order, direct the Water
Commissioner to shut off the water at the stop box, in which case the consumer
shall not be liable thereafter for water rates until the water is turned on
again.
   (B)   The meters for recording usage of such services shall be read monthly
and bills for said services shall be prepared, mailed and collected on a
monthly basis as determined from the meter readings, or estimates when
necessary at the following rates.
Year Usage Rate
Year Usage                        Rate
     First 3,000 gallons per unit $13.00
     Next 12,000 gallons          $2.10 per 1,000 gallons
2019 Next 10,000 gallons          $2.05 per 1,000 gallons
     Next 25,000 gallons          $2.00 per 1,000 gallons
     Next 450,000 gallons         $1.95 per 1,000 gallons
     All over 500,000 gallons     $1.95 per 1,000 gallons
     First 3,000 gallons per unit $13.50 per 1,000 gallons
     Next 12,000 gallons          $2.20 per 1,000 gallons
2020 Next 10,000 gallons          $2.15 per 1,000 gallons
     Next 25,000 gallons          $2.10 per 1,000 gallons
     Next 450,000 gallons         $2.05 per 1,000 gallons
     All over 500,000 gallons     $1.00 per 1,000 gallons
     First 3,000 gallons per unit $13.75 per 1,000 gallons
     Next 12,000 gallons          $2.30 per 1,000 gallons
2021 Next 10,000 gallons          $2.25 per 1,000 gallons
     Next 25,000 gallons          $2.20 per 1,000 gallons
     Next 450,000 gallons         $2.15 per 1,000 gallons
     All over 500,000 gallons     $1.55 per 1,000 gallons
     First 3,000 gallons per unit $14.25 per 1,000 gallons
     Next 12,000 gallons          $2.40 per 1,000 gallons
2022 Next 10,000 gallons          $2.35 per 1,000 gallons
     Next 25,000 gallons          $2.30 per 1,000 gallons
     Next 450,000 gallons         $2.25 per 1,000 gallons
     All over 500,000 gallons     $1.00 per 1,000 gallons
     First 3,000 gallons per unit $14.50 per 1,000 gallons
     Next 12,000 gallons          $2.50 per 1,000 gallons
2023 Next 10,000 gallons          $2.45 per 1,000 gallons
     Next 25,000 gallons          $2.40 per 1,000 gallons
     Next 450,000 gallons         $2.35 per 1,000 gallons
     All over 500,000 gallons     $1.00 per 1,000 gallons
 
   (C)   Locations served by one common water meter which are divided into
multiple housing or business units or which serve more than one business or
entity shall be assessed the minimum charge for each unit, business, or entity
served.
   (D)   Each non-resident user shall pay two times the rate for water use fees
as established for residents (per unit if multiple units are served by one
common water meter).
   (E)   A monthly capital maintenance use charge shall be assessed to each
water consumer in addition to the regular rates charged for use as set forth in
this section, to be applied as follows: 
      (1)   Beginning in August 2019, a $2 monthly charge shall be assessed to
each water consumer;
(1998 Code, § 3-110) (Res. 7-26, passed 1-22-2008; Res. 10-3, passed 2-23-2010;
Ord. 985, passed 5-28-2013; Res. 13-08, passed 5-28-2013; Res. 13-10, passed 5-
28-2013; Res. 16-06, passed 5-10-2016; Res. 18-01, passed 1-9-2018; Res. 19-09,
passed 7-23-2019)
§ 51.11  WATER BILLS.
   Water bills shall be due and payable, and the Water Commissioner shall read
or cause to be read water meters, as and when the Council shall by resolution
hereafter provide. The Water Commissioner shall charge and collect from each
customer for the amount of water consumed since the last examination or
estimate, together with any other charges, properly itemized, due the Water
Department. Bills shall be due upon receipt.
(1998 Code, § 3-111)
§ 51.12  DELINQUENT BILLS.
   (A)   Domestic subscriber. A domestic subscriber does not include
municipalities, cities, villages, political subdivisions, companies,
corporations, partnerships or businesses of any nature. Bills of domestic
subscribers which are delinquent shall be subject to the collection and
discontinuance of service provisions provided by the statutes of the State of
Nebraska, including Neb. RS 70-1601 through 70-1615, as amended.
   (B)   Non-domestic subscriber. A non-domestic subscriber shall include
municipalities, cities, villages, political subdivisions, companies,
corporations, partnerships and businesses of any nature. Upon being deemed to
be delinquent, the City Clerk-Treasurer shall give a written notice of the
delinquency to a non-domestic subscriber and shall demand payment immediately.
In the event that the bill is not paid within seven days after the sending of
the notice, it shall be discretionary with the Water Commissioner to cut off
service at any time.
   (C)   Disconnects. The Water Commissioner shall assess an additional fee as
set by resolution of the Council in the event that water is shut off for the
nonpayment of any water bill, to compensate the city for the additional hook-up
necessary to again provide water service to the delinquent customer.
(1998 Code, § 3-112)
§ 51.13  LIENS.
   In addition to all other remedies, if a customer shall for any reason remain
indebted to the city for water service furnished, the amount due, together with
any rents and charges in arrears, shall be considered a delinquent water rent
which is hereby declared to be a lien upon the real estate for which the same
was used. The City Clerk-Treasurer shall notify in writing or cause to be
notified in writing, all owners of premises or their agents whenever their
tenants or lessees are 60 days or more delinquent in the payment of water rent.
It shall be the duty of the Water Commissioner on June 1 of each year to report
to the Council a list of all unpaid accounts due for water together with a
description of the premises upon which the same was used. The report shall be
examined, and if approved by the Council, shall be certified by the City Clerk-
Treasurer to the County Clerk to be collected as a special tax in the manner
provided by law.
(1998 Code, § 3-113)
§ 51.14  RESTRICTED USE.
   The City Council or the Water Commissioner may order a reduction in the use
of water or shut off the water on any premises in the event of a water shortage
due to fire or other good and sufficient cause.  The city shall not be liable
for any damages caused by shutting off the supply of water of any consumer
while the system or any part thereof is undergoing repairs or when there is a
shortage of water due to circumstances over which the city has no control. The
City Council or Water Commissioner may order the following procedures due to
drought conditions:
   (A)   There shall be no watering of lawns, gardens, outside landscaping,
washing vehicles or use of large amounts of water between the hours of 6:00
a.m. to 6:00 p.m. or as ordered by City Council or the Water Commissioner.
   (B)   Occupants with street number addresses which are even numbers may only
water lawns, gardens and outdoor landscaping on even-numbered days of the month
or as ordered by City Council or the Water Commissioner. Occupants with street
number addresses which are odd numbers may only water lawns, gardens and
outdoor landscaping on odd-numbered days of the month or as ordered by City
Council or the Water Commissioner. This division shall not apply to the
watering of flower gardens when a hand-held sprinkling can is used which makes
no use of large amounts of water.
(1998 Code, § 3-114)  (Ord. 1082, passed 5-28-2019)
§ 51.15  FIRE HYDRANTS.
   All hydrants for the purpose of extinguishing fires are hereby declared to
be public hydrants, and it shall be unlawful for any person other than members
of the City Fire Department under the orders of the Fire Chief, Assistant Fire
Chief or members of the Water Department to open or attempt to open any of the
hydrants and draw water from the same or in any manner to interfere with the
hydrants.
(1998 Code, § 3-115)  Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.16  POLLUTION.
   In accordance with the statutes of the State of Nebraska, including Neb. RS
17-536, it shall be unlawful for any person to pollute or attempt to pollute
any stream or source of water for the supply of the City Water Department.
(1998 Code, § 3-116)  Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.17  INSPECTIONS.
   The Water Commissioner shall have free access, at any reasonable time, to
all parts of each premises and building to or in which water is delivered for
the purpose of examining the pipes, fixtures and other portions of the system
to ascertain whether there is any disrepair or unnecessary waste of water.
(1998 Code, § 3-117)
§ 51.18  LICENSED PLUMBER.
   It shall be unlawful for any plumber or pipefitter to do any work upon any
of the pipes or appurtenances of the system of water works, or to make any
connection with or extension of the supply pipes of any consumer taking water
from the system until a plumber or pipefitter shall have first procured a
license or permit from the city. All plumbing shall be done in the manner
required by the Water Commissioner. The licensed plumber shall be at all times
subject to the inspection and approval of the Water Commissioner, and it shall
be further unlawful to cover or conceal willfully any defective or
unsatisfactory plumbing work.
(1998 Code, § 3-118)  Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.19  PRIVATE WELLS; PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   It is necessary for the health, well-being and welfare of the citizens
of the city that the drilling of wells within the corporate limits be
controlled.
   (B)   The term PERSON shall include individuals, corporations and
organizations of any kind.
   (C)   No person shall drill or have drilled, nor shall any person permit a
well to be drilled on property which that person owns or under the control of
the person, without first obtaining a permit from the City Council.
   (D)   A person seeking issuance of a permit hereunder shall file an
application for a permit with the Water Commissioner. The application shall be
made in writing, upon forms provided by the Water Commissioner and shall be
filed in the office of the City Clerk-Treasurer.
   (E)   The application shall set forth:
      (1)   A description, including dimensions of the well to be drilled;
      (2)   The legal description of the tract of land on which the well is to
be drilled; and
      (3)   Any additional information which the City Clerk-Treasurer shall
find necessary to a fair determination of whether a permit should be issued.
   (F)   No permit shall be issued by the City Council unless the applicant
shall show that the permit is necessary to the applicant; is not and will not
become detrimental to the health, safety and well-being of the residents of the
city; and it is not feasible to use the city water supply. The City Clerk-
Treasurer shall, at the time of filing an application, collect a fee as set by
resolution of the City Council; the fee shall be credited to the General Fund.
Upon the written recommendation of the Water Commissioner for approval of the
permit, the City Council shall issue the permit within 48 hours after the next
regular Council meeting, unless the City Council shall otherwise order.
   (G)   If any application for permit be disapproved or if any resident shall
file written objection to the issuance of the permit with the City Clerk-
Treasurer before the next regular Council meeting after approval, the
application together with all materials associated therewith shall be presented
to the City Council at its next regular meeting. The City Council shall
thereupon determine whether the permit shall be issued or denied.
   (H)   The provisions of this section shall not apply to any well drilled
when its sole purpose and function is its utilization in a closed loop heat
pump system.
(1998 Code, § 3-119)  (Ord. 1081, passed 5-28-2019)
§ 51.20  FLUORIDE.
   Fluoride shall not be added to the water system of the city.
(Ord. 917, passed 11-11-2008)
§ 51.21  DRILLING OR INSTALLATION OF OTHER FACILITIES WITHIN DESIGNATED
DISTANCES FROM MUNICIPAL WATER SOURCES.
   The City Council shall not approve any permit to drill or operate any of the
following described facilities within the indicated number of feet from any
city water well.
Use or Facility Distance from Water Well
Use or Facility                          Distance from Water Well
Absorption or disposal field for water   500 feet
Any other well                           1,000 feet
Cesspool                                 500 feet
Chemical product storage facility        500 feet
Corral                                   500 feet
Dumping grounds                          500 feet
Feedlot or feedlot runoff                500 feet
Petroleum product storage facility       500 feet
Pit toilet                               500 feet
Potable water well                       1,000 feet
Sanitary landfill (solid waste) facility 500 feet
Septic tank                              500 feet
Sewage (solid waste) treatment plant     500 feet
Sewage lagoon                            1,000 feet
Sewage wet well                          500 feet
Sewer connection                         100 feet
Sewer line                               50 feet
Sewer manhole                            100 feet
 
(Ord. 762, passed 12-11-2001)
BACKFLOW/BACKSIPHONAGE PREVENTION
§ 51.35  GENERALLY.
   To protect the public water supply system of the city from the possibility
of contamination by isolating real or potential sources of contamination or
pollution which may backflow into the public water supply system, a continuing
program of cross-connection control which will systematically and effectively
prevent the contamination or pollution of the potable water supply system shall
be maintained by the Water Commissioner. If an approved backflow prevention
device is required, the Water Commissioner shall give notice in writing to the
customer to install the device specifying each location and shall inspect and
approve all installations.
(1998 Code, § 3-120)
§ 51.36  SURVEYS.
   (A)   It shall be the responsibility of the customer to conduct, or cause to
be conducted, periodic surveys of water use practices on the customer’s
premises to determine whether there are actual or potential cross-connections
in the customer’s water supply system. The Water Commissioner shall have the
authority to conduct, or cause to be conducted, periodic surveys and
investigations, at a frequency determined by the Water Commissioner, of water
use practices within a customer’s premises to determine whether there are
actual or potential cross-connections to the customer’s water supply system
through which contaminates or pollutants could backflow into the public water
supply system. The Water Commissioner may conduct these surveys, including
written information forms, to determine what level of protection will be
necessary to protect the public health and safety.
   (B)   The Water Commissioner shall have the right to enter a premises served
by the public water supply system at all reasonable times for the purpose of
making surveys and investigations of water use practices within the premises.
The Water Commissioner shall give notice thereof setting forth a proposed date
and time to the customer at least ten days in advance. If the customer cannot
make the premises available for inspection at the proposed date and time, the
customer shall contact the Water Commissioner and arrange for another date and
time of the inspection. If the Water Commissioner and the consumer cannot agree
on a date and time, the Water Commissioner shall treat the premises as if no
appropriate cross-connection survey has been completed, and the consumer shall
be required to install an approved backflow prevention device.
(1998 Code, § 3-120A)
§ 51.37  PROTECTION DEVICES.
   (A)   The costs of purchasing, installing and maintaining a backflow device
shall be the responsibility and sole expense of the customer. The installation
of each backflow prevention device, except for outlet fixture vacuum breakers,
shall be by a licensed plumber. The customer shall make application to install
a required backflow prevention device to the Water Commissioner on a form
provided by the city. The application shall contain the name and address of the
applicant, the type of potential backflow protection and type of device to be
installed, including brand and model number.
   (B)   Annual testing of all double check values and reduced pressure zone or
pressure type vacuum breakers shall be performed by a certified Grade VI
tester. If maintenance or repairs are necessary, the user shall be issued an
order by the Water Commissioner to make all repairs or maintenance.
(1998 Code, § 3-120B)
§ 51.38  DENIAL/DISCONTINUANCE OF SERVICE.
   The Water Commissioner shall deny or discontinue, after 15 days notice to
the customer and any occupants of the premises, water service to any premises
wherein any required backflow prevention device is not installed, tested or
replaced in an acceptable manner, or if it is found that the backflow
prevention device has been removed or bypassed, or if an unprotected cross-
connection exists on the premises, or if the certified inspector is denied
entry to conduct inspection, tests, repairs or overhaul. In an emergency the
denial or discontinuance shall be immediate.
(1998 Code, § 3-120C)
§ 51.39  REQUIRED INSTALLATIONS.
   (A)   An approved backflow device shall be installed on each service line to
a customer’s water supply system serving the following types of facilities
unless no health, pollution or system hazard exists:
      (1)   Hospitals, mortuaries, dental clinics, nursing and convalescent
homes, medical buildings, dry cleaners;
      (2)   Film developing facilities;
      (3)   Food or beverage processing plants;
      (4)   Chemical plants;
      (5)   Metal depressing, plating industries, machine tool plants, dye and
metal processing plants;
      (6)   Swimming pools;
      (7)   Rendering plants;
      (8)   Premises having water recirculating systems;
      (9)   Schools, universities, colleges; and
      (10)   Other commercial or industrial facilities which may constitute a
potential cross-connection.
   (B)   The type of protection required will be based upon the regulations set
forth in Chapter 2, Title 179, of the Nebraska Department of Health Rules and
Regulations.
(1998 Code, § 3-120D)
§ 51.40  APPEALS.
   In the event that it is claimed that the true intent and meaning of this
section has been wrongfully interpreted by the Water Commissioner; that the
time allowed for compliance with any order of the Water Commissioner is
unreasonably short; or that conditions peculiar to a particular premises make
it unreasonably difficult to meet the literal requirements prescribed by this
section, the owner may file a written notice of appeal, stating the reasons
therefor, with the City Clerk-Treasurer within ten days after the decision or
order of the Water Commissioner is mailed or delivered. The City Council shall
hear all appeals and shall have the authority to modify the decision or order
of the Water Commissioner. The decision of the Council shall be final, subject
only to any remedy which the aggrieved party may have at law or equity.
(1998 Code, § 3-120E)
§ 51.41  EMPLOYEE LIABILITY.
   Employees of the city shall be relieved of personal liability, and the city
shall hold harmless all employees acting in good faith and without malice from
all personal liability for any damages which may occur to any person or
property as a result of any act required or authorized by this chapter, or by
reason of any fact or omission of any employee in the discharge of the
employee’s duties hereunder. Any suit shall be defended by the city or the
city’s insurance carrier.
(1998 Code, § 3-120F)
§ 51.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   (1)   In accordance with the statutes of the State of Nebraska,
including Neb. RS 17-505, any person who shall violate or refuse to comply with
the enforcement of any of the provisions of this chapter, except §
51.21, shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction thereof
shall be fined not more than $500 for any one offense, recoverable with costs.
      (2)   A new violation shall be deemed to have been committed every 24
hours of failure to comply.
   (B)   Any violation of §
51.21 shall be deemed a nuisance as described in §
92.01 of this code and subject to the penalties and abatement procedures
outlined under §
92.99 of this code.
(1998 Code, § 3-801)  (Ord. 724, passed 1-25-2000; Ord. 762, passed 12-11-2001;
Ord. 950, passed 6-22-2010)
CHAPTER 52:  SEWERS
Section
General Provisions
   
52.01   Definitions
Sewer Department
   
52.15   Operation and funding
Sewer Service
   
52.25   Application for permit
   
52.26   Contract
   
52.27   Mandatory hook-up
   
52.28   Privies, cesspools and septic tanks
   
52.29   Nontransferability and termination of contracts
   
52.30   Repairs and maintenance
   
52.31   Rental charges
   
52.32   Unlawful use
   
52.33   Special equipment requirements
   
52.34   Manholes
   
52.35   Inspections
   
52.36   Complaints
   
52.37   Flood waters
Installation Procedure
   
52.50   Installation requirements
   
52.51   Definitions
   
52.52   Joining systems
   
52.53   Grade
   
52.54   Trenching and backfilling
   
52.55   Inspection and supervision
   
52.56   Installation
   
52.57   Specification
   
52.58   Main and main extensions; installation procedure
   
52.59   Installation expenses
 
   
52.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 52.01  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning. Where no
definition is specified, the normal dictionary usage of the word shall apply.
   BIOLOGICAL OXYGEN DEMAND. The quantity of oxygen utilized in the biochemical
oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory procedure in five days at
20°C, expressed in parts per 1,000,000 by weight.
   BUILDING OR HOUSE DRAIN. The part of the lowest horizontal piping of a house
or building drainage system which receives the discharge from soil, waste or
other drainage pipes inside the walls of any building or house.
   BUILDING OR HOUSE SEWER. The part of a house or building drainage system
extending from the house or building drain to its connection with the main
sewer.
   GARBAGE. Solid wastes from the preparation of cooking and dispensing of food
and produce.
   LOCAL VENTILATING PIPE. Any pipe through which foul air is removed from a
room or fixture.
   pH. The logarithm of the reciprocal of the weight of hydrogen ions in grams
per liter of solution.
   PLUMBING FIXTURES. Receptacles intended to receive and discharge water
liquid or water-carried wastes into the sewer system with which they are
connected.
   PROPERLY SHREDDED. Shredding to a degree that all particles will be carried
freely under the flow conditions normally prevailing in public sewers with no
particle larger than one-half inch in diameter.
   SANITARY SEWER. A sewer which carries sewage and to which storm, surface and
ground waters are not intentionally admitted.
   SEWAGE. A combination of the water-carried wastes from residences, business
buildings, institutions and industrial establishments together with ground,
surface and storm waters as may be present.
   SEWER SYSTEM. All facilities for collecting, pumping, treating and disposing
of sewage.
   SOIL PIPE. Any pipe which conveys the discharge of water closets with or
without the discharge from other fixtures to the house or building drain.
   STORM SEWER. A sewer which carries storm and surface drainage, but excludes
sewage and polluted industrial wastes.
   SUSPENDED SOLIDS. Solids that either float on the surface of, or are in
immersion in water, sewage or other liquids, and are removable by filtering.
   TRAP. A fitting or device so constructed as to prevent the passage of air or
gas through a pipe without materially affecting the flow of sewage or waste
through it.
   TRAP SEAL. The vertical distance between the crown weir and the dip of the
trap.
   UNIT. Each residential or business space. This term shall include each
apartment, each mobile home and each business entity.
   VENT PIPE. Any pipe provided to ventilate a house or building drainage
system and to prevent trap siphonage and back pressure.
   WASTE PIPE. Any pipe which receives the discharge of any fixture, except
water closets, and conveys the same to the house drain, soil pipe or waste
stack.
(1998 Code, § 3-202)
SEWER DEPARTMENT
§ 52.15  OPERATION AND FUNDING.
   (A)   The Mayor and Council, for the purpose of defraying the cost of the
maintenance, operation and repairing of the city sewer system may each year
levy a tax not exceeding the maximum limit prescribed by the statutes of the
State of Nebraska, including Neb. RS 17-925.01; or in lieu of a tax may
establish by ordinance those rates as may be deemed by them to be fair and
reasonable. The revenue from the tax shall be known as the Sewer Maintenance
Fund.
   (B)   (1)   A capital sewer connection fee is established for any person
connecting to the sewer line of the city, the connection fee shall be in
addition to any other fees for tapping of the main for service lines or meter
installation.
      (2)   (a)   Subscribers to sewer service of the city shall pay a
connection fee except for those areas where a different fee has previously been
established. The fee shall be paid at the time of the connection, or upon
written agreement of the city, the fee may be paid in 12 equal installments due
and payable on the first day of each month for the 12 months following the date
of connection.
         (b)   No property or subscriber shall be connected to the city sewer
line until the established connection fee is paid or a written agreement
regarding payment of the fee has been signed. The city will discontinue service
to any customer who fails to pay the connection fee or fails to abide by the
terms of a written agreement for payment of the fee.
         (c)   Multifamily housing units shall be considered a commercial
connection for fee purposes.
         (d)   Fees shall be set as follows:
 
     Industrial Commercial Residential (Duplex)
2017 $3,850     $1,700     $1,050
2018 $3,875     $1,725     $1,075
2019 $3,900     $1,750     $1,100
2020 $3,925     $1,775     $1,125
 
(1998 Code, § 3-201)  (Ord. 838, passed 3-14-2006; Ord. 985, passed 5-28-2013;
Ord. 1041, passed 1-24-2017)
SEWER SERVICE
§ 52.25  APPLICATION FOR PERMIT.
   Any person wishing to connect with the sewer system shall make an
application therefor to the Sewer Commissioner. Sewer service may not be
supplied to any house or building except upon the order of the Sewer
Commissioner. In accordance with the statutes of the State of Nebraska,
including Neb. RS 19-2701, the Department shall not supply sewer service to any
person outside the corporate limits without the special permission of the Mayor
and Council; provided that the entire cost of pipe and other installation
charges shall be paid by the consumers. Nothing herein shall be construed to
obligate the city to provide sewer service to nonresidents.
(1998 Code, § 3-203)
§ 52.26  CONTRACT.
   The city shall furnish sewer services to persons within its corporate limits
whose premises abut a street or alley in which a commercial main is now or may
hereafter be laid. In accordance with the statutes of the State of Nebraska,
including Neb. RS 19-2701, the city may also furnish sewer service to persons
whose premises are situated outside the corporate limits of the city as and
when the Mayor and Council may see fit to do so. The rules, regulations and
sewer rental rates shall be considered a part of every contract between every
customer now or hereafter served. Without further formality, the acceptance of
the application on behalf of the city or the use of sewer service by present
customers thereof shall constitute a contract between the customer and the city
to which both parties are bound.
(1998 Code, § 3-204)
§ 52.27  MANDATORY HOOK-UP.
   In accordance with the statutes of the State of Nebraska, including Neb. RS
17-149 and 17-149.01, upon written notice by the Sewer Commissioner, the
property owner, occupant or lessee of any premises that abuts a sewer main that
is now or may hereafter be laid shall without delay cause the building to be
connected with the sewer system and equipped with inside sewerage facilities.
Every building hereafter erected shall be connected with the sewer system at
the time of its construction. In the event that any property owner, occupant or
lessee shall neglect, fail or refuse, within a period of ten days after notice
has been given to do so by registered mail or by publication in a newspaper in
or of general circulation in the city, to make the connection, the Mayor and
Council shall have the power to cause the same to be done, to assess the cost
thereof against the property and to collect the assessment thus made in the
manner provided for collection of other special taxes and assessments.
(1998 Code, § 3-205)
§ 52.28  PRIVIES, CESSPOOLS AND SEPTIC TANKS.
   It shall be and is hereby declared unlawful for the owner or owners, lessee
or lessees, occupant or occupants of any real property within the city situated
upon any street or alley along which, opposite the real property, is or shall
be any water main, sewer main or lateral, to keep, use, maintain or have any
privy vault, cesspool, hole or other means or contrivance for the disposal of
sewage or other refuse, otherwise than by disposal thereof into the sewer main
or lateral.
(1998 Code, § 3-206)  Penalty, see § 52.99
§ 52.29  NONTRANSFERABILITY AND TERMINATION OF CONTRACTS.
   Contracts for sewer service are not transferable. Any person wishing to
change from one location to another shall make a new application and sign a new
contract. If any customer shall move from the premises where service is
furnished, or if the premises is destroyed by fire or other casualty, the
customer shall at once inform the Sewer Commissioner who shall cause the sewer
service to be shut off from the premises. If the customer should fail to give
notice, the customer shall be charged for that period of time until the Sewer
Commissioner is otherwise advised of those circumstances.
(1998 Code, § 3-207)
§ 52.30  REPAIRS AND MAINTENANCE.
   The city shall repair or replace all pipe constituting major sewer mains. It
shall be the responsibility of the customer to repair or replace all other
sewer pipe and appurtenances from the main to and including the customer’s
property. All replacements and repairs made by the customer shall be done in
the manner and with the materials approved by the Sewer Commissioner; provided,
the same have been previously approved by the Mayor and Council.
(1998 Code, § 3-212)
§ 52.31  RENTAL CHARGES.
   (A)   In accordance with the statutes of the State of Nebraska, including
Neb. RS 17-925.02, 17-925.03 and 17-925.04, the Mayor and Council may establish
rental charges for the use of the sewer system on a fair and impartial basis
for services rendered. The charges shall be collected at the same time and in
the same manner as the water charges and shall be subject to the applicable
provisions of §§
51.12 and
51.13 of this code of ordinances for purposes of billing, delinquency,
discontinuance of service and establishment of liens.
   (B)   (1)   Domestic and non-domestic users.
         (a)   Domestic and non-domestic users of the sanitary sewer system,
both inside and outside the city limits, shall be assessed a sewer use fee
monthly based upon their total water usage. Meters for recording the usage of
the services shall be read monthly, or estimated when necessary. Bills for the
services shall be prepared, mailed and collected on a monthly basis as
determined from the above meter readings and estimates; provided however, that
the domestic sewer service rate shall be based upon the average water use for
the months of January, February and March, unless inclement weather or other
circumstances prevent the reading of the meters in any of those three months,
then in that event, the City Council shall direct the method to be used to
establish the rate. The established rate shall then be effective for the next
12 months beginning with the April billing. Sewer service rates will be
recomputed at each billing for non-domestic users. Charges for multiple units
served by one common water meter shall be assessed based upon the minimum fee
for each unit plus the rate per 1,000 gallons used thereafter.
         (b)   The following rates apply:
Effective Date Usage Rate
Effective Date Usage                                Rate
               First 1,000 gallons per unit         $13.00
2018           All water usage over the first 1,000 $3.05 per 1,000 gallons
               gallons per unit
               First 1,000 gallons per unit         $13.50
2019           All water usage over the first 1,000 $3.05 per 1,000 gallons
               gallons per unit
               First 1,000 gallons per unit         $14.00
2020           All water usage over the first 1,000 $3.15 per 1,000 gallons
               gallons per unit
               First 1,000 gallons per unit         $14.51
2021           All water usage over the first 1,000 $3.25 per 1,000 gallons
               gallons per unit
               First 1,000 gallons per unit         $15.00
2022           All water usage over the first 1,000 $3.35 per 1,000 gallons
               gallons per unit
 
      (2)   Users not on city water system. Those sanitary sewer system users
which are not consumers of city water shall be charged at the same rate based
upon each 1,000 gallons of waste water discharged to the sanitary sewer system.
The cost of a suitable continuous recording device for determining the flow of
discharge into the sanitary sewer system for these customers shall be borne by
the customer. In the alternative, those customers who do not have a recording
device shall pay the following flat rate of per month for sanitary sewer system
service:
 
Non-Metered Flat Rate
Effective Date Rate
2018           $27.98
2019           $29.38
2020           $30.84
2021           $32.38
2022           $34.00
 
      (3)   Industrial users. Users contributing industrial waste, as distinct
from those discharging only nonprocess related waste water, shall be charged
monthly on the basis of their contribution of waste water flow, organic load
and suspended solids and oil and grease into the sanitary sewer system. Rates
for the IAMS plant and the Nebraska Energy, LLC plant have been established by
Resolution 05-26 adopted December 13, 2005 and remain in effect. Rates for
other industrial users will be established by the Mayor and City Council prior
to their connection to the sewer system.
(1998 Code, § 3-213)  (Res. 06-03, passed 2-14-2006; Res. 07-27, passed 1-22-
2007; Res. 10-04, passed 2-23-2010; Res. 13-09, passed 5-28-2013; Res. 13-11,
passed 5-28-2013; Res. 16-07, passed 5-10-2016; Res. 18-02, passed 1-9-2018)
§ 52.32  UNLAWFUL USE.
   (A)   Pursuant to the statutes of the State of Nebraska, including Neb. RS
17-145 thereof, it is hereby declared unlawful for any person to discharge or
cause to be discharged any storm water, surface water, ground water, roof
runoff, surface drainage, uncontaminated cooling or heating water or unpolluted
industrial process waters into the sanitary sewer. Storm water and all other
unpolluted drainage shall be discharged to the sewers or storm sewers, or to a
natural outlet approved by the Sewer Commissioner. Industrial cooling water or
unpolluted process waters may be discharged on approval of the Sewer
Commissioner to a storm sewer, combined sewer or natural outlet.
   (B)   Except as hereinafter provided, no person shall discharge or cause to
be discharged any of the following described waters or wastes into the city’s
sewer system:
      (1)   Liquids or vapors having a temperature higher than 150°F;
      (2)   Water or waste which may contain more than 400 parts per 1,000,000
by weight of fat, oil or grease;
      (3)   Gasoline, benzene, naptha, fuel oil, other flammable or explosive
liquids, solids or gases;
      (4)   Garbage that has not been properly shredded;
      (5)   Sand, mud, metal, rags, paper or other solid or viscous substances
capable of causing obstruction to the flow in the sewer system;
      (6)   Toxic or poisonous substances in sufficient quantity to interfere
with or injure the sewage treatment process, constitute a hazard to humans,
animals or fish, or create any hazard in the receiving area of the sewage
treatment plant;
      (7)   Suspended solids of a character and quantity that unusual attention
or expense is required to handle those materials;
      (8)   Waters or wastes having a pH lower than 7.0 or higher than 9.0 or
having other corrosive properties capable of causing damage to the structures,
equipment and personnel of the Sewer Department; and
      (9)   Any noxious or malodorous gas or substance capable of creating a
public nuisance.
(1998 Code, § 3-214)  (Ord. 826, passed - -)  Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.33  SPECIAL EQUIPMENT REQUIREMENTS.
   In the event a customer discharges an unusually large amount of waste daily,
an unusually large amount of grease or oil or waste with an unusually high
biochemical oxygen demand, the Sewer Commissioner may require the customer to
install interceptors or other preliminary treatment equipment to reduce the
objectionable characteristics of the waste to within maximum limits as the
Sewer Commissioner shall prescribe subject to the review of the Mayor and
Council. All preliminary treatment facilities shall be purchased and maintained
continuously in satisfactory and efficient operation at the customer’s expense.
Nothing herein shall be construed to prohibit a special agreement or
arrangement between the Mayor and Council and an industrial concern whereby an
industrial waste of unusual strength or character may be accepted by the city
for treatment subject to additional rental fees or other charges.
(1998 Code, § 3-215)  Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.34  MANHOLES.
   Entrance into a manhole or opening for any purpose except by authorized
persons is hereby prohibited. It shall be unlawful to deposit or cause to be
deposited in any receptacle connected with the sewer system any substance which
is not the usual and natural waste carried by the sewer system.
(1998 Code, § 3-216)  Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.35  INSPECTIONS.
   The Sewer Commissioner or the authorized agents of the Commissioner shall
have free access at any reasonable time to all parts of each premises and
building which is connected with the sewer system to ascertain whether there is
any disrepair or violations of this chapter therein.
(1998 Code, § 3-217)
§ 52.36  COMPLAINTS.
   Any consumer feeling aggrieved by reason of any controversy with the Sewer
Commissioner may appear before the Mayor and Council and present the grievance.
Any consumer aggrieved by being required to pay the charge demanded for the use
of the sewer, or for the resumption of sewer service after the same shall have
been shut off, shall pay the charge under protest, in which event the City
Clerk- Treasurer shall write on the receipt given the customer the words, “Paid
Under Protest.” The consumer may then present a verified claim in the manner
provided for presenting claims to the Mayor and Council for a refund of the
amount so paid under protest. These claims shall then be considered by the
Mayor and Council in the same manner as other claims against the city.
(1998 Code, § 3-218)
§ 52.37  FLOOD WATERS.
   New and replacement sewer systems shall be constructed to eliminate or
minimize infiltration by, or discharge into, flood waters. Moreover, on-site
waste disposal systems will be designed to avoid impairment or contamination
during flooding.
(1998 Code, § 3-219)
INSTALLATION PROCEDURE
§ 52.50  INSTALLATION REQUIREMENTS.
   In making excavations in streets, alleys or sidewalks for the purpose of
installing pipe or making repairs, the paving, stones and earth must be removed
and deposited in a manner that will occasion the least inconvenience to the
public and provide for adequate drainage. No person shall leave an excavation
made in the street, alley or sidewalk open at any time without a barricade, and
during the night, warning lights. After the house sewer is laid, the public
ways and property shall be restored to good condition. If the excavation in the
public ways and property is left open or unfinished for a period of 24 hours or
more, the Utilities Superintendent shall have the duty to finish or correct the
work, and all expenses so incurred shall be charged to the owner, occupant or
lessee of the property.
(1998 Code, § 3-208)
§ 52.51  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   A.B.S. May be substituted for P.V.C. pipe provided it meets the
specifications outlined in the P.V.C. definition.
   CLAY. Shall conform to ASTM standard specifications for clay sewer pipe.
   POLY VINYL CHLORIDE or P.V.C. All P.V.C. gravity sewer pipe shall conform to
the requirements of the latest revision of ASTM specifications D 3034 Poly
Vinyl Chloride (P.V.C.) Sewer Pipe and Fittings. P.V.C. pipe minimum wall
thickness shall be SDR26 for 4-inch or 6-inch pipe, and SDR35 for 8-inch
through 15-inch pipe. Specifications for 18-inch through 36-inch poly vinyl
chloride (P.V.C.) gravity sewer pipe shall conform to the requirements of the
latest revision of ASTM F679 Poly Vinyl Chloride Sewer Pipe and Fittings . All
pipe shall be installed in accordance with the provisions of §
52.58.
(1998 Code, § 3-209A)  (Ord. 740, passed 2-27-2001)
§ 52.52  JOINING SYSTEMS.
   (A)   General. The joint shall provide a permanent seal against exfiltration
and infiltration.
   (B)   Clay tile. Clay tile bell connections shall be sealed with acid and
alkaline resistant material.
   (C)   Cast iron soil pipe joints. The joints shall be caulked with hemp or
jute and sealed with molten lead or a plastic collar shall be used.
   (D)   Elastomeric gasket joints. The critical sealing dimensions of the
bell, spigot and gasket shall be in accordance with the manufacturer’s standard
dimensions and tolerances. The elastomerics compound shall comply in all
respects with the physical requirements specified in ASTM D1869, C391 or C443.
The gasket shall provide an adequate compressive force against the sealing
surfaces of the bell and spigot so as to effect a positive seal under all
combinations of the joint tolerances. The gasket shall be the only element
depended upon to make the joint flexible and watertight.
   (E)   Solvent cement joint. The dimensions of the socket for the cemented
joint shall conform to ASTM standards. The solvent cement shall meet the
requirements of ASTM D2564. The assembly shall be in accordance with the
manufacturer’s recommended procedure or with ASTM Recommended Practice D2855.
(1998 Code, § 3-209B)
§ 52.53  GRADE.
   All sewers shall have a fall of at least one eighth inch to each linear foot
unless otherwise authorized by the Sewer Commissioner.
(1998 Code, § 3-209C)
§ 52.54  TRENCHING AND BACKFILLING.
   All excavations shall be open trench work unless authorized by the Sewer
Commissioner. The base of the trench shall be formed to prevent settlement of
pipes. Bell holes shall be cut for all pipe to provide ample space for pouring
of joints. Backfilling shall be placed in layers and solidly tamped or packed
up to two feet above the pipe. Backfilling shall not be done until final
inspection by the Sewer Commissioner.
(1998 Code, § 3-209D)
§ 52.55  INSPECTION AND SUPERVISION.
   The Sewer Commissioner shall inspect all house drains, sewer connections and
excavations during installation.
(1998 Code, § 3-209E)
§ 52.56  INSTALLATION.
   Only licensed plumbers are allowed to repair, replace or connect to the
sanitary sewer system, and shall make all sewer taps.
(1998 Code, § 3-209F)
§ 52.57  SPECIFICATION.
   All drains below grade shall be constructed of clay, cast iron soil pipe,
P.V.C. or A.B.S. All types of sewer pipe service connections authorized by
ordinance shall be at least four inches in diameter to provide required
capacity where specified.
(1998 Code, § 3-209G)
§ 52.58  MAIN AND MAIN EXTENSIONS; INSTALLATION PROCEDURE.
   All extensions of mains shall be in accordance with the city’s
specifications, and a licensed engineer shall be used. The requirements of §§
52.51 through
52.57 shall apply to the installment of mains and main extensions. The owner
shall supply the city with a set of “as built” plans. All mains and extensions
of mains shall be no less than eight inches in diameter and be constructed of
clay, P.V.C., A.B.S. or concrete. However, no P.V.C. nor A.B.S. pipe shall be
installed at a depth greater than 12 feet. When a new main is constructed, stub
outs shall be placed to lot lines. All sewer mains and extensions of sewer
mains shall become the property of the city upon the completion of
construction.
(1998 Code, § 3-210)
§ 52.59  INSTALLATION EXPENSES.
   The customer, upon approval of the application for sewer service, shall
obtain the services of a licensed plumber to tap the sewer main and to perform
all necessary work and furnish all materials required for installation of the
sewer connection. No pavement upon a street or alley shall be cut for purposes
of sewer installation or repair except with prior approval of the Street
Commissioner. The consumer shall be liable for all necessary street, alley and
sidewalk repairs for a period of one year after completion of sewer hook-up.
(1998 Code, § 3-211)
§ 52.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   In accordance with the statutes of the State of Nebraska, including
Neb. RS 17-505, any person who shall violate or refuse to comply with the
enforcement of any of the provisions of this chapter shall be deemed guilty of
a misdemeanor and upon conviction thereof shall be fined not more than $500 for
any one offense, recoverable with costs.
   (B)   A new violation shall be deemed to have been committed every 24 hours
of failure to comply.
(1998 Code, § 3-801)  (Ord. 724, passed 1-25-2000; Ord. 950, passed 6-22-2010)
CHAPTER 53:  NATURAL GAS
Section
General Provisions
   
53.01   Franchise fee
   
53.02   Amount paid
   
53.03   Reports
   
53.04   Bills
   
53.05   Annexation
   
53.06   City access
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 53.01  FRANCHISE FEE.
   (A)   The city hereby establishes a franchise fee on every natural gas
company, and every other person, firm or corporation, their successors and
assigns, owning, operating, controlling, leasing or managing any natural gas
plant or system, generating, manufacturing, selling, distributing or
transporting natural gas, (hereinafter referred to as “energy providers”).
Energy providers shall collect from their customers, located within the
corporate limits of the city, and pay to the city a franchise fee based upon
the following rates and classifications after adjustment for the net write-off
of uncollectible accounts and corrections of bills theretofore rendered of
natural gas delivered within the present or future limits of the city.
 
Customer              Fee
Commercial customers  An amount based on $0.03530 per ccf/per month/per
                      customer
Residential customers An amount based on $0.03686 per ccf/per/month/per
                      customer
 
   (B)   For purposes of this section COMMERCIAL CUSTOMER includes commercial
firm, commercial interruptible, industrial firm, industrial interruptible and
transportation customers as these terms are commonly understood in the natural
gas industry.
(Ord. 869, passed 5-22-2007)
§ 53.02  AMOUNT PAID.
   (A)   The amount paid by energy providers shall be in lieu of, and energy
providers shall be exempt from, all other occupation, license, excise or right-
of-way permit fees or taxes which the city may impose for the rights and
privileges herein granted or for the privilege of doing business within the
city, and in the event any fee, charge, license, tax or assessment shall be
imposed by the city, the payment to be made in accordance with the provisions
of this section shall be reduced in an amount equal to the annual burden of the
fee, charge, license, tax or assessment imposed upon the energy providers.
   (B)   Ad valorem property taxes imposed generally upon all real and personal
property within the city shall not be deemed to affect the obligation of the
energy providers under this section.
(Ord. 869, passed 5-22-2007)
§ 53.03  REPORTS.
   (A)   Any consideration hereunder shall be reported and paid to the city by
energy providers on a monthly basis.
   (B)   The payment shall be made not more than 30 days following the close of
the period for which payment is due.
   (C)   Initial and final payments shall be prorated for the portion of the
period at the beginning and end of the term of this subchapter.
(Ord. 869, passed 5-22-2007)
§ 53.04  BILLS.
   (A)   Energy providers shall list the local franchise fee collected from
customers as a separate item on bills for utility service issued to customers.
   (B)   If at any time the city or other authority having proper jurisdiction,
prohibits recovery, then energy providers will no longer be obligated to
collect and pay the franchise fee herein contemplated.
   (C)   In addition, an energy provider may discount or reduce the franchise
fee payable for natural gas delivered to a specific customer of an energy
provider when it is required to reduce the franchise fee to retain the business
of that customer.
   (D)   Modification or reduction of the franchise fee should occur if the
franchise fee would cause the customer to cease purchase or transportation
deliveries of natural gas from the energy provider by installing equipment to
access an energy supply not subject to the city’s.
(Ord. 869, passed 5-22-2007)
§ 53.05  ANNEXATION.
   The city shall provide copies of annexation ordinances to energy providers
on a timely basis to ensure appropriate franchise fee collection from customers
within the corporate limits of the city.
(Ord. 869, passed 5-22-2007)
§ 53.06  CITY ACCESS.
   (A)   The city shall have access to and the right to examine during normal
business hours those of energy providers’ books, receipts, files, records and
documents that are necessary to verify the correctness of payments due
hereunder.
   (B)   If it is determined that a mistake was made in the payment of any
franchise fee required hereunder, the mistake shall be corrected promptly upon
discovery, so that any under-payment by energy providers shall be paid within
30 days of the recalculation and any over-payment by energy providers shall be
discounted from the next payment(s) due.
(Ord. 869, passed 5-22-2007)
TITLE VII:  TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
71.   TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
      
72.   PARKING REGULATIONS
      
73.   TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
      
74.   PARKING SCHEDULES
CHAPTER 70:  GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
70.01   Definitions
Regulations and Enforcement
   
70.15   Regulations
   
70.16   Enforcement
   
70.17   Notice by police tag; effect of failure to respond to tag
   
70.18   Exceptions
   
70.19   Authorized emergency vehicles; privileges
 
   
70.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 70.01  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this title, the following definitions and the other
definitions in Neb. RS 60-606 through 60-676 shall apply unless the context
clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALLEY.  A highway intended to provide access to the rear or side of lots or
buildings and not intended for the purpose of through vehicular traffic.
(Neb. RS 60-607)
   AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLE. Such fire department vehicles, police
vehicles, rescue vehicles, and ambulances as are publicly owned, such other
publicly or privately owned vehicles as are designated by the Director of Motor
Vehicles, and such publicly owned military vehicles of the National Guard as
are designated by the Adjutant General pursuant to Neb. RS 55-133.
(Neb. RS 60-610)
   BUSINESS DISTRICT.  The territory contiguous to and including a highway when
within any 600 feet along such highway there are buildings in use for business
or industrial purposes, including, but not limited to, hotels, banks, office
buildings, railroad stations, or public buildings which occupy at least 300
feet of frontage on one side or 300 feet collectively on both sides of a
highway.
(Neb. RS 60-613)
   DEPARTMENT OF ROADS.  All references to Department of Roads shall be updated
to Department of Transportation.
   HIGHWAY.  The entire width between the boundary limits of any street, road,
avenue, boulevard, or way which is publicly maintained when any part thereof is
open to the use of the public for purposes of vehicular travel.
(Neb. RS 60-624)
   MANUAL.  The Manual on Uniform Traffic Control Devices adopted by the
Department of Roads pursuant to Neb. RS 60-6,118.
(Neb. RS 60-631)
   MOTOR VEHICLE.  Every self-propelled land vehicle, not operated upon rails,
except mopeds, self-propelled chairs used by persons who are disabled, and
electric personal assistive mobility devices.
(Neb. RS 60-638)
   PEACE OFFICER. The Police Chief or other chief law enforcement official, any
city police officer, or any other person authorized to enforce city ordinances.
With respect to directing traffic only, peace officer shall also include any
person authorized to direct or regulate traffic.
(Neb. RS 60-646)
   RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT.  The territory contiguous to and including a highway
not comprising a business district when the property on such highway for a
distance of 300 feet or more is in the main improved with residences or
residences and buildings in use for business.
(Neb. RS 60-654)
   ROADWAY.  That portion of a highway improved, designed, or ordinarily used
for vehicular travel, exclusive of the berm or shoulder. If a highway includes
2 or more separate roadways, the term roadway shall refer to any such roadway
separately but not to all such roadways collectively.
(Neb. RS 60-656)
   SCHOOL CROSSING ZONE.  The area of a roadway designated to the public by the
City Council as a school crossing zone through the use of a sign or traffic
control device as specified by the City Council in conformity with the Manual
but does not include any area of a freeway. A school crossing zone starts at
the location of the first sign or traffic control device identifying the school
crossing zone and continues until a sign or traffic control device indicates
that the school crossing zone has ended.
(Neb. RS 60-658.01)
   SHOULDER.  That part of the highway contiguous to the roadway and designed
for the accommodation of stopped vehicles, for emergency use, and for lateral
support of the base and surface courses of the roadway.
(Neb. RS 60-661)
   TRAFFIC.  Pedestrians, ridden or herded animals, and vehicles and other
conveyances either singly or together while using any highway for purposes of
travel.
(Neb. RS 60-669)
   TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICE.  Any sign, signal, marking, or other device not
inconsistent with the Nebraska Rules of the Road placed or erected by authority
of the City Council or any official having jurisdiction for the purpose of
regulating, warning, or guiding traffic.
(Neb. RS 60-670)
   TRAFFIC CONTROL SIGNAL.  Any signal, whether manually, electrically, or
mechanically operated, by which traffic is alternately directed to stop and
permitted to proceed.
(Neb. RS 60-671)
   TRAFFIC INFRACTION.  The violation of any provision of the Nebraska Rules of
the Road or of any law, ordinance, order, rule, or regulation regulating
traffic which is not otherwise declared to be a misdemeanor or a felony or, in
this title, an offense.
(Neb. RS 60-672)
   VEHICLE.  Every device in, upon, or by which any person or property is or
may be transported or drawn upon a highway except devices moved solely by human
power or used exclusively upon stationary rails or tracks.
(Neb. RS 60-676)
(1998 Code, § 5-101)  (Ord. 1060, passed 4-10-2018)
REGULATIONS AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 70.15  REGULATIONS.
   In accordance with the statutes of the State of Nebraska, including Neb. RS
60-680, the Council may, by resolution or ordinance, control traffic on the
highways under its jurisdiction.
(1998 Code, § 5-201)
§ 70.16  ENFORCEMENT.
   In accordance with the statutes of the State of Nebraska, including Neb. RS
60-683, the city’s police officers shall enforce the provisions of the Nebraska
Rules of the Road and any other law regulating the operation of vehicles or the
use of the highways.
(1998 Code, § 5-202)
§ 70.17  NOTICE BY POLICE TAG; EFFECT OF FAILURE TO RESPOND TO TAG.
   Violators of city parking regulations may be given notice in the form of an
official police tag attached to the motor vehicle or trailer of the violator,
which notice shall require the violator to appear forthwith at the County Court
to pay a fine of $20. If a violator shall fail to appear in response to the
notice within a period of ten days and pay the penalty in full, a complaint may
be filed and the violator may be required to appear in Court and may be subject
to the penalties outlined in §
70.99.
(Ord. 754, passed 10-23-2001)
§ 70.18  EXCEPTIONS.
   The provisions of this title shall not apply to street and road maintenance
vehicles owned and operated by the city or the State of Nebraska.
(Ord. 883, passed 1-22-2008)
§ 70.19  AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLES; PRIVILEGES.
   (A)   Subject to the conditions stated in the Nebraska Rules of the Road and
this title, the driver of an authorized emergency vehicle, when responding to
an emergency call, when pursuing an actual or suspected violator of the law, or
when responding to but not when returning from a fire alarm, may:
      (1)   Stop, park, or stand, irrespective of the provisions of the Rules
and this title, and disregard regulations governing direction of movement or
turning in specified directions; and
      (2)   Except for wreckers towing disabled vehicles and highway
maintenance vehicles and equipment:
         (a)   Proceed past a steady red indication, a flashing red indication,
or a stop sign but only after slowing down as may be necessary for safe
operation; and
         (b)   Exceed the maximum speed limits so long as he or she does not
endanger life, limb, or property.
   (B)   Except when operated as a police vehicle, the exemptions granted in
division (A) shall apply only when the driver of such vehicle, while in motion,
sounds an audible signal by bell, siren, or exhaust whistle as may be
reasonably necessary and when such vehicle is equipped with at least 1 lighted
light displaying a red light visible under normal atmospheric conditions from a
distance of 500 feet to the front of such vehicle.
   (C)   The exemptions granted in division (A) shall not relieve the driver
from the duty to drive with due regard for the safety of all persons, nor shall
such provisions protect such driver from the consequences of his or her
reckless disregard for the safety of others.
   (D)   Authorized emergency vehicles operated by police and fire departments
shall not be subject to the size and weight limitations of sections Neb. RS 60-
6,288 to 60-6,290 and 60-6,294.
(Neb. RS 60-6,114)
§ 70.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   In accordance with the statutes of the State of Nebraska, including
Neb. RS 17-505, any person who shall violate or refuse to comply with the
enforcement of any of the provisions of this title shall be deemed guilty of a
misdemeanor and upon conviction thereof shall be fined not more than $500 for
any one offense, recoverable with costs.
   (B)   A new violation shall be deemed to have been committed every 24 hours
of failure to comply.
(1998 Code, § 5-401)  (Ord. 724, passed 1-25-2000; Ord. 950, passed 6-22-2010)
CHAPTER 71:  TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
Section
   
71.01   Speed limits
   
71.02   Emergency regulations
   
71.03   Tire squealing
   
71.04   Engine (jake) braking
§ 71.01  SPEED LIMITS.
   No person shall operate a motor vehicle on any street, alley or other place
at a speed greater than 25 mph within the city limits.
(1998 Code, § 5-301)
Cross-reference:
   Speed limits, see
Ch. 73, Sch. I
§ 71.02  EMERGENCY REGULATIONS.
   In accordance with the statutes of the State of Nebraska, including Neb. RS
60-683(3), the police officers are empowered to make and enforce temporary
traffic regulations to cover emergencies as conditions may require
notwithstanding the provisions of law.
(1998 Code, § 5-302)
§ 71.03  TIRE SQUEALING.
   No person shall operate any motor vehicle in a way as to willfully cause the
tires thereof to screech or squeal, except when the screeching or squealing is
by necessity caused by an emergency, or in an attempt by the operator to avoid
a collision or the causing of damage or injury.
(1998 Code, § 5-303)  Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.04  ENGINE (JAKE) BRAKING.
   It shall be unlawful within the city limits for any operator of a motor
vehicle with a total gross vehicle weight rating of 7,000 pounds or more,
including its towed unit or units, to attempt to retard the forward movement of
the vehicle by initiating a device to contain the engine’s compression, thus
rapidly slowing the engine’s revolutions per minute.
(1998 Code, § 5-304)  Penalty, see §
70.99
CHAPTER 72:  PARKING REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
72.01   Maximum time limit
   
72.02   Removal of illegally parked vehicles
   
72.03   Obstructing traffic or delivery of mail
   
72.04   Parking inoperative or unlicensed vehicles on the streets, alleys or
city rights-of-way
Truck and Trailer Parking
   
72.15   No truck or trailer parking areas
   
72.16   Loading and unloading
   
72.17   No truck or trailer parking in residential areas
   
72.18   Oil tankers and gasoline transports
Snow Removal
   
72.30   Emergency routes
   
72.31   Snow emergency
   
72.32   Removal of vehicles in violation
   
72.33   Effect
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 72.01  MAXIMUM TIME LIMIT.
   It shall be unlawful for the operator or owner of any vehicle to park or
permit his or her vehicle to be or remain parked on a public street or right-
of-way for over 24 consecutive hours.
(1998 Code, § 5-306)  Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.02  REMOVAL OF ILLEGALLY PARKED VEHICLES.
   Whenever a police officer shall find a vehicle standing upon a street, alley
or right-of-way in violation of any of the provisions of this title, the
officer may remove or have the vehicle removed, or require the driver or other
person in charge of the vehicle to move the vehicle. The owner or other person
lawfully entitled to the possession of the vehicle may be charged with the
reasonable cost for the removal and storage, payable before the vehicle is
released. Any towing or storage fee shall become a security interest in the
vehicle prior to all other claims. This fee shall be in addition to any other
fees or penalties owed.
(1998 Code, § 5-308)  Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.03  OBSTRUCTING TRAFFIC OR DELIVERY OF MAIL.
   No person shall, except in the case of an accident or emergency, stop any
vehicle in any location where the stopping will obstruct any street,
intersection or entrance to an alley or public or private drive, or stop or
park any vehicle in any location which will prohibit or prevent the delivery of
mail by the United States Post Office.
(1998 Code, § 5-309)  (Ord. 734, passed 9-26-2000)  Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.04  PARKING INOPERATIVE OR UNLICENSED VEHICLES ON THE STREETS, ALLEYS OR
CITY RIGHTS-OF-WAY.
   No motor vehicles which is not in running condition or which is not fully
equipped or licensed for lawful operation on the streets of the city for
immediate operation shall be parked or left standing in any highway, street,
right-of-way or alley of the city. In case of emergency, a motor vehicle not in
that condition, not so equipped or lawfully licensed may be parked for a time
not to exceed 24 hours as may be required for its removal.
(Ord. 757, passed 10-23-2001)  Penalty, see §
70.99
TRUCK AND TRAILER PARKING
§ 72.15  NO TRUCK OR TRAILER PARKING AREAS.
   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any truck, truck-tractor or
trailer, or for the operator of any automobile with an attached trailer, to
stop or park the vehicle, or for the owner thereof to permit  stopping or
parking, for any period of time on any street or avenue within the same block
where angle parking is specified.
(1998 Code, § 5-305A)  Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.16  LOADING AND UNLOADING.
   The operator of a truck, truck-tractor or vehicle with a trailer may stop,
stand or park in any alley adjoining or adjacent to premises abutting streets
included in the no truck parking areas for purposes of loading or unloading
goods, wares, merchandise or other commodities consigned to or by merchants or
others on those premises for a period of time as is necessary, but in no case
longer than one-half hour; provided, the Chief of Police may grant additional
time as is reasonably necessary. If the consignor or consignee has no alley
entrance to his or her premises, the Chief of Police may permit the loading or
unloading from a specified street space abutting the premises for a time as is
reasonably necessary.
(1998 Code, § 5-305B)
§ 72.17  NO TRUCK OR TRAILER PARKING IN RESIDENTIAL AREAS.
   It shall be unlawful for the operator or owner of any truck, truck-tractor
or trailer, to stop or park or to permit the same in any street or alley or on
the rights-of-way within a residential district or residential/commercial
district during the hours of 5:00 p.m. of any day and 9:00 a.m. of the
succeeding day; and no person shall use or employ any portion of the parking
spaces or rights-of-way in those districts for any commercial purpose.
(1998 Code, § 5-305C)  Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.18  OIL TANKERS AND GASOLINE TRANSPORTS.
   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any oil tanker, gasoline transport
or tank truck for transporting inflammable liquids, whether the same is loaded
or empty, to park or stop for any period of time on any street or alley or
right-of-way within the city limits except to load or unload its cargo in a
safe and expeditious manner; provided that in case of breakdown or stalling,
the stopping of the disabled vehicle for a reasonable time necessary to remove
the same to the point where repairs can be made or to meet the emergency shall
not be a violation of this section. It shall be unlawful for the operator of
any vehicle to park or stop for any period of time on any private premises
within the city limits, except for the purpose of loading or unloading, or in
case of breakdowns, unless private premises are used and employed exclusively
for the conduct of the wholesale or retail petroleum business with ample
facilities for parking those vehicles.
(1998 Code, § 5-305D)  Penalty, see §
70.99
SNOW REMOVAL
§ 72.30  EMERGENCY ROUTES.
   Whenever there is an accumulation of snow upon the streets and highways
within the city, to permit the expeditious and proper removal of snow from
emergency routes, it shall be unlawful for the operator or owner of a vehicle
to park or permit his or her vehicle to be or to remain parked on either side
of the city streets referenced in
Chapter 74, Schedule I until after completion of all snow removal efforts
thereon.
(1998 Code, § 5-307A)  (Ord. 703, passed 8-25-1998; Ord. 705, passed 10-27-
1998; Ord. 851, passed 12-12-2006)
Cross-reference:
   Snow removal, see Ch. 74, Sch. I
§ 72.31  SNOW EMERGENCY.
   (A)   Parking prohibition. Whenever the Mayor shall find on the basis of
accumulated snow, falling snow, sleet or freezing rain, or on the basis of an
official forecast by the United States Weather Bureau of snow, sleet or
freezing rain that conditions make it necessary that parking on parts of or on
all roadways of the city, including, but not limited to, residential streets,
business streets and state highways which pass through the city, be prohibited
or restricted for snow plowing and other purposes, the Mayor may put into
effect a parking prohibition on parts of or on all city roadways, by declaring
a snow emergency which shall permit the Mayor to declare that parking be
prohibited on one or both sides of the roadways, designating either the odd or
even address numbered side, at his or her discretion. In the declaration the
Mayor shall state the date and time at which the parking prohibition shall take
effect. The prohibition shall remain in effect until terminated by announcement
of the Mayor who may then declare that there shall be in effect a parking
prohibition on the opposite side of those roadways designated in
Chapter 74, Schedule I, which prohibition shall remain in effect until
terminated by further announcement of the Mayor.
   (B)   Stalled vehicles. Whenever a motor vehicle becomes stalled for any
reason, on any roadway on that side of a street for which there is a parking
prohibition in effect, the person operating the vehicle or the owner thereof
shall take immediate action to have the vehicle towed or pushed off that side
of the roadway, either onto the side of a street for which parking has not been
prohibited or to another proper location. No person shall abandon or leave his
or her vehicle on that side of a roadway for which parking has been prohibited,
except for the purpose of seeking assistance during that actual time necessary
to go to a nearby telephone or to a nearby garage, gasoline station or other
place of assistance and return without delay.
   (C)   Notice. The Mayor shall cause each declaration of a snow emergency he
or she makes pursuant to this subchapter to be publicly announced by means of
broadcast or telecast from broadcasting stations with a normal operating range
covering the city, and the Mayor may cause the declaration to be further
announced in newspapers of general circulation when feasible. Each announcement
shall describe the action taken by the Mayor, including the time it became or
will become effective, and shall specify the roadways or areas affected. The
Mayor shall make or cause to be made a record of each time and date when any
declaration is announced to the public by issuing an executive order as soon as
feasible after the declaration of an emergency.
   (D)   Termination of prohibition. Whenever the Mayor shall find some or all
of the conditions which gave rise to a parking prohibition placed in effect
pursuant to the provisions of this subchapter no longer exist, he or she may
declare the prohibition terminated, in whole or in part, effective immediately
upon announcement or at a later specified time.
   (E)   Precedence. Any provision of this subchapter which becomes effective
by declaration of the Mayor upon the occurrence of a snow emergency while
temporarily in effect, takes precedence over other conflicting provisions of
law normally in effect, except that it shall not take precedence over
provisions of law relating to traffic accidents, emergency travel of authorized
emergency vehicles or emergency traffic directions by a police officer.
   (F)   Mayor or representative. Whenever reference is made to THE MAYOR it is
intended that the phrase should mean the MAYOR OR HIS OR HER DESIGNATED
REPRESENTATIVE.
(1998 Code, § 5-307B)  (Ord. 703, passed 8-25-1998)
§ 72.32  REMOVAL OF VEHICLES IN VIOLATION.
   Members of the Police Department are hereby authorized to remove or have
removed any vehicle from a roadway to another place or location on a roadway or
to a lot, garage or other similar facility designated by the Police Department
when the vehicle is parked on any roadway in violation of any parking
prohibition or provision of law contained in this section and is interfering or
is about to interfere with snow removal operations, the cost of the vehicle
removal and storage, if any, to be paid by the owner of record of the vehicle.
(1998 Code, § 5-307C)  (Ord. 703, passed 8-25-1998)
§ 72.33  EFFECT.
   Nothing in this subchapter shall be construed or pleaded as justifying,
absolving or rendering blameless, either directly or indirectly, any person or
persons in charge of or owning any vehicle, for any injury or damage to persons
or property due to recklessness, incompetency or negligence in the operation of
the vehicle.
(1998 Code, § 5-307D)  (Ord. 703, passed 8-25-1998)
CHAPTER 73:  TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
Schedule
      
I.   Speed limits
      
II.   Stop signs
      
III.   Yield signs
      
IV.   Oversized vehicles
      
V.   School drives
      
VI.   Skateboards; prohibitions
      
VII.   Bicycle stunts; prohibitions
SCHEDULE I.  SPEED LIMITS.
   (A)   No person shall operate a motor vehicle on any street, alley or other
place at a speed greater than 25 mph within the city limits, except as follows.
   (B)   At a speed greater than:
      (1)   Twenty mph within the business district defined as:
         (a)   M Street between Eleventh and Fourteenth Streets;
         (b)   L Street between Eleventh and Fourteenth Streets;
         (c)   Eleventh Street between N and L Streets;
         (d)   Twelfth Street between N and K Streets; and
         (e)   Thirteenth Street between N and K Streets.
      (2)   Twenty-five mph on First Street between Bryan Street and Park Lane
when warning lights are flashing to indicate a school zone, and 35 mph
otherwise on First Street;
      (3)   Fifteen mph on any street or other place within Streeter Park;
      (4)   Thirty-five mph on A Street between Eighth Street and the eastern
boundary line of the city limits;
      (5)   Forty-five mph on State Highway N-14 (Sixteenth Street) between A
Street and 425 feet south of Cedar Street;
      (6)   Thirty-five mph on State Highway N-14 (Sixteenth Street) between A
Street and 500 feet north of Q Street;
      (7)   Fifty mph on U.S. 34 (Q Street) between 450 feet east of Sixteenth
Street and 350 feet east of Twentieth Street;
      (8)   Forty-five mph on U.S. 34 (Q Street) between First Street and 400
feet west of Seventh Street;
      (9)   Thirty-five mph on U.S. 34 (Q Street) between 400 feet west of
Seventh Street and 450 feet east of Sixteenth Street;
      (10)   Thirty-five mph on First Street between Q Street and Adams Street;
      (11)   Forty-five mph on State Highway N-14 (Sixteenth Street) between
Madison Avenue and Anderson Street; and
      (12)   Twenty-five mph on Harvest Drive and Mankin Road for the entirety
of each particular street.
      (13)   Highway US-34 will be 60 mph between County Road N and County Road
O.
      (14)   Highway US-34 will be 45 mph between 950 feet west of First Street
and 400 feet west of Seventh Street.
      (15)   Highway US-34 will be 50 mph between 350 feet east of Twentieth
Street and the eastern corporate limits of Q Street.
      (16)   Highway N-14 will be 50 mph between 1,160 feet north of Woodland
Road and 500 feet north of Q Street.
      (17)   Highway N-14 will be 60 mph between 425 feet south of Cedar Street
and Anderson Street.
      (18)   Highway N-14 will be 45 mph between 1,425 feet south of Madison
Avenue and Madison Avenue.
      (19)   First Street will be 35 mph between Highway US-34 and Adams
Street.
      (20)   First Street will be 45 mph between Adams Street and 275 feet
north of Adams Street to the city limits.
(1998 Code, § 5-301)  (Ord. 807, passed 9-28-2004; Ord. 865, passed 5-3-2007;
Ord. 866, passed 5-3-2007; Ord. 881, passed 9-11-2007; Ord. 884, passed 1-22-
2008; Ord. 1015, passed 3-24-2015; Ord. 1077, passed 3-26-2019)  Penalty, see §
70.99
SCHEDULE II.  STOP SIGNS.
   (A)   Pursuant to the statutes of the State of Nebraska, including Neb. RS
60-680, stop signs are erected at the following intersections:
Street Intersection Ord. Date Passed
Street             Intersection                                Ord. Date Passed
Fifteenth Street   Northbound and southbound traffic to stop   867  5-12-2007
                   at the intersection with O Street
Fifth Street       Northbound and southbound traffic to stop   919  11-25-2008
                   at the intersection with K Street
Fifth Street       Northbound and southbound traffic to stop   919  11-25-2008
                   at the intersection with J Street
Harvest Drive      Eastbound traffic to stop at the            919  11-25-2008
                   intersection with N Road
Jefferson Street   Intersection of Jefferson Street with First 780  1-14-2003
                   Street
Jefferson Street   Intersection of Jefferson Street with Adams 781  1-14-2003
                   Street
K Street           Eastbound and westbound traffic to stop at  874  8-28-2007
                   the intersection with Fourth Street
Mankin Street      Northbound and southbound traffic to stop   919  11-25-2008
                   at the intersection with Harvest Drive
Seventeenth Street Northbound and southbound traffic to stop   867  5-12-2007
                   at the intersection with O Street
Thirteenth Street  Southbound traffic to stop at the           919  11-25-2008
                   intersection with Cedar and Kissel Streets
 
   (B)   The City Police Department and other law enforcement agencies shall be
authorized and directed to enforce these traffic control devices.
Penalty, see §
70.99
SCHEDULE III.  YIELD SIGNS.
   (A)   Pursuant to the statutes of the State of Nebraska, including Neb. RS
60-680, yield signs shall be erected at the following locations:
 
Intersection            Yield Sign Location Ord. Date Passed
Sixteenth and E Streets Southeast corner    745  5-8-2001
 
   (B)   The Police Department shall be authorized and directed to enforce
these traffic control devices.
Penalty, see §
70.99
SCHEDULE IV.  OVERSIZED VEHICLES.
   Pursuant to the statutes of the State of Nebraska, including Neb. RS 60-680
and 60-681, it is hereby unlawful for any person to operate any motor vehicle
which exceeds a total outside width of 102 inches, including any load, on the
following portion of streets located within the city:
 
Street       Prohibited Area                   Ord. Date Passed
A Street     From Eighth to Eighteenth Streets 864  4-24-2007
First Street From Q Street to Railroad Avenue  864  4-24-2007
 
Penalty, see §
70.99
SCHEDULE V.  SCHOOL DRIVES.
   Pursuant to the statutes of the State of Nebraska, including Neb. RS 60-680
and 60-681, it is hereby unlawful for any person to effect a right turn at the
intersection of K and Fourth Streets and proceed north on Fourth Street as well
as park on Fourth Street between K and L Streets between the hours of 3:00 p.m.
and 4:00 p.m. while the city public schools are in session.
(Ord. 875, passed 8-28-2007)  Penalty, see §
70.99
SCHEDULE VI.  SKATEBOARDS; PROHIBITIONS.
   (A)   It is hereby unlawful for any person to use, ride or operate a
skateboard or other device comprised of a short board mounted on small wheels
that is used for coasting and for performing athletic stunts, on any sidewalk
lying adjacent to the following streets:
 
Street            Prohibited Sidewalk Area
L Street          From Eleventh to Fourteenth Streets
M Street          From Eleventh to Fourteenth Streets
Thirteenth Street From K to N Streets
Twelfth Street    From K to N Streets
 
   (B)   It is hereby unlawful for any person to use, ride or operate a
skateboard or other device comprised of a short board mounted on small wheels
that is used for coasting and for performing athletic stunts, on all property
contained within the following streets:
 
Street            Prohibited Area
L Street          From Twelfth to Thirteenth Streets
M Street          From Twelfth to Thirteenth Streets
Thirteenth Street From L to M Streets
Twelfth Street    From L to M Streets
 
(Ord. 882, passed 10-9-2007)  Penalty, see §
70.99
SCHEDULE VII.  BICYCLE STUNTS; PROHIBITIONS.
   (A)   It is hereby unlawful for any person to use, ride or operate a bicycle
and engage in an intentional act which lifts either of the bicycle’s tires off
the ground, or to perform any other careless stunt, act or maneuver on a
bicycle, on any sidewalk lying adjacent to the following streets:
 
Street            Prohibited Sidewalk Area
L Street          From Eleventh to Fourteenth Streets
M Street          From Eleventh to Fourteenth Streets
Thirteenth Street From K to N Streets
Twelfth Street    From K to N Streets
 
   (B)   It is hereby unlawful for any person to use, ride or operate a bicycle
and engage in an intentional act which lifts either of the bicycle’s tires off
the ground, or to perform any other careless stunt, act or maneuver on a
bicycle, on all property contained within the following streets:
 
Street            Prohibited Area
L Street          From Twelfth to Thirteenth Streets
M Street          From Twelfth to Thirteenth Streets
Thirteenth Street From L to M Streets
Twelfth Street    From L to M Streets
 
(Ord. 882, passed 10-9-2007)  Penalty, see §
70.99
CHAPTER 74:  PARKING SCHEDULES
Schedule
      
I.   Snow removal
      
II.   Parking prohibited
SCHEDULE I.  SNOW REMOVAL.
   Whenever there is an accumulation of snow upon the streets and highways
within the city, to permit the expeditious and proper removal of snow from
emergency routes, it shall be unlawful for the operator or owner of a vehicle
to park or permit his or her vehicle to be or to remain parked on either, side
of the following streets until after completion of all snow removal efforts
thereon:
A Street from Eighth to Sixteenth Streets
E Street from Highway 14 (Sixteenth Street) to Mallard Drive
Fifth Street from Q to M Streets
First Street from Burlington Road to Q Street
J Street from Highway 14 (Sixteenth Street) to Ninth Street
L Street from Eleventh to Sixteenth Streets
M Street from First to Sixteenth Streets
Ninth Street from A to Q Streets
O Street from Fifth to Sixth Streets
Sixth Street from M to hospital entrance
Thirteenth Street from G to Q Streets
Twelfth Street from A to Q Streets
Woodland Road from Highway 14 (Sixteenth Street) to Limerick Road
 
(1998 Code, § 5-307A)  (Ord. 703, passed 8-25-1998; Ord. 705, passed 10-27-
1998; Ord. 851, passed 12-12-2006)  Penalty, see §
70.99
SCHEDULE II.  PARKING PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Parking shall be prohibited on Madison Avenue.
   (B)   Pursuant to the statutes of the State of Nebraska, including Neb. RS
60-680 and 60- 681, parking shall be prohibited between the hours of 7:30 a.m.
and 4:00 p.m., Monday through Friday, on the north side of the west half of H
Street between First Street and Fourth Street located in front of the Aurora
Elementary School and between an area 35 feet east and west of the entrance and
exit approaches on the south side of H Street directly in front of the Aurora
Elementary School.
   (C)   Parking shall be prohibited on the north side of M Street between
Twentieth Street and Twenty-Second Street.
(Ord. 825, passed 6-28-2005; Ord. 989, passed 11-26-2013; Ord. 1091, passed 6-
25-19)  Penalty, see §
70.99
TITLE IX:  GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
91.   REFUSE COLLECTION AND DISPOSAL
      
92.   NUISANCES
      
93.   ANIMALS
      
94.   FIRE REGULATIONS
      
95.   PUBLIC WAYS AND PROPERTY
      
96.   NOISE
CHAPTER 90:  GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
90.01   Regulations
   
90.02   Board of Health; sanitation; nuisances
   
90.03   Prevention of spread of communicable disease, illness or poisoning
§ 90.01  REGULATIONS.
   Pursuant to the statutes of the State of Nebraska, including Neb. RS 17-123,
the city may make regulations to secure the general health of the city, to
prevent and remove nuisances, and to provide the city with water.
(1998 Code, § 4-101)
§ 90.02  BOARD OF HEALTH; SANITATION; NUISANCES.
   Pursuant to the statutes of the State of Nebraska, including Neb. RS 17-121,
the city has created a Board of Health which shall make all needful rules and
regulations relating to matters of sanitation of the city and which shall
regulate, suppress and prevent the occurrence of nuisances and enforce all laws
of the state and ordinances of the city relating to the same or to matters of
sanitation of the city.
(1998 Code, § 4-102)
§ 90.03  PREVENTION OF SPREAD OF COMMUNICABLE DISEASE, ILLNESS OR POISONING.
   Pursuant to the statutes of the State of Nebraska, including Neb. RS 18-132,
the city hereby adopts by ordinance the conditions, provisions, limitations and
terms, of the Central District Health Department’s standard code on the
prevention of spread of communicable disease, illness or poisoning, the code
containing rules and regulations printed as a code in book or pamphlet form, by
reference to the code or portions thereof, alone, without setting forth the
conditions, provisions, limitations and terms of the code.
(Ord. 842, passed 5-9-2006)
CHAPTER 91:  REFUSE COLLECTION AND DISPOSAL
Section
Refuse Collection and Disposal
   
91.01   Definitions
   
91.02   General regulations
   
91.03   Collection by the city
   
91.04   Board of Health supervision
   
91.05   Precollection requirements
   
91.06   Fees
   
91.07   Required removal from property
City Maintained Waste Site
   
91.20   Hours of operation
   
91.21   Brush pile
   
91.22   Compost pile
   
91.23   Rolloff container
   
91.24   Other items
   
91.25   Waste site; unloading
 
   
91.99   Penalty
REFUSE COLLECTION AND DISPOSAL
§ 91.01  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ASHES. The residue from the burning of wood, coal, coke or other combustible
materials.
   BOARD OF HEALTH or BOARD. The Board of Health of the city.
   GARBAGE. Putrescible animal and vegetable wastes resulting from the
handling, preparation, cooking and consumption of food.
   PERSON. Any person, firm, partnership, association, corporation, company or
organization of any kind.
   REFUSE. All putrescible and nonputrescible solid wastes (except body
wastes), including garbage, rubbish, ashes, street cleanings, dead animals and
solid market and industrial wastes.
   RUBBISH. Nonputrescible solid wastes (excluding ashes), consisting of both
combustible and non-combustible wastes, such as paper, cardboard, tin cans,
yard clippings, wood, glass, bedding, crockery and similar materials.
   UNIT. Each residential or business space. This term shall include each
apartment, each mobile home and each business entity.
(1998 Code, § 4-201)
§ 91.02  GENERAL REGULATIONS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to keep in, on or about any dwelling
house, building or premises in the city, any decayed vegetable or animal
substance, garbage/offal or refuse matter, or any substance that may be
injurious to the public health or offensive to the residents or inhabitants of
the vicinity unless the same is kept in receptacles as set forth in this
subchapter.
(1998 Code, § 4-202)  Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.03  COLLECTION BY THE CITY.
   Within the city limits, no person, partnership, corporation or other entity
shall hereafter collect and remove refuse, including garbage or rubbish,
produced on other than his, her or its premises (whether owned or leased); the
city, by and through its independent contractor, shall hereafter collect and
remove all refuse, including garbage and rubbish; provided, however, the city
shall not collect and remove yard wastes (including grass clippings, leaves and
garden wastes), discarded tires, waste oil, lead-acid batteries or discarded
household appliances, and other items which are or may become prohibited for
collection and disposal by state or federal law, and it shall be unlawful for
anyone to deposit this refuse for collection by the city; and provided further
that yard wastes, discarded tires, waste oil, lead-acid batteries and discarded
household appliances may be collected and removed by other than the owners of
the premises or producers of the refuse, including by the city’s contractor
under separate agreement between the contractor and the owners or producers,
and provided additionally that the city itself may collect and dispose of yard
wastes, including trees, branches and limbs, and other items as the Mayor and
Council may direct. This section shall not prohibit the actual producers of
refuse or the owners of premises upon which refuse has accumulated, from
personally collecting, conveying and disposing of refuse, provided the
producers or owners comply with the provisions of this subchapter and with any
other governing law or ordinance, and provided disposal shall be made only at a
landfill with which the city has a disposal agreement. This section shall not
prohibit collectors of refuse from outside the city from hauling refuse over
the city streets, provided the collectors comply with the provisions of this
subchapter and with any other governing law or ordinance.
(1998 Code, § 4-203)  Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.04  BOARD OF HEALTH SUPERVISION.
   All refuse accumulated in the city shall be collected, conveyed and disposed
of under the supervision of the Board of Health. The Board of Health shall have
the authority to make regulations concerning collection, conveyance and
disposal as it shall find necessary, and to change and modify the same from
time to time as required.
(1998 Code, § 4-204)
§ 91.05  PRECOLLECTION REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Preparation. Garbage and rubbish to be collected by the city’s
contractor shall be placed and maintained in containers provided by the city’s
contractor.
      (1)   Garbage. All garbage before being placed in garbage cans for
collection shall have drained from it all free liquids and may be wrapped in
paper.
      (2)   Rubbish. All rubbish shall be drained of liquid before being
deposited for collection. Cans and bottles shall be rinsed and drained before
being deposited for collection.
   (B)   Sanitary and safe condition of containers. Residential containers
shall be provided by the city’s contractor and shall be maintained in good
sanitary condition by the owner, tenant, lessee or occupant of the premises.
Any container that may have ragged or sharp edges or any other defect liable to
hamper or injure the person using the container or collecting the contents
thereof shall be promptly replaced by the city’s contractor. The Board of
Health shall have the authority to prohibit collection services for failure to
comply herewith.
   (C)   Storing of refuse.
      (1)   No person shall place any refuse in any street, alley or other
public place, or upon any private property, whether owned by the person or not,
within the city, unless it is in proper containers for collection or by express
approval granted by the Board of Health. Nor shall any person throw or deposit
any refuse in any stream or other body of water. Any unauthorized accumulation
of refuse on any premises is hereby declared a nuisance and is prohibited.
      (2)   No person shall cast, place, sweep or deposit anywhere within the
city any refuse in a manner that it may be carried or deposited by the elements
upon any street, sidewalk, alley, sewer, parkway or other public place, or into
any occupied premises within the city.
   (D)   Points of collection. Refuse containers shall be placed for collection
at ground level on the property, behind the curb and accessible to the street
from which collection is made; provided, containers may be placed for
collection at other than ground level when approved by the Board of Health.
(1998 Code, § 4-205)
§ 91.06  FEES.
   (A)   Whether refuse is collected therefrom or not, each tenant, occupant or
owner in possession of premises within the corporate limits of the city shall
pay to the city refuse fees as the Council shall by resolution hereafter
provide. Refuse bills shall be consolidated with water bills and shall be
subject to the applicable provisions of §§
51.12 and
51.13 of this code of ordinances for purposes of billing, delinquency and
establishment of liens; however, discontinuance of service cannot be utilized
in an attempt to collect a delinquent garbage disposal bill.
(1998 Code, § 4-206)
   (B)   Rates for 2020:
      (1)   Service with toter.  Residential or business establishments shall
be charged for each residential unit or business establishment $11.95 per month
for one toter, one pickup each week plus $3.15 for each additional toter. Each
additional weekly pickup is an additional $8.70 per month plus $3.15 for each
additional toter picked up.
      (2)   Service with 2-yard containers. Customers utilizing 2-yard
containers shall be charged $43.51 per month for each pickup per week, plus
$9.78 per month container rental.
      (3)   Bills not paid by the tenth of the month, following billing, will
be subject to the above rates plus a 10% service charge.
   (C)   Rates for 2021:
      (1)   Service with toter.  Residential or business establishments shall
be charged for each residential unit or business establishment $12.50 per month
for one toter, one pickup each week plus $3.30 for each additional toter. Each
additional weekly pickup is an additional $9.10 per month plus $3.30 for each
additional toter picked up.
      (2)   Service with 2-yard containers. Customers utilizing 2-yard
containers shall be charged $45.50 per month for each pickup per week, plus
$10.25 per month container rental.
      (3)   Bills not paid by the tenth of the month, following billing, will
be subject to the above rates plus a 10% service charge.
   (D)   Service at the old landfill.  To accommodate city residents with items
which are not collected from residences or commercial pickup points, the cit
provides a roll-off container at the old landfill at the following rates.
Item Fee
Item                                                  Fee
Rubbish/cubic yard (full pickup bed is 2 cubic yards) $28.50
Large mattress                                        $26.50
Small mattress                                        $21.50
Large sofa (3 seat)                                   $31.50
Small sofa (2 seat)                                   $27.00
Overstuffed chair                                     $21.50
Recliner                                              $21.50
Carpet @ ½ cubic yard                                $15.00
Kitchen chair                                         $7.75
Large TV/stereo console combo                         $30.00
Portable TV 27-inch and up                            $27.50
Portable TV 19-inch to 27-inch                        $26.50
Portable TV 9-inch to 19-inch                         $21.50
Tree stumps 18-inch to 36-inch                        $11.50
Tree stumps 36-inch to 54-inch                        $18.00
Tree stumps 54-inch and up                            $31.00
Other items to be prorated according to size
 
(Res. 20-04, passed 3-24-2020)
§ 91.07  REQUIRED REMOVAL FROM PROPERTY.
   (A)   The Board of Health may require the owner, duly authorized agent or
tenant of any lot or land within the zoning jurisdiction of the city which
contains refuse or where refuse is upon the streets or alleys abutting the lot
or land to remove the refuse.
   (B)   Notice shall be given to each owner or owner’s duly authorized agent
and to the tenant, if any, by personal service or by certified mail. After
providing notice, the city through its proper offices shall, in addition to
other proper remedies, remove the refuse or cause it to be removed, from the
lot or land and streets, roads or alleys, unless removed by the owner, agent or
tenant within a reasonable time specified in the notice (not to exceed two
weeks).
   (C)   If the Mayor declares that the accumulation of refuse upon any lot or
land constitutes an immediate nuisance and hazard to public health and safety,
the city shall remove the refuse, or cause it to be removed, from the lot or
land within 48 hours after notice.
   (D)   Whenever the city removes any refuse, or causes it to be removed, from
any lot or land pursuant to this section, it shall, after a hearing conducted
by the City Council, assess the cost of the removal against the lot or land
pursuant to the statutes of the State of Nebraska, including Neb. RS 18-1752.
(1998 Code, § 4-207)
CITY MAINTAINED WASTE SITE
§ 91.20  HOURS OF OPERATION.
   Hours of operations shall be established by the supervisor of the waste
site, and shall be posted at the waste site.
(Ord. 727, passed 4-25-2000)
§ 91.21  BRUSH PILE.
   (A)   The following items may be placed at the brush pile:
      (1)   Tree trimmings;
      (2)   Brush; and
      (3)   Untreated wood.
   (B)   The following items shall not be placed at the brush pile:
      (1)   Plastics, such as bags, pop containers, buckets, vinyl siding,
plastic sheeting or countertops;
      (2)   Plywood, such as paneling, exterior or interior grade, cardboard,
pressed wood, masonite or any other variation;
      (3)   Treated wood, such as fence posts, railroad ties, poles, green-
treated wood or pieces of scrap from deck construction;
      (4)   Garbage, such as household waste, paper, pop or milk bottles or
cans;
      (5)   Grass clippings or grass and leaves mixed; and
      (6)   Garden waste, such as cornstalks, tomato vines and vegetable
plants.
(Ord. 727, passed 4-25-2000)  Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.22  COMPOST PILE.
   (A)   Grass and leaves only shall be placed at the compost pile.
   (B)   The following shall not be placed at the compost pile:
      (1)   Branches;
      (2)   Stalks;
      (3)   Hedge trimmings;
      (4)   Garden waste;
      (5)   Household trash;
      (6)   Noncompostable items; and
      (7)   Any human-made materials.
   (C)   A separate compost pile for garden waste may be established, garden
waste only may be placed at that site, and noncompostable items shall not be
placed at that site.
(Ord. 727, passed 4-25-2000)  Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.23  ROLLOFF CONTAINER.
   Items not allowed in the brush pile or compost pile must be placed in the
rolloff container. A fee for those items shall be established by the gate
operator.
(Ord. 727, passed 4-25-2000)
§ 91.24  OTHER ITEMS.
   (A)   Clean concrete, dirt, old bricks or other materials may be accepted as
beneficial fill, as determined by the gate operator. A fee for these items
shall be determined by the gate operator.
   (B)   No paint, pesticides, batteries or tires shall be allowed.
(Ord. 727, passed 4-25-2000)  Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.25  WASTE SITE; UNLOADING.
   (A)   All persons shall contact the gate operator before unloading. The gate
operator may refuse any load which does not comply with the regulations
established for the waste site, and shall report violations of the regulations
to the City Police Department.
   (B)   The gates to the waste site shall be locked at all times that a waste
site operator is not present.
(Ord. 727, passed 4-25-2000)
§ 91.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   (1)   Fine.
         (a)   In accordance with the statutes of the State of Nebraska,
including Neb. RS 17-505, any person who shall violate or refuse to comply with
the enforcement of any of the provisions of §§
91.01 through
91.07 shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction thereof shall
be fined not more than $500 for any one offense, recoverable with costs.
         (b)   A new violation shall be deemed to have been committed every 24
hours of failure to comply.
(1998 Code, § 4-401)
      (2)   Abatement of nuisance.
         (a)   Whenever a nuisance exists as defined in this §§
91.01 through
91.07, the city may proceed by a suit in equity to enjoin and abate the same in
the manner provided by law.
         (b)   In accordance with the statutes of the State of Nebraska,
including Neb. RS 18-1720, whenever in any action it is established that a
nuisance exists, the court may, together with the fine or penalty imposed,
enter an order of abatement as a part of the judgement in the case.
(1998 Code, § 4-402)
   (B)   Waste site. Any person who shall violate or refuse to comply with the
regulations established in §§
91.20 through
91.25  shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor, and upon conviction thereof,
shall be fined $25 for the first offense, $50 for the second offense and $100
for any third or subsequent offense.
(Ord. 724, passed 1-25-2000; Ord. 727, passed 4-25-2000; Ord. 950, passed 6-22-
2010)
CHAPTER 92:  NUISANCES
Section
   
92.01   Nuisances; defined
   
92.02   Jurisdiction
   
92.03   Adjoining landowners; intervention before trial
 
   
92.99   Penalty
§ 92.01  NUISANCES; DEFINED.
   The maintaining, using, placing, depositing, leaving or permitting of any of
the following specific acts, omissions, places, conditions and things are
hereby declared to be nuisances:
   (A)   Any odorous, putrid, unsound or unwholesome grain, meat, hides, skins,
feathers, vegetable matter or the whole or any part of any dead animal, fish or
fowl;
   (B)   Privies, vaults, cesspools, dumps, pits or like places which are not
securely protected from flies or rats, or which are foul or malodorous;
   (C)   Filthy, littered or trash-covered cellars, house yards, barnyards,
stable yards, factory yards, mill yards, vacant areas in rear of stores,
granaries, vacant lots, houses, buildings or premises;
   (D)   Animal manure in any quantity which is not securely protected from
flies and the elements, or which is kept or handled in violation of any
ordinance of the city;
   (E)   Liquid household waste, human excreta, garbage, butcher’s trimmings
and offal, parts of fish or any waste vegetable or animal matter in any
quantity; provided that nothing herein contained shall prevent the temporary
retention of waste in receptacles in a manner provided by the Board of Health,
nor the dumping of non-putrefying waste in a place and manner approved by the
Board of Health;
   (F)   Tin cans, bottles, glass, cans, ashes, small pieces of scrap iron,
wire metal articles, bric-a-brac, broken stone or cement, broken crockery,
broken glass, broken plaster and all trash or abandoned material, unless the
same is kept in covered bins or galvanized iron receptacles;
   (G)   Trash, litter, rags, accumulations of barrels, boxes, crates, packing
crates, mattresses, bedding, excelsior, packing hay, straw or other packing
material, lumber not neatly piled, scrap iron, tins or other metal not neatly
piled, old automobiles or parts thereof, or any other waste materials when any
of the articles or materials create a condition in which flies or rats may
breed or multiply, or which may be a fire danger or which are so unsightly as
to depreciate property values in the vicinity thereof;
   (H)   Any unsightly building, billboard or other structure, or any old,
abandoned or partially destroyed building or structure, or any building or
structure commenced and left unfinished, which are either a fire hazard, a
menace to the public health or safety, or are so unsightly as to depreciate the
value of property in the vicinity thereof;
   (I)   All places used or maintained as junk yards, or dumping grounds, or
for the wrecking and dissembling of automobiles, trucks, tractors or machinery
of any kind, or for the storing or leaving of worn-out, wrecked or abandoned
automobiles, trucks, tractors or machinery of any kind, or of any of the parts
thereof, or for the storing or leaving of any machinery or equipment used by
contractors or builders or by other persons, which the places are kept or
maintained so as to essentially interfere with the comfortable enjoyment of
life or property by others, or which are so unsightly as to tend to depreciate
property values in the vicinity thereof;
   (J)   Stagnant water permitted or maintained on any lot or piece of ground;
   (K)   Any collection of debris or other obstructions, natural or human-made,
in and along the banks of any water channel which may impede the passage of
water through the channel in times of flooding;
   (L)   Stockyards, granaries, mills, pig pens, cattle pens, chicken pens or
any other place, building or enclosure in which animals or fowls of any kind
are confined or on which are stored tankage or any other animal or vegetable
matter, or on which any animal or vegetable matter including grain is being
processed, when the places in which the animals are confined, or the premises
on which the vegetable or animal matter is located, are maintained and kept in
a manner that foul and noxious odors are permitted to emanate therefrom to the
annoyance of inhabitants of the city, or are maintained and kept in a manner as
to be injurious to the public health; and
   (M)   All other things specifically designated as nuisances elsewhere in
this code of ordinances.
(1998 Code, § 4-301)  Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.02  JURISDICTION.
   The Mayor and Chief of Police of the city are directed to enforce this code
of ordinances against all nuisances. Pursuant to the statutes of the State of
Nebraska, including Neb. RS 18-1720, the jurisdiction of the Mayor, Chief of
Police and the court shall extend to, and the territorial application of this
chapter, shall include, all territory adjacent to the limits of the city within
one mile thereof and all territory within the corporate limits.
(1998 Code, § 4-302)
§ 92.03  ADJOINING LANDOWNERS; INTERVENTION BEFORE TRIAL.
   Pursuant to the statutes of the State of Nebraska, including Neb. RS 19-710,
in cases of appeal from an action of the City Council condemning real property
as a nuisance or as dangerous under the police powers of the city, the owners
of the adjoining property may intervene in the action at any time before trial.
(1998 Code, § 4-303)
§ 92.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Fine.
      (1)   In accordance with the statutes of the State of Nebraska, including
Neb. RS 17-505, any person who shall violate or refuse to comply with the
enforcement of any of the provisions of this chapter shall be deemed guilty of
a misdemeanor and upon conviction thereof shall be fined not more than $500 for
any one offense, recoverable with costs.
      (2)   A new violation shall be deemed to have been committed every 24
hours of failure to comply.
(1998 Code, § 4-401)
   (B)   Abatement of nuisance.
      (1)   Whenever a nuisance exists as defined in this chapter, the city may
proceed by a suit in equity to enjoin and abate the same in the manner provided
by law.
      (2)   In accordance with the statutes of the State of Nebraska, including
Neb. RS 18-1720, whenever in any action it is established that a nuisance
exists, the court may, together with the fine or penalty imposed, enter an
order of abatement as a part of the judgement in the case.
(1998 Code, § 4-402)
(Ord. 724, passed 1-25-2000; Ord. 950, passed 6-22-2010)
CHAPTER 93:  ANIMALS
Section
Dogs and Cats
   
93.001   Definitions
   
93.002   Proclamation of dangerous conditions
   
93.003   Running at large
   
93.004   Capture impossible
   
93.005   Vicious dogs; confinement required
   
93.006   Interference with police
   
93.007   Killing and poisoning
   
93.008   Dogs barking and offensive
   
93.009   Fighting
   
93.010   Liability of owner
   
93.011   Removal of tags
   
93.012   Impounding
   
93.013   Animal shelter
   
93.014   Limited number on any one premises
   
93.015   Cruelty
   
93.016   Exceptions
   
93.017   Animal Control Officer
Dogs and Cats; Licenses
   
93.030   License
   
93.031   License tags
   
93.032   Wrongful licensing
   
93.033   License taxes and impoundment fees; remittal to General Fund; uses
Dogs and Cats; Rabies Control
   
93.045   Certificate of vaccination
   
93.046   Rabies vaccination required
   
93.047   Vaccination costs
   
93.048   Impoundment of rabies suspects
Kennel/Cattery
   
93.060   Permit required
   
93.061   Permit issuance and revocation
   
93.062   Application for permit
   
93.063   Issuance of permit
Animals and Fowl
   
93.075   Definitions
   
93.076   Running at large
   
93.077   Number on premises restricted
   
93.078   Sanitary regulations
   
93.079   Rabies
   
93.080   Duty to remove dead animals and fowls
   
93.081   Unlawful acts
   
93.082   Offensive odors
   
93.083   Cruelty
   
93.084   Exceptions
   
93.085   Conditions for keeping horses and cattle and application for permit
Animals and Fowl; Permit
   
93.100   Application for permit
   
93.101   Issuance of permit
   
93.102   Permit fee
   
93.103   Revocation and suspension of permit
   
93.104   Term of permit
 
   
93.999   Penalty
DOGS AND CATS
§ 93.001  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CAT. Any feline animal, male or female, sexed or neutered.
   DOG. Any canine animal, male or female, sexed or neutered.
   KENNEL/CATTERY. Any premises wherein any person engages in the business of
boarding, breeding, buying, letting for hire, training for a fee or selling
dogs or cats.
   OWNER. Any person possessing, keeping, harboring or having charge or control
of, or permitting any dog or cat to habitually be or remain on, or be lodged or
fed within, the person’s house, yard or premises. This term shall not apply to
veterinarians or kennel/cattery operators temporarily maintaining on their
premises dogs and/or cats owned by others for a period of less than 30 days.
   VACCINATION AGAINST RABIES. The inoculation of a dog or cat with a rabies
vaccine licensed by the United States Department of Agriculture. The
VACCINATION must be performed by a doctor of veterinarian medicine licensed by
the State of Nebraska.
(1998 Code, § 6-102)
§ 93.002  PROCLAMATION OF DANGEROUS CONDITIONS.
   In accordance with the statutes of the State of Nebraska, including Neb. RS
17-526, it shall be the duty of the governing body, whenever in its opinion the
danger to the public safety from rabid dogs or cats is great or imminent, to
issue a proclamation ordering all persons owning any dog or cat to muzzle the
same, or to confine it for a period of not less than 30 days or more than 90
days from the date of the proclamation, or until the danger is passed. The dogs
or cats may be harbored by any good and sufficient means in a house, garage or
yard on the premises wherein the owner may reside. Upon issuing the
proclamation it shall be the duty of all persons owning any dog or cat to
confine the same as herein provided.
(1998 Code, § 6-109)
§ 93.003  RUNNING AT LARGE.
   (A)   Pursuant to the statutes of the State of Nebraska, including Neb.
RS17-526 and 54-607, it is hereby declared to be unlawful for the owner of any
dog or cat to allow the dog or cat to run at large at any time within the
corporate limits of the city.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of the city police to cause any dog or cat found
to be running at large within the city to be taken up and impounded.
   (C)   A dog or cat is running at large when it leaves the owner’s premises
or goes upon the public road without anyone near having control of the dog or
cat.
(1998 Code, § 6-110)  Penalty, see §
93.999
§ 93.004  CAPTURE IMPOSSIBLE.
   In accordance with the statutes of the State of Nebraska, including Neb. RS
17-526, the police shall have the authority to kill any dog or cat running at
large showing vicious tendencies or characteristics of rabies which make
capture impossible because of the danger involved.
(1998 Code, § 6-111)
§ 93.005  VICIOUS DOGS; CONFINEMENT REQUIRED.
   In accordance with the statutes of the State of Nebraska, including Neb. RS
17-526 and 54-619, while unattended on the owner’s property, a dangerous dog
shall be securely confined, in a humane manner, indoors or in a securely
enclosed and locked pen or structure suitably designed to prevent the entry of
young children and to prevent the dog from escaping. The pen or structure shall
have secure sides and a secure top. If the pen or structure has no bottom
secured to the sides, the sides shall be embedded into the ground. The pen or
structure shall also protect the dog from the elements. The owner of a
dangerous dog shall post a warning sign on the property where the dog is kept
that is clearly visible and that informs persons that a dangerous dog is on the
property. If any vicious or dangerous dog is otherwise held or confined, or
allowed to run at large, the police shall have the authority to put the dog to
death.
(1998 Code, § 6-112)  Penalty, see §
93.999
§ 93.006  INTERFERENCE WITH POLICE.
   In accordance with the statutes of the State of Nebraska, including Neb. RS
17-526 and 28-906, it shall be unlawful for any person to hinder, delay or
interfere with any city police officer who is performing his or her duty
enjoined upon him or her by the provisions of this chapter, or to break open,
or in any manner directly or indirectly aid, counsel or advise the breaking
open of the animal shelter or any vehicle used for the collecting or conveying
of dogs or cats to the shelter.
(1998 Code, § 6-113)  Penalty, see §
93.999
§ 93.007  KILLING AND POISONING.
   In accordance with the statutes of the State of Nebraska, it shall be
unlawful to kill, or to administer, or cause to be administered poison of any
sort to a dog or cat, or in any manner to injure, maim or destroy, or in any
manner attempt to injure, maim or destroy any dog or cat that is the property
of another person, or to place any poison or poisoned food where the same is
accessible to a dog or cat; provided, that this section shall not apply to city
police officer acting within his or her power and duty.
(1998 Code, § 6-114)  Penalty, see §
93.999
§ 93.008  DOGS BARKING AND OFFENSIVE.
   In accordance with the statutes of the State of Nebraska, including Neb. RS
17-526, it shall be unlawful for any person to own any dog or cat which by
loud, continued or frequent barking, howling or yelping shall annoy or disturb
any neighborhood or person, or which habitually barks at or chases pedestrians,
drivers or owners of horses or vehicles while they are on any public sidewalks,
streets or alleys in the city. The provisions of this section shall not be
construed to apply to the city dog shelter.
(1998 Code, § 6-115)  Penalty, see §
93.999
§ 93.009  FIGHTING.
   In accordance with the statutes of the State of Nebraska, including Neb. RS
17-526, it shall be unlawful for any person, by agreement or otherwise, to set
dogs or cats to fighting, or by any gesture or word to encourage the same to
fight.
(1998 Code, § 6-116)  Penalty, see §
93.999
§ 93.010  LIABILITY OF OWNER.
   In accordance with the statutes of the State of Nebraska, including Neb. RS
54-601 and 54-602, it shall be unlawful for any person to allow a dog or cat
owned by him or her to injure or destroy any real or personal property of any
description belonging to another person. The owner of the dog or cat, in
addition to the usual judgment upon conviction, may be held liable to the
person(s) so injured in an amount equal to the value of the damage so
sustained.
(1998 Code, § 6-117)  Penalty, see §
93.999
§ 93.011  REMOVAL OF TAGS.
   In accordance with the statutes of the State of Nebraska, including Neb. RS
17-526, it shall be unlawful for any person to remove, or cause to be removed,
the collar, harness or metallic tag from any dog or cat without the consent of
the owner thereof.
(1998 Code, § 6-118)  Penalty, see §
93.999
§ 93.012  IMPOUNDING.
   In accordance with the statutes of the State of Nebraska, including Neb. RS
17-548 and 71-4408, it shall be the duty of the City Police to capture, secure
and remove in a humane manner to the city animal shelter any dog or cat
violating any of the provisions of this chapter. The dogs or cats so impounded
shall be treated in a humane manner and shall be provided with a sufficient
supply of food and fresh water each day. Each impounded dog or cat shall be
kept and maintained at the shelter for a period of not less than five days
after public notice has been given unless reclaimed earlier by the owner.
Notice of impoundment of all animals, including any significant marks or
identifications, shall be posted at the office of the City Clerk-Treasurer
within 24 hours after impoundment as public notification of the impoundment.
Any dog or cat may be reclaimed by its owner during the period of impoundment
by payment of fees as set by City Council resolution, plus the license tax if
not current. The owner shall then be required to comply with the licensing and
rabies vaccination requirements within 72 hours after release. If the dog or
cat is not claimed at the end of five days after public notice has been given,
the police may dispose of the dog or cat in accordance with the applicable
rules and regulations pertaining to the same; provided, that if, in the
judgment of the police, a suitable home can be found for the dog or cat, the
dog or cat shall be turned over to that person and the new owner shall then be
required to pay all fees and meet all licensing and vaccinating requirements
provided in this chapter. The city shall acquire legal title to any unlicensed
bog or cat impounded in the animal shelter for a period longer than five days
after giving notice. All dogs or cats shall be destroyed and buried in a
summary and humane manner as prescribed by the Board of Health unless a
suitable home can be found for the dog or cat.
(1998 Code, § 6-119)  Penalty, see §
93.999
§ 93.013  ANIMAL SHELTER.
   In accordance with the statutes of the State of Nebraska, including Neb. RS
17-548, the animal shelter shall be safe, suitable and conveniently located for
the impounding, keeping and destruction of dogs and cats. The shelter shall be
sanitary, ventilated and lighted.
(1998 Code, § 6-120)
§ 93.014  LIMITED NUMBER ON ANY ONE PREMISES.
   In accordance with the statutes of the State of Nebraska, including Neb. RS
17-526, it shall be unlawful for any person(s) to keep on any one premises more
than four dogs and four cats if the dogs and cats are more than six months old,
unless the premises is a properly licensed kennel/cattery.
(1998 Code, § 6-121)  Penalty, see §
93.999
§ 93.015  CRUELTY.
   In accordance with the statutes of the State of Nebraska, any person who
shall unnecessarily or cruelly beat, injure, overload, overwork, insufficiently
feed, turn out to die, abandon or otherwise abuse any animal within the limits
of the city shall, upon conviction, be punished as hereinafter provided.
(1998 Code, § 6-126)  Penalty, see §
93.999
§ 93.016  EXCEPTIONS.
   The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to dogs or cats being kept
for their owner by veterinary clinics.
(1998 Code, § 6-127)
§ 93.017  ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER.
   In accordance with the provisions of the statutes of the State of Nebraska,
including Neb. RS 17-526, the city may employ an Animal Control Officer, who,
under the supervision of the City Police Department, shall be responsible for
the enforcement of all animal and dog and cat regulations under this code of
ordinances.
(1998 Code, § 6-128)
DOGS AND CATS; LICENSES
§ 93.030  LICENSE.
   (A)   Licensing of cats is not required. In accordance with the statutes of
the State of Nebraska, including Neb. RS 17-526 and 54-603, any person who
shall own a dog within the city shall within 30 days after acquisition of the
dog acquire a license for each dog annually by or before May 1 of each year.
The tax shall be delinquent from and after May 31; provided, the owner of any
dog brought into or harbored within the corporate limits subsequent to May 1 of
any year shall be liable for the payment of the dog tax levied, and the tax
shall be delinquent if not paid within 30 days thereafter. Licenses shall be
issued by the person designated by Council resolution and upon the payment of a
license tax set by Council resolution. The license shall not be transferable
and no refund will be allowed in case of death, sale or other disposition of
the licensed dog.
   (B)   The owner shall state at the time the application is made:
      (1)   His or her name and address; and
      (2)   The name, breed, color and sex of each dog owned and kept by him or
her.
   (C)   A certificate that the dog has had a rabies vaccination, effective for
the year of the license, shall be presented when the license is applied for,
and no license or tag shall be issued until the certificate is shown.
   (D)   Dogs under the age of four months need not have proof of a rabies
vaccination to be issued a tag provided that upon the dog’s four month
anniversary the rabies vaccination is completed and the certificate of
vaccination is presented to the designated city official.
(1998 Code, § 6-103)
§ 93.031  LICENSE TAGS.
   Upon the payment of the license fee, the person designated by the Council
shall issue to the owner of a dog a license certificate and a metallic tag for
each dog so licensed. The metallic tags shall be properly attached to the
collar or harness of all dogs so licensed and shall entitle the owner to keep
or harbor the dog until April 30 following the licensing. In the event that a
license tag is lost and upon satisfactory evidence that the original plate or
tag was issued in accordance with the provisions herein, the person designated
by the Council shall issue a duplicate or new tag for the balance of the year
for which the license tax has been paid and shall charge and collect a fee as
set by City Council resolution for each duplicate or new tag so issued. All
license fees and collections shall be immediately credited to the General Fund.
It shall be the duty of the person designated by the Council to issue tags of a
suitable design that are different in appearance each year.
(1998 Code, § 6-104)
§ 93.032 WRONGFUL LICENSING.
   In accordance with the statutes of the State of Nebraska, including Neb. RS
54-605 and 71-4403, it shall be unlawful for the owner of any dog to permit or
allow a dog to wear any license, metallic tag or other city identification than
that issued by the city for dogs, except a metallic plate on which shall be
plainly inscribed the name of the owner and a vaccination tag issued by a
veterinarian.
(1998 Code, § 6-108)  Penalty, see §
93.999
§ 93.033  LICENSE TAXES AND IMPOUNDMENT FEES; REMITTAL TO GENERAL FUND; USES.
   In accordance with the provisions of the statutes of the State of Nebraska,
including Neb. RS 17-526, it shall be the duty of the Animal Control Officer
under the direction of the City Police Department to collect all dog and cat
license taxes, impoundment fees and kennel/cattery permit fees. All funds
generated from the sale of dog licenses, delinquent fees, impoundment fees and
kennel/cattery permit fees shall be deposited in the General Fund and used for
payment for the services of the Animal Control Officer, the care of the animal
shelter and other necessary expenses related to the control of dogs and cats
and other animals.
(1998 Code, § 6-129)
DOGS AND CATS; RABIES CONTROL
§ 93.045  CERTIFICATE OF VACCINATION.
   In accordance with the statutes of the State of Nebraska, including Neb. RS
17-526 and 71-4403, the owner of any dog or cat shall obtain from a
veterinarian a certificate, or other evidence of rabies vaccination, and a tag
to indicate that a rabies vaccination has been given imprinted with the year of
vaccination, and shall display the tag on each dog or cat owned within the
corporate limits of the city.
(1998 Code, § 6-101)
§ 93.046  RABIES VACCINATION REQUIRED.
   In accordance with the statutes of the State of Nebraska, including Neb. RS
71-4402, every dog and cat four months of age and older owned in the city shall
be vaccinated against rabies. Younger dogs and cats shall be vaccinated within
30 days after they have reached four months of age. Unvaccinated dogs and cats
acquired or moved into the city shall be vaccinated within 30 days after
purchase or arrival, unless under four months of age as specified above. Every
dog and cat shall be revaccinated following a period of not more than 36 months
since its last vaccination with chick embryo, LEP (low egg passage) flury
vaccine, or following a period of not more than 12 months since its last
vaccination with killed or inactivated vaccine.
(1998 Code, § 6-105)
§ 93.047  VACCINATION COSTS.
   In accordance with the statutes of the State of Nebraska, including Neb. RS
71-4404, all cost of rabies vaccination shall be borne by the owner of the dog
or cat.
(1998 Code, § 6-106)
§ 93.048  IMPOUNDMENT OF RABIES SUSPECTS.
   (A)   Any dog or cat suspected to be afflicted with rabies, or any dog or
cat not vaccinated in accordance with this subchapter which has bitten any
person and caused an abrasion of the skin of the person, shall be seized and
impounded under the supervision of a licensed veterinarian for a period of not
less than ten days unless a physician requests that the dog or cat be destroyed
for a specimen to be examined by a certified laboratory. If, upon examination
by a veterinarian, the dog or cat has no signs of rabies at the end of
impoundment, it may be released to the owner or, in the case of a stray, it
shall be disposed of in accordance with applicable laws.
   (B)   Any dog or cat, vaccinated in accordance with this subchapter, which
has bitten any person shall be confined by the owner, or other responsible
person, for a period of at least ten days, at which time the dog or cat shall
be examined by a licensed veterinarian. If no signs of rabies are observed by
the veterinarian, the dog or cat may be released from confinement.
   (C)   All costs and or charges incurred under this section shall be borne by
the owner of the suspect dog or cat pursuant to the statutes of the State of
Nebraska, including Neb. RS 71-4406.
(1998 Code, § 6-107)
KENNEL/CATTERY
§ 93.060  PERMIT REQUIRED.
   In accordance with the statutes of the State of Nebraska, including Neb. RS
17-526 and 54-603:
   (A)   No person, partnership or corporation shall operate a kennel/cattery,
commercial animal establishment or animal shelter without first obtaining a
permit in compliance with this section;
   (B)   No kennel/cattery, commercial animal establishment or animal shelter
shall be located in the R-1, R-2 or RC zones of the city;
   (C)   When a permit or renewal applicant has shown that he or she is willing
and able to comply with all applicable ordinances and statutes, a permit shall
be issued upon payment of the applicable fee;
   (D)   The permit period shall begin on May 1 and shall run for one year.
Renewal applications for permits shall be made 30 days prior to and up to 30
days after May 1 of each year. Application for a permit to establish a new
kennel/cattery, commercial animal establishment or animal shelter under the
provisions of this chapter may be made at any time;
   (E)   If there is a change in ownership of a kennel/cattery, commercial
animal establishment or animal shelter, the new owner may have the current
permit transferred to his or her name upon payment of a fee as set by City
Council resolution;
   (F)   Annual permits shall require the payment of kennel/cattery fees, as
set by City Council resolution;
   (G)   Each separate premises regulated by this chapter shall be considered a
separate enterprise requiring an individual permit; and
   (H)   Any person who has a change in the category under which a permit was
issued shall be subject to reclassification and readjustment of the permit fee.
(1998 Code, § 6-122)
§ 93.061  PERMIT ISSUANCE AND REVOCATION.
   In accordance with the statutes of the State of Nebraska, including Neb. RS
17-526 and 54-603:
   (A)   After an application has been filed, the Board of Health shall inspect
the facility prior to issuance of the permit. The Board of Health may revoke
any permit if the person holding the permit refuses or fails to comply with any
ordinance or any statute governing the protection and keeping of animals or the
maintenance of health;
   (B)   Any person whose permit is revoked shall, within ten days thereafter,
humanely dispose of all animals owned, kept or harbored. No part of the permit
or fee shall be refunded;
   (C)   It shall be a condition of the issuance of any permit that the Board
of Health shall be permitted to inspect all animals and the premises where
animals are kept at any time and shall, if permission for the inspection is
refused, revoke the permit of the refusing owner;
   (D)   If the applicant has withheld or falsified any information on the
application, the permit shall not be issued;
   (E)   No person who has been convicted of cruelty to animals shall be issued
a permit to operate a kennel/cattery, commercial animal establishment or animal
shelter; and
   (F)   Any person having been denied a permit may not reapply for a period of
30 days. Each reapplication shall be accompanied by a fee as set by City
Council resolution.
(1998 Code, § 6-123)
§ 93.062  APPLICATION FOR PERMIT.
   (A)   Application for a permit to maintain a kennel/cattery shall be made to
the City Clerk-Treasurer in writing upon forms provided for that purpose by the
city.
   (B)   The application shall contain the following information:
      (1)   Name and residence of applicant;
      (2)   Location of premises where animals are to be kept;
      (3)   Species of animals to be kept;
      (4)   Number of animals to be kept; and
      (5)   Diagram or plat of the premises showing dimensions of the premises;
the location of the enclosure, pen and shelter; and the distance from
residential buildings on the same lot and on adjacent properties.
(1998 Code, § 6-124)
§ 93.063  ISSUANCE OF PERMIT.
   (A)   (1)   In accordance with the statutes of the State of Nebraska,
including Neb. RS 17-526 and 54-603, before any permit is issued, the Board of
Health shall investigate the application and determine whether or not the
premises conform to all the requirements of this chapter and other ordinances
of the city with respect to sanitation and location of enclosures and shelters.
      (2)   No permit shall be issued except upon the recommendation of the
Board of Health.
   (B)   (1)   Any person to whom a permit is denied may appeal from the denial
to the City Council by filing with the City Clerk-Treasurer a copy of the
original application with a written request for hearing thereon before the City
Council.
      (2)   A hearing on the appeal shall be had by the City Council within 14
days from the filing of the appeal with the City Clerk-Treasurer.
(1998 Code, § 6-125)
ANIMALS AND FOWL
§ 93.075  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ANIMAL. Any and all types of animals, both domesticated and wild, male and
female, singular and plural, except dogs and cats.
   AT LARGE. Off the premises of the owner or custodian of the animal or fowl
and not under the immediate control of the owner or custodian.
   FOWL. Any and all fowl, domesticated and wild, male and female, singular and
plural.
(1998 Code, § 6-201)
§ 93.076  RUNNING AT LARGE.
   (A)   In accordance with the statutes of the State of Nebraska, including
Neb. RS 17-526, 17-547 and 17-557, it is hereby declared to be unlawful for any
person in charge or having custody or control thereof to permit any animal or
fowl to go loose or run at large in any of the public ways or upon the property
of another in the city, or to be tethered or staked out in a manner as to allow
an animal or fowl to reach to or pass into any public way or upon the property
of another, except in enclosed places on private property owned or leased by
the owner of the animal or fowl.
   (B)   Any person finding any animal or fowl upon his or her property to his
or her annoyance may take up the same and remove it to any private or other
animal shelter that will take possession of it. If a shelter is available, he
or she may hold the animal or fowl in his or her own possession, and shall, as
soon as possible, notify the Police Department of the custody, giving a
description of the animal or fowl and the name of the owner, if known. The
Police Department, as soon as possible after receiving notice, will dispatch an
officer to take possession of the animal or fowl. If the officer has or can
obtain with reasonable dispatch the name of the owner or custodian of the
animal or fowl, he or she will return it to the residence. If there is no one
at the residence, the officer will leave a notice as to where the owner or
custodian may reclaim the animal or fowl. The officer will then leave the
animal or fowl with the nearest animal hospital or shelter which will accept
the animal or fowl. The officer may then serve a citation on the owner or
custodian for permitting the animal or fowl to be at large.
   (C)   The owner or custodian who redeems an animal or fowl from an animal
hospital or shelter will pay a board bill on a per diem basis in an amount
previously agreed to between the city and the owner of the hospital or shelter,
but in no event shall the payment be less than $2.
   (D)   Any police officer or other person designated by the city for this
purpose is authorized to capture and impound any animal or fowl found at large.
In the event capture cannot be effected efficiently, the officer or person is
authorized to destroy the animal or fowl.
   (E)   If any animal or fowl is picked up which is not accepted by an animal
hospital or shelter, the officer or designated person is authorized to call a
trucking firm to convey the animal outside the corporate limits to a farm for
retention in the same manner as though it were placed in an animal hospital or
shelter.
   (F)   Any animal or fowl not redeemed within 72 hours will be disposed of.
The owner of the hospital or shelter is made an agent of the city for this
purpose and his or her action in this regard is declared to be for a
governmental purpose.
(1998 Code, § 6-202)
§ 93.077  NUMBER ON PREMISES RESTRICTED.
   It shall be illegal to possess, keep, harbor, permit to remain, lodge or
feed any animal or fowl within the city limits, including horses, mules,
donkeys, cattle, hogs or pigs, sheep or goats except as provided in §
93.100; provided that the Beard of Health may issue a permit to keep rabbits,
fowl or rodents for educational projects and laboratory uses; and provided
further that owners, or their heirs and assigns, upon those premises under
single ownership which upon the effective date of this chapter currently have
any animals or fowls maintained under a current permit, may continue to
possess, keep, harbor and lodge and feed the same kinds and numbers of animals
and fowls under the same restrictions until the activity is discontinued or
abandoned for three consecutive months or unless another permit is not obtained
or a permit is revoked or suspended as provided in this chapter.
(1998 Code, § 6-203)  (Ord. 738, passed 2-13-2001)  Penalty, see §
93.999
§ 93.078  SANITARY REGULATIONS.
   (A)   In accordance with the statutes of the State of Nebraska, including
Neb. RS 17-121, all pens, enclosures and shelter structures wherein animals or
fowls are kept under this chapter shall be kept in a sanitary condition, and
the bedding, offal, manure and waste material accumulating from these animals
or fowls shall be removed as needed and disposed of in a sanitary manner; and
all pens, enclosures and shelter structures shall, at all times, provide for
adequate drainage and shall be kept clean and disinfected so as to prevent the
breeding of flies and ether bacteria carrying insects and the emission of
offensive odors.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of the Board of Health and the Code Enforcement
Officer to enforce the provisions of this chapter.
(1998 Code, § 6-204)  (Ord. 738, passed 2-13-2001)
§ 93.079  RABIES.
   Animals or fowls suspected of having rabies, or those that have bitten a
person, shall be isolated for a period of 14 days, or until a clinical
diagnosis of rabies has been made. Animals or fowls bitten or suspected of
having been bitten by a rabid animal or fowl shall either be destroyed or be
kept segregated under veterinary control for the incubation period of the
disease or until released from segregation by veterinary authority.
(1998 Code, § 6-210)
§ 93.080  DUTY TO REMOVE DEAD ANIMALS AND FOWLS.
   If any animals or fowls shall die in the possession of any person in this
city, it shall be the duty of the person to cause the same to be at once
removed without the limits of the city and buried or otherwise disposed of. The
burial or disposition shall be at a place prescribed by and under the direction
of the Board of Health. In case the owner or person having charge of any animal
or fowl shall neglect or refuse to remove the animal or fowl within ten hours
after its death, then and in that event the Board of Health shall provide for
the removal of the dead animal at the expense of the owner or person having
charge of the same, the expenditure to be recovered in a civil action. Whenever
the owner or other person having charge of any dead animals or fowls cannot be
found, it shall be the duty of the Board of Health to cause the animal or fowl
to be removed and buried at the expense of the city.
(1998 Code, § 6-211)
§ 93.081  UNLAWFUL ACTS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to deposit or bury on any of the streets
or alleys or other places within the corporate limits of the city or within one
mile thereof, or cause to be buried, any carcass of any dead animal or fowl of
any kind; and it shall be unlawful for the owner or person having possession of
any animal or fowl that shall die to suffer the carcass of any animal or fowl
to remain within the corporate limits of the city or within one mile thereof
for more than ten hours after the death of the animal or fowl, except under the
direction of the Board of Health as provided in the preceding section. In no
event shall the dead animal or fowl be used as food for other animals, fowls or
humans.
(1998 Code, § 6-212)  Penalty, see §
93.999
§ 93.082  OFFENSIVE ODORS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to keep any cattle, hogs,
horses, goats, rabbits or other animals, chickens, ducks, geese, turkeys or any
other fowls in any pen, shed or yard within the city from which any offensive
odor shall be emitted; and the maintaining of any of the above mentioned
animals or fowls in that condition shall of itself constitute a nuisance.
(1998 Code, § 6-213)  Penalty, see §
93.999
§ 93.083  CRUELTY.
   Pursuant to the statutes of the State of Nebraska, including Neb. RS 17-138,
any person who shall unnecessarily or cruelly beat, injure, overload, overwork,
insufficiently feed, turn out to die, abandon or otherwise abuse any animal or
fowl within the limits of the city shall, upon conviction, be punished as
hereinafter provided.
(1998 Code, § 6-214)
§ 93.084  EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   (1)   The provisions of §§
93.075 through
93.085 and 93.100 through 93.104 shall not apply to veterinary clinics nor to
meat processing establishments, for their usual and necessary purposes, nor to
the pasturing of cattle, sheep, horses, mules, donkeys or goats on grasslands
or crop lands or the confined feeding of cattle, hogs, pigs, sheep, horses,
mules, donkeys, goats or fowl in areas annexed to the city after March 20,
1996.
      (2)   Confined feeding uses shall not be expanded in physical area unless
the confined feeding is a permitted use in the zoning district in which it is
located, as established by the zoning ordinance of the city, or unless the
zoning district allows that use as a special exception and the special
exception has been approved in accordance with the regulations set forth in the
zoning ordinance.
      (3)   Confined feeding facilities shall be deemed to be abandoned after
two consecutive years of non-use and the premises shall not thereafter be used
for confined feeding operations unless the use is a permitted use in the zoning
district in which it is located or unless the zoning ordinance allows for that
use as a special exception and the special exception has been approved.
   (B)   For purposes of this section, CONFINED FEEDING shall mean the
confining of one or more head of cattle, hogs, pigs, sheep, horses, mules,
donkeys, goats or fowl in buildings, pens, lots or other spaces designed for
the confined raising of those animals which are not used for the annual raising
of crops or grass for pasture.
(1998 Code, § 6-215)
§ 93.085  CONDITIONS FOR KEEPING HORSES AND CATTLE AND APPLICATION FOR PERMIT.
   Horses and cattle may be kept only in areas of the city designated as
Residential Ranchette (R-R) zoning districts upon issuance of a permit as
provided in the zoning regulations for the districts.
(Ord. 738, passed 2-13-2001; Ord. 761, passed 11-11-2001)
ANIMALS AND FOWL; PERMIT
§ 93.100  APPLICATION FOR PERMIT.
   Application for a permit to keep animals, except rabbits or fowls as
permitted in §
93.077 shall be made to the City Clerk-Treasurer, in writing, upon forms
provided for that purpose by the city. The application shall contain the
following information in addition to other information as the City Clerk-
Treasurer may require:
   (A)   Name and residence of applicant;
   (B)   Location of premises where animals or fowls are to be kept;
   (C)   Species of animals or fowls to be kept;
   (D)   Number of animals or fowls to be kept; and
   (E)   Diagram or plat of premises showing dimensions of premises, the
location of the enclosure, pen and shelter, and the distance from residence
buildings either on the same lot or on adjacent property.
(1998 Code, § 6-205)  (Ord. 738, passed 2-13-2001)
§ 93.101  ISSUANCE OF PERMIT.
   Before any permit for the keeping of any animals or fowls is issued, the
Zoning Administrator shall investigate the application and determine whether or
not the premises conform to all the requirements of this chapter and other
ordinances of the city with respect to the sanitation and location of
enclosures, pens and shelter. No permit shall be issued except upon the
recommendation of the Zoning Administrator. Upon recommendation of the Zoning
Administrator, the application shall be forwarded to the Planning Commission,
who shall hold a public hearing on the merits of the application. At the
conclusion of the public hearing, the Planning Commission shall forward a
recommendation to the City Council regarding approval or denial of the
application. The City Council upon receipt of the Planning Commission
recommendation shall either approve issuance of a permit or deny the
application for a permit.
(1998 Code, § 6-206)  (Ord. 738, passed 2-13-2001)
§ 93.102  PERMIT FEE.
   Before any permit is issued, the applicant shall pay to the City Clerk-
Treasurer a fee of $25 for each premises upon which animals or fowls are to be
kept. The fee shall be deposited with the City Clerk- Treasurer for credit to
the General Fund.
(1998 Code, § 6-207)  (Ord. 738, passed 2-13-2001)
§ 93.103  REVOCATION AND SUSPENSION OF PERMIT.
   Any permit issued hereunder shall be subject to revocation or suspension by
the City Council, after hearing, for violation by the permittee of any of the
provisions of this chapter or other ordinances of the city with respect to the
keeping of animals or fowls now in effect or hereafter enacted.
(1998 Code, § 6-208)
§ 93.104  TERM OF PERMIT.
   All permits issued under this chapter shall expire on May 31 following the
date of issuance, unless sooner revoked; and no permit shall be assignable or
transferable either as to the permittee, location or species of animals or
fowls.
(1998 Code, § 6-209)
§ 93.999  PENALTY.
   (A)   In accordance with the statutes of the State of Nebraska, including
Neb. RS 17-505, any person who shall violate or refuse to comply with the
enforcement of any of the provisions of this chapter shall be deemed guilty of
a misdemeanor and upon conviction thereof shall be fined not more than $500 for
any one offense, recoverable with costs.
   (B)   A new violation shall be deemed to have been committed every 24 hours
of failure to comply.
(1998 Code, § 6-401)  (Ord. 724, passed 1-25-2000; Ord. 950, passed 6-22-2010)
CHAPTER 94:  FIRE REGULATIONS
Section
Fire Scenes
   
94.01   Removal of property
   
94.02   Interference with firefighters
   
94.03   Obstructions
   
94.04   Following fire apparatus
   
94.05   Driving over unprotected fire hose
Fire Prevention
   
94.20   Requirements
   
94.21   Fire zone; defined
   
94.22   New construction and additions
   
94.23   Moving combustible buildings
   
94.24   Statewide open burning ban; waiver
   
94.25   Regulated fires
   
94.26   Flammable liquids; storage
   
94.27   Fireworks
   
94.28   Outdoor fireplaces
 
   
94.99   Penalty
FIRE SCENES
§ 94.01  REMOVAL OF PROPERTY.
   (A)   In accordance with the statutes of the State of Nebraska, including
Neb. RS 17-505, the Fire Chief, or any officer in charge of a fire, shall have
authority and power to cause the removal of property whenever it shall become
necessary for the preservation of more valuable property, the protection of
human life or to prevent the spreading of fire to adjoining property.
   (B)   The Fire Chief, or officer in charge, may direct the firefighters to
remove any building, structure or fence for the purpose of checking the
progress of any fire.
   (C)   The Fire Chief, or officer in charge, shall have the authority to blow
up, or cause to be blown up, with explosives any building or structure during
the progress of a fire for the purpose of checking the progress of the same.
(1998 Code, § 7-101)
§ 94.02  INTERFERENCE WITH FIREFIGHTERS.
   It shall be unlawful, pursuant to the statutes of the State of Nebraska,
including Neb. RS 28-908, to:
   (A)   Resist or interfere with the lawful efforts of any firefighter in the
discharge or attempt to discharge an official duty;
   (B)   Disobey the lawful orders given by any firefighter while performing
his or her duties;
   (C)   Engage in any disorderly conduct which delays or prevents a fire from
being extinguished within a reasonable time; or
   (D)   Forbid or prevent other from assisting or extinguishing a fire or
exhort another person, as to whom he or she has no legal right or obligation to
protect or control, not to assist in extinguishing a fire.
(1998 Code, § 7-102)  Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.03  OBSTRUCTIONS.
   (A)   Pursuant to the statutes of the State of Nebraska, including Neb. RS
60-6,166, it shall be unlawful for any person to obstruct the use of a fire
hydrant, or to have or place a vehicle or any material within 15 feet of a
hydrant.
   (B)   Any vehicle or material found to be an obstruction may be immediately
removed at the risk, cost and expense of the owner or claimant.
(1998 Code, § 7-103)  Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.04  FOLLOWING FIRE APPARATUS.
   Pursuant to the statutes of the State of Nebraska, including Neb. RS 60-
6,183, it shall be unlawful to follow any fire apparatus traveling in response
to a fire alarm closer than 500 feet or drive into or park a vehicle within the
block where fire apparatus has stopped in answer to a fire alarm.
(1998 Code, § 7-104)  Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.05  DRIVING OVER UNPROTECTED FIRE HOSE.
   Pursuant to the statutes of the State of Nebraska, including Neb. RS 60-
6,184, it shall be unlawful to drive a vehicle over unprotected hose of a Fire
Department when laid down on any highway or private road or driveway, in use or
to be used at any fire or alarm of fire, without the consent of the Fire Chief
or officer in charge.
(1998 Code, § 7-105)  Penalty, see §
94.99
FIRE PREVENTION
§ 94.20  REQUIREMENTS.
   In accordance with the statutes of the State of Nebraska, including Neb. RS
17-505 and 81-502, the rules and regulations promulgated by the State Fire
Marshal concerning the prevention of fires; the storage, sale and use of
flammable liquids, combustibles and fireworks; electric wiring and heating,
protection equipment devices, materials, furnishings and other safeguards;
exits; liquefied petroleum gases; hazardous materials; tanks; and accessibility
standards shall be enforced within the city by the Fire Chief. Where these
rules and regulations are lacking, the standards recommended by the National
Fire Protection Association, Pamphlet Number 101, known as the Life Safety
Code, and associated pamphlets, shall be enforced except when doing so would
impose an unduly severe or costly burden without substantially contributing to
the safety of persons or property. In accordance with the statutes of the State
of Nebraska, including Neb. RS 18-132, not less than one copy of the Life
Safety Code shall be filed for use and examination by the public in the office
of the City Clerk-Treasurer. Additionally, pursuant to the statutes of the
State of Nebraska, including Neb. RS 81-512, the Nebraska Natural Gas Pipeline
Safety Act of 1969 and the Petroleum Products and Hazardous Substances Storage
and Handling Act shall be enforced; and pursuant to the statutes of the State
of Nebraska, including Neb. RS 81-520.01, the statewide open burning ban may be
waived in writing by the Fire Chief or his or her designee.
(1998 Code, § 7-201)
§ 94.21  FIRE ZONE; DEFINED.
   The following described territories in the city shall be and constitute the
FIRE ZONE:
      Blocks Ten (10), Eleven (11), Twelve (12), Seventeen (17), Eighteen (18),
Nineteen (19), Twenty-four (24), Twenty-five (25), Twenty-six (26) , the west
one-half (W1/2) of Thirty-one (31) , Thirty-two (32) and Thirty-three (33), all
in the Original Town, now the City of Aurora, Hamilton County, Nebraska, as
shown on the recorded plat thereof.
(1998 Code, § 7-202)
§ 94.22  NEW CONSTRUCTION AND ADDITIONS.
   In accordance with the statutes of the State of Nebraska, including Neb. RS
17-130, 17-131, 17-132, 17-136, 17-137, 17-505, 17-549 and 17-550, it shall be
unlawful for any person, persons, company or corporation to build, erect,
construct or cause to be built, erected or constructed any wooden or other
combustible building or part thereof or to enlarge any building or to build any
addition thereto within the fire zone, except as allowed herein.
   (A)   Building requirements. Every building hereafter erected or enlarged
within the fire zone shall be enclosed on all sides with wall constructed
wholly of stone, well-burned brick, terra cotta, concrete or equivalent
noncombustible materials; provided that non-bearing interior walls, roofs and
dormer windows on masonry buildings may be constructed with wood joists or
studs, but the roofs and dormer windows, shall, in all cases, be covered with
noncombustible material, with tin, iron, slate, tile or fire proof roof;
provided further, noncombustible materials may be construed to include wood
when applied to floors in any building within the fire zone. All cornices shall
be noncombustible material, and provided further that a wood veneer of not less
than one inch nominal thickness or exterior type plywood or particle board not
less than three-eighths inch nominal thickness may be applied to walls fronting
on streets or yards which walls are constructed of noncombustible materials,
the wood shall be placed either directly against the noncombustible surfaces or
furred out from those surfaces not to exceed one and five-eighths inches with
all concealed spaces fire stopped.
   (B)   Minor repairs. Minor repairs on existing wooden or iron clad
structures, such as to stop leaky shingle roofs, siding on existing warehouses
or storage sheds, where the work might be fairly construed as patching or
covering small areas on the outside or inside of combustible buildings, shall
not require fireproof materials.
   (C)   Roofing. When combustible buildings are permitted to be roofed or
reroofed in the fire zone, roof covering over all combustible roof construction
shall be either of the following kinds:
      (1)   Composition roofings bearing the label and laid in the manner
provided by the Underwriters Laboratory, Inc., for Class A and B;
      (2)   Concrete slab or concrete tile;
      (3)   Slate;
      (4)   Clay;
      (5)   Tile; or
      (6)   Asphalt.
(1998 Code, § 7-203)  (Ord. 809, passed 10-12-2004)
§ 94.23  MOVING COMBUSTIBLE BUILDINGS.
   (A)   Generally. It shall be unlawful for any person, persons, company or
corporation to move in, on or place upon any lot or parcel of ground within the
fire zone, any wooden or combustible building or structure, or any part
thereof, which had been built, erected or constructed elsewhere, or to remove
any building or structure or part thereof from one part of the same lot to
another part thereof within the fire zone, except as provided herein.
   (B)   Temporary permits.  Upon application in writing from the owner or
agent, permission may be granted by a two-thirds vote of the elected members of
the Council for a temporary removal of a combustible building to a location in
the street or other place within the fire zone as the Council shall specify,
when the owner of the building desires immediately to construct on its former
site a building of noncombustible material and shall immediately after the
completion of the noncombustible building, move the combustible building
outside the fire zone.
      (1)   Bond. Before any permit shall be issued, the owner or agent
desiring the same shall furnish the city with a good and sufficient bond
conditioned to save the city harmless from any liability occasioned by the
removal.
      (2)   Penalty. There shall be imposed a penalty as set by City Council
resolution for each and every day the combustible building remains on its
temporary site after substantial completion of the noncombustible building.
(1998 Code, § 7-204)  Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.24  STATEWIDE OPEN BURNING BAN; WAIVER.
   In accordance with the statutes of the State of Nebraska, including Neb. RS
81-520.01, there is a statewide open burning ban on all bonfires, outdoor
rubbish fires and fires for the purpose of clearing land. The Fire Chief or his
or her designee may waive the ban by issuing an open burning permit in writing,
on a form prescribed by the State Fire Marshal, when conditions are deemed
acceptable.
(1998 Code, § 7-205)  Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.25  REGULATED FIRES.
   In accordance with the statutes of the State of Nebraska, including Neb. RS
17-505 and 17-549, it shall be lawful to build or set out certain fires;
provided, that the person building those fires shall have the substance to be
burned in a fireproof trash burner or incinerator with a metal fireproof screen
of not more than one-half inch mesh, and located at least 15 feet from any
building. The incinerator shall be built in a way as to not permit the escape
of burning paper or other substance. If any person shall require a fire in the
course of his or her trade as a blacksmith or mechanic, the fire shall be built
and maintained in the manner prescribed by the Fire Chief. All fires shall be
built after 7:00 a.m. and completely extinguished by 8:00 p.m., except the
aforesaid fires used in the course of a trade which shall be allowed during
those hours as the Fire Chief shall prescribe. It shall be unlawful for any
person to set fire to, burn or cause to be burned any garbage, animal matter or
vegetable matter. The burning of straw, hay, leaves or brush in the open air is
only permitted upon receipt of an open burning permit in accordance with §
94.24, and provided that the fire is attended by the person setting out the
same at all times and is located at least 20 feet from any building.
(1998 Code, § 7-206)  (Ord. 1018, passed 7-14-2015)  Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.26  FLAMMABLE LIQUIDS; STORAGE.
   In accordance with the statutes of the State of Nebraska, including Neb. RS
17-137, it shall be unlawful to store above ground gasoline or Class I
flammable liquids for wholesale, resale or private use in excess of five gallon
containers, except that in zoning district designated as an I-2 Industrial
District, it shall be lawful to store above ground gasoline or Class I
flammable liquids for private use in excess of five gallon containers provided
said storage is in compliance with the statutes of the State of Nebraska and
provided said storage is a minimum of 500 feet in a straight line from any
zoning district designated as an R-1 Residential District.
(1998 Code, § 7-207)  (Ord. 1040, passed 1-10-2017)  Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.27  FIREWORKS.
   Permissible fireworks may be discharged, exploded, or used in the city on
June 25 through and including July 4, and on July 5 if such date falls on a
Saturday, of each year; provided that on such days the discharge and explosion
of fireworks shall be permitted during the following times:
   (A)   June 25 through July 3: 8:00 a.m. to 10:00 p.m.;
   (B)   July 4: 8:00 a.m. to midnight; and
   (C)   July 5 if it falls on a Saturday: 8:00 a.m. to midnight.
(1998 Code, § 7-208)  (Ord. 999, passed 6-24-2014)  Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.28  OUTDOOR FIREPLACES.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      CHIMINEAS. An outdoor patio fireplace, usually made from clay, intended
to confine and control outdoor wood fires.
      FIRE PITS. Usually constructed of steel, concrete and or stones and
constructed above ground with a heavy steel screen cover.
      OUTDOOR FIREPLACES. Shall include fire pits, portable fire pits, and
chimineas. These devices shall use wood as fuel and are used for contained
recreational fire located at a private residence for the purpose of outdoor
cooking and personal enjoyment. OUTDOOR FIREPLACES do not include barbeque
grills that use propane or charcoal as a fuel and used primarily for outdoor
cooking.
      PORTABLE FIRE PITS. Being commercially designed and intended to confine
and control outdoor wood fires.
   (B)   All outdoor fireplaces shall meet the following requirements:
      (1)   Outdoor fireplaces shall be constructed of concrete or approved
noncombustible materials. The fire fuel area and opening shall be completely
enclosed by steel screening or an approved noncombustible screening material
with openings in screening not to exceed one-half inch square. These
requirements also shall apply to vent stacks, chimneys and openings to fire
pits.
      (2)   The fire pit fuel area shall not exceed three feet in diameter nor
two feet in height.
      (3)   Burn materials shall be untreated wood only. Rubbish, grass,
leaves, cardboard, tires, plastics, railroad ties, treated lumber and household
garbage shall not be burned.
      (4)   The amount of material being burned shall be limited to ensure
containment of the fire within the device and shall follow the manufacturer's
recommendation on fuel amounts.
      (5)   Devices shall be continuously attended by a responsible person
until the fire is completely extinguished and will not rekindle. Outdoor
fireplaces shall not be operated when winds exceed ten miles per hour or if
embers and smoke might travel to other combustible materials.
      (6)   Smoke from any outdoor fireplaces shall not create a nuisance for
adjacent property owners. The Fire Chief and assistant chiefs will be
authorized to require any fire to be extinguished immediately if he/she
determines the outdoor fireplace is creating an unsafe condition due to
weather, amount of fuel being burned, or if the device is deemed improper.
      (7)   An open burn permit is not required for these devices provided that
the fire is completely contained within the device and covered by a screen or
similar device which meets the requirement identified above at all times.
      (8)   Outdoor fireplaces shall be placed no closer than 15 feet from a
structure or combustible material.
(Ord. 1018, passed 7-14-2015)
§ 94.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   In accordance with the statutes of the State of Nebraska, including
Neb. RS 17-505, any person who shall violate or refuse to comply with the
enforcement of any of the provisions of this chapter shall be deemed guilty of
a misdemeanor and upon conviction thereof shall be fined not more than $500 for
any one offense, recoverable with costs.
   (B)   A new violation shall be deemed to have been committed every 24 hours
of failure to comply.
(1998 Code, § 7-301)  (Ord. 724, passed 1-25-2000; Ord. 950, passed 6-22-2010)
CHAPTER 95:  PUBLIC WAYS AND PROPERTY
Section
Municipal Property
   
95.01   Maintenance and control
   
95.02   Placement of trees, underground water sprinklers and other obstructions
and responsibility for repairs or damages
   
95.03   Encroachments
   
95.04   Sale
   
95.05   Signs and canopies
   
95.06   Acquisition of public buildings
   
95.07   Injury to property
Sidewalks
   
95.20   Overhanging branches
   
95.21   Snow removal
   
95.22   Space beneath
   
95.23   Construction and maintenance
Streets
   
95.35   Names and numbers
   
95.36   Pedestrian crossings
   
95.37   Creating, improving and vacating
   
95.38   Excavations; stakes, mixing concrete and harmful liquids
   
95.39   Cutting curbs
   
95.40   Eave and gutter spouts
   
95.41   Heavy equipment and studded tires
   
95.42   Pipe lines and wires
   
95.43   Improvement districts
   
95.44   Street closings
 
   
95.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Utilities Superintendent, Street Commissioner, Building Inspector and Zoning
Administrator; position created; duties, see §
32.19
MUNICIPAL PROPERTY
§ 95.01  MAINTENANCE AND CONTROL.
   In accordance with the statutes of the State of Nebraska, including Neb. RS
17-567, the Mayor and Council shall have the care, supervision and control of
all public highways, bridges, streets, alleys, public squares and commons
within the city and shall cause the same to be kept open and in repair and free
from nuisances.
(1998 Code, § 8-101)
§ 95.02  PLACEMENT OF TREES, UNDERGROUND WATER SPRINKLERS AND OTHER
OBSTRUCTIONS AND RESPONSIBILITY FOR REPAIRS OR DAMAGES.
   Pursuant to the statutes of the State of Nebraska, including Neb. RS 17-555,
it shall be unlawful for any person to:
   (A)   Plant, or allow to grow, any tree or shrub within a street right-of-
way without first making a written or verbal application and receiving a
written permit from the Street Commissioner to do so. Any tree or shrub
otherwise planted and growing hereafter or any other obstruction within a
right-of-way may be declared a nuisance by the Mayor and Council and ordered to
be removed. Upon failure of the owner to remove the nuisance, the city may
cause the removal at the owner’s expense; and
   (B)   Underground sprinklers or mailboxes may be located in the street
right-of-way subject to the following conditions. The city will not repair or
pay for any repairs or damage done to any underground water sprinklers or
mailboxes or other obstructions located in a right-of-way which may be damaged
by the city while engaged in municipal operations.
(1998 Code, § 8-102)  (Ord. 712, passed 8-24-1999)  Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.03  ENCROACHMENTS.
   (A)   Pursuant to the statutes of the State of Nebraska, including Neb. RS
17-555, 17-557 and 17-557.01, it shall be unlawful for any person to obstruct
the sidewalks, streets, avenues, alleys and other city property by placing
structures projecting upon, over, under and adjoining the property.
   (B)   If, after five days’ notice, the owner refuses or neglects to remove
all encroachments, the city may cause the encroachments to be removed and the
costs thereof assessed against the abutting property.
(1998 Code, § 8-103)  Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.04  SALE.
   Real and personal property of the city may be conveyed in accordance with
the provisions of the statutes of the State of Nebraska, including Neb. RS 17-
503 and 17-503.01.
(1998 Code, § 8-104)
§ 95.05  SIGNS AND CANOPIES.
   In accordance with the statutes of the State of Nebraska, including Neb. RS
17-140, no person shall erect or maintain any sign, signboard, poster or rigid
canopy upon or over the streets, sidewalks and public grounds of the city
without first having obtained a permit therefor from the Building Inspector.
All signs and canopies extending over any public sidewalk, street, alley or
other public place must be securely fastened and constructed so that there will
be no danger of the same being dislodged by ordinary winds or falling from
other causes. No sign or canopy shall be erected or maintained which extends
over any public sidewalk, street, alley or other public place in a location as
to obstruct the view of any traffic light, sign or signal. Upon the written
order of the Mayor and Council, any person owning or occupying the premises
where a sign, canopy, poster or signboard is located shall cause the same to be
removed within the time limit specified in that notice.
(1998 Code, § 8-105)  Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.06  ACQUISITION OF PUBLIC BUILDINGS.
   In accordance with the statutes of the State of Nebraska, including Neb. RS
17-953, 17-953.01, 17-954 and 17-955, the city may purchase, accept by gift or
devise, purchase real estate upon which to erect and erect a public building.
(1998 Code, § 8-106)
§ 95.07  INJURY TO PROPERTY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to maliciously or willfully cut down,
injure, or destroy any tree, plant, or shrub in any city park or recreational
facility. It shall be unlawful for any person to injure or destroy any sodded
or planted area or injure or destroy any building, structure, equipment, fence,
bench, table, or any other property of any city park or recreational area. No
person shall commit any waste on or litter the city parks or other public
grounds.
Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Littering of public and private property, see Neb. RS 28-523
SIDEWALKS
§ 95.20  OVERHANGING BRANCHES.
   Pursuant to the statutes of the State of Nebraska, including Neb. RS 17-557
and 17-557.01, the owner of any lot, piece or parcel of ground abutting any
right-of-way on which a street has been constructed and over which street there
extends the branches of trees shall at all times keep the branches or limbs
thereof trimmed to the height of at least 12 feet above the surface of the
street. The owner of any lot, piece or parcel of ground abutting any right-of-
way on which a sidewalk has been constructed and over which sidewalk there
extends the branches of trees when the tree branches do not also extend over
any street, shall at all times keep the branches and limbs thereof trimmed to
the height of at least seven and one-half feet above the surface of the walk.
Whenever branches or limbs extend otherwise, the Council may pass a resolution
ordering the owner to cut or remove the obstructions within five days after its
publication, or personal service of notice thereof, or the city will remove the
branches or limbs and charge the costs thereof as a special assessment to the
abutting property.
(1998 Code, § 8-201)  Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.21  SNOW REMOVAL.
   Pursuant to the statutes of the State of Nebraska, including Neb. RS 17-555,
17-557 and 17-557.01, the owner of any lot, piece or parcel of ground abutting
any right-of-way on which a sidewalk has been constructed shall clear the
sidewalk of all snow which has been deposited thereon either by forces of
nature or by actions of man which can be physically removed by use of a shovel
or other manual device. The owner shall clear the sidewalk within 24 hours
after the snow is deposited, or, if the snow is deposited on a holiday or
Sunday, by 6:00 p.m. of the first business day following the holiday or Sunday.
If the owner refuses or neglects to clear the sidewalk as provided above, after
five days’ notice by publication or personal service, the Street Commissioner
may cause the snow to be removed and the costs thereof assessed to the abutting
property.
(1998 Code, § 8-202)  Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.22  SPACE BENEATH.
   In accordance with the statutes of the State of Nebraska, including Neb. RS
17-141, no person shall be allowed to keep or use the space beneath the
sidewalk lying between the lot line and curb line unless a permit therefor
shall have been obtained from the Building Inspector. The applicant for the
permit shall submit plans and specifications of any proposed construction for
review and approval of the Building Inspector. A permit hereafter granted shall
continue only upon the condition that the grantee shall build, maintain and
keep in repair a sidewalk over the space and pay all damages that may be
sustained by any person by reason of the use or by reason of the sidewalk being
defective or in a dangerous condition. As a condition precedent to the issuance
of a permit, the applicant may be required to furnish a bond to the city as
obligee for the benefit of any person or persons who may suffer damages by
reason of that use. The bond shall be in a sum as the Mayor and Council in its
discretion may specify.
(1998 Code, § 8-203)  Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.23  CONSTRUCTION AND MAINTENANCE.
   In accordance with the statutes of the State of Nebraska, including Neb. RS
17-522 through 17-724, the city may construct and repair sidewalks and assess
the expense thereof on the property in front of which the construction or
repairs are made. All sidewalks constructed around the Courthouse Square and
one-half a block there from, L Street from Twelfth Street to Thirteenth Street,
M Street from Twelfth Street to Thirteenth Street, Twelfth Street from L Street
to M Street and Thirteenth Street from L Street to M Street and a half a block
there from shall be constructed according to the standards of the Cornerstone
Model previously adopted by this Council, and no building permit shall be
issued for construction of sidewalks whose design is not in conformity with the
Cornerstone Model.
(1998 Code, § 8-204)  (Ord. 771, passed 9-24-2002)
STREETS
§ 95.35  NAMES AND NUMBERS.
   In accordance with the statutes of the State of Nebraska, including Neb. RS
17-567, the Mayor and Council may at any time, by ordinance, rename any street
or provide a name for any new street. Buildings used for residence or business
purposes and located along those streets shall retain those numbers as the
Street Commissioner shall assign.
(1998 Code, § 8-301)
§ 95.36  PEDESTRIAN CROSSINGS.
   In accordance with the statutes of the State of Nebraska, including Neb. RS
60-680, the Mayor and Council may order and cause to be constructed, under the
supervision of the Street Commissioner, street, avenue and alley pedestrian
crossings as the Mayor and Council shall deem necessary.
(1998 Code, § 8-302)
§ 95.37  CREATING, IMPROVING AND VACATING.
   In accordance with the statutes of the State of Nebraska, including Neb. RS
17-558, 17-559 and 76-704 through 76-724, the Mayor and Council may create,
open, widen or otherwise improve or vacate any street, avenue, alley or lane
within the city limits.
(1998 Code, § 8-303)
§ 95.38  EXCAVATIONS; STAKES, MIXING CONCRETE AND HARMFUL LIQUIDS.
   Pursuant to the statutes of the State of Nebraska, including Neb. RS 17-142
and 17-557, it shall be unlawful for any person to make an excavation in any
street or to drive any peg or stake of any kind into the pavement of any street
for any purpose whatsoever unless a written permit has been issued by the
Street Commissioner; and it shall be unlawful for any person to mix any
concrete or plastering material directly on the street pavement or to place or
permit to leak into the gutter of any street waste gasoline, kerosene or high
lubricating oils which damage or act as a solvent upon the streets.
(1998 Code, § 8-304)  Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.39  CUTTING CURBS.
   Pursuant to the statutes of the State of Nebraska, including Neb. RS 17-567,
it shall be unlawful for any person to cut into any paving, curb or sidewalk
for any purpose without first having obtained permission from the Street
Commissioner. When cutting into any paving, it shall be done under the rules
and specifications prescribed by the Street Commissioner. Before closure, the
applicant shall contact the Street Commissioner who shall supervise and inspect
the materials used and the work done in closing the opening. It shall be
discretionary with the Street Commissioner to have city employees perform the
cutting and closing work. The applicant shall be liable for all necessary
street, alley and sidewalk repairs for a period of one year after the work is
completed.
(1998 Code, § 8-305)  Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.40  EAVE AND GUTTER SPOUTS.
   Pursuant to the statutes of the State of Nebraska, including Neb. RS 17-557,
it shall be unlawful for any person to erect or maintain any dwelling house or
business building within the limits of the city where the dwelling or building
abuts on any sidewalk or street without providing proper guttering and eave
spouts to receive the waters that collect on the sidewalks and streets. All
eave spouts expected on any dwelling house or business building shall be
constructed to drain into the alleys, or where it is found to be impossible to
drain the eave spouts into the alley, they shall be buried beneath the
sidewalks and drain into the streets.
(1998 Code, § 8-306)  Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.41  HEAVY EQUIPMENT AND STUDDED TIRES.
   Pursuant to the statutes of the State of Nebraska, including Neb. RS 17-567
and 60-6,250, it shall be unlawful for any person: to move or operate heavy
equipment across any curb, gutter, bridge, culvert, sidewalk, crosswalk or
crossing on any unpaved street without first having protected the curb, gutter,
bridge, culvert, sidewalks, crosswalk or crossing with heavy planking
sufficient in strength to warrant against the breaking or damaging of the curb,
gutter, bridge, culvert, sidewalk, crosswalk or crossing; or to run, drive,
move, operate or convey over or across any paved street a vehicle, machine or
implement with sharp discs or sharp wheels that bear upon the pavement, with
wheels having cutting edges, with wheels having lugs, protruding parts or bolts
thereon that extend beyond a plain tire so as to cut, mark, mar, indent or
otherwise injure or damage any pavement, gutter or curb. Nothing in this
section shall be construed to apply to pneumatic tires with metal or metal-type
studs not exceeding five-sixteenths of an inch in diameter inclusive of the
stud-casting with an average protrusion beyond the tread surface of not more
than seven sixty-fourths of an inch between November 1 and April 1; provided,
that school buses, mail carrier vehicles and emergency vehicles shall be
permitted to use metal or metal-type studs all year; it shall be permissible to
use farm machinery with tires having protuberances which will not injure the
streets; and it shall be permissible to use tire chains of reasonable
proportions upon any vehicle when required for safety because of snow, ice or
other conditions tending to cause a vehicle to slide or skid.
(1998 Code, § 8-307)  Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.42  PIPE LINES AND WIRES.
   Poles, wires, gas mains, pipe lines and other appurtenances of public
service companies shall be located or erected over, upon or under the streets,
alleys and common grounds of the city. Application for location of the above
shall be made to the Street Commissioner in writing. Approval or disapproval
shall be issued in writing. Any public service company granted a right-of-way
for the erection and maintenance of poles, conduits, gas mains, pipe lines and
wires shall at all times erect and locate its poles, wires, gas mains, pipe
lines and other appurtenances at those places and in a manner as shall be
designated by the city. The poles, wires, gas mains, pipe lines and other
appurtenances shall be removed or relocated by companies at their own expense
when requested to do so by the City Council. Any relocation shall be ordered by
resolution of the City Council and the City Clerk-Treasurer shall notify any
and all companies affected. The companies shall within 24 hours after receiving
notice, at their own expense, cause the poles, wires, gas mains, pipe lines or
other appurtenances to be removed. The City Council shall designate another
location as close as possible where the poles, wires, gas mains, pipe lines or
other appurtenances shall be reset, placed or erected in a manner that they
will not interfere with the water system, sewerage system, poles, wires and
mains of any public utility, adjacent buildings or with travel on the public
ways and property, Whenever possible, all pole lines, wires, gas mains, pipe
lines or appurtenances shall be confined to the alleys of the city.
(1998 Code, § 8-308)
§ 95.43  IMPROVEMENT DISTRICTS.
   In accordance with the statutes of the State of Nebraska, including Neb. RS
17-509 through 17-521, 17-524, 18-1705, 18-1751, 18-2001 through 18-2005, 19-
2408 through 19-2415, 19-2427 through 19-2431 and 76-704 through 76-724, the
city shall have the power to grade partially or to an established grade, change
grade, curb, recurb, gutter, regutter, pave, gravel regravel, macadamize,
remacacamize, widen or narrow streets or roadways, resurface or relay existing
pavement or otherwise improve any street, streets, alley, alleys, public
grounds, public way or ways, or parts thereof, a street which divides the city
corporate area and the area adjoining the city, construct or reconstruct
pedestrian walks, plazas, malls, landscaping, outdoor sprinkler systems,
fountains, decorative water ponds, lighting systems and permanent facilities
used in connection therewith, construct sidewalks and improve the sidewalk
space, at public cost or by levy of special assessments on the property
especially benefitted thereby, proportionate to benefits, and by ordinance to
create paving, repaving, grading, curbing, recurbing, resurfacing, graveling or
improvement districts therefor, to be consecutively numbered, which may include
two or more connecting or intersecting streets, alleys or public ways, and may
include two or more of the improvements in one proceeding. These improvements
may be by petition, by ordinance, as special improvement districts, without
petition or creation of a district, or as combined improvements. Needed land
may be acquired by purchase, gift or eminent domain proceedings.
(1998 Code, § 8-309)
§ 95.44  STREET CLOSINGS.
   In accordance with the statutes of the state, including Neb. RS 17-567, the
Mayor, Chief of Police, and City Street Commissioner may collectively direct
the closing of all public highways, bridges, streets, alleys, public squares
and commons within the city for a period not to exceed 48 hours, as they deem
appropriate and in the best interests of the public.
(Ord. 980, passed 12-11-2012)
§ 95.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   In accordance with the statutes of the State of Nebraska, including
Neb. RS 17-505, any person who shall violate or refuse to comply with the
enforcement of any of the provisions of this chapter shall be deemed guilty of
a misdemeanor and upon conviction thereof shall be fined not more than $500 for
any one offense, recoverable with costs.
   (B)   A new violation shall be deemed to have been committed every 24 hours
of failure to comply.
(1998 Code, § 8-401)  (Ord. 724, passed 1-25-2000; Ord. 950, passed 6-22-2010)
CHAPTER 96:  NOISE
Section
   
96.01   Findings; application of chapter
   
96.02   Definitions
   
96.03   Authority of noise control officer
   
96.04   Prohibitions
   
96.05   Exceptions and variances
   
96.06   Retaliation
   
96.07   Appearance tickets
 
   
96.99   Penalty
§ 96.01  FINDINGS; APPLICATION OF CHAPTER.
   Excessive sound and vibration are a serious hazard to the public health,
welfare, safety and quality of life, and a substantial body of science and
technology exists by which excessive sound and vibration may be substantially
abated. The people have a right to and should be ensured an environment free
from excessive and unwarranted sound and vibration that may jeopardize their
health, welfare or safety or degrade the quality of life. The damage and
discomfort caused to the people arises both from stationary and non-stationary
sound and vibration and this chapter shall apply to both.
(Ord. 926, passed 3-24-2009)
§ 96.02  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COMMERCIAL AREA. Land primarily being used as office, governmental, retail
or other commercial type uses.
   INDUSTRIAL AREA. Land primarily being zoned as a manufacturing or industrial
site, including airports.
   MOTOR VEHICLE. Any vehicle which is propelled or drawn on land by a motor,
such as, but not limited to, passenger cars, trucks, truck-trailers, semi-
trailers, campers, go-carts, snowmobiles, amphibious craft on land, dune
buggies or racing vehicles, but not including motorcycles.
   MOTORCYCLE. An unenclosed motor vehicle having a saddle for the use of the
operator and two or three wheels in contact with the ground, including, but not
limited to, motor scooters, mini-bikes and motor-driven cycles.
   NOISE CONTROL OFFICER. The Chief of Police and his or her agents who have
lead responsibility for the enforcement of this chapter.
   NOISE DISTURBANCE. Any sound which either exceeds the maximum permissible
sound levels of this chapter or which endangers or injures the safety or health
of humans or animals, annoys or disturbs a reasonable person of normal
sensitivities, or endangers or injures personal or real property.
   NOISE SENSITIVE ZONE. Areas in the city which contain noise sensitive
activities, such as schools, libraries, churches, hospitals and nursing homes,
as designated by ordinance of the City Council.
   REAL PROPERTY BOUNDARY. The imaginary line which represents the legal limits
of property (including an apartment, condominium, room or other dwelling unit)
owned, leased or otherwise occupied by a person, business, corporation or
institution. In cases involving sound from an activity on a public street or
other public right of way, the REAL PROPERTY BOUNDARY shall be the nearest
boundary of the public right-of-way.
   RESIDENTIAL AREA. Land zoned for one, two or more family dwelling(s) and
located adjacent to or near other residentially zoned land.
(Ord. 926, passed 3-24-2009)
§ 96.03  AUTHORITY OF NOISE CONTROL OFFICER.
   (A)   Powers. This chapter shall be administered and enforced by the Noise
Control Officer. In order to implement and enforce this chapter, and for the
general purpose of noise abatement and control, the Noise Control Officer shall
have, in addition to any other authority vested in him or her, the power to:
      (1)   Conduct or cause to be conducted research, monitoring and other
studies related to sound and vibration; and
      (2)   Promulgate rules and procedures to establish techniques for
measuring noise, and to provide for clarification, interpretation and
implementation of this chapter.
   (B)   Duties. In order to implement and enforce this chapter effectively,
the Noise Control Officer shall, within a reasonable time after the effective
date of this chapter:
      (1)   Investigate and pursue possible violations of this chapter;
      (2)   Delegate functions, where appropriate, under this chapter, to
personnel within the City Police Department; and
      (3)   Prepare recommendations, to be approved by the City Council, for
the designation of noise sensitive zones.
   (C)   Enforcement. The administration and enforcement of noise control shall
be controlled by the following standards:
      (1)   The primary means of detection of a noise disturbance shall be by
means of the Noise Control Officer’s and other properly delegated enforcement
officials’ ordinary auditory senses of hearing not enhanced by any mechanical
device, such as a microphone or hearing aid;
      (2)   An enforcing officer or other witness need not determine the
particular words or phrases being produced or the name of any song or artist
producing the sound; and
      (3)   The detection of any rhythmic bass or reverberating type of sound
is sufficient to constitute a plainly audible sound which may constitute a
noise disturbance.
(Ord. 926, passed 3-24-2009)
§ 96.04  PROHIBITIONS.
   (A)   Generally. No person shall unreasonably make or continue, or cause to
be made or continued, any noise disturbance.
   (B)   Radios, musical instruments and similar devices. No person shall
operate or play, or permit the operation or playing of, any radio, television,
phonograph, drum, musical instrument, sound amplifier or similar device which
produces, reproduces or amplifies sound in a manner as to:
      (1)   Disturb the peace, quiet and comfort of the neighboring
inhabitants, or at any time with louder volume than is necessary for convenient
hearing for the person or persons who are in the building or structure in which
the machine or device is operated and who are voluntary listeners thereto. The
operation of a device between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. in this
manner as to be plainly audible at a distance of 100 feet from the building or
structure in which it is located, shall be prima facie evidence of a violation
of this section. This section, however, does not apply to a school,
governmental unit or bona fide nonprofit organization; and
      (2)   Create a noise disturbance when operated in or on a motor vehicle
on a public right-of-way, public space or space open to the general public. If
a device is plainly audible at a distance of 50 feet in any direction, between
the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. or 100 feet in any direction between the
hours of 7:00 a.m. and 10:00 p.m., this shall serve as prima facie evidence of
a violation.
   (C)   Loudspeakers. No person shall use or operate for any noncommercial
purpose any loudspeaker, public address system or similar device between 10:00
p.m. and 7:00 a.m. of the following day so that the sound therefrom creates a
noise disturbance across a residential area boundary or within a noise
sensitive zone. No person shall use or operate for any commercial purpose any
loudspeaker, public address system or similar device so that the sound
therefrom creates a noise disturbance across a real property boundary or within
a noise sensitive zone, or between 10:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. of the following
day on a public right of way or public space.
   (D)   Sound amplifiers and sirens. No person shall operate any sound
amplifying device and/or sirens for the purpose of advertising, announcing an
event or attracting the attention of the public. This section, however, does
not apply to a school, governmental unit or bona fide nonprofit organization.
   (E)   Exhaust system. No person shall operate a motor vehicle or motorcycle
equipped with an exhaust system that emits excessive or unusual noise.
   (F)   Heavy equipment. Except for work on essential services, no person
shall use any pile driver, shovel, hammer, derrick, hoist, tractor, roller or
other construction apparatus between 10:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m., within 600 feet
of a residential area, multi-family area or noise sensitive zone.
   (G)   Loading and unloading. No person shall load, unload, open, close or
otherwise handle boxes, crates, containers, building materials, garbage trucks,
garbage cans or similar objects between 11:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. in a manner as
to cause a noise disturbance across the boundary of a residential area or
multi-family area, or within a noise sensitive zone, unless as specifically
authorized by the Noise Control Officer and/or his or her agents.
   (H)   Stationary non-emergency signaling devices. No person shall permit the
sounding of any electronically amplified signal from any stationary bell,
chime, siren, whistle or similar device intended primarily for non-emergency
purposes. These devices, when used in conjunction with places of religious
worship, or railroad crossing signals, shall be exempt from this division.
   (I)   Motorized vehicles and motorcycles on public right-of-way. No person
shall operate or cause to be operated a public or private motor vehicle or
motorcycle on a public right-of-way at any time in  a manner that the sound
level emitted by the motor vehicle or motorcycle disturbs the reasonable peace,
quiet and comfort of any person 500 feet or more from the path of the motor
vehicle or motorcycle. This section shall apply to the total noise from a
vehicle or a combination of attached vehicles and shall not be construed as
limiting or precluding the enforcement of any other provision of the code of
ordinances relating to motor vehicle mufflers.
   (J)   Motorized vehicles and motorcycles operating off public right-of-way.
No person shall operate or cause to be operated any motor vehicle or motorcycle
off a public right-of-way in a manner that the sound level emitted therefrom
disturbs the reasonable peace, quiet and comfort of any person 500 feet or more
from the path of the motor vehicle or motorcycle, or at or across the real
property boundary when operated on private property. This section shall apply
to all motor vehicles and motorcycles, whether or not duly licensed and
registered.
(Ord. 926, passed 3-24-2009)  Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.05  EXCEPTIONS AND VARIANCES.
   (A)   Emergencies. This chapter shall not apply to creating sound for the
purpose of alerting persons to the existence of an emergency, oncoming trains,
creating sound in the performance of emergency work or creating sound in the
performance of law enforcement activities by the Chief of Police and/or his or
her agents.
   (B)   Lawn maintenance and residential construction equipment. Customary
lawn maintenance equipment for residential use, such as lawn mowers, leaf
blowers and chain saws, as well as customary residential construction
equipment, from 8:00 a.m. to 9:00 p.m., if in good working order and if used
only as needed, may exceed the maximum sound guidelines established above.
   (C)   Residential snow removal. Snow blowers for residential use if in good
working order and if used only as needed may exceed the maximum sound
guidelines established above.
   (D)   Commercial snow removal. Snow removal from commercial or industrial
property by any internal combustion device is permitted at all times if the
snow removal equipment has a properly functioning muffler.
   (E)   State, county, municipal, school district and hospital equipment. This
chapter shall not apply to sound made by street and sidewalk maintenance
equipment or snow removal equipment used by the state, county, city, a school
district, a hospital or their agents.
   (F)   Special variances.
      (1)   The City Council may, consistent with this section, grant special
variances which may be requested.
      (2)   Any person seeking a special variance pursuant to this section
shall file an application with the City Council. The application shall contain
information which demonstrates that bringing the source of sound or activity
for which the special variance is sought into compliance with this chapter
would constitute an unreasonable hardship on the applicant, on the community or
on other persons. Any individual who claims to be adversely affected by the
allowance of the special variance may file a statement to that effect with the
City Council containing any information to support his or her claim. If the
City Council finds that a sufficient controversy exists regarding an
application, a public hearing may be held.
      (3)   In determining whether to grant or deny an application, the City
Council shall balance the hardships of the applicant, the community and other
persons of not granting the special variance against the adverse impact on the
health, safety and welfare of persons affected, the adverse impact on property
affected and any other adverse impacts of granting the special variance.
Applicants for a special variance and persons contesting the special variance
may be required to submit any information the City Council may reasonably
require. In granting or denying an application, the City Council shall place on
public file a copy of the decision and the reasons for denying or granting the
special variance.
      (4)   Special variances shall be granted by notice to the applicant
containing all necessary conditions, including the time limit on the permitted
activity. The special variance shall not become effective until all conditions
are agreed to by the applicant. Noncompliance with any condition of the special
variance shall terminate it and subject the person holding it to the provisions
of this chapter regulating the source of sound or activity for which the
special variance was granted.
(Ord. 926, passed 3-24-2009)
§ 96.06  RETALIATION.
   If there is any evidence of retaliation by any offender against any
complainant or witness, the evidence shall be communicated to the County Court.
When sentencing any violator, the County Court shall first examine the evidence
of retaliation, and if such is shown, shall consider those acts and sentence
the violator accordingly.
(Ord. 926, passed 3-24-2009)
§ 96.07  APPEARANCE TICKETS.
   The Police Chief and the appointed officers of the Police Department are
hereby authorized to issue and serve appearance tickets with respect to a
violation of this chapter pursuant to §
96.04. Appearance tickets shall be in a form as determined by the City Attorney
and shall be in conformity with all statutory requirements.
(Ord. 926, passed 3-24-2009)
§ 96.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   A person found in violation of this chapter shall be guilty of a civil
infraction and shall be fined not less than $100 nor more than $500.
   (B)   A separate offense shall be deemed committed each day during or on
which a violation or noncompliance occurs or continues.
(Ord. 926, passed 3-24-2009)
TITLE XI:  BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
      
111.   PEDDLERS
      
112.   PLUMBERS
      
113.   ELECTRICIANS
      
114.   RAILROADS
      
115.   FIREWORKS VENDORS
      
116.   MOBILE HOME PARKS
      
117.   CAMPGROUNDS
      
118.   LOTTERIES AND RAFFLES
      
119.   SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESSES
      
120.   TOBACCO AND CIGARETTES
      
121.   OCCUPATION TAXES
      
122.   SMALL WIRELESS FACILITIES REGULATIONS FOR THE RIGHT-OF-WAY
CHAPTER 110:  ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
Section
General Provisions
   
110.01   Definitions
   
110.02   Sale or gift to minor or mentally incompetent person prohibited
   
110.03   Consumption in public places or places open to the public;
restrictions
   
110.04   Removal of intoxicated persons from public or quasi-public property
Licenses Required
   
110.20   Manufacture, sale, delivery, and possession; general prohibitions;
exceptions
   
110.21   Acquisition and possession; restrictions
   
110.22   Licensee requirements
   
110.23   Licenses; city powers and duties
   
110.24   Licensed premises; inspections
   
110.25   License renewal; city powers and duties
   
110.26   Catering licenses
   
110.27   Display of license
   
110.28   Owner of premises or agent; liability
   
110.29   Licensee; liability for acts of officer, agent, or employee
   
110.30   Citizen complaints
Retail Establishments
   
110.45   Location
   
110.46   Access to dwellings
   
110.47   Sanitary conditions
   
110.48   Hours of sale
   
110.49   Credit sales prohibited
   
110.50   Original package required
   
110.51   Minor’s presence restricted
   
110.52   Keg sales; requirements; prohibited acts
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 110.01  DEFINITIONS.
   For purposes of this chapter, the definitions found in Neb. RS 53-103.01
through 53-103.42 shall be used.
§ 110.02  SALE OR GIFT TO MINOR OR MENTALLY INCOMPETENT PERSON PROHIBITED.
   No person shall sell, furnish, give away, dispose of, exchange, or deliver,
or permit the sale, gift, or procuring of any alcoholic liquors, to or for any
minor or to any person who is mentally incompetent.
(Neb. RS 53-180)  Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority, see Neb. RS 17-135
§ 110.03  CONSUMPTION IN PUBLIC PLACES OR PLACES OPEN TO THE PUBLIC;
RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   Except when the Nebraska Liquor Control Commission has issued a
license as provided in Neb. RS 53-186(2) or as provided in Neb. RS 60-6,211.08,
it is unlawful for any person to consume alcoholic liquor upon property owned
or controlled by the state or any governmental subdivision thereof unless
authorized by the governing bodies having jurisdiction over such property.
(Neb. RS 53-186)
   (B)   It is unlawful for any person owning, operating, managing, or
conducting any dance hall, restaurant, café, or club or any place open to the
general public to permit or allow any person to consume alcoholic liquor upon
the premises except as permitted by a license issued for such premises pursuant
to the Nebraska Liquor Control Act.  It is unlawful for any person to consume
alcoholic liquor in any dance hall, restaurant, café, or club or any place open
to the general public except as permitted by a license issued for such premises
pursuant to the Act.  This division does not apply to a retail licensee while
lawfully engaged in the catering of alcoholic beverages or to limousines or
buses operated under Neb. RS 60-6,211.08.
(Neb. RS 53-186.01)
§ 110.04  REMOVAL OF INTOXICATED PERSONS FROM PUBLIC OR QUASI-PUBLIC PROPERTY.
   (A)   Any law enforcement officer with the power to arrest for traffic
violations may take a person who is intoxicated and in the judgment of the
officer dangerous to himself, herself, or others, or who is otherwise
incapacitated, from any public or quasi-public property.  An officer removing
an intoxicated person from public or quasi-public property shall make a
reasonable effort to take the intoxicated person to his or her home or to place
the person in any hospital, clinic, alcoholism center, or with a medical doctor
as may be necessary to preserve life or to prevent injury.  The effort at
placement shall be deemed reasonable if the officer contacts such facilities or
doctor which have previously represented a willingness to accept and treat such
individuals and which regularly do accept such individuals.  If these efforts
are unsuccessful or are not feasible, the officer may then place the
intoxicated person in civil protective custody, except that civil protective
custody shall be used only as long as is necessary to preserve life or to
prevent injury, and under no circumstances longer than 24 hours.
   (B)   The placement of the person in civil protective custody shall be
recorded at the facility or jail at which he or she is delivered and
communicated to his or her family or next of kin, if they can be located, or to
the person designated by the person taken into civil protective custody.
   (C)   The law enforcement officer who acts in compliance with this section
shall be deemed to be acting in the course of his or her official duty and
shall not be criminally or civilly liable for these actions.
   (D)   The taking of an individual into civil protective custody under this
section shall not be considered an arrest.  No entry or other record shall be
made to indicate that the person has been arrested or charged with a crime.
   (E)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      PUBLIC PROPERTY.  Any public right-of-way, street, highway, alley, park,
or other state, county, or city-owned property.
      QUASI-PUBLIC PROPERTY.  Private or publicly owned property utilized for
proprietary or business uses which invites patronage by the public or which
invites public ingress and egress.
(Neb. RS 53-1,121)  Penalty, see §
10.99
LICENSES REQUIRED
§ 110.20  MANUFACTURE, SALE, DELIVERY, AND POSSESSION; GENERAL PROHIBITIONS;
EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   No person shall manufacture, bottle, blend, sell, barter, transport,
deliver, furnish, or possess any alcoholic liquor for beverage purposes except
as specifically provided in this chapter and the Nebraska Liquor Control Act.
   (B)   Nothing in this chapter shall prevent:
      (1)   The possession of alcoholic liquor legally obtained as provided in
this chapter or the Act for the personal use of the possessor and his or her
family or guests;
      (2)   The making of wine, cider, or other alcoholic liquor by a person
from fruits, vegetables, or grains, or the product thereof, by simple
fermentation and without distillation, if made solely for the use of the maker
and his or her family and guests;
      (3)   Any duly licensed practicing physician or dentist from possessing
or using alcoholic liquor in the strict practice of his or her profession, any
hospital or other institution caring for the sick and diseased persons from
possessing and using alcoholic liquor for the treatment of bona fide patients
of that hospital or other institution, or any drug store employing a licensed
pharmacist from possessing or using alcoholic liquor in the compounding of
prescriptions of licensed physicians;
      (4)   The possession and dispensation of alcoholic liquor by an
authorized representative of any religion on the premises of a place of
worship, for the purpose of conducting any bona fide religious rite, ritual, or
ceremony;
      (5)   Persons who are 16 years old or older from carrying alcoholic
liquor from licensed establishments when they are accompanied by a person not a
minor;
      (6)   Persons who are 16 years old or older from handling alcoholic
liquor containers and alcoholic liquor in the course of their employment;
      (7)   Persons who are 16 years old or older from removing and disposing
of alcoholic liquor containers for the convenience of the employer and
customers in the course of their employment; or
      (8)   Persons who are 19 years old or older from serving or selling
alcoholic liquor in the course of their employment.
(Neb. RS 53-168.06)
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 110.21  ACQUISITION AND POSSESSION; RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to purchase, receive, acquire,
accept, or possess any alcoholic liquor acquired from any other person other
than one duly licensed to handle alcoholic liquor under this chapter and the
Nebraska Liquor Control Act unless within specific exemptions or exceptions
provided in this chapter or the Act.
(Neb. RS 53-175)
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to transport, import, bring, ship,
or cause to be transported, imported, brought, or shipped into this state for
the personal use of the possessor, his or her family, or guests a quantity of
alcoholic liquor in excess of 9 liters in any 1 calendar month.
(Neb. RS 53-194.03)
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 110.22  LICENSEE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   No license shall be issued to:
      (1)   A person who is not a resident of this state, except in case of
railroad, airline, or boat licenses;
      (2)   A person who is not of good character and reputation in the
community in which he or she resides;
      (3)   A person who is not a citizen of the United States;
      (4)   A person who has been convicted of or has pleaded guilty to a
felony under the laws of this state, any other state, or the United States;
      (5)   A person who has been convicted of or has pleaded guilty to any
Class I misdemeanor pursuant Neb. RS Chapter 28, art. 3, 4, 7, 8, 10, 11, or
12, or any similar offense under a prior criminal statute or in another state,
except that any additional requirements imposed by this division on May 18,
1983, shall not prevent any person holding a license on that date from
retaining or renewing that license if the conviction or plea occurred prior to
May 18, 1983;
      (6)   A person whose license issued under the Nebraska Liquor Control Act
has been revoked for cause;
      (7)   A person who at the time of application for renewal of any license
issued under the Act would not be eligible for that license upon initial
application;
      (8)   A partnership, unless 1 of the partners is a resident of this state
and unless all the members of that partnership are otherwise qualified to
obtain a license;
      (9)   A limited liability company, unless 1 of the members is a resident
of this state and unless all the members of that company are otherwise
qualified to obtain a license;
      (10)   A corporation, if any officer or director of the corporation or
any stockholder owning in the aggregate more than 25% of the stock of that
corporation would be ineligible to receive a license under this section for any
reason other than the reasons stated in divisions (A)(1) and (A)(3) of this
section, or if a manager of a corporate licensee would be ineligible to receive
a license under this section for any reason.  This division shall not apply to
railroad licenses;
      (11)   A person whose place of business is conducted by a manager or
agent, unless that manager or agent possesses the same qualifications required
of the licensee;
      (12)   A person who does not own the premises for which a license is
sought or does not have a lease or combination of leases on the premises for
the full period for which the license is to be issued;
      (13)   Except as provided in this division, an applicant whose spouse is
ineligible under this section to receive and hold a liquor license.  Such an
applicant shall become eligible for a liquor license only if the Nebraska
Liquor Control Commission finds from the evidence that the public interest will
not be infringed upon if the license is granted.  It shall be prima facie
evidence that when a spouse is ineligible to receive a liquor license, the
applicant is also ineligible to receive a liquor license.  This prima facie
evidence shall be overcome if it is shown to the satisfaction of the
Commission:
         (a)   The licensed business will be the sole property of the
applicant; and
         (b) The licensed premises will be properly operated.
      (14)   A person seeking a license for premises which do not meet
standards for fire safety as established by the State Fire Marshal;
      (15)   A law enforcement officer, except that this division shall not
prohibit a law enforcement officer from holding membership in any nonprofit
organization holding a liquor license or from participating in any manner in
the management or administration of a nonprofit organization; or
      (16)   A person less than 21 years of age.
   (B)   When a trustee is the licensee, the beneficiary or beneficiaries of
the trust shall comply with the requirements of this section, but nothing in
this section shall prohibit any such beneficiary from being a minor or person
who is mentally incompetent.
(Neb. RS 53-125)
§ 110.23  LICENSES; CITY POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   The City Council is authorized to regulate by ordinance, not
inconsistent with the Nebraska Liquor Control Act, the business of all retail,
craft brewery, and microdistillery licensees carried on within the corporate
limits of the city.
(Neb. RS 53-134.03)
   (B)   During the period of 45 days after the date of receipt by mail or
electronic delivery from the Nebraska Liquor Control Commission notice and a
copy of an application for a new license to sell alcoholic liquor at retail, a
craft brewery license, or a microdistillery license, the City Council may make
and submit to the Commission recommendations relative to the granting or
refusal to grant the license to the applicant.
(Neb. RS 53-131)
   (C)   The City Council, with respect to licenses within the corporate limits
of the city, has the following powers, functions, and duties with respect to
retail, craft brewery, and microdistillery licenses:
      (1)   To cancel or revoke for cause retail, craft brewery, or
microdistillery licenses to sell or dispense alcoholic liquor issued to persons
for premises within its jurisdiction, subject to the right of appeal to the
Nebraska Liquor Control Commission;
      (2)   To enter or to authorize any law enforcement officer to enter at
any time upon any premises licensed under the Nebraska Liquor Control Act to
determine whether any provision of the Act, any rule or regulation adopted and
promulgated pursuant to the Act, or any ordinance, resolution, rule, or
regulation adopted by the City Council has been or is being violated, and at
that time examine the premises of the licensee in connection with such
determination. Any law enforcement officer who determines that any provision of
the Act, any rule or regulation adopted and promulgated pursuant to the Act, or
any ordinance, resolution, rule, or regulation adopted by the local governing
body has been or is being violated shall report such violation in writing to
the Executive Director of the Commission:
         (a)   Within 30 days after determining that such violation has
occurred;
         (b)   Within 30 days after the conclusion of an ongoing police
investigation; or
         (c)   Within 30 days after the verdict in a prosecution related to
such an ongoing police investigation if the prosecuting attorney determines
that reporting such violation prior to the verdict would jeopardize such
prosecution, whichever is later;
      (3)   To receive a signed complaint from any citizen within its
jurisdiction that any provision of the Act, any rule or regulation adopted and
promulgated pursuant to the Act, or any ordinance, resolution, rule, or
regulation relating to alcoholic liquor has been or is being violated and to
act upon these complaints in the manner provided in the Act;
      (4)   To receive retail, craft brewery, and microdistillery license fees
as provided in Neb. RS 53-124 and 53-124.01 and pay the same, after the license
has been delivered to the applicant, to the City Treasurer;
      (5)   To examine or cause to be examined any applicant or any retail,
craft brewery, or microdistillery licensee upon whom notice of cancellation or
revocation has been served as provided in the Act, to examine or cause to be
examined the books and records of any applicant or licensee, and to hear
testimony and to take proof for its information in the performance of its
duties.  For purposes of obtaining any of the information desired, the City
Council may authorize its agent or attorney to act on its behalf;
      (6)   To cancel or revoke on its own motion any license if, upon the same
notice and hearing as provided in §
110.30, it determines that the licensee has violated any of the provisions of
the Nebraska Liquor Control Act or any valid and subsisting ordinance,
resolution, rule, or regulation duly enacted, adopted, and promulgated relating
to alcoholic liquor.  The order of cancellation or revocation may be appealed
to the Commission within 30 days after the date of the order by filing a notice
of appeal with the Commission.  The Commission shall handle the appeal in the
manner provided for hearing on an application in Neb. RS 53-133; and
      (7)   Upon receipt from the Commission of the notice and copy of
application as provided in Neb. RS 53-131, to fix a time and place for a
hearing at which the City Council shall receive evidence, either orally or by
affidavit from the applicant and any other person, bearing upon the propriety
of the issuance of a license.  Notice of the time and place of the hearing
shall be published in a legal newspaper in or of general circulation in the
city, 1 time not less than 7 and not more than 14 days before the time of the
hearing.  The notice shall include, but not be limited to, a statement that all
persons desiring to give evidence before the City Council in support of or in
protest against the issuance of the license may do so at the time of the
hearing.  The hearing shall be held not more than 45 days after the date of
receipt of the notice from the Commission, and after the hearing the City
Council shall cause to be recorded in the minute record of its proceedings a
resolution recommending either issuance or refusal of the license.  The City
Clerk shall mail to the Commission by first class mail, postage prepaid, a copy
of the resolution which shall state the cost of the published notice, except
that failure to comply with this provision shall not void any license issued by
the Commission.  If the Commission refuses to issue such a license, the cost of
publication of notice shall be paid by the Commission from the security for
costs.
(Neb. RS 53-134)
   (D)   (1)   When the Nebraska Liquor Control Commission mails or delivers to
the City Clerk a retail,  craft brewery, or microdistillery license issued or
renewed by the Commission, the Clerk shall deliver the license to the licensee
upon receipt from the licensee of proof of payment of:
         (a)   The license fee if by the terms of Neb. RS 53-124 the fee is
payable to the City Treasurer;
         (b)   Any fee for publication of notice of hearing before the City
Council upon the application for the license;
         (c)   The fee for publication of notice of renewal, if applicable, as
provided in Neb. RS 53-135.01; and
         (d)   Occupation taxes, if any, imposed by the city.
      (2)   Notwithstanding any ordinance or charter power to the contrary, the
city shall not impose an occupation tax on the business of any person, firm, or
corporation licensed under the Nebraska Liquor Control Act and doing business
within the corporate limits of the city in any sum which exceeds 2 times the
amount of the license fee required to be paid under the Act to obtain that
license.
(Neb. RS 53-132)
§ 110.24  LICENSED PREMISES; INSPECTIONS.
   The City Council shall cause frequent inspection to be made on the premises
of all retail licensees.  If it is found that any such licensee is violating
any provision of this chapter, the Nebraska Liquor Control Act, or the rules
and regulations of the Nebraska Liquor Control Commission, or is failing to
observe in good faith the purposes of this chapter or the Act, the license may
be suspended, canceled, or revoked after the licensee is given an opportunity
to be heard in his or her defense.
(Neb. RS 53-116.01)
§ 110.25  LICENSE RENEWAL; CITY POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   A retail license issued by the Nebraska Liquor Control Commission and
outstanding may be automatically renewed by the Commission in the absence of a
written request by the City Council to require the licensee to submit an
application for renewal.  Any licensed retail premises located in an area which
is annexed to the city shall file a formal application for a license, and while
the application is pending, the licensee may continue all license privileges
until the original license expires or is canceled or revoked.  If that license
expires within 60 days following the annexation date of the area, the license
may be renewed by order of the Commission for not more than 1 year.
(Neb. RS 53-135)
   (B)   The City Clerk shall cause to be published in a legal newspaper in or
of general circulation in the city, 1 time between January 10 and January 30 of
each year, individual notice in the form prescribed by law of the right of
automatic renewal of each retail liquor and beer license within the city,
except that notice of the right of automatic renewal of Class C licenses shall
be published between the dates of July 10 and July 30 of each year.  If written
protests to the issuance of automatic renewal of a license are filed in the
office of the City Clerk by 3 or more residents of the city on or before
February 10, or August 10 for Class C licenses, the City Council shall hold a
hearing to determine whether continuation of the license should be allowed. 
Upon the conclusion of any hearing required by this section, the City Council
may request a licensee to submit an application as provided in Neb. RS 53-135.
(Neb. RS 53-135.01)
§ 110.26  CATERING LICENSES.
   (A)   The holder of a license to sell alcoholic liquor at retail issued
under Neb. RS 53-124, a craft brewery license, a microdistillery license, or a
farm winery license  may obtain an annual catering license by filing an
application and license fee with the Nebraska Liquor Control Commission.
   (B)   Upon receipt from the Commission of the notice and a copy of the
application as provided in Neb. RS 53-124.12, the City Council shall process
the application in the same manner as provided in §
110.23.
   (C)   The City Council, with respect to catering licensees within its
corporate limits, may cancel a catering license for cause for the remainder of
the period for which that catering license is issued.  Any person whose
catering license is canceled may appeal to the District Court.
   (D)   The City Council may impose an occupation tax on the business of a
catering licensee doing business within the liquor license jurisdiction of the
City Council.  The tax may not exceed double the license fee for a catering
license.
(Neb. RS 53-124.12)
§ 110.27  DISPLAY OF LICENSE.
   Every licensee under the Nebraska Liquor Control Act shall cause his or her
license to be framed and hung in plain view in a conspicuous place on the
licensed premises.
(Neb. RS 53-148)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 110.28  OWNER OF PREMISES OR AGENT; LIABILITY.
   If the owner of the licensed premises or any person from whom the licensee
derives the right to possession of the premises, or the agent of that owner or
person, knowingly permits the licensee to use the licensed premises in
violation of the terms of the Nebraska Liquor Control Act or any city
ordinance, that owner, agent, or other person shall be deemed guilty of a
violation of the Act or ordinance to the same extent as the licensee and be
subject to the same punishment.
(Neb. RS 53-1,101)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 110.29  LICENSEE; LIABILITY FOR ACTS OF OFFICER, AGENT, OR EMPLOYEE.
   Every act or omission of whatsoever nature constituting a violation of any
of the provisions of the Nebraska Liquor Control Act or any city ordinance by
any officer, director, manager, or other agent or employee of any licensee, if
the act is committed or omission is made with the authorization, knowledge, or
approval of the licensee, shall be deemed and held to be the act of the
employer or licensee, and the employer or licensee shall be punishable in the
same manner as if the act or omission had been done or omitted by the licensee
personally.
(Neb. RS 53-1,102)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 110.30  CITIZEN COMPLAINTS.
   Any 5 residents of the city shall have the right to file a complaint with
the City Council stating that any retail licensee subject to the jurisdiction
of the City Council has been or is violating any provision of the Nebraska
Liquor Control Act or the rules or regulations issued pursuant to the Act.  The
complaint shall be in writing in the form prescribed by the City Council and
shall be signed and sworn to by the parties complaining.  The complaint shall
state the particular provision, rule, or regulation believed to have been
violated and the facts in detail upon which belief is based.  If the City
Council is satisfied that the complaint substantially charges a violation and
that from the facts alleged there is reasonable cause for that belief, it shall
set the matter for hearing within 10 days from the date of the filing of the
complaint and shall serve notice upon the licensee of the time and place of the
hearing and of the particular charge in the complaint.  The complaint shall in
all cases be disposed of by the City Council within 30 days from the date the
complaint was filed by resolution thereof, which resolution shall be deemed the
final order for purposes of appeal to the Nebraska Liquor Control Commission as
provided in Neb. RS 53-1,115.
(Neb. RS 53-134.04)
RETAIL ESTABLISHMENTS
§ 110.45  LOCATION.
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided in division (B) of this section, no
license shall be issued for the sale at retail of any alcoholic liquor within
150 feet of any church, school, hospital, or home for aged or indigent persons
or for veterans, their wives or children. This prohibition does not apply to
any location within such distance of 150 feet:
      (1)   For which a license to sell alcoholic liquor at retail has been
granted by the Nebraska Liquor Control Commission for two years continuously
prior to making of application for license;
      (2)   To hotels offering restaurant service, to regularly organized
clubs, or to restaurants, food shops, or other places where sale of alcoholic
liquor is not the principal business carried on, if such place of business so
exempted was established for such purposes prior to May 24, 1935; or
      (3)   To a college or university in the state which is subject to Neb. RS
53-177.01.
   (B)   If a proposed location for the sale at retail of any alcoholic liquor
is within 150 feet of any church, a license may be issued if the commission
gives notice to the affected church and holds a hearing as prescribed in Neb.
RS 53-133.
(Neb. RS 53-177)
   (C)   No alcoholic liquor, other than beer, shall be sold for consumption on
the premises within 300 feet from the campus of any college or university
within the city, except that this section:
      (1)   Does not prohibit a nonpublic college or university from
contracting with an individual or corporation holding a license to sell
alcoholic liquor at retail for the purpose of selling alcoholic liquor at
retail on the campus of such college or university at events sanctioned by such
college or university but does prohibit the sale of alcoholic liquor at retail
by such licensee on the campus of such nonpublic college or university at
student activities or events; and
      (2)   Does not prohibit sales of alcoholic liquor by a community college
culinary education program pursuant to Neb. RS 53-124.15.
(Neb. RS 53-177.01)  Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   State commission may waive 300-feet requirement, see Neb. RS 53-177.01
§ 110.46  ACCESS TO DWELLINGS.
   Except in the case of hotels and clubs, no alcoholic liquor shall be sold at
retail upon any premises which have any access which leads from the premises to
any other portion of the same building or structure used for dwelling or
lodging purposes, and which is permitted to be used or kept accessible for use
by the public.  This provision shall not prevent any connection between the
premises and such other portion of the building or structure which is used only
by the licensee, his or her family, or personal guests.
(Neb. RS 53-178)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 110.47  SANITARY CONDITIONS.
   It shall be unlawful to open for public use any retail liquor establishment
that is not in a clean and sanitary condition.  Toilet facilities shall be
adequate and convenient for customers and patrons.  The licensed premises shall
be subject to any health inspections the City Council or the city police may
make or cause to be made.  All applications for liquor licenses shall be viewed
in part from the standpoint of the sanitary conditions, and a report concerning
the sanitary conditions shall be made at all hearings concerning the
application for or renewal of a liquor license.
Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority to regulate licensed premises, see Neb. RS 53-134.03
   State sanitary rules and regulations authorized, see Neb. RS 53-118
§ 110.48  HOURS OF SALE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons or their agents to sell any
alcoholic liquor within the municipality except during the hours provided
herein.
   (A)   Secular days. It shall be lawful to sell any alcoholic liquor,
including beer and wine, on and off sale, between the hours of 6:00 a.m. and 1:
00 a.m. of the following day on the days of Monday through Saturday.
   (B)   Sundays. It shall be lawful to sell beer and wine, on and off sale,
between the hours of 6:00 a.m. Sunday and 1:00 a.m. Monday; and it shall be
lawful to sell all alcoholic liquor between the hours of 12:00 noon and 1:00
a.m. Monday.
   (C)   Open containers after closing. It shall be unlawful on property
licensed to sell alcoholic liquor at retail to allow alcoholic liquor in open
containers to remain or be in possession or control of any person for purposes
of consumption between 1:15 a.m. and 6:00 a.m. on any day.
(1998 Code, § 10-103)  (Ord. passed 12-10-1991)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 110.49  CREDIT SALES PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person shall sell or furnish alcoholic liquor at retail to any
person on credit, on a passbook, on an order on a store, in exchange for any
goods, wares, or merchandise, or in payment for any services rendered, and if
any person extends credit for any such purpose, the debt thereby attempted to
be created shall not be recoverable at law.
   (B)   Nothing in this section shall prevent the following:
      (1)   Any club holding a Class C license from permitting checks or
statements for alcoholic liquor to be signed by members or bona fide guests of
members and charged to the account of such members or guests in accordance with
the bylaws of such club;
      (2)   Any hotel or restaurant holding a retail license from permitting
checks or statements for liquor to be signed by regular guests residing at such
hotel or eating at such restaurant and charged to the accounts of such guests;
or
      (3)   Any licensed retailer engaged in the sale of wine from issuing
wine-tasting cards to customers.
(Neb. RS 53-183)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 110.50  ORIGINAL PACKAGE REQUIRED.
   No person, except a manufacturer or wholesaler, shall fill or refill, in
whole or in part, any original package of alcoholic liquor with the same or any
other kind or quality of alcoholic liquor.  It shall be unlawful for any person
to have in his or her possession for sale at retail any bottles, casks, or
other containers containing alcoholic liquor except in original packages. 
Nothing in this section shall prohibit the refilling of original packages of
alcoholic liquor for strictly private use and not for resale.
(Neb. RS 53-184)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 110.51  MINOR’S PRESENCE RESTRICTED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person who owns, manages, or leases an
establishment selling alcoholic beverages at retail to allow any minor under
the age of 18 years of age to frequent or otherwise remain in the establishment
unless the minor is accompanied by his or her parent or legal guardian, and
unless the minor remains seated with and under the immediate control of the
parent or legal guardian.
Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority to regulate, see Neb. RS 53-134.03
§ 110.52  KEG SALES; REQUIREMENTS; PROHIBITED ACTS.
   (A)   When any person licensed to sell alcoholic liquor at retail sells beer
for consumption off the premises in a container with a liquid capacity of 5 or
more gallons or 18.92 or more liters, the seller shall record the date of the
sale, the keg identification number, the purchaser’s name and address, and the
number of the purchaser’s motor vehicle operator’s license, state
identification card, or military identification, if the military identification
contains a picture of the purchaser, together with the purchaser’s signature. 
This record shall be on a form prescribed by the Nebraska Liquor Control
Commission and shall be kept by the licensee at the retail establishment where
the purchase was made for not less than 6 months.  The records kept pursuant to
this section shall be available for inspection by any law enforcement officer
during normal business hours or at any other reasonable time.  Any person
violating this section shall be guilty of an offense.
(Neb. RS 53-167.02)
   (B)   Any person who unlawfully tampers with, alters, or removes the keg
identification number from a beer container or is in possession of a beer
container described in division (A) with an altered or removed keg
identification number after the container has been taken from the licensed
premises pursuant to a retail sale and before its return to the licensed
premises or other place where returned kegs are accepted shall be guilty of an
offense.
(Neb. RS 53-167.03)  Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 111:  PEDDLERS
Section
   
111.01   Definitions
   
111.02   License required
   
111.03   Application procedure
   
111.04   Standards for issuance
   
111.05   Revocation procedure
   
111.06   Standards for revocation
   
111.07   Appeal procedure
   
111.08   Exhibition of identification
   
111.09   Policy on soliciting
   
111.10   Notice regulating soliciting
   
111.11   Posted notice; solicitors to comply
   
111.12   Prohibited solicitation
§ 111.01  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUSINESS.  The business carried on by any person who is an itinerant
merchant, peddler, or solicitor as defined in this section.
   GOODS.  Merchandise of any description whatsoever, and includes, but is not
restricted to, wares and foodstuffs.
   ITINERANT MERCHANT.  Any person, whether as owner, agent, or consignee, who
engages in a temporary business of selling goods within the city and who, in
the furtherance of such business, uses any building, structure, vehicle, or any
place within the city.
   PEDDLER.  Any person, not an itinerant merchant, who:
      (1)   Travels from place to place by any means carrying goods for sale,
or making sales, or making deliveries; or
      (2)   Without traveling from place to place, sells or offers goods for
sale from any public place within the city.
   SOLICITOR.  Any person who travels by any means from place to place, taking
or attempting to take orders for sale of goods to be delivered in the future or
for services to be performed in the future.  A person who is a solicitor is not
a peddler.
§ 111.02  LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (A)   Any person who is an itinerant merchant, peddler, or solicitor shall
obtain a license before engaging in such activity within the city.
   (B)   The fee for the license required by this chapter shall be as follows:
$10 per day, $20 per week, $50 per month, and $100 per year.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any solicitor, salesman, or peddler to
solicit any individual between the hours of 8:00 p.m. and 8:00 a.m., unless
they have a previous appointment with the resident or residents of the premise
solicited. It shall be unlawful at any hour for a solicitor, salesman, or
peddler to solicit without a proper permit on his or her person at all times.
   (D)   No license issued under this section shall be transferable.
   (E)   All day licenses issued under this chapter shall expire 24 hours after
the date of issuance thereof.
   (F)   All week licenses issued under this chapter will expire seven days
after the date of issuance thereof.
   (G)   All month licenses issued under this chapter will expire 30 days after
the date of issuance thereof.
   (H)   All year licenses issued under this chapter will expire one year after
the date of issuance thereof.
(Ord. 1017, passed 7-14-2015)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.03  APPLICATION PROCEDURE.
   (A)   All applicants for licenses required by this chapter shall file an
application with the City Clerk.  This application shall be signed by the
applicant if an individual, or by all partners if a partnership, or by the
president if a corporation. The applicant may be requested to provide
information concerning the following items:
      (1)   The name and address of the applicant;
      (2)   (a)   The name of the individual having management authority or
supervision of the applicant's business during the time that it is proposed to
be carried on in the city;
         (b)   The local address of such individual;
         (c)   The permanent address of such individual;
         (d)   The capacity in which such individual will act;
      (3)   The name and address of the person, if any, for whose purpose the
business will be carried on, and, if a corporation, the state of incorporation;
      (4)   The time period or periods during which it is proposed to carry on
applicant's business;
      (5)   (a)   The nature, character, and quality of the goods or services
to be offered for sale or delivered;
         (b)   If goods, their invoice value and whether they are to be sold by
sample as well as from stock;
         (c)   If goods, where and by whom such goods are manufactured or
grown, and where such goods are at the time of application;
      (6)   The nature of the advertising proposed to be done for the business;
      (7)   Whether or not the applicant, or the individual identified in
division (A)(2)(a) above, or the person identified in division (A)(3) has been
convicted of any crime or misdemeanor and, if so, the nature of each offense
and the penalty assessed for each offense.
   (B)   Applicants for peddler or solicitor licenses may be required to
provide further information concerning the following items, in addition to that
requested under division (A) above:
      (1)   A description of the applicant;
      (2)   A description of any vehicle proposed to be used in the business,
including its registration number, if any.
   (C)   All applicants for licenses required by this chapter shall attach to
their application, if required by the city, credentials from the person, if
any, for which the applicant proposes to do business, authorizing the applicant
to act as such representative.
   (D)   Applicants who propose to handle foodstuffs shall also attach to their
application, in addition to any attachments required under division (C), a
statement from a licensed physician, dated not more than 10 days prior to the
date of application, certifying the applicant to be free of contagious or
communicable disease.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.04  STANDARDS FOR ISSUANCE.
   (A)   Upon receipt of an application, an investigation of the applicant's
business reputation and moral character shall be made.
   (B)   The application shall be approved unless such investigation discloses
tangible evidence that the conduct of the applicant's business would pose a
substantial threat to the public health, safety, morals, or general welfare. 
In particular, tangible evidence that the applicant:
      (1)   Has been convicted of a crime of moral turpitude; or
      (2)   Has made willful misstatements in the application; or
      (3)   Has committed prior violations of ordinances pertaining to
itinerant merchants, peddlers, solicitors, and the like; or
      (4)   Has committed prior fraudulent acts; or
      (5)   Has a record of continual breaches of solicited contracts;
will constitute valid reasons for disapproval of an application.
§ 111.05  REVOCATION PROCEDURE.
   Any license or permit granted under this chapter may be revoked by the City
Clerk after notice and hearing, pursuant to the standards in §
111.06.  Notice of hearing for revocation shall be given in writing, setting
forth specifically the grounds of the complaint and the time and place of the
hearing.  Such notice shall be mailed to the licensee at his last known
address, at least 10 days prior to the date set for the hearing.
§ 111.06  STANDARDS FOR REVOCATION.
   A license granted under this chapter may be revoked for any of the following
reasons:
   (A)   Any fraud or misrepresentation contained in the license application;
or
   (B)   Any fraud, misrepresentation, or false statement made in connection
with the business being conducted under the license; or
   (C)   Any violation of this chapter; or
   (D)   Conviction of the licensee of any felony, or conviction of the
licensee of any misdemeanor involving moral turpitude; or
   (E)   Conducting the business licensed in an unlawful manner or in such a
way as to constitute a menace to the health, safety, morals, or general welfare
of the public.
   (F)   Entrance to premises shall be prohibited where there are signs stating
"No Peddlers Allowed" or "No Solicitations Allowed," or other words to such
effect.
(Ord. 1017, passed 7-14-2015)
§ 111.07  APPEAL PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Any person aggrieved by a decision under §§
111.04 or
111.06 shall have the right to appeal to the City Council.  The appeal shall be
taken by filing with the City Council, within 14 days after notice of the
decision has been mailed to such person's last known address, a written
statement setting forth the grounds for appeal.  The City Council shall set the
time and place for a hearing, and notice for such hearing shall be given to
such person in the same manner as provided in §
111.05.
   (B)   The order of the City Council after the hearing shall be final.
§ 111.08  EXHIBITION OF IDENTIFICATION.
   (A)   Any license issued to an itinerant merchant under this chapter shall
be posted conspicuously in or at the place named therein.  In the event more
than 1 place within the city shall be used to conduct the business licensed,
separate licenses shall be issued for each place.
   (B)   The City Clerk shall issue a license to each peddler or solicitor
licensed under this chapter.  The license shall contain the words “Licensed
Peddler” or “Licensed Solicitor,” the expiration date of the license, and the
number of the license.  The license shall be kept with the licensee during such
time as he is engaged in the business licensed.
   (C)   All active permit shall be visibly displayed in a lanyard provided by
the Aurora Police Department and worn by the solicitor. All lanyards must be
returned to the Police Department at the expiration of the permit.
(Ord. 1017, passed 7-14-2015)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.09  POLICY ON SOLICITING.
   It is hereby declared to be the policy of the city that the occupants of the
residences in the city shall make the determination of whether solicitors shall
be, or shall not be, invited to their respective residences.
§ 111.10  NOTICE REGULATING SOLICITING.
   (A)   Notice of the refusal of invitation to solicitors, to any residence,
shall be given on a weatherproof card, approximately 3 inches by 4 inches in
size, exhibited upon or near the main entrance door to the residence,
indicating the determination by the occupant, containing the applicable words,
as follows:
   “NO SOLICITORS INVITED”
   (B)   The letters shall be at least 1/3-inch in height.
   (C)   The card so exhibited shall constitute sufficient notice to any
solicitor of the determination by the occupant of the residence of the
information contained thereon.
§ 111.11  POSTED NOTICE; SOLICITORS TO COMPLY.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of every solicitor upon going onto any premises
in the city upon which a residence is located to first examine the notice
provided for in §
111.10 if any is attached, and be governed by the statement contained on the
notice. If the notice states “NO SOLICITORS INVITED,” then the solicitor,
whether registered or not, shall immediately and peacefully depart from the
premises.
   (B)   Any solicitor who has gained entrance to any residence, whether
invited or not, shall immediately and peacefully depart from the premises when
requested to do so by the occupant.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.12  PROHIBITED SOLICITATION.
   It is hereby declared to be unlawful and shall constitute a nuisance for any
person to go upon any premises and ring the doorbell upon or near any door, or
create any sound in any manner calculated to attract the attention of the
occupant of such residence, for the purpose of securing an audience with the
occupant thereof and engage in soliciting in defiance of the notice exhibited
at the residence in accordance with the provisions of §
111.10 above.
Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 112:  PLUMBERS
Section
   
112.01   License required
   
112.02   Bond required
   
112.03   License application
   
112.04   Registration of firm
   
112.05   Expiration and renewal of registrations
   
112.06   Unlawful to transfer certificate
   
112.07   Exemptions
 
   
112.99   Penalty
§ 112.01  LICENSE REQUIRED.
   Pursuant to the statutes of the State of Nebraska, including Neb. RS 18-
1917, no person shall engage in or work at the business of master plumber or
journeyman plumber in the city until licensed as a master plumber or journeyman
plumber. Application for licensing shall be made in writing to the City Clerk-
Treasurer, showing the name and residence of the applicant, the business
location of the applicant and other information as the Clerk-Treasurer may
require. Before laying out and installing electrical wiring, apparatus and
equipment for major electrical home equipment on the load side of the main
service, an electrical installer’s license (or higher) must also be obtained
from the State Electrical Board and the inspection requirements met pursuant to
§
113.02 of this code of ordinances.
(1998 Code, § 10-301)
§ 112.02  BOND REQUIRED.
   Pursuant to the statutes of the State of Nebraska, including Neb. RS 17-121,
17-123 and 17-145, each plumber shall be required to provide the city with a
personal surety bond in an amount as set by City Council resolution signed by
one or more sufficient sureties, or a bond in that amount from an approved
corporate surety, conditioned that the licensee shall indemnify and hold
harmless the city from all accidents, damage, liability, claims, judgments,
costs or expense caused by any negligence arising from a failure to adequately
protect plumbing work, by unfinished, unskilled or inadequate work, or arising
out of furnishing defective material; and that the licensee shall adhere to the
rules, regulations and requirements of the city. All bonds tendered by the
applicant for a license shall be approved as to form and substance by the City
Attorney before being signed by the Mayor.
(1998 Code, § 10-302)
§ 112.03  LICENSE APPLICATION.
   (A)   In accordance with the statutes of the State of Nebraska, including
Neb. RS 17-145, application for a license and examination of a master plumber
shall be made in writing at the office of the City Clerk-Treasurer on forms
furnished which shall show the name and residence of the applicant, the
business location of the applicant and any other information as may be required
by the Clerk-Treasurer. The applicant shall pay an examination fee in an amount
set by City Council resolution which shall be non-refundable in the event that
the applicant is denied the license.
   (B)   A master plumber’s license shall not be issued unless the applicant
shall have first successfully passed an examination, paid an initial license
fee as set by City Council resolution, and has posted the bond required. The
applicant shall satisfy the Sewer Commissioner by a written examination that
the applicant possesses the qualifications and fitness to install plumbing, and
if the Commissioner is satisfied that the applicant possesses the necessary
qualifications, the Commissioner shall recommend the issuance of a license to
the Mayor and Council. The license shall thereafter be renewed annually upon
payment of a license fee in an amount set by City Council resolution and the
continuance of the required bond.
   (C)   A license may be issued to a journeyman plumber upon application made
in writing by the master plumber under whose supervision the journeyman plumber
will be working, at the office of the City Clerk-Treasurer on forms furnished
by the City Clerk-Treasurer which shall show the name and residence of the
journeyman plumber, and the name and address of the master plumber under whose
supervision the journeyman plumber will be working. A license shall be issued
upon payment of an annual fee as set by City Council resolution, and the
license shall be reissued each year so long as the applicant remains under the
direct supervision of the master plumber named in the application.
(1998 Code, § 10-303)
§ 112.04  REGISTRATION OF FIRM.
   Any firm may be registered hereunder as a master plumber in the name of the
firm, provided that the firm shall have a master plumber who is duly registered
as provided in this chapter and who is a bona fide officer of the firm or an
employee who is regularly employed by the firm and is actually engaged in the
planning, superintending and practical installation of plumbing and drainage.
The master plumber shall be in actual charge of and responsible for the
installation, removal or repair of any plumbing or drainage work done by the
firm.
(1998 Code, § 10-304)
§ 112.05  EXPIRATION AND RENEWAL OF REGISTRATIONS.
   All registrations shall expire on April 30 of each year and shall not be
assignable. Certificates of registration may be renewed at expiration upon the
recommendation of the Sewer Commissioner, without an examination, upon payment
of the required registration fee.
(1998 Code, § 10-305)
§ 112.06  UNLAWFUL TO TRANSFER CERTIFICATE.
   No registered plumber shall allow another person to use his or her name,
directly or indirectly, to obtain a permit for the installation of any work;
and if any registered plumber violates this provision, the Mayor and Council
shall forthwith revoke the certificate of registration issued to that
registered plumber, and the registered plumber may be prosecuted under the
penalty section of this chapter.
(1998 Code, § 10-306)  Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.07  EXEMPTIONS.
   The provisions of this chapter relating to plumbers shall not apply to any
public utility company serving the city and its inhabitants under a franchise
agreement with the city, nor to its agents and employees, and shall not be
construed as a limitation or restriction upon any franchises heretofore granted
by the city.
(1998 Code, § 10-307)
§ 112.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   In accordance with the statutes of the State of Nebraska, including
Neb. RS 17-505, any person who shall violate or refuse to comply with the
enforcement of any of the provisions of this chapter shall be deemed guilty of
a misdemeanor and upon conviction thereof shall be fined not more than $500 for
any one offense, recoverable with costs.
   (B)   A new violation shall be deemed to have been committed every 24 hours
of failure to comply.
(1998 Code, § 10-1001)  (Ord. 724, passed 1-25-2000; Ord. 950, passed 6-22-
2010)
CHAPTER 113:  ELECTRICIANS
Section
   
113.01   License and occupation tax certificate
   
113.02   Inspection requirements
   
113.03   Bond required
   
113.04   Application for occupation tax certificate
 
   
113.99   Penalty
§ 113.01  LICENSE AND OCCUPATION TAX CERTIFICATE.
   In accordance with the statutes of the State of Nebraska, including Neb. RS
17-525 and 81-2101 through 81-2145, no person shall wire for or install
electrical wiring, apparatus or equipment unless licensed to do so by the State
Electrical Board and until an occupation tax certificate has been obtained;
provided, that an owner may do so at his or her personal primary single-family
residence without a license or tax certificate.
(1998 Code, § 10-401)
§ 113.02  INSPECTION REQUIREMENTS.
   Pursuant to the statutes of the State of Nebraska, including Neb. RS 81-
2121, 81-2124, 81-2125, 81-2129 and 81-2132, all new electrical installations
for commercial or industrial applications, including installations both inside
and outside of the buildings, and for public-use buildings and facilities and
any installation at the request of the owner shall be subject to the inspection
and enforcement provisions of the State Electrical Act. Nothing, however, shall
prohibit an owner of property from performing work on his or her principal
residence or farm property, excluding commercial or industrial installations or
installations in public use buildings or facilities. No electrical installation
subject to inspection shall be newly connected or reconnected for use until
there is filed with the electrical utility supplying power a certificate of the
property owner or licensed electrician directing the work that inspection has
been requested and that the conditions of the installation are safe for
energization. The work of employees of municipal corporations public power
districts, public power and irrigation districts, railroads, electric
membership or cooperative associations, public utility corporations or
telephone or telegraph systems shall not required to be inspected while those
employees are acting within the scope of their employment.
(1998 Code, § 10-402)
§ 113.03  BOND REQUIRED.
   Pursuant to the statutes of the State of Nebraska, including Neb. RS 17-123,
17-136 and 17-549, each holder of the occupation tax certificate shall be
required to provide the city with a personal surety bond in an amount as set by
City Council resolution, signed by one or more sufficient sureties or a bond in
that amount from an approved corporate surety, conditioned that the holder
shall indemnify and hold harmless the city from all accidents, damage,
liability, claims, judgments, costs or expense caused by any negligence arising
from a failure to adequately protect electrical work, by unfinished, unskilled
or inadequate work, or arising out of furnishing defective material; and that
the holder shall adhere to the rules, regulations and requirements of the city
and state. All bonds tendered by the applicant for a license shall be approved
as to form and substance by the City Attorney before being signed by the Mayor.
(1998 Code, § 10-403)
§ 113.04  APPLICATION FOR OCCUPATION TAX CERTIFICATE.
   In accordance with the statutes of the State of Nebraska, including Neb. RS
17-525, application for an occupation tax certificate shall be made in writing
at the office of the City Clerk-Treasurer on forms furnished by the Clerk-
Treasurer which shall show the name and residence of the applicant, the
business location of the applicant and any other information as may be required
by the Clerk-Treasurer. The applicant shall pay a fee as set by City Council
resolution which shall be non-refundable and which shall be credited to the
General Fund. Each occupation tax certificate shall expire on December 31 of
each year. The certificate may thereafter be renewed annually upon the payment
of a fee in an amount set by City Council resolution, the continuation of the
required bond and a satisfactory showing that the required license has been
issued by the State of Nebraska.
(1998 Code, § 10-404)
§ 113.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   In accordance with the statutes of the State of Nebraska, including
Neb. RS 17-505, any person who shall violate or refuse to comply with the
enforcement of any of the provisions of this chapter shall be deemed guilty of
a misdemeanor and upon conviction thereof shall be fined not more than $500 for
any one offense, recoverable with costs.
   (B)   A new violation shall be deemed to have been committed every 24 hours
of failure to comply.
(1998 Code, § 10-1001)  (Ord. 724, passed 1-25-2000; Ord. 950, passed 6-22-
2010)
CHAPTER 114:  RAILROADS
Section
   
114.01   Crossings in disrepair
   
114.02   Obstructing traffic
   
114.03   Spotting cars
   
114.04   Obstructing view at crossings
   
114.05   Drainage
 
   
114.99   Penalty
§ 114.01  CROSSINGS IN DISREPAIR.
   (A)   In accordance with the statutes of the State of Nebraska, including
Neb. RS 17-143, 17-144, 17-521, 17-551, 17-561 and 74-1336, it shall be the
duty of every railroad company, doing business in or traveling through, the
city to keep in a suitable and safe condition the crossings and rights-of-way
in the city.
   (B)   If any crossing shall at any time fall into disrepair and become
unsafe or inconvenient for public travel, the Mayor and Council may, by
resolution, call upon the company to make whatever repairs deemed necessary to
correct the condition.
   (C)   Notice of the resolution shall be served upon the local agent of the
company.
   (D)   In the event the railroad shall fail or neglect to correct the
condition within 48 hours, neglect for each 24 hours thereafter shall be deemed
a separate offense against the provisions herein.
(1998 Code, § 10-501)
§ 114.02  OBSTRUCTING TRAFFIC.
   Pursuant to the statutes of the State of Nebraska, including Neb. RS 17-551
and 17-552, it shall be unlawful for any railroad company, its employees,
agents or servants operating a railroad through the city to obstruct traffic on
any public street, except in the event of an emergency, for a longer period at
one time than five minutes.
(1998 Code, § 10-502)  Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.03  SPOTTING CARS.
   Pursuant to the statutes of the State of Nebraska, including Neb. RS 17-551
and 17-552, it shall be unlawful for any railroad company, its employees,
agents or servants operating a railroad through the city to spot cars or to
leave the same standing on any switch or service track so that the same
obstruct or remain within the limits of any street or within five feet from the
boundary thereof.
(1998 Code, § 10-503)  Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.04  OBSTRUCTING VIEW AT CROSSINGS.
   Pursuant to the statutes of the State of Nebraska, including Neb. RS 17-551,
17-552 and 74-1323, it shall be unlawful for any railroad company to obstruct
or obscure the traveling public’s view by storing or parking any railroad car
on a railroad track with 25 feet of the crossing of any railroad track and a
public road with the corporate limits of the city; provided, however, in no
instance shall any person who is authorized to control the movement of the
railroad car or cars within that distance be prevented from reasonably
conducting his or her business.
(1998 Code, § 10-504)  Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.05  DRAINAGE.
   In accordance with the statutes of the State of Nebraska, including Neb. RS
17-144 and 17-551:
   (A)   Duty of railroad. It shall be the duty of any railroad company, its
employees, agents or servants owning, maintaining or operating a railroad
within or through the city, to construct and keep in repair at their expense
all ditches, drains and culverts along and under its railroad tracks at all
places within the limits of the city where the same may be necessary for the
escape of water and the proper draining of the territory on either side of the
railroad tracks; and
   (B)   Construction and repair.
      (1)   When any drains, ditches or culverts may be necessary for the
escape of water and the proper drainage of the territory on either side of any
railroad track, the Mayor and Council may, by resolution, call upon the proper
railroad company to construct or repair the drain, ditch or culvert and to
place the same in proper condition for the escape of water for the proper
drainage of the territory on either side of the railroad track.
      (2)   A copy of every resolution shall be served upon the local agent of
the railroad company whose duty it is to construct or keep in repair any drain,
ditch or culvert; and failure or refusal to comply with any the resolution
within 14 days after the service thereof, shall be deemed a violation of this
chapter.
(1998 Code, § 10-505)  Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   In accordance with the statutes of the State of Nebraska, including
Neb. RS 17-505, any person who shall violate or refuse to comply with the
enforcement of any of the provisions of this chapter shall be deemed guilty of
a misdemeanor and upon conviction thereof shall be fined not more than $500 for
any one offense, recoverable with costs.
   (B)   A new violation shall be deemed to have been committed every 24 hours
of failure to comply.
(1998 Code, § 10-1001)  (Ord. 724, passed 1-25-2000; Ord. 950, passed 6-22-
2010)
CHAPTER 115:  FIREWORKS VENDORS
Section
   
115.01   Fireworks vendors
 
   
115.99   Penalty
§ 115.01  FIREWORKS VENDORS.
   Pursuant to the statutes of the State of Nebraska, including Neb. RS 17-137
and 28-1241 through 28-1250, it shall be unlawful for any person to sell
fireworks in the city without first having obtained the appropriate license
from the State Fire Marshal and a license from the city by filing an
application with the City Clerk-Treasurer upon forms supplied by the Clerk-
Treasurer and obtaining the approval of the Mayor and Council. Upon approval, a
license fee shall be collected by the Clerk-Treasurer prior to issuance of the
license. The city license shall be subject to revocation by the Mayor and
Council for good cause upon notice (and hearing if requested by the licensee).
(1998 Code, § 10-601)  Penalty, see §
115.99
Cross-reference:
   Fire Regulations, see
Ch. 94
   Fireworks, see §
94.27
§ 115.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   In accordance with the statutes of the State of Nebraska, including
Neb. RS 17-505, any person who shall violate or refuse to comply with the
enforcement of any of the provisions of this chapter shall be deemed guilty of
a misdemeanor and upon conviction thereof shall be fined not more than $500 for
any one offense, recoverable with costs.
   (B)   A new violation shall be deemed to have been committed every 24 hours
of failure to comply.
(1998 Code, § 10-1001)  (Ord. 724, passed 1-25-2000; Ord. 950, passed 6-22-
2010)
CHAPTER 116:  MOBILE HOME PARKS
Section
   
116.01   Definitions
   
116.02   State licensure
   
116.03   Utility systems and sanitary conditions
   
116.04   Design, construction and land use
   
116.05   Skirting required
   
116.06   Location of mobile homes
 
   
116.99   Penalty
§ 116.01  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning. In
accordance with the statutes of the State of Nebraska, including Neb. RS 71-
4621 through 71-4635, the following terms are defined.
   MOBILE HOME. A movable or portable dwelling constructed to be towed on its
own chassis, connected to utilities and designed with or without a permanent
foundation for year-round living. It may consist of one or more units that can
be telescoped when towed and expanded later for additional capacity, or of two
or more units, separately towable but designed to be joined into one integral
unit and shall include a manufactured home as defined in the statutes of the
State of Nebraska, Neb. RS 71-4603.
   MOBILE HOME LOT. A designated portion of a mobile home park designed for the
accommodation of one mobile home and its accessory buildings or structures for
the exclusive use of the occupants.
   MOBILE HOME PARK. A parcel or contiguous parcels of land which have been so
designated and improved that it contains two or more mobile home lots available
to the general public for the placement thereon of mobile homes for occupancy.
The TERM MOBILE HOME PARK shall not be construed to include mobile homes,
buildings, tents or other structures temporarily maintained by any individual,
corporation, limited liability company, company or other entity on its own
premises and used exclusively to house its own labor force.
(1998 Code, § 10-701)
§ 116.02  STATE LICENSURE.
   In accordance with the statutes of the State of Nebraska, including Neb. RS
71-4622, no person shall establish, conduct, operate or maintain a mobile home
park within the state without first obtaining an annual license therefor from
the Department of Health and Human Services Regulation and Licensure. This
license shall be issued for the calendar year applied for and shall expire at
midnight on December 31 of that year.
(1998 Code, § 10-702)  Penalty, see §
116.99
§ 116.03  UTILITY SYSTEMS AND SANITARY CONDITIONS.
   In accordance with the statutes of the State of Nebraska, including Neb. RS
71-4629, utility systems and sanitary conditions of any mobile home park shall
be in accordance with the standards established by the Department of Health and
Human Services Regulation and Licensure.
(1998 Code, § 10-703)  Penalty, see §
116.99
§ 116.04  DESIGN, CONSTRUCTION AND LAND USE.
   Pursuant to the statutes of the State of Nebraska, including Neb. RS 71-
4629, the design, construction and land use standards for a mobile home park
shall be in accordance with the applicable ordinances of the city, including
the provisions of this code of ordinances. Mobile home parks shall be located
within the applicable city’s zoning jurisdiction. Compliance with the zoning
ordinance of the city shall be mandatory.
(1998 Code, § 10-704)  Penalty, see §
116.99
§ 116.05  SKIRTING REQUIRED.
   The skirting of all mobile homes is required. Skirting shall not attach a
mobile home permanently to the ground but shall be sufficient to withstand wind
blow requirements and shall not provide a harborage for junk or rodents nor
create a fire hazard. Skirting shall be provided with removable or hinged
access panels sufficient to provide easy access to all utility connection
points of the mobile home and its subsequent connection with the any utility
risers located within the skirted area.
(1998 Code, § 10-705)  Penalty, see §
116.99
§ 116.06  LOCATION OF MOBILE HOMES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to locate a mobile home within the city except on
a mobile home lot within a licensed mobile home park.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for the owner, or the agent of the owner, of any
lot, tract or parcel of land within the limits of the city to allow or to
permit the owner or occupants of any mobile home to locate a mobile home on
land in violation of this section.
(1998 Code, § 10-706)  Penalty, see §
116.99
§ 116.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   In accordance with the statutes of the State of Nebraska, including
Neb. RS 17-505, any person who shall violate or refuse to comply with the
enforcement of any of the provisions of this chapter shall be deemed guilty of
a misdemeanor and upon conviction thereof shall be fined not more than $500 for
any one offense, recoverable with costs.
   (B)   A new violation shall be deemed to have been committed every 24 hours
of failure to comply.
(1998 Code, § 10-1001)  (Ord. 724, passed 1-25-2000; Ord. 950, passed 6-22-
2010)
CHAPTER 117:  CAMPGROUNDS
Section
   
117.01   Definitions
   
117.02   Permit required
   
117.03   Application for permit and renewal
   
117.04   Plans and specifications
   
117.05   Location, spaces and general layout
   
117.06   Permit fee
   
117.07   Inspections
   
117.08   Sewage disposal
   
117.09   Refuse and storage disposal
   
117.10   Register of occupants
   
117.11   Location of recreational vehicles
 
   
117.99   Penalty
§ 117.01  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning. In
accordance with the statutes of the State of Nebraska, including Neb. RS 71-
4601 through 71-4620, the following terms are defined.
   CAMPING TRAILER. A vehicular portable unit mounted on wheels and constructed
with collapsible partial side walls which fold for towing by another vehicle
and unfold at the campsite to provide temporary living quarters for
recreational, camping or travel use.
   MOTOR HOME. A vehicular unit primarily designed to provide temporary living
quarters which are built into an integral part of, or permanently attached to,
a self-propelled motor vehicle chassis or van, containing permanently installed
independent life-support systems that meet the state’s standard for
recreational vehicles and providing at least four of the following facilities:
      (1)   Cooking;
      (2)   Refrigeration or ice box;
      (3)   Self-contained toilet;
      (4)   Heating, air conditioning or both;
      (5)   A potable water supply system including a faucet and sink;
      (6)   Separate 120-nominal-volt electrical power supply; or
      (7)   LP gas supply.
   PARK TRAILER. A vehicular unit which meets the following criteria:
      (1)   Built on a single chassis mounted on wheels;
      (2)   Designed to provide seasonal or temporary living quarters which may
be connected to utilities necessary for operation of installed fixtures and
appliances;
      (3)   Constructed to permit setup by persons without special skills using
only hand tools which may include lifting, pulling and supporting devices; and
      (4)   Having a gross trailer area not exceeding 400 square feet when in
the setup mode.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. A vehicular type unit primarily designed as temporary
living quarters for recreational, camping or travel use, which unit either has
its own motive power or is mounted on or towed by another vehicle. RECREATIONAL
VEHICLE shall include, but not be limited to, travel trailer, camping trailer,
truck camper, motor home, park trailer and van conversion.
   TRAVEL TRAILER. A vehicular unit mounted on wheels, designed to provide
temporary living quarters for recreational, camping or travel use of a size or
weight as not to require special highway movement permits when towed by a
motorized vehicle and of gross trailer area less than 320 square feet.
   TRUCK CAMPER. A portable unit constructed to provide temporary living
quarters for recreational, travel or camping use, consisting of a roof, floor
and sides and designed to be loaded onto and unloaded from the bed of a pickup
truck.
   VAN CONVERSION. A completed vehicle permanently altered cosmetically,
structurally, or both which has been recertified by the state as a multipurpose
passenger vehicle but which does not conform to or otherwise meet the
definition of a motor home and which contains at least one plumbing, heating,
or 120-nominal-volt electrical component subject to the provisions of the
state’s standard for recreational vehicles. VAN CONVERSION shall not include
any vehicle that lacks any plumbing, heating or 120-nominal-volt electrical
system but contains an extension of the low-voltage automotive circuitry.
(1998 Code, § 10-801)
§ 117.02  PERMIT REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to construct, maintain or operate any
campground within the limits of the city without a valid permit issued by the
City Clerk-Treasurer. No permit shall be transferable. Every person holding a
campground permit shall give notice in writing to the City Clerk- Treasurer
within 72 hours after having sold, transferred, given away or otherwise
disposed of any interest in or control of any campground. This notice shall
include the name and address of the successor in ownership or control of the
campground.
(1998 Code, § 10-802)  Penalty, see §
117.99
§ 117.03  APPLICATION FOR PERMIT AND RENEWAL.
   (A)   Application for an original campground permit shall be in writing and
verified and shall contain the following:
      (1)   The name and address of the applicant;
      (2)   The interest of the applicant in the campground and its location;
      (3)   The legal description of the real estate; and
      (4)   A complete plan and supplemental specifications (in triplicate) of
the campground showing compliance with all applicable provisions of city
ordinances, including this code of ordinances.
   (B)   An application for a renewal of a campground permit shall be required
and the renewal issued by the City Clerk-Treasurer before any changes are made
in the campground which deviate from the plans and specifications as approved
in the original permit or the latest renewal thereof. Applications for renewals
of permits shall be in writing and verified by the holder of the permit and
shall set out any proposed changes in the campground.
(1998 Code, § 10-803)  Penalty, see §
117.99
§ 117.04  PLANS AND SPECIFICATIONS.
   The plans and specifications of the campground shall show:
   (A)   The area, dimensions and location of the tract of land;
   (B)   The number, location, dimensions and size of all campground lots;
   (C)   The location and widths of roadways and walkways;
   (D)   The location of service buildings and any other proposed structures;
   (E)   The location and construction details of water and sewer lines and
service outlets;
   (F)   The source of public water service;
   (G)   The location of public sewage disposal;
   (H)   The location of electrical power lines and lighting;
   (I)   Plans and specifications of all buildings and other improvements
constructed or to be constructed within the campground; and
   (J)   All plans and detail drawings shall be drawn to scale.
(1998 Code, § 10-804)
§ 117.05  LOCATION, SPACES AND GENERAL LAYOUT.
   Campgrounds shall be located within the applicable city’s zoning
jurisdiction. Compliance with the zoning ordinance of the city shall be
mandatory. The site spaces and general campground layout shall be as approved
by the Mayor and Council.
(1998 Code, § 10-805)
§ 117.06  PERMIT FEE.
   After all requirements for approval of an original application for a permit
or a renewal thereof have been satisfied, the applicant shall pay to the City
Clerk-Treasurer the following permit fees, and upon presentation of the receipt
therefor to the City Clerk-Treasurer the original permit or renewal thereof
shall be issued:
   (A)   For a campground designated to accommodate one to ten recreational
vehicles, the fee shall be set by resolution of the City Council;
   (B)   For a campground designated to accommodate more than ten recreational
vehicles, the fee shall be set by City Council resolution; and
   (C)   A permit fee as set by City Council resolution shall be paid annually
to the City Clerk-Treasurer on or before April 30 of each year, as long as the
campground continues in operation. A permit shall be valid continuously so long
as the annual permit fees are paid and the permit is not revoked.
(1998 Code, § 10-806)
§ 117.07  INSPECTIONS.
   Members of the Board of Health, the Chief of Police, the Fire Chief, the
Utilities Superintendent, the Street Commissioner, the Building Inspector, the
Zoning Administrator, the Water Commissioner and the Sewer Commissioner shall
be permitted to inspect a campground at reasonable times to assure continuing
compliance with all applicable rules, regulations, resolutions and ordinances
to safeguard the health and safety of occupants of the campground and members
of the general public. The permit holder shall be given written notice of any
violations, to include a reasonable time (not less than 30 days) to accomplish
the corrections which shall be necessary to effect compliance. Notice shall be
served personally upon the owner or agent thereof or sent by registered mail to
the last known address of the owner or agent, or by service in accordance with
any other method authorized by the statutes of the State of Nebraska, including
Neb. RS 25-505.01 through 25-530.08. If the violations have not been corrected
within the specified time period, the City Clerk-Treasurer shall revoke the
permit and give notice in writing of the revocation, and upon receipt of notice
of revocation that person shall cease operations of the campground. Whenever
the Board of Health finds that an emergency exists which requires immediate
action to protect the public health, it may, without notice or hearing, issue
an order reciting the existence of an emergency and take action as deemed
necessary to meet the emergency, including the revocation of the permit by the
City Clerk-Treasurer. The order shall be effective immediately, but upon
petition to the City Clerk-Treasurer, the permit holder shall be afforded a
prompt hearing before the Mayor and Council for approval, disapproval or
amendment of the order of the Board of Health.
(1998 Code, § 10-807)  Penalty, see §
117.99
§ 117.08  SEWAGE DISPOSAL.
   It shall be unlawful to permit any waste water from sinks, baths, showers or
other plumbing fixtures to be deposited upon the surface of the ground.
(1998 Code, § 10-808)  Penalty, see §
117.99
§ 117.09  REFUSE AND STORAGE DISPOSAL.
   Refuse shall be stored in fly-tight, water-tight, rodent-proof containers
which shall be located not more than 150 feet from any camp site. Containers
shall be provided in sufficient number and capacity to store properly all
refuse. Refuse shall be removed from the campground in accordance with Chapter
92 of this code of ordinances.
(1998 Code, § 10-809)  Penalty, see §
117.99
§ 117.10  REGISTER OF OCCUPANTS.
   (A)   Campground owners or operators shall maintain a register which shall
be available to any authorized person inspecting the campground and shall be
preserved for a period of not less than one year.
   (B)   The register shall indicate:
      (1)   The name and address of each recreational vehicle occupant staying
at the campground;
      (2)   The make, model and license number of the motor vehicle;
      (3)   The state, territory or country issuing the recreational vehicle
license; and
      (4)   The dates of arrival and departure of each recreational vehicle.
(1998 Code, § 10-810)  Penalty, see §
117.99
§ 117.11  LOCATION OF RECREATIONAL VEHICLES.
   It shall be unlawful to locate a recreational vehicle occupied for more than
30 days within the city except within a municipal or a licensed campground;
provided that a recreational vehicle may be occupied for construction projects
during the period of construction. It shall be unlawful for the owner, or the
agent of the owner, of any lot, tract or parcel of land within the limits of
the city to allow or to permit the owner or occupants of any recreational
vehicle to park that vehicle on the land in violation of this section.
(1998 Code, § 10-811)  Penalty, see §
117.99
§ 117.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   In accordance with the statutes of the State of Nebraska, including
Neb. RS 17-505, any person who shall violate or refuse to comply with the
enforcement of any of the provisions of this chapter shall be deemed guilty of
a misdemeanor and upon conviction thereof shall be fined not more than $500 for
any one offense, recoverable with costs.
   (B)   A new violation shall be deemed to have been committed every 24 hours
of failure to comply.
(1998 Code, § 10-1001)  (Ord. 724, passed 1-25-2000; Ord. 950, passed 6-22-
2010)
CHAPTER 118:  LOTTERIES AND RAFFLES
Section
   
118.01   License
   
118.02   Application for license
   
118.03   Display of license
   
118.04   License fee
   
118.05   Occupation tax
 
   
118.99   Penalty
§ 118.01  LICENSE.
   Pursuant to the statutes of the State of Nebraska, including Neb. RS 9-433,
it shall be unlawful for any person to conduct a lottery or raffle within the
city without first obtaining a license to do so; provided that, in accordance
with Neb. RS 9-811 and 9-841, this chapter shall not apply to all matters
related to the operation of the lottery games conducted pursuant to the State
Lottery Act; and provided further that nonprofit organizations in compliance
with the Small Lotteries and Raffles Act of the State of Nebraska, Neb. RS 9-
501 through 9-513, are exempt from the provisions of this chapter.
(1998 Code, § 10-901)
§ 118.02  APPLICATION FOR LICENSE.
   (A)   Every qualified organization desiring a license required by the
provisions of this chapter shall make application to the City Clerk-Treasurer
on a form furnished by the Clerk-Treasurer.
   (B)   Each application shall include:
      (1)   The name and address of the applicant;
      (2)   The name and address of each officer of the applicant organization;
and
      (3)   The name, address, date of birth and years of membership of a bona
fide and active member of the applicant organization who shall be responsible
for the proper utilization of the gross proceeds derived from the conduct of
the lottery or raffle and for supervising the conduct of the lottery or raffle
for the organization.
(1998 Code, § 10-902)
§ 118.03  DISPLAY OF LICENSE.
   Every license issued hereunder shall be conspicuously displayed at the place
where the lottery or raffle is conducted at all times during the conduct
thereof.
(1998 Code, § 10-903)
§ 118.04  LICENSE FEE.
   The license fee for the conduct of a lottery within the city shall be $10
for each activity, and for the conduct of a raffle within the city shall be $10
for each raffle.
(1998 Code, § 10-904)
§ 118.05  OCCUPATION TAX.
   (A)   An occupation tax, in the amount of 5% of the gross receipts received
in each quarter of each calendar year from the conduct of lotteries and
raffles, is hereby imposed on a person or organization owning, operating or
leasing a place of business within the city where lotteries and/or raffles are
conducted, whether or not any other type of business is conducted on the
premises.
   (B)   This tax shall be paid to the City Clerk-Treasurer within one month
following the end of the applicable quarter for deposit by the City Clerk-
Treasurer to the General Fund.
   (C)   Upon payment, the Clerk-Treasurer shall issue an occupation tax
certificate which shall then be displayed in a prominent place where the
lottery and/or raffle is being conducted.
(1998 Code, § 10-905)
§ 118.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   In accordance with the statutes of the State of Nebraska, including
Neb. RS 17-505, any person who shall violate or refuse to comply with the
enforcement of any of the provisions of this chapter shall be deemed guilty of
a misdemeanor and upon conviction thereof shall be fined not more than $500 for
any one offense, recoverable with costs.
   (B)   A new violation shall be deemed to have been committed every 24 hours
of failure to comply.
(1998 Code, § 10-1001)  (Ord. 724, passed 1-25-2000; Ord. 950, passed 6-22-
2010)
CHAPTER 119:  SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESSES
Section
Purpose and Intent, Findings, Definitions and Classifications
   
119.01   Purpose and intent
   
119.02   Findings
   
119.03   Definitions
   
119.04   Classifications
Licensing, Establishment of Fees, Investigations and Inspections
   
119.15   License required; application for license
   
119.16   Investigation of the application
   
119.17   Council hearing; issuance of license
   
119.18   Fees
   
119.19   Inspection
   
119.20   Expiration of license; renewal of license
   
119.21   Suspension of license
   
119.22   Revocation
   
119.23   Transfer of license
Location of Sexually Oriented Business
   
119.35   Location  of sexually oriented business
Miscellaneous Regulations
   
119.50   Additional regulations for escort agencies
   
119.51   Additional regulations for semi-nude model studios
   
119.52   Additional regulations for adult motels
   
119.53   Regulations pertaining to exhibition of sexually explicit films,
videos or live entertainment in viewing rooms
   
119.54   Additional regulations concerning public nudity and semi-nudity
   
119.55   Prohibition against children in sexually oriented business
   
119.56   Hours of operation
   
119.57   Display of sexually explicit materials to minors
 
   
119.99   Penalty
PURPOSE AND INTENT, FINDINGS, DEFINITIONS AND CLASSIFICATIONS
§ 119.01  PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   It is the purpose of this chapter to regulate sexually oriented businesses
so as to promote and protect the health, safety and welfare of the city, and to
establish reasonable and uniform regulations to promote and protect the health,
safety  and welfare of the citizens of the city. The provisions of this chapter
have neither the purpose nor effect of imposing a limitation or restriction on
the content of any communicative materials, including sexually oriented
materials. It is not the intent nor effect of this chapter to restrict or deny
access by adults to sexually oriented materials protected by the First
Amendment, or to deny access by distributors and exhibitors of sexually
oriented entertainment to their intended market.
(Ord. 822, passed 4-26-2005)
§ 119.02  FINDINGS.
   Based upon documented evidence, studies, findings and reports concerning the
negative secondary effects of sexually oriented businesses and the nexus
between sexually oriented businesses and alcohol consumption, including
findings incorporated in the cases of City of Renton v. Playtime Theatres,
Inc., 475 U.S. 41 (1986), Young v. American Mini Theatres, 426 U.S. 50 (1976),
FW/PBS Inc. v. City of Dallas, 493 U.S. 215 (1990), Barnes v. Glen Theatre
Inc., 501 U.S. 560(1991), City of Erie v. Pap’s A.M., 120 S.Ct. 1382 (2000) and
findings in the case of Major Liquors, Inc. v. City of Omaha, 188 Neb. 628, 198
N.W. 2d 483 (1972) and studies in other communities including, but not limited
to, Phoenix, Arizona; Tucson, Arizona; Garden Grove, California; Los Angeles,
California; Whittier, California; Adams County, Colorado; Denver, Colorado;
Manatee County, Florida; Indianapolis, Indiana; Kansas City, Kansas;
Minneapolis, Minnesota; St. Paul, Minnesota; Las Vegas, Nevada; Ellicottville,
New York; Islip, New York; New Hanover, North Carolina; Cleveland, Ohio;
Oklahoma City, Oklahoma; Amarillo, Texas; Austin, Texas; Houston, Texas;
Newport, Virginia; Bellevue, Washington; Des Moines, Washington; Seattle,
Washington; St. Croix County, Wisconsin; and also findings from the
Environmental Research Group to the American Center for Law and Justice (March
31, 1996), the City Council finds:
   (A)   Sexually oriented businesses have negative secondary effects on the
existing businesses around them and the surrounding residential areas adjacent
to them, carrying increased crime, the downgrading of property values, the
downgrading of adjacent neighborhoods and the downgrading of the quality of
life in the adjacent area;
   ( B )   Improper conduct involving sexual acts occurs at sexually oriented
businesses which provide private or semi-private booths or viewing rooms for
the viewing of films, videos or live performances;
   ( C )   The findings noted above raise substantial governmental concerns for
the health, safety and welfare of the city, and it is appropriate for the
purpose of promoting the health, safety and welfare of the citizens of the city
that reasonable regulations be enacted so as to address the substantial
governmental concerns and minimize and control the negative secondary effects
of sexually oriented businesses and thereby promote and protect the health,
safety and welfare of the city, protect the citizens from increased crime,
preserve the quality of life, preserve the value of property and preserve the
quality and character of surrounding neighborhoods;
   ( D )   The enactment of reasonable regulations which involve locational
criteria, licensing criteria, operational criteria and the prohibition of
alcohol are appropriate to address the substantial governmental concerns and
promote and protect the health, safety and welfare of the citizens of the city;
   ( E )   A reasonable licensing procedure is an appropriate mechanism to
place the burden of reasonable regulations on the owners of sexually oriented
businesses and a licensing procedure will place an incentive on the owners to
see that the sexually oriented business is operated in a manner which is
consistent with the health, safety and welfare of patrons, employees and
citizens of the city;
   ( F )   The prohibition of doors on viewing booths and rooms and the
requirement of sufficient lighting and line of sight requirements and
structural requirements advance the substantial government interest in
preventing improper conduct and sexual acts from occurring in those viewing
booths and the rooms;
   ( G )   The fact that an applicant for a sexually oriented business license
has been convicted of a sex related crime leads to the rational assumption that
the applicant may engage in that conduct in contravention of this chapter and
the barring of that individual from receiving a sexually oriented business
license for a period of years serves as a deterrent to and prevents conduct in
contravention of this chapter; and
   ( H )   The health, safety and welfare of the citizens of the city will be
promoted and protected by the enactment of this chapter.
(Ord. 822, passed 4-26-2005)
§ 119.03  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADULT ARCADE. Any place to which the public is permitted or invited wherein
coin operated or slug operated or electronically, electrically or mechanically
controlled still or motion picture machines, projectors, videos, laser or
compact disc players, or other image producing devices are regularly maintained
to show images to five or fewer persons per machine at any one time, and where
the images so displayed are distinguished or characterized by their emphasis
upon matters exhibiting specified sexual activities or specified anatomical
areas.
   ADULT BOOKSTORE, ADULT NOVELTY STORE or ADULT VIDEO STORE. A commercial
establishment which has a significant or substantial portion of its stock-in-
trade, or derives a significant or substantial portion of its revenues or
devotes a significant or substantial portion of its interior business or
advertising, or maintains a substantial section of its sales or display space
for sale or rental, for any form of consideration, any one of more of the
following:
      (1)   Books, magazines, periodicals or other printed matter, or
photographs, films, motion pictures, video cassettes or other visual
representations which are characterized by their emphasis upon the exhibition
or display of specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas; or
      (2)   Instruments, devices or paraphernalia which are designed or for use
or marketed primarily for the stimulation of human genital organs or for
sadomasochistic use or abuse of the user or others.
   ADULT CABARET. A night club, restaurant or similar commercial establishment
which regularly features:
      (1)   Persons who appear semi-nude;
      (2)   Live performances which are characterized by their emphasis upon
the exhibition or display or specified sexual activities; or
      (3)   Films, motion pictures, video cassettes, slides, laser or compact
discs, or other photographic reproductions which are characterized by their
emphasis upon the exhibition or display of specified sexual activities or
specified anatomical areas.
   ADULT MOTEL. A hotel, motel or similar commercial establishment which:
offers accommodations; provides patrons with closed-circuit television
transmissions, films, motion pictures, video cassettes, slides, laser or
compact discs or other photographic reproductions which are characterized by
their emphasis upon the exhibition or display of specified sexual activities or
specified anatomical areas; and has a sign visible from the public right-of-way
which advertises the availability of this adult type or photographic
reproductions; and either:
      (1)   Offers a sleeping room for rent for a period of time that is less
than ten hours; or
      (2)   Allows a tenant or occupation of a sleeping room to subrent the
room for a period of time, that is less than ten hours.
   ADULT MOTION PICTURE THEATER. A commercial establishment where, for any form
of consideration, films, motion pictures, video cassettes, slides, laser or
compact discs, or similar photographic reproductions are regularly shown which
are characterized by their emphasis upon the exhibition or display of specified
sexual activities or specified anatomical areas.
   ADULT THEATER. A theater, concert hall, auditorium or similar commercial
establishment which regularly features persons who appear semi-nude, or live
performances which are characterized by their emphasis upon the exhibition or
display of specified sexual activities.
   CHIEF OF POLICE. The Chief of Police of the city or his or her designated
agent.
   DISTINGUISHED OR CHARACTERIZED BY AN EMPHASIS UPON. The dominant or
principal theme of the object referenced. For instance, when the phrase refers
to films which are DISTINGUISHED OR CHARACTERIZED BY AN EMPHASIS UPON THE
EXHIBITION OR DISPLAY OF SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITIES OR SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL
AREAS, the films so described are those who dominant or principal character and
theme are the exhibition and display of specified anatomical areas or specified
sexual activities.
   EMPLOYEE, EMPLOY and EMPLOYMENT. Describe and pertain to any person who
performs any service on the premises of a sexually oriented business on a full-
time, part-time or contract basis, regardless of whether the person is
designated as an employee, independent contractor, agent or another status.
EMPLOYEE does not include a person exclusively on the premises for repair or
maintenance of the premises, or for the delivery of goods to the premises.
   ESCORT. A person who, for any form of consideration, agrees or offers to act
as a companion, guide or date for another person, or who agrees or offers to
privately model lingerie or to privately perform a striptease for another
person.
   ESCORT AGENCY. A person or business association that for any form of
consideration furnishes, offers to furnish or advertises to furnish, escorts as
one of its primary business purposes.
   ESTABLISH or ESTABLISHMENT. The opening or commencement of any sexually
oriented business as a new business; or the conversion of any existing
business, whether or not a sexually oriented business, to any sexually oriented
business; or the addition of any other sexually oriented business to any other
existing sexually oriented business; or the relocation of any sexually oriented
business.
   LICENSEE. A person in whose name a license to operate a sexually oriented
business has been issued, as well as the individual listed as an applicant on
the application for a license.
   NUDE, NUDITY or A STATE OF NUDITY. The showing of the human, post-pubertal
male or female genitals, pubic area or buttocks with less than a full opaque
covering, the depiction of the covered male genitals in a discernibly turgid
state, or the showing of the female breast with less than a full opaque
covering of any portion thereof below the top of the nipple.
   OPERATE or CAUSES TO BE OPERATED. To cause to function or to put or keep in
a state of doing business. OPERATOR means any person on the premises of a
sexually oriented business who is authorized to exercise operational control of
the business, or who causes to function or puts or keeps in operation, the
business. A person may be found to be OPERATING or CAUSING TO BE OPERATED a
sexually oriented business regardless of whether that person is an owner, part
owner or licensee of the business.
   PERSON. An individual, proprietorship, partnership, corporation, association
or other legal entity.
   REGULARLY FEATURES or REGULARLY SHOWN. A consistent or substantial course of
conduct, that the films or performances exhibited constitute a substantial
portion of the films or performances offered as a part of the ongoing business
of the sexually oriented business.
   RESIDENTIAL. A single-family, two-family or multiple-family use.
   RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT. A single-family, two-family or multiple-family zoning
district as defined in the zoning ordinance of the city.
   SEMI-NUDE. A state of dress in which clothing covers no more than the
genitals, pubic area and the female breast below the top of the nipple, as well
as portions of the body covered by supporting straps or devices. This
definition shall include the entire portion of the human female breast below
the top of the nipple, but shall not include any portion of the cleavage of the
human female breast, exhibited by a dress, blouse, skirt, leotard or bathing
suit.
   SEMI-NUDE MODEL STUDIO. A commercial establishment which regularly features
a person who appears semi-nude and is provided to be observed, sketched, drawn,
painted, sculptured or photographed by other person who pay money or any form
of consideration. SEMI-NUDE MODEL STUDIO shall not include a proprietary school
licensed by the State of Nebraska; or a college, junior college or university
supported entirely or in apart by public taxation; or a private college or
university which maintains and operates educational programs in which credits
are transferable to a college, junior college or university supported entirely
or partly by taxation.
   SEXUAL ENCOUNTER CENTER. A business or commercial enterprise that, as one of
its principal business purposes, offers for any form of consideration, a place
where two or more persons may congregate, associate or consort for the purpose
of specified sexual activities. The definition of SEXUAL ENCOUNTER CENTER or
any sexually oriented businesses shall not include an establishment where a
medical practitioner, psychologist, psychiatrist or similar professional person
licensed by the state engages in medically approved and recognized sexual
therapy.
   SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESS. An adult arcade, adult bookstore or adult
novelty store or adult video store, adult cabaret, adult motel, adult motion
picture theater, adult theater, escort agency, semi-nude motel studio or sexual
encounter center.
   SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREAS. The human, post-pubertal male or female
genitals, pubic area, buttocks with less than a full opaque covering, the male
genitals in a discernibly turgid state even if completely and opaquely covered,
or the female breast with less than a full opaque covering of any portion
thereof below the top of the nipple.
   SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITIES.
      (1)   Actual or simulated sexual intercourse, oral copulation, anal
intercourse, oral-anal copulation, bestiality, direct physical stimulation of
unclothed genitals, flagellation or torture in the context of a sexual
relationship and any of the following sexually-oriented acts of conduct:
anilingus, buggery, coprophagy, coprophilia, cunnilingus, fellatio,
necrophilia, pederasty, pedophilia, piquierism, sapphism, zooerasty; or
      (2)   Clearly depicted human genitals in the state of sexual stimulation,
arousal or tumescence; or
      (3)   Use of human or animal ejection, sodomy, oral copulation, coitus,
masturbation; or
      (4)   Fondling or touching of nude human genitals, pubic region, buttocks
or female breast(s); or
      (5)   Situations involving a person or persons, any of whom are nude,
clad in undergarments or in sexually revealing costumes and who are engaged in
activities involving the flagellation, torture, fettering, binding or other
physical restraint of any such persons; or
      (6)   Erotic or lewd touching, fondling or other sexually-oriented
contact with an animal or human being; or
      (7)   Human excretion, urination, menstruation, vaginal or anal
irrigation.
   SUBSTANTIAL ENLARGEMENT. The increase in floor area occupied by the business
by more than 25% as the floor area exists on the date this chapter takes effect
or on the date of the issuance of a sexually oriented business license.
   TRANSFER OF OWNERSHIP OR CONTROL.
      (1)   The sale, lease or sublease of the business;
      (2)   The transfer of securities which constitute a controlling interest
in the business, whether by sale, exchange or similar means; or
      (3)   The establishment of a trust, gift or other similar legal device
which transfers the ownership or control of the business, except for transfer
by bequest or other operation of law upon the death of the person possessing
the ownership or control.
(Ord. 822, passed 4-26-2005; Ord. 1038, passed 9-27-2016)
§ 119.04  CLASSIFICATIONS.
   Sexually oriented businesses and the licenses to establish and operate a
sexually oriented business are classified as follows and a sexually oriented
business license shall be issued for only one classification.
   (A)   Adult arcades;
   (B)   Adult bookstores, adult novelty stores or adult video stores;
   (C)   Adult cabarets;
   (D)   Adult motels;
   (E)   Adult motion picture theaters;
   (F)   Adult theaters;
   (G)   Escort agencies;
   (H)   Semi-nude motel studios; and
   (I)   Sexual encounter centers.
(Ord. 822, passed 4-26-2005)
LICENSING, ESTABLISHMENT OF FEES, INVESTIGATIONS AND INSPECTIONS
§ 119.15  LICENSE REQUIRED; APPLICATION FOR LICENSE.
   (A)   (1)   It is unlawful to establish, operate or cause to operate, a
sexually oriented business without a valid license issued by the city for the
particular type of business.
      (2)   An application for a license must be made to the Chief of Police on
a form provided by the Chief of Police.
      (3)   The applicant must be qualified according to the provisions of this
chapter. The application shall require and the applicant shall provide
information and documentation as is specified in this chapter.
      (4)   If a person who wishes to operate a sexually oriented business is
an individual, he or she must sign the application for a license as applicant.
If a person who wishes to operate a sexually oriented business is other than an
individual, each officer, director, general partner or other person who will
participate directly in decisions relating to management of the business shall
sign the application for a license as applicant. Each applicant must be
qualified as required by this chapter and each applicant shall be considered as
a licensee if a license is granted.
      (5)   The completed application for a sexually oriented business license
shall contain the following information and shall be accompanied by the
following documents. If the applicant is:
         (a)   An individual, the individual shall state his or her legal name
and any aliases and submit proof that he or she is 18 years of age;
         (b)   A partnership, the partnership shall state its complete name and
the names of all partners, whether the partnership is general or limited, and a
copy of the partnership agreement if any; and
         (c)   A corporation, the corporation shall state its complete name,
the date of its incorporation, evidence that the corporation is in good
standing under the laws of its state of incorporation, the name and capacity of
all officers, directors and principal shareholders, and the name of its
registered corporate agent and the address of the registered office for service
of process.
   (B)   If the applicant intends to operate the sexually oriented business
under a name other than that of the applicant, he or she must state the
sexually oriented business’s name and submit the required registration
documents;
   (C)   Whether the applicant has been convicted of a crime as defined in this
chapter, and if so, the crime, date, place and jurisdiction involved;
   (D)   Whether the applicant has had a previous license under this chapter or
other similar sexually oriented business ordinances from another city or county
denied, suspended or revoked, including the name and location of the sexually
oriented business for which the permit was denied, suspended or revoked, as
well as the date of the denial, suspension or revocation, and whether the
applicant has been a partner in a partnership or an officer, director or
principal stockholder of a corporation that is licensed under this chapter
whose license has been previously denied, suspended or revoked, including the
name and location of the sexually oriented business for which the license was
denied, suspended or revoked as well as the date of denial, suspension or
revocation;
   (E)   Whether the applicant holds any other licenses under this chapter or
other similar sexually oriented business ordinance from another city or county,
and if so, the names and locations of the other licensed businesses;
   (F)   The classification of license for which the applicant is filing;
   (G)   The location of the proposed sexually oriented business, including a
legal description of the property, street, address and telephone number(s), if
any;
   (H)   The applicant’s mailing address and residential address;
   (I)   The applicant’s driver’s license number, social security number and
state or federally issued tax identification number;
   (J)   The application must be accompanied by a sketch or diagram showing the
configuration of the premises, including a statement of total floor space
occupied by the business. The sketch or diagram need not be professionally
prepared but must be drawn to a designated scale or drawn with marked
dimensions of the interior of the premises to an accuracy of plus or minus six
inches. Applicants who must comply with §
119.53 shall submit a diagram meeting the requirements of this division;
   (K)   A current certificate and straight-line drawing prepared within 30
days prior to the application by a registered land surveyor depicting the
property lines and the structures containing any existing sexually oriented
businesses within 400 feet of the proposed location of the licensed premises,
and further depicting the property lines and structures of any church,
synagogue, mosque, temple or building which is used primarily for religious
worship and related religious activities; or any public or private educational
facility including, but limited to, child day care facilities, nursery schools,
preschools, kindergartens, elementary schools, private schools, intermediate
schools, junior high schools, middle schools, high schools, vocational schools,
continuation schools, special education schools, junior colleges, community
colleges and universities; or any park, or any residential district or use or
any hospital; within 500 feet of the proposed location of the licensed
premises; and
   (L)   If an applicant wishes to operate a sexually oriented business, other
than an adult motel, which shall exhibit on the premises, in a viewing room of
less than 150 square feet of floor space, films, motion pictures, video
cassettes, video reproductions, slides, laser or compact discs, other visual
reproductions or live entertainment which depict specified sexual activities or
specified anatomical areas, then the applicant shall comply with the
application requirements set forth in §
119.53 of this chapter.
(Ord. 822, passed 4-26-2005; Ord. 1038, passed 9-27-2016)
§ 119.16  INVESTIGATION OF THE APPLICATION.
   Upon receipt of an application for a sexually oriented business license, the
Chief of Police or designee shall conduct an investigation of the applicant and
application and shall issue an investigation report. Upon receipt of an
application for a sexually oriented business license, the Chief of Police or
designee shall forward a copy of the application to the Zoning Administrator,
who shall conduct a survey of the location and other requirements of this
chapter and shall issue a survey report. The investigation by the Chief of
Police or designee and the survey report by the Zoning Administrator shall be
forwarded to the City Council, along with the application, within 30 days of
receipt by the Chief of Police of the application.
(Ord. 822, passed 4-26-2005)
§ 119.17  COUNCIL HEARING; ISSUANCE OF LICENSE.
   (A)   Within 30 days of the receipt of the forwarded application and reports
from the Chief of Police and Zoning Administrator, the City Council shall, in
any regular or special meeting, consider the application for a sexually
oriented business license, after having given the applicant ten days’ advance
written notice of the consideration and hearing. The applicant, or its
representative, shall appear before the City Council at the time scheduled for
the City Council’s consideration and hearing on the application. At the
hearing, the applicant or its representative may present oral or written
information in support of the issuance of a license and may confront and
question any information in opposition to the issuance of a license.
   (B)   After the hearing and consideration, the City Council shall approve
the issuance of a license to an applicant unless the City Council determines
one or more of the following to be true:
      (1)   An applicant is under 18 years of age;
      (2)   An applicant is overdue in payment to the city of taxes, fees,
fines or penalties assessed against or imposed upon the applicant in relation
to a sexually oriented business;
      (3)   An applicant has failed to provide information or documentation
reasonably necessary for issuance of the license or has falsely answered a
question or request for information or documentation on the application form;
      (4)   An applicant has been convicted of a violation of a provision of
this chapter, other than the offense of operating a sexually oriented business
without a license, within two years immediately preceding the application. The
fact that a conviction is being appealed shall have no effect;
      (5)   The investigation fee required by this chapter has not been paid;
      (6)   An applicant or the proposed establishment is in violation or is
not in compliance with any provision of this chapter; and/or
      (7)   An applicant has been convicted of a crime involving any of the
following offenses as described in the Nebraska State Statutes: prostitution,
promotion of prostitution, aggravated promotion of prostitution, compelling
prostitution, obscenity, sale, distribution or display of harmful material to
minors, sexual performance by a minor, possession of a child pornography,
public lewdness, indecent exposure, indecency with a child, sexual assault or
aggravated sexual assault, incest, solicitation of a child, harboring a runaway
child, criminal attempt, conspiracy or solicitation to commit any of the
foregoing offenses, for which less than two years have elapsed since the date
of conviction or the date of release from confinement for the conviction,
whichever is the later date, if the conviction is of a misdemeanor offense, or
less than five years have elapsed since the date of conviction or the date of
release from confinement for the conviction, whichever is the later date, if
the conviction is of a felony offense, or less than five years have elapsed
since the date of the last conviction or date of release from confinement for
the last conviction, whichever is the later date, if the convictions are of two
or more misdemeanor offenses or a combination of misdemeanor offenses occurring
within any 24-month period. The fact that a conviction is being appealed has
not effect on the disqualification of the applicant. An applicant who has been
convicted of an offense listed in this division may qualify for a sexually
oriented license only when the time period required has elapsed.
   (C)   The City Council, upon approving the issuance of a sexually oriented
business license, shall cause to be sent to the applicant by certified mail,
return receipt requested, written notice of that action and that the applicant
must pay the license fee and obtain the license. The City Council’s approval of
the issuance of a license does not authorize the applicant to operate a
sexually oriented business until the applicant has paid all fees required by
this chapter and obtained possession of the license. The City Council, upon
denial of the issuance of a sexually oriented business license, shall cause to
be sent to the applicant, by certified mail, return receipt requested, written
notice of that action.
   (D)   The license, if granted, must state on its face the name of the person
or persons to whom it is granted, the expiration date, the address of the
sexually oriented business and the classification of the license. The license
must be posted in a conspicuous place at or near the entrance to the sexually
oriented business so that it may be easily read at any time. A sexually
oriented business license shall issue for only a classification as provided in
§
119.04.
(Ord. 822, passed 4-26-2005)
§ 119.18  FEES.
   (A)   The annual license fee for a sexually oriented business license is
$1,000.
   (B)   In addition to the annual license fee required by division (A) above,
an applicant for an initial sexually oriented business license shall, at the
time of making application, pay a nonrefundable investigation fee of $600 for
the city to conduct an investigation of the application and for the city to
also conduct a survey to ensure that the proposed sexually oriented business is
in compliance with the locational restrictions set forth in this chapter.
(Ord. 822, passed 4-26-2005)
§ 119.19  INSPECTION.
   (A)   An applicant, licensee or operator shall permit representatives of the
City Police Department, Fire Department, Building Inspector, Zoning
Administrator and any other federal, state, county or city agency in the
performance of any function connected with the enforcement of this chapter or
other applicable laws, to inspect the premises of a sexually oriented business,
for the purpose of ensuring compliance with the law, at any time when it is
occupied or open for business.
   (B)   An applicant, licensee or operator of a sexually oriented business or
his or her agent or employee commits an offense if he or she refuses to permit
a lawful inspection of the premises by a representative designated in division
(A) above at any time it is occupied or open for business.
   (C)   The provisions of this section do not apply to areas of an adult
motel, which are currently being rented by a customer for use as a permanent or
temporary habitation.
(Ord. 822, passed 4-26-2005)
§ 119.20  EXPIRATION OF LICENSE; RENEWAL OF LICENSE.
   (A)   Each sexually oriented business license shall expire one year from the
date of issuance.
   (B)   A sexually oriented business license may be renewed only by making
application as provided in this chapter. Application for renewal should be make
at least 30 days before the expiration date, and when made less than 30 days
before the expiration date, the expiration of the license will not be affected
by the pendency of the application.
(Ord. 822, passed 4-26-2005)
§ 119.21  SUSPENSION OF LICENSE.
   (A)   The City Council shall suspend a license for a period not to exceed 30
days if it determines that a licensee or employee of the licensee has violated
or is not in compliance with any provision of this chapter, or refused to allow
an inspection of the sexually oriented business premises as authorized by this
chapter.
   (B)   The determination by the City Council as to the existence or
noncompliance with the above matters shall be made in an open City Council
session after having given the applicant or license holder or its
representatives 15 days’ advance written notice of the hearing, of the intent
to suspend and the grounds therefor. At the hearing, the license holder or its
representatives may present oral or written evidence in support of the
continuance of its license and may confront and question any witnesses or
evidence in opposition to the continuation of its license.
(Ord. 822, passed 4-26-2005)
§ 119.22  REVOCATION.
   (A)   The City Council shall revoke a license if a cause of suspension as
described in this chapter occurs and the license has been suspended within the
preceding 12 months.
   (B)   The City Council shall revoke a license if the City Council determines
that:
      (1)   A licensee gave false or misleading information in the materials
submitted during the application process;
      (2)   A licensee or an employee has knowingly allowed the possession, use
or sale of controlled substances on the premises;
      (3)   A licensee or an employee has knowingly allowed prostitution on the
premises;
      (4)   A licensee or employer knowingly operates the sexually oriented
business during a period of time when the licensee’s license was suspended;
      (5)   A licensee has been convicted of an offense listed in §
119.17, for which the time period required in §
119.17 has not elapsed;
      (6)   On two or more occasions within a 12-month period, a person or
persons committed an offense occurring in or on the licensed premises of a
crime listed in §
119.17, for which a conviction has been obtained, and the person or persons
were employees of the sexually oriented business at the time the offenses were
committed; or
      (7)   A licensee or employee has knowingly allowed any act of sexual
intercourse, sodomy, oral copulation, masturbation or any sex act to occur in
or on the licensed premises. This division shall not apply to an adult motel
unless the licensee or employee knowingly allowed any sexual acts to occur
either in exchange for money or in a public place or within public view.
   (C)   After revocation, the licensee shall not be issued a sexual oriented
business license for one year from the date revocation became effective. If
subsequent to revocation, the City Council finds that the basis for the
revocation has been corrected or abated, the applicant may be granted a license
if at least 90 days have elapsed since the date of revocation became effective.
If the license was revoked under division (B)(5) above, an applicant may not be
granted another license until the appropriate number of years as required by
this chapter have elapsed.
   (D)   The determination by the City Council as to the existence or
noncompliance with the above matters shall be made in an open City Council
session after having given the applicant of license holder or its
representatives 15 days’ advance written notice of the hearing, of the intent
to revoke and the grounds therefor. At the hearing, the license holder or its
representatives may present oral or written evidence in support of the
continuance of its license and may confront and question any witnesses or
evidence in opposition to the continuation of its license.
(Ord. 822, passed 4-26-2005)
§ 119.23  TRANSFER OF LICENSE.
   A licensee shall not transfer his or her license to another, nor shall a
licensee operate a sexually oriented business under the authority of a license
at any place other than the address designated in the license.
(Ord. 822, passed 4-26-2005)  Penalty, see §
119.99
LOCATION OF SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESS
§ 119.35  LOCATION  OF SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESS.
   (A)   No sexually oriented business or use shall be established, operated or
caused to be operated, in zoning district other than the I-1 or AG zoning
districts as defined by the zoning regulations of the city.
   (B)   No sexually oriented business or use shall be established, operated or
caused to be operated, within 400 feet of:
      (1)   A church, synagogue, mosque, temple or building which is used
primarily for religious worship and related religious activities;
      (2)   A public or private educational facility including, but not limited
to, child day care facilities, nursery schools, preschools, kindergartens,
elementary schools, private schools, intermediate schools, junior high schools,
middle schools, high schools, vocational schools, secondary schools,
continuation schools, special education schools, junior colleges, community
colleges and universities; school includes school grounds, but does not include
facilities used primarily for another purpose and only incidentally as a
school;
      (3)   A park or public or private campground, sports fields and other
recreation facilities not associated with a school or church and youth centers
and community centers;
      (4)   A boundary of a residential district as defined in this chapter;
      (5)   A property line of a lot devoted to a residential use as defined in
this chapter; or
      (6)   A hospital.
   (C)   For the purposes of division (B) above, measurement of this 400 feet
minimum distance shall be made in a straight line, without regard to
intervening structures or objects, from the nearest wall of the building or
structure containing a sexually oriented business from the nearest wall of the
uses set forth in division (B)(1), (5) and (6) above and from the property line
of uses set forth in division (B)(2), (3) and (4) above. The presence of any
political subdivision boundary shall be irrelevant for the purposes of
calculating and applying the distance requirements of this section.
   (D)   Any sexually oriented business lawfully operating on the effective
date of this chapter that is in violation of divisions (A)or (B) above shall be
deemed a nonconforming use. The nonconforming use will be permitted to continue
for a period not to exceed three years, unless sooner terminated for any reason
or voluntarily discontinued for a period of 30 days or more. The nonconforming
use shall not be increased, enlarged, extended or altered except that the use
may be changed to a conforming use.
   (E)   A sexually oriented business lawfully operating as a conforming use is
not rendered a nonconforming use by the location, subsequent to the grant or
renewal of the sexually oriented business license, of a church, public or
private educational facility, park, residential district, residential lot
orhospital within 400 feet of the sexually oriented business. This provision
applies only to the renewal of a valid license, and does not apply when an
application for a license is submitted after a license has expired or been
revoked.
(Ord. 822, passed 4-26-2005; Ord. 1038, passed 9-27-2016)
MISCELLANEOUS REGULATIONS
§ 119.50  ADDITIONAL REGULATIONS FOR ESCORT AGENCIES.
   (A)   An escort agency shall not employ any person under the age of 18
years.
   (B)   A person commits an offense if he or she acts as an escort or agrees
to act as an escort for any person under the age of 18 years.
(Ord. 822, passed 4-26-2005)  Penalty, see §
119.99
§ 119.51  ADDITIONAL REGULATIONS FOR SEMI-NUDE MODEL STUDIOS.
   (A)   A semi-nude model studio shall not employ any person under the age of
18 years.
   (B)   A person under the age of 18 years commits an offense if he or she
appears semi-nude in or on the premises of a semi-nude model studio. It is a
defense to prosecution under this division if the person under 18 years was in
a restroom not open to pubic view or visible to any other person.
   (C)   A person commits an offense if he or she appears semi-nude or
knowingly allows another to appear semi-nude in an area of a semi-nude model
studio, which can be viewed, from the public right-of-way.
   (D)   A semi-nude model studio shall not place or permit a bed, sofa or
mattress in any room on the premises, except that a sofa may be placed in a
reception room open to the public.
(Ord. 822, passed 4-26-2005)  Penalty, see §
119.99
§ 119.52  ADDITIONAL REGULATIONS FOR ADULT MOTELS.
   (A)   Evidence that a sleeping room in a hotel, motel or similar commercial
establishment has been rented and vacated two or more times in a period of time
that is less than ten hours creates a rebuttable presumption that the
establishment is an adult motel as that term is defined in this chapter.
   (B)   A person commits an offense, if, as the person in control of a
sleeping room in a hotel, motel or similar commercial establishment that does
not have a sexually oriented business license, he or she rents or subrents a
sleeping room to a person, and within ten hours from the time the room is
rented, he or she rents or subrents the same sleeping room again.
   (C)   For purposes of division (B) above, the terms RENT or SUBRENT mean the
act of permitting a room to be occupied for any form of consideration.
(Ord. 822, passed 4-26-2005)  Penalty, see §
119.99
§ 119.53  REGULATIONS PERTAINING TO EXHIBITION OF SEXUALLY EXPLICIT FILMS,
VIDEOS OR LIVE ENTERTAINMENT IN VIEWING ROOMS.
   (A)   A person who operates or causes to be operated a sexually oriented
business, other than an adult motel, which exhibits on the premises in a
viewing room of less than 150 square feet of floor space, a film, motion
picture, video cassette, video reproduction, slide, laser or compact disc,
other visual reproduction or live entertainment which depicts specified sexual
activities or specified anatomical areas, shall comply with the following
requirements.
      (1)   Upon application for a sexually oriented business license, the
application shall be accompanied by a diagram of the premises showing a plan
thereof specifying the location of one or more manager’s stations and the
location of all overhead lighting fixtures and designating any portion of the
premises in which patrons will not be permitted. A manager’s station may not
exceed 32 square feet of floor area. The diagram shall also designate the place
at which the permit will be conspicuously posted, if granted. A professionally
prepared diagram in the nature of an engineer’s or architect’s blueprint shall
not be required; however, each diagram should be oriented to the north or to
some designated street or object and should be drawn to a designated scale or
with marked dimensions sufficient to show the various internal dimensions of
all areas of the interior of the premises to an accuracy of plus or minus six
inches. The foregoing diagram for renewal applications may be waived if the
applicant adopts a diagram that was previously submitted and certifies that the
configuration of the premises has not been altered since it was prepared.
      (2)   The application shall be sworn to be true and correct by the
applicant.
      (3)   No alteration in the configuration or location of a manager’s
station may be made without the prior approval of the City Zoning
Administrator.
      (4)   It is the duty of the licensee and operator of the premises to
ensure that at least one employee is on duty and situated in each manager’s
station at all times that any patron is present inside the premises.
      (5)   The interior of the premises shall be configured in a manner that
there is an unobstructed view from a manager’s station of every area of the
premises, including the inside of the viewing rooms, to which any patron is
permitted access for any purposes excluding the insides of restrooms. Restrooms
may not contain video reproduction equipment. If the premises has two or more
manager’s stations designated, then the interior of the premises shall be
configured in a manner that there is an unobstructed view of each area of the
premises, including the inside of viewing rooms, to which any patron is
permitted access for any purpose excluding the insides of restrooms, from at
least one of the manager’s stations. The view required in this division must be
a direct line of sight from the manager’s station. The entrances to viewing
rooms shall be open and shall not have a door, curtain or other closure device,
and the insides of all viewing shall have an unobstructed, direct line of sight
view from the manager’s station.
      (6)   It shall be the be the duty of the licensee and operator, and it
shall also be the duty of any agents and employees present in the premises to
ensure that the view area as specified in division (A)(5) above remains
unobstructed by any doors, wall, curtains, partitions, merchandise, display
racks or other materials at all times, and to ensure that no patron is
permitted access to any area of the premises which has been designated as an
area in which patrons will not be permitted in the application filed pursuant
to division (A)(1) above.
      (7)   The premises shall be equipped with overhead lighting fixtures of
sufficient intensity to illuminate every place to which patrons are permitted
access at an illumination of not less than five candles as measured at the
floor level.
      (8)   It shall be the duty of the licensee and operator and it shall also
be the duty of any agents and employees present in the premises to ensure that
the illumination described above, is maintained at all times that any patron is
present in the premises.
      (9)   No viewing room may be occupied by more than one person at any
time.
      (10)   No person shall make or attempt to make an opening of any kind
between viewing rooms.
      (11)   It shall be the duty of the licensee and the operator and it shall
also be the duty of any agents or employees present in the premises to ensure
that no openings of any kind shall exist between viewing rooms and that all
viewing rooms shall be regularly inspected during each business day so as to
determine if any openings or holes exist.
   (B)   A person having a duty under divisions (A)(1) through (A)(11) above
commits an offense if he or she knowingly fails to fulfill that duty.
(Ord. 822, passed 4-26-2005)  Penalty, see §
119.99
§ 119.54  ADDITIONAL REGULATIONS CONCERNING PUBLIC NUDITY AND SEMI- NUDITY.
   (A)   No person shall appear, in a sexually oriented business, in a state of
nudity or depict specified sexual activities.
   (B)   No person shall appear in a sexually oriented business, in semi-nude
condition unless the person is an employee who, while semi-nude, shall be at
least six feet from any patron or customer and on a stage at least two feet
from the floor.
   (C)   No employee shall, while semi-nude in a sexually oriented business,
solicit any pay or gratuity from any patron or customer, and no patron or
customer shall pay or give any gratuity to any employee while the employee is
semi-nude in a sexually oriented business.
   (D)   No employee shall, while semi-nude in a sexually oriented business,
touch a patron or customer or the clothing of a patron or customer.
(Ord. 822, passed 4-26-2005)  Penalty, see §
119.99
§ 119.55  PROHIBITION AGAINST CHILDREN IN SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESS.
   No person under the age of 18 years shall be allowed on the premises of a
sexually oriented business.
(Ord. 822, passed 4-26-2005; Ord. 1038, passed 9-27-2016)  Penalty, see §
119.99
§ 119.56  HOURS OF OPERATION.
   No sexually oriented business, except for an adult motel, may remain open at
any time between the hours of 1:00 a.m. and 12:00 noon on Sundays.
(Ord. 822, passed 4-26-2005; Ord. 1038, passed 9-27-2016)  Penalty, see §
119.99
§ 119.57  DISPLAY OF SEXUALLY EXPLICIT MATERIALS TO MINORS.
   (A)   A person commits an offense if, in a business establishment open to
persons under the age of 17 years, he or she displays a book, pamphlet,
newspaper, magazine, film, video cassette or laser or compact disc, the cover
which depicts any one of the following:
      (1)   Human sexual intercourse, masturbation or sodomy;
      (2)   Fondling or other erotic touching of human genitals, pubic region,
buttocks or female breasts;
      (3)   Less than completely and opaquely covered human genitals, buttocks
or the portion of the female breasts below the tip of the nipple; or
      (4)   Human male genitals in a discernibly turgid state, whether covered
or uncovered.
   (B)   In this section, DISPLAY means to locate an item in a manner that
without obtaining assistance from an employee of the business establishment:
      (1)   It is available to the general public for handling and inspection;
or
      (2)   The cover or outside packaging on the item is visible to members of
the general public.
(Ord. 822, passed 4-26-2005; Ord. 1038, passed 9-27-2016)  Penalty, see §
119.99
§ 119.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Penalty.
      (1)   Any person who violates any of the prohibitions or provisions of
any section of this chapter shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor.
      (2)   Unless other specified in the particular section for which the
person stands convicted of violating, the penalty for a violation shall be a
fine in any sum not exceeding $500.
   (B)   Injunction. A person who operates or causes to be operated a sexually
oriented business without a valid license or otherwise in violation of this
chapter is subject to a suit for injunction as well as prosecution for criminal
violations and/or suspension or revocation of the license.
(Ord. 822, passed 4-26-2005)
CHAPTER 120:  TOBACCO AND CIGARETTES
Section
   
120.01   License to sell; issuance
   
120.02   License application
   
120.03   License term; fees
   
120.04   Rights of licensee
   
120.05   Disposition of fees
   
120.06   Transfer of license
   
120.07   Reissuance of revoked and forfeited license
Cross-reference:
   Use of tobacco by minors, see also §
130.08
§ 120.01  LICENSE TO SELL; ISSUANCE.
   Licenses for the sale of cigars, tobacco, electronic nicotine delivery
systems, cigarettes, and cigarette material to persons 19 years of age or over
shall be issued to individuals, partnerships, limited liability companies, and
corporations by the City Clerk upon application duly made as provided in Neb.
RS 28-1422.
(Ord. 1012, passed 2-10-2015; Ord. 1099, passed 1-14-2020)
Statutory reference:
   Licenses required, see Neb. RS 28-1420
   Prohibited sales, see Neb. RS 28-1421
§ 120.02  LICENSE APPLICATION.
   Every person, partnership, limited liability company, or corporation
desiring a license under Neb. RS 28-1420 to 20-1429 shall file with the City
Clerk a written application stating the name of the person, partnership,
limited liability company or corporation for whom the license is desired and
the exact location of the place of business and shall deposit with the
application the amount of the license fee provided in this chapter. If the
applicant is an individual, the application shall include the applicant's
social security number.
(Ord. 1012, passed 2-10-2015)
Statutory reference:
   Licenses Application, see Neb. RS 28-1422
§ 120.03  LICENSE TERM; FEES.
   (A)   The term for which a license shall run shall be from the date of
filing the application and paying the license free to and including December 31
of the calendar year in which application for the license is made.
   (B)   The license fee for any person, partnership, limited liability
company, or corporation selling at retail shall be $10.
   (C)   Any person, partnership, limited liability company, or corporation
selling annually in the aggregate more than 150,000 cigars, electronic nicotine
delivery systems and packages of tobacco in any form, at wholesale, shall pay a
license fee of $100, and if such combined annual sales amount to less than
150,000 cigars, packages of cigarettes, electronic nicotine delivery systems
and packages of tobacco, the annual license fee shall be $15. No wholesaler's
license shall be issued in any year on a less basis than $100 per annum unless
the applicant is a partnership, by a member of the firm, or if a limited
liability company, by a member or manager of the company, or if a corporation,
by an officer or manager thereof, that in the past such wholesaler's combined
sales of cigars, packages of cigarettes, electronic nicotine delivery systems
and packages of tobacco in every form have not exceeded in the aggregate
150,000 annually and that such sales will not exceed such aggregate amount for
the current year for which the license is to issue. Any person swearing falsely
in such affidavit shall be guilty of an offense, and such wholesaler's license
shall be revoked until the full license fee is paid.
   (D)   If application for license is made after July 1 of any calendar year,
the fee shall be one-half of the fee provided in this section.
(Ord. 1012, passed 2-10-2015; Ord. 1099, passed 1-14-2020)  Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   License terms, see Neb. RS 28-1423
§ 120.04  RIGHTS OF LICENSEE.
   (A)   The license, provided for in Neb. RS 28-1421 and 28-1422 shall, when
issued, shall authorize the sale of cigars, tobacco, electronic nicotine
delivery systems, cigarettes and cigarette material by the licensee and
employees, to persons 19 years of age or over, at the place of business
described in the license for the term therein authorized, unless the license is
forfeited as a result of court action as provided in Neb. RS 28-1425.
   (B)   If the license is revoked and forfeited pursuant to Neb. RS 28-1425,
all rights under the license shall at once cease and terminate.
(Ord. 1012, passed 2-10-2015; Ord. 1099, passed 1-14-2020)
Statutory reference:
   Sale to person under 18 prohibited; penalties, see Neb. RS 28-1425
§ 120.05  DISPOSITION OF FEES.
   All money collected as license fees under the provisions of this chapter
shall be paid over by the City Clerk or the Treasurer of the school fund for
the city.
(Ord. 1012, passed 2-10-2015)
Statutory reference:
   Disposition of fees, see Neb. RS 28-1426
§ 120.06  TRANSFER OF LICENSE.
   In case of the sale of a business where the owner has a license hereunder,
the City Clerk may authorize such license to be transferred to the purchaser. 
In case of a change of location by any licensee hereunder, the Clerk may
transfer such license to the new location.
(Ord. 1012, passed 2-10-2015)
§ 120.07  REISSUANCE OF REVOKED AND FORFEITED LICENSE.
   In the event that the license of a licensee hereunder shall be revoked and
forfeited as provided in Neb. RS 28-1425, no new license shall be issued to
such licensee until the expiration of one year from the date of such revocation
and forfeiture.
(Ord. 1012, passed 2-10-2015)
Statutory reference:
   License forfeiture, see Neb. RS 28-1429
CHAPTER 121:  OCCUPATION TAXES
Section
   
121.01   Levies authorized
   
121.02   Collection dates
   
121.03   Certificates
   
121.04   Failure to pay
OCCUPATION TAXES
§ 121.01  LEVIES AUTHORIZED.
   (A)   The city shall have power to raise revenue by levying and collecting a
license tax on any occupation or business within the limits of the city and
regulate the same by ordinance. Any occupation tax imposed pursuant to this
section shall make a reasonable classification of businesses, users of space,
or kinds of transactions for purposes of imposing such tax, except that no
occupation tax shall be imposed on any transaction which is subject to tax
under Neb. RS 53-160, 66-489.02, 66-4,140; 66-4,145, 66-4,146, 77-2602, or 77-
4008 or which is exempt from tax under Neb. RS 77-2704.24. The occupation tax
shall be imposed in the manner provided in Neb. RS 18-1208, except that Neb. RS
18-1208 does not apply to an occupation tax subject to Neb. RS 86-704. All such
taxes shall be uniform in respect to the classes upon which they are imposed.
All scientific and literary lectures and entertainments shall be exempt from
such taxation, as well as concerts and other musical entertainments given
exclusively by the citizens of the city.
   (B)   The City Council shall have authority, by ordinance, to impose an
occupation tax of not more than $5 per annum on each fire insurance
corporation, company, or association, doing business in the city, for the use,
support and benefit of volunteer fire departments, regularly organized under
the laws of the state regulation the same. The City Clerk shall collect with
diligence the occupation tax so imposed. Upon the receipt of the tax the Clerk
shall pay over the proceeds thereof to the City Treasurer who shall credit the
same to a fund to be known as special occupation tax fund for benefit of the
Volunteer Fire Department. Upon proper claim filed by the Chief of the Fire
Department and allowed by the City Council, the Treasurer shall pay over the
proceeds of the tax in the fund from time to time for the use of the Fire
Department, as hereinbefore provided.
   (C)   Notwithstanding any ordinance or charter power to the contrary, the
city shall not impose an occupation tax on the business of any person, firm, or
corporation licensed under the Nebraska Liquor Control Act and doing business
within the corporate limits of the city in any sum which exceeds two times the
amount of the license fee required to be paid under the Act to obtain such
license.
(Ord. 1011, passed 2-10-2015)
Statutory reference:
   Levy authorization, see Neb. RS 17-525, 35-106, 53-132
   Occupation taxes generating more than $300,000; imposition or increase;
election required, see Neb. RS 18-1208
§ 121.02  COLLECTION DATES.
   Unless provided otherwise or levied daily, any occupation taxes imposed by
the City Council shall be due and payable on May 1 of each year, except that
any occupation taxes collected from Class C liquor licensees shall be due and
payable on November 1 of each year.  Upon payment of an occupation tax by any
person to the City Clerk, the Clerk shall give a receipt, properly dated,
specifying the person paying the tax and the amount paid.  Any revenue
collected shall be deposited into the general fund by the City Treasurer except
as otherwise specifically provided.  The Treasurer shall keep an accurate
account of all revenue turned over to him or her.  All forms and receipts
herein mentioned shall be issued in duplicate.  One copy shall then be kept by
each party in the transaction.
§ 121.03  CERTIFICATES.
   The receipt issued after the payment of any occupation tax shall be the
occupation tax certificate.  The certificate shall specify the amount of the
tax and the name of the person and business that paid the tax.  The occupation
tax certificate shall then be displayed in a prominent place or carried in such
a way as to be easily accessible while business is being conducted.
§ 121.04  FAILURE TO PAY.
   If any person, company, or corporation fails or neglects to pay the
occupation taxes as provided in this chapter on the day they become due and
payable, the city shall then proceed by civil suit to collect the amount due. 
All delinquent taxes shall bear interest at the rate of 1% per month until
paid.
CHAPTER 122:  SMALL WIRELESS FACILITIES REGULATIONS FOR THE RIGHT-OF-WAY
Section
General Provisions
   
122.01   Purpose
   
122.02   Definitions
   
122.03   Relief
   
122.04   Other approvals
   
122.05   Laws, rules and regulations
Deployment in the Right-of-Way
   
122.10   Non-exclusivity; charges; permitted use and right-of-way criteria
   
122.11   Agreement for use of the right-of-way
   
122.12   Municipal poles
   
122.13   Rates and fees
   
122.14   Administrative review
   
122.15   Right-of-way construction and installation requirements
   
122.16   Attachment to and replacement of decorative poles
   
122.17   General work requirements
   
122.18   Location of new facilities
   
122.19   Removal, relocation and abandonment
   
122.20   Indemnification
   
122.21   Insurance
   
122.22   Independent technical and legal review
   
122.23   Federal and state shot clocks
   
112.99   Penalty
§ 122.01  PURPOSE.
   (A)   The provisions of this chapter shall be known as the Small Wireless
Facilities Regulations for the Right-of-Way. It is the purpose of these
provisions to delineate restrictions, development standards and siting
criteria, and establish removal procedures in order to protect the municipality
from the uncontrolled siting of wireless communication facilities in locations
that have significant adverse effects and cause irreparable harm.
   (B)   The Legislature found and declared in the Small Wireless Facilities
Deployment Act that:
      (1)   The deployment of small wireless facilities and other next-
generation wireless facilities is a matter of statewide concern and interest
and public policy;
      (2)   Wireless products and services are a significant and continually
growing part of the state's economy and that encouraging the development of
strong and robust wireless communications networks throughout the state is
necessary to address public need and policy and is integral to the state's
economic competitiveness;
      (3)   Rapid deployment of small wireless facilities will serve numerous
important statewide goals and public policy, including meeting growing consumer
demand for wireless data, increasing competitive options for communications
services available to the state's residents, improving the ability of the
state's residents to communicate with other residents and with their state and
local governments, and promoting public safety;
      (4)   Small wireless facilities, including facilities commonly referred
to as small cells and distributed antenna systems, are deployed most
effectively in public rights-of-way;
      (5)   To meet the public need and policy and the key objectives of the
Small Wireless Facilities Deployment Act that wireless providers must have
access to the public rights-of-way to densify their networks and provide next-
generation wireless services;
      (6)   Uniform procedures, rates, and fees for permit issuance and
deployment of small wireless facilities in public rights-of-way and on
authority infrastructure, including poles, throughout the state that are
reasonable and will encourage the development of robust next-generation
wireless networks for the benefit of residents throughout the state; and
      (7)   The procedures, rates, and fees in the Small Wireless Facilities
Deployment Act, together with any taxes, fees, or charges imposed under Neb. RS
86-704:
         (a)   Are fair and reasonable when viewed from the perspective of the
state's residents and the state's interest in having robust, reliable, and
technologically advanced wireless networks; and
         (b)   Reflect a balancing of the interests of the wireless providers
deploying new facilities and the interests of authorities in receiving fair
value by recovering their costs of managing access to the public rights-of-way
and provide for the attachment space on authority infrastructure and enable the
reviewing and processing of applications for the installation of small wireless
facilities within the rights-of-way.
(Ord. 1096, passed 8-27-2019)
§ 122.02  DEFINITIONS.
   For purposes of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACT. The Small Wireless Facilities Deployment Act (Legislative Bill 184
adopted by the Legislature and approved by the Governor on May 17, 2019).
   ANTENNA. Communications equipment that transmits or receives electromagnetic
radio frequency signals used in providing wireless services.
   APPLICABLE CODES. Uniform building, fire, safety, electrical, plumbing, or
mechanical codes adopted by a recognized national code organization or local
amendments to such codes so long as such amendments are not in conflict with
the Act and to the extent such codes have been adopted by the authority and are
generally applicable in the jurisdiction.
   APPLICANT. Any person who submits an application and is a wireless provider.
   APPLICATION. A written request submitted by an applicant to an authority
for:
      (1)   A permit to collocate small wireless facilities on an existing
utility pole or wireless support structure; or
      (2)   A permit for approval for the installation, modification, or
replacement of a utility pole to support the installation of a small wireless
facility.
   AUTHORITY. The State of Nebraska or any agency, county, city, village, or
other political subdivision thereof, except as otherwise excluded herein.
AUTHORITY does not include public power suppliers, state courts having
jurisdiction over an authority, or an entity that does not have zoning or
permit-granting authority.
   AUTHORITY POLE. A utility pole owned, managed, or operated by or on behalf
of an authority.
   COLLOCATE or COLLOCATION. To install, mount, maintain, modify, operate, or
replace small wireless facilities on or adjacent to a wireless support
structure or utility pole. COLLOCATE or COLLOCATION does not include the
installation of a new utility pole or new wireless support structure in the
right-of-way.
   COMMUNICATIONS FACILITY. The set of equipment and network components
including wires, cables, and associated facilities used by a cable operator as
defined in 47 U.S.C. 522(5), as such section existed on January 1, 2019, a
telecommunications carrier as defined in 47 U.S.C. 153(51), as such section
existed on January 1, 2019, a provider of information service as defined in 47
U.S.C. 153(24),  as such section existed on January 1, 2019, or a wireless
services provider, to provide communications services, including cable service
as defined in 47 U.S.C. 153(8), as such section existed on January 1, 2019, an
information service as defined in 47 U.S.C. 153(24), as such section existed on
January 1, 2019, wireless services, or other one-way or two-way communications
service.
   COMMUNICATIONS NETWORK. A network used to provide communications service.
   COMMUNICATIONS SERVICE. A cable service as defined in 47 U.S.C. 522, as such
section existed on January 1, 2019, an information service as defined in 47
U.S.C. 153, as such section existed on January 1, 2019, a telecommunications
service as defined in 47 U.S.C. 153, as such section existed on January 1,
2019, or a wireless service.
   COMMUNICATIONS SERVICE PROVIDER. A cable operator as defined in 47 U.S.C.
522, a provider of information service as defined in 47 U.S.C. 153, or a
telecommunications carrier as defined in 47 U.S.C. 153, as such sections
existed on January 1, 2019. COMMUNICATIONS SERVICE PROVIDER includes a wireless
provider.
   DECORATIVE POLE. An authority pole that is specially designed and placed for
aesthetic purposes.
   DISTRIBUTED ANTENNA SYSTEM. A network consisting of transceiver equipment at
a central hub site to support multiple antenna locations throughout the desired
coverage area.
   ELIGIBLE FACILITIES REQUEST.  As defined in federal regulations.
   FAA. The Federal Aviation Administration.
   FCC. The Federal Communications Commission.
   FEE. A one-time, nonrecurring charge.
   GOVERNING BODY. The group of elected officials which is able to make
decisions on behalf of the municipality (for example, the City Council).
   HISTORIC DISTRICT. Any prehistoric or historic district, site, building,
structure, or object included in, or eligible for inclusion in, the National
Register of Historic Places, in accordance with Stipulation VI.D.1.a (i)-(v) of
the Nationwide Programmatic Agreement for Review of Effects on Historic
Properties for Certain Undertakings Approved by the Federal Communications
Commission codified at 47 C.F.R. part 1, Appendix C, as such regulation existed
on January 1, 2019, or designated pursuant to state historic preservation law
if such designation exists at the time of application.
   LAW. Federal, state, or local law, statute, common law, code, rule,
regulation, order, or ordinance.
   MACRO CELL. An antenna or antennas mounted on a tower, ground-based mast,
rooftops or structures, at a height that provides coverage to the surrounding
area.
   MICROWIRELESS FACILITY. A small wireless facility that is not larger in
dimension than 24 inches in length, 15 inches in width, and 12 inches in height
and with any exterior antenna no longer than 11 inches.
   MUNICIPALITY. The City of Aurora, Nebraska.
   PERMIT. A written authorization required by an authority to perform an
action, initiate, continue, or complete installation of a small wireless
facility on an existing utility pole or attached to an existing wireless
support structure, or to install, modify, or replace a utility pole to support
installation of a small wireless facility.
   PERSON. An individual, a corporation, a limited liability company, a
partnership, an association, a trust, or any other entity or organization,
including an authority.
   POLE. A legally constructed pole, such as a utility, lighting or similar
pole made of wood, concrete, metal or other material, located or to be located
within the right-of-way.
   PUBLIC POWER SUPPLIER. A public power district or any other governmental
entity providing electric service. PUBLIC POWER SUPPLIER includes a municipal
electric utility or a rural public power supplier.
   RATE. A recurring charge.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. The area on, below, or above a public roadway, highway,
street, sidewalk, alley, dedicated utility easement, or similar property, but
not including a freeway as defined in section 39-1302, the National System of
Interstate and Defense Highways, or a private easement.
   ROUTINE MAINTENANCE. Inspections, testing or repair that maintain functional
capacity, aesthetic and structural integrity of a small wireless facility and
the associated structure, pole or tower, and that does not involve impeding,
damaging or disturbing any portion of the right-of-way.
   RURAL PUBLIC POWER SUPPLIER. A public power district, a public power and
irrigation district, an electric cooperative, or an electric membership
association, that does not provide electric service to any city of the
metropolitan class, city of the primary class, or city of the first class.
   SMALL WIRELESS FACILITY. A wireless facility that meets each of the
following conditions:
      (1)   The facilities:
         (a)   Are mounted on structures 50 feet or less in height including
the antennas; or
         (b)   Are mounted on structures no more than 10% taller than other
adjacent structures;
      (2)   Each antenna associated with the deployment is no more than three
cubic feet in volume;
      (3)   All other equipment associated with the structure, whether ground-
mounted or pole-mounted, is no more than 29 cubic feet in volume;
      (4)   The facilities do not require antenna structure registration under
47 C.F.R. part 17, as such regulation existed on January 1, 2019;
      (5)   The facilities are not located on tribal lands, as defined in 36
C.F.R. 800.16(x), as such regulation existed on January 1, 2019; and
      (6)   The facilities do not result in human exposure to radio frequency
radiation in excess of the applicable safety standards specified in 47 C.F.R.
1.1307(b), as such regulation existed on January 1, 2019.
   STATE. The State of Nebraska.
   STEALTH. A design that minimizes the visual impact of wireless communication
facilities by camouflaging, disguising, screening or blending them into the
surrounding environment. Examples of stealth design include but are not limited
to facilities disguised as trees (monopines), flagpoles, utility and light
poles, bell towers, clock towers, ball field lights and architecturally
screened roof-mounted antennas or flush-mounted antennas that are either
painted to match or enclosed in an architecturally, applicable box.
   SUBSTANTIAL CHANGE. As defined in federal regulations.
   TECHNICALLY FEASIBLE. By virtue of engineering or spectrum usage, the
proposed placement for a small wireless facility, or its design or site
location, can be implemented without a reduction in the functionality of the
small wireless facility.
   TOWER. Any structure in the right-of-way built for the sole or primary
purpose of supporting a wireless communication facility.
   TOWER HEIGHT. The vertical distance measured from the base of the tower
structure at grade to the highest point of the structure including the antenna.
A lightning rod, not to exceed ten feet in height, shall not be included within
tower height.
   TRANSMISSION EQUIPMENT. Equipment that facilitates transmission for any FCC-
licensed or authorized wireless communication service, including, but not
limited to, radio transceivers, antennas, microwave dishes, coaxial or fiber-
optic cable and backup power supplies. The term includes equipment  associated
with wireless communication services including, but not limited to, private,
broadcast, and public safety services, as well as unlicensed wireless services
and fixed wireless services such as microwave backhaul.
   UTILITY POLE. A pole located in the right-of-way that is used for wireline
communications, lighting, the vertical portion of support structures for
traffic control signals or devices or a similar function, or for the
collocation of small wireless facilities and located in the right-of-way.
UTILITY POLE does not include:
      (1)   Wireless support structures;
      (2)   Any transmission infrastructure owned or operated by a public power
supplier or rural public power supplier; and
      (3)   Any distribution or communications infrastructure owned or operated
by a rural public power supplier.
   WIRELESS FACILITY.
      (1)   Equipment at a fixed location that enables wireless communications
between user equipment and a communications network, including:
         (a)   Equipment associated with wireless communications; and
         (b)   Radio transceivers, antennas, coaxial or fiber-optic cable,
regular power supply, and small back-up battery, regardless of technological
configuration.
      (2)   WIRELESS FACILITY includes small wireless facilities.
      (3)   WIRELESS FACILITY does not include:
         (a)   The structure or improvements on, under, or within the equipment
which is collocated;
         (b)   Coaxial or fiber-optic cable that is between wireless structures
or utility poles or that is otherwise not immediately adjacent to, or directly
associated with, a particular antenna; or
         (c)   A wireline backhaul facility.
   WIRELESS INFRASTRUCTURE PROVIDER. Any person, including a person authorized
to provide telecommunications service in the State of Nebraska, when acting to
build or install wireless communication transmission equipment, wireless
facilities, or wireless support structures, but that is not a wireless services
provider.
   WIRELESS PROVIDER or PROVIDER. A wireless services provider or a wireless
infrastructure provider when acting as a coapplicant for a wireless services
provider.
   WIRELESS SERVICES. Any services using licensed or unlicensed spectrum,
including the use of Wi-Fi, whether mobile or at a fixed location, provided to
the public using wireless facilities.
   WIRELESS SERVICES PROVIDER. A person who provides wireless services.
   WIRELESS SUPPORT STRUCTURE. A structure such as a guyed or self-supporting
tower, billboard, building, or other existing or proposed structure designed to
support or capable of supporting wireless facilities other than a structure
designed solely for the collocation of small wireless facilities. WIRELESS
SUPPORT STRUCTURE does not include a utility pole.
   WIRELINE BACKHAUL FACILITY. An above-ground or underground facility used to
transport communications services from a wireless facility to a communications
network.
(Ord. 1096, passed 8-27-2019)
§ 122.03  RELIEF.
   Any applicant desiring relief, waiver or exemption from any aspect or
requirement of these regulations may request such, provided that the relief,
waiver or exemption is contained in the submitted application. The burden of
proving the need for the requested relief, waiver or exemption is solely on the
applicant. No such relief, waiver or exemption shall be approved unless the
applicant demonstrates by clear and convincing evidence that, if granted the
relief, waiver or exemption will have no significant effect on the health,
safety and welfare of the municipality, its residents and other service
providers.
(Ord. 1096, passed 8-27-2019)
§ 122.04  OTHER APPROVALS.
   All other proposed installations within the right-of-way involving wireless
communication facilities (for example, where the facilities do not qualify as
small wireless facilities), shall require the issuance of a conditional use
permit or special use permit under the Municipal Code.
(Ord. 1096, passed 8-27-2019)
§ 122.05  LAWS, RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   This chapter shall be subject to all applicable laws, rules and regulations
now or hereafter enacted.
(Ord. 1096, passed 8-27-2019)
DEPLOYMENT IN THE RIGHT-OF-WAY
§ 122.10  NON-EXCLUSIVITY; CHARGES; PERMITTED USE AND RIGHT-OF-WAY CRITERIA.
   This section applies only to activities of a wireless provider within the
right-of-way to deploy small wireless facilities and associated utility poles.
   (A)   The municipality shall not enter into an exclusive arrangement with
any person for use of the right-of-way.
   (B)   Subject to the other provisions of this chapter, the municipality may
only charge a wireless provider on a nondiscriminatory basis the rate or fee
provided in the Act for the use of any right-of-way for the collocation of
small wireless facilities or the installation, maintenance, modification,
operation, or replacement of a utility pole in the right-of-way if the
authority charges other entities for the use of the right-of-way.
   (C)   Except as provided in this chapter, a wireless provider shall have the
right, as a permitted use not subject to zoning review or approval, to
collocate small wireless facilities and install, maintain, modify, operate, and
replace utility poles along, across, upon, and under the right-of-way so long
as such facilities and poles do not obstruct or hinder the usual travel or
public safety on such right-of-way or obstruct the legal use of such right-of-
way by utilities or the safe operation of their systems or provision of
service. Small wireless facilities to be located in an airport hazard area
shall comply with any regulations governing such area.
   (D)   Placement. This chapter only applies to the deployment of small
wireless facilities in the right-of-way with the exception that the application
fees provided in the FCC's Declaratory Ruling and Third Report and Order
released September 27, 2018, apply to small wireless facilities in and outside
of the right-of-way.
   (E)   Height limitations.
      (1)   Any new or modified utility pole installed in a right-of-way shall
not exceed the greater of:
         (a)   Five feet in height above the tallest existing utility pole in
place as of the effective date of the Act located within 500 feet of the new
utility pole in the same right-of-way; or
         (b)   Fifty feet above ground level.
      (2)   New small wireless facilities in a right-of-way shall not extend
more than the greater of:
         (a)   Fifty feet in height, including antenna; or
         (b)   More than five feet above an existing utility pole in place as
of the effective date of the Act and located within 500 feet in the same right-
of-way.
      (3)   The municipality shall have the right, at its sole discretion and
subject to applicable nondiscriminatory regulations, to consider and approve an
application to install a utility pole or wireless support structure that
exceeds the height limits in this division for the right to collocate a small
wireless facility and install, maintain, modify, operate, and replace a utility
pole that exceeds such height limits along, across, upon, and under a right-of-
way.
   (F)   An applicant may request approval from the municipality, as part of
the application process, to replace a decorative pole when necessary to
collocate a small wireless facility. Any replacement decorative pole shall
conform to the nondiscriminatory design aesthetics of the decorative pole being
replaced.
   (G)   Except for facilities excluded from evaluation for effects on historic
properties under 47 C.F.R. 1.1307(a)(4), as such regulation existed on January
1, 2019, the municipality shall have the right to require design or concealment
measures in a historic district established prior to January 1, 2019. Such
design or concealment measures shall be objective and directed to avoid or
remedy the intangible public harm of unsightly or out-of-character wireless
facilities deployed at the proposed location. Any such design or concealment
measures shall be reasonable, nondiscriminatory, and published in advance, and
shall not be considered a part of the small wireless facility for purposes of
the size restrictions of a small wireless facility.
   (H)   A public power supplier shall not be required to allow the collocation
of small wireless facilities on utility poles owned, operated, or managed by a
public power supplier except pursuant to a negotiated pole attachment agreement
containing reasonable and nondiscriminatory terms and conditions, including,
but not limited to, applicable rates, and the permit, operational, and safety
requirements of the public power supplier.
(Ord. 1096, passed 8-27-2019)
§ 122.11  AGREEMENT FOR USE OF THE RIGHT-OF-WAY.
   (A)   Agreement. Prior to installing in the right-of-way any small wireless
facility, or any pole built for the sole or primary purpose of supporting a
small wireless facility, or any tower, a person shall enter into an agreement
with the municipality expressly authorizing use of the right-of-way for the
small wireless facility, pole or tower proposed to be installed. The agreement
shall provide for the attachment to municipal poles or structures in the right-
of-way in addition to poles or structures owned by unrelated third parties,
provided that the applicant secures the written consent of the third party for
such attachment.
   (B)   General terms.
      (1)   The term of an agreement shall be for up to ten years. The
agreement may be renewed for an additional term of ten years subject to the
mutual written agreement of the municipality and provider.
      (2)   The agreement authorizes the provider's non-exclusive use of the
right-of-way for the sole purpose of installing, maintaining and operating
wireless communication facilities, including any pole built for the sole or
primary purpose of supporting the wireless communication facilities and any
tower, to provide the services expressly authorized in the agreement, subject
to applicable laws, this chapter and the terms and conditions of the agreement.
The agreement authorizes use only of the right-of-way in which the municipality
has an actual Interest. It is not a warranty of title or interest in any right-
of-way and it does not confer on the provider any interest in any particular
location or to a superior or preferred location within the right-of-way.
Nothing herein shall authorize the use of the municipality's poles, towers,
support structures or other structures outside of the right-of-way. All use of
municipal poles, towers, support structures, and other structures in the right-
of-way shall require a separate attachment agreement or be specifically
provided for in the agreement and shall include the payment of fees for such
use.
      (3)   The provider shall, at its sole cost and expense, keep and maintain
its wireless communication facilities, poles, support structures and towers in
the right-of-way in a safe condition, and in good order and repair.
      (4)   In the event of an emergency regarding the provider's small
wireless facilities, or related poles, support structures or towers, the
provider shall immediately notify the municipality of the nature of the
emergency and planned response to the emergency.
      (5)   This chapter applies to the issuance of a permit for a small
wireless facility within the right-of-way and to the issuance of a permit for
the installation, modification, and replacement of a utility pole by an
applicant within a right-of-way.
      (6)   An applicant that collocates a small wireless facility within a
Municipal right-of- way or on a utility pole assumes the risk of loss, damage
to, or loss of use of such facility when such pole is damaged, destroyed, or
taken out of service on municipal property, except to the extent that such loss
or damage is due to or caused by the negligence or willful misconduct of the
municipality or its employees, contractors, or agents.
      (7)   The construction, operation, maintenance, collocation, or placement
of wireless facilities, utility poles, or wireless support structures shall
occur at no cost from an applicant to the municipality unless otherwise agreed
to in advance between an applicant and the municipality.
   (C)   Permit required.
      (1)   An applicant shall apply for and obtain one or more permits to
collocate a small wireless facility or install a new, modified, or replacement
utility pole associated with a small wireless facility. Such permits shall be
of general applicability and not apply exclusively to wireless facilities.
      (2)   No person may construct, install or maintain in the right-of-way
any wireless communication facilities without first receiving a permit from the
municipality. Notwithstanding the foregoing, in the event of an emergency, a
provider or its duly authorized representative may work in the right-of-way
prior to obtaining a permit, provided that the provider shall contact the
municipality prior to commencing the work and shall apply for a permit as soon
as reasonably possible, but not later than 24 hours after commencing the
emergency work. For purposes of this division, an EMERGENCY means a
circumstance in which immediate repair to damaged or malfunctioning facilities
is necessary to restore lost service or prevent immediate harm to persons or
property.
   (D)   Permit application requirements.
      (1)   The application shall be submitted by the wireless provider or its
duly authorized representative and shall contain the following:
         (a)   The applicant's name, address, telephone number, and email
address, including emergency contact information for the applicant.
         (b)   The names, addresses, telephone numbers, and email addresses of
all consultants, if any, acting on behalf of the applicant or provider with
respect to the filing of the application.
         (c)   A description of the proposed work and wireless communication
facility sufficient
to demonstrate compliance with the provisions of this chapter.
         (d)   If applicable, a copy of the authorization from the owner of the
pole, tower or support structure on or in which the wireless communication
facility will be placed or attached.
         (e)   To the extent the proposed wireless communication facility
involves collocation on a pole, tower or support structure, a structural report
prepared by a Nebraska licensed professional engineer evidencing that the pole,
tower or support structure will support the collocation (or that the pole,
tower or support structure will be modified to meet structural requirements) in
accordance with applicable codes.
         (f)   For any new above-ground wireless communication facilities,
accurate visual depictions or representations, if not included in the
construction drawings or photo simulations.
         (g)   Any other submission requirements per published municipal
policies or regulations.
   (B)   All applications for small wireless facility installations in the
right-of-way shall be made to the Zoning Administrator/Utility Superintendent.
   (E)   Denial.
      (1)   The municipality may deny a proposed collocation of a small
wireless facility or installation, modification, or replacement of a utility
pole that meets the requirements of the Act only if the proposed application:
         (a)   Materially and demonstrably interferes with the safe operation
of traffic control equipment or the right-of-way;
         (b)   Materially interferes with sight lines or clear zones for air or
land transportation or pedestrians;
         (c)   Materially interferes with compliance with the federal Americans
with Disabilities Act of 1990 or similar federal or state standards regarding
pedestrian access or movement;
         (d)   Fails to comply with reasonable and nondiscriminatory spacing
requirements of general application adopted by ordinance or resolution that
concern the location of ground-mounted equipment and new utility poles. Such
spacing requirements shall not prevent a wireless provider from serving any
location;
         (e)   Fails to comply with applicable codes if they are of general
applicability and do not apply exclusively to wireless facilities;
         (f)   Fails to comply with the municipality's aesthetic requirements
that are reasonable, objective and published in advance; or
         (g)   Designates the location of a new utility pole within seven feet
in any direction of an electrical conductor unless the wireless provider
obtains the written consent of the public power supplier that owns or manages
the electrical conductor.
      (2)   The municipality shall document the basis for a permit application
denial including any specific code provisions on which the denial was based,
and send such documentation to the applicant on or before the day the
municipality denies the application. The applicant may cure the deficiencies
identified by the municipality and resubmit the application within 30 days
after the denial without paying an additional application fee.
      (3)   The municipality shall approve or deny the resubmitted application
within 30 days. Any subsequent review shall be limited to the deficiency cited
in the denial.
   (F)   The municipality shall be allowed to reserve space on municipal poles,
and the applicant shall cooperate with the municipality in any such
reservation, except that the municipality shall first notify the applicant in
writing that it is interested in reserving such pole space or sharing the
trenches or bores where the collocation is to occur. The applicant shall allow
the municipality to place its infrastructure in the applicant's trenches or
bores or on the utility poles as requested by the municipality except that the
municipality shall incur the incremental cost of placing the conduit or
infrastructure as requested. The municipality shall be responsible for
maintaining its facilities in the trenches and bores and on the municipal
poles.
   (G)   An applicant shall not be required to provide more information to
obtain a permit than a communications service provider that is not a wireless
provider, except as directly related to the impairment of wireless service in
the immediate area of the proposed small wireless facility and except that an
applicant may be required to include construction and engineering drawings and
information demonstrating compliance with the criteria in this chapter.
   (H)   The municipality may propose a technically feasible alternate utility
pole location. The wireless provider shall cooperate with the municipality to
address the municipality's reasonable proposal. The municipality shall not
require the placement of small wireless facilities on a specific utility pole
or category of poles or require multiple antenna systems on a single utility
pole.
   (I)   The municipality shall not limit the placement of small wireless
antennas by minimum horizontal separation distances.
   (J)   An applicant shall include an attestation that the small wireless
facilities will be operational for use by a wireless services provider within
nine months after the later of the completion of all make-ready work or the
permit issuance date unless a delay is caused by lack of commercial power or
communication transport facilities to the site. In such case the applicant
shall have an extension, not to exceed nine months. The municipality and
applicant may mutually agree to an additional extension.
   (K)   Proprietary or confidential information in application. Applications
are public records that may be made publicly available pursuant to the Nebraska
Public Records Law. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the applicant may designate
portions of its application materials that it reasonably believes contain
proprietary or confidential information as "proprietary" or "confidential" by
clearly marking each portion of such materials accordingly, and the
municipality shall treat the information as proprietary and confidential,
subject to the Nebraska Public Records Law and the municipality's determination
that the applicant's request for confidential or proprietary treatment of
application materials is reasonable and in compliance with such law. The
municipality shall not be required to incur any costs to protect the
application materials from disclosure, other than the municipality's routine
procedures for complying with the Nebraska Public Records Law.
   (L)   Routine maintenance and replacement. The municipality shall not
require an application, permit, or other approval or charge fees or rates for
routine maintenance of small wireless facilities, replacement of small wireless
facilities with small wireless facilities that are substantially similar in
weight or windage or the same size or smaller, or for the installation,
placement, maintenance, operation or replacement of microwireless facilities
that are strung on cables between existing utility poles in compliance with the
National Electrical Safety Code. A permit shall be required for work that
exceeds original weight or windage or requires excavation or closing of
sidewalks or vehicular lanes within the right-of-way for such activities.
   (M)   Application fees.
      (1)   The application fees for collocation of small wireless facilities
on an existing or replacement municipal pole shall not exceed $500 for up to
five small wireless facilities on the same application and $100 for each
additional small wireless facility on the same application.
      (2)   The application fees for the installation, modification, or
replacement of a utility pole and the collocation of an associated small
wireless facility that are a permitted use in accordance with the
specifications of the Act shall not exceed $250 per pole. In the case of
coapplicants for a single site, only one application fee may be charged for the
site. The rate for collocation of a small wireless facility on a Municipal pole
in the right-of-way shall be no more than $20 per municipal pole per year.
   (N)   Bonds. Unless otherwise provided in an Agreement or agreed to in
writing by the municipality, a performance or construction bond or other form
of surety acceptable to the municipality equal to at least 100% of the
estimated cost of the work within the right-of-way shall be provided before the
applicant commences work.
   (O)   Effect of permit. A permit from the municipality authorizes an
applicant to undertake only the activities in the right-of-way specified in the
application and permit, and in accordance with this chapter and any conditions
included in the permit. A permit does not authorize attachment to or use of
existing poles, towers, support structures or other structures in the right-of-
way. A permittee or wireless provider must obtain all necessary approvals from
the owner of any pole, tower, support structure or other structure prior to any
attachment or use. A permit does not create a property right for the applicant.
The applicant shall not interfere with other uses or users of the right-of-way.
   (P)   Duration. Installation or collocation for which a permit is granted
shall be completed within one year of the later of the completion of all make-
ready work or permit issuance date unless a delay is caused by the lack of
commercial power or communications transport facilities at the site. In such
case, the applicant shall have an extension of up to nine months. The
municipality and applicant may mutually agree to an additional extension.
Approval of an application authorizes the applicant to maintain and operate the
small wireless facilities and any associated utility pole covered by the permit
for a period of not less than five years, subject to applicable relocation
requirements and the applicant's right to terminate at any time. The
municipality shall renew such permit for an equivalent duration so long as the
applicant is in compliance with the criteria set forth in this chapter, as such
criteria existed at the time the permit was granted.
   (Q)   Multiple sites in a consolidated application. An applicant seeking to
collocate small wireless facilities may, at the applicant's discretion, file a
consolidated application for up to five individual small wireless facilities
instead of filing a separate application for each individual small wireless
facility. The denial of one or more small wireless facilities in a consolidated
application shall not delay processing of any other small wireless facilities
in the same application or be a basis upon which to deny the consolidated
application as a whole. An applicant is allowed to file a single set of
documents that apply to all of the applicant's small wireless facilities, and
the municipality shall render a decision regarding all of the applicant's
wireless facilities in a single administrative proceeding unless the local
requirements require an elected or appointed body to render such a decision.
(Ord. 1096, passed 8-27-2019)
§ 122.12  MUNICIPAL POLES.
   (A)   The municipality shall allow the collocation of small wireless
facilities on Municipal poles using the processes in the Act.
   (B)   The rates provided in the Act to collocate on municipal poles shall be
nondiscriminatory regardless of the services provided by the collocating
person.
   (C)   The rates, fees, terms, and conditions for make-ready work to
collocate on a municipal pole shall be nondiscriminatory, competitively
neutral, and commercially reasonable and shall reimburse all reasonable costs
incurred by the municipality in compliance with the Act.
   (D)   The municipality shall provide a good faith estimate for any make-
ready work necessary to enable the municipal pole to support the requested
collocation by an applicant, including pole replacement if necessary, within
one hundred twenty days after receipt of a completed application. Make-ready
work, including any pole replacement shall be completed within 90 days after
written acceptance of the good faith estimate by the applicant. The
municipality may require replacement of the municipal pole only if it
determines and provides details indicating that the collocation would make the
municipal pole structurally unsound.
   (E)   The person owning, managing, or controlling the municipal pole shall
not require more make-ready work than required to meet applicable codes or
industry standards. Fees for make-ready work shall not include costs related to
known preexisting or prior damage or noncompliance. Fees for make-ready work,
including any pole replacement, shall not exceed actual costs or the amount
charged to other communications service providers for reasonably similar work
and may include reasonable consultant fees or expenses.
   (F)   Make-ready work generally refers to the modification of utility poles
or lines or the installation of guys and anchors to accommodate additional
facilities.
(Ord. 1096, passed 8-27-2019)
§ 122.13  RATES AND FEES.
   (A)   The municipality shall not require a wireless provider to pay any
rate, fee, or compensation to the municipality or other person other than what
is expressly authorized by Neb. RS 86-704, or, where applicable, Neb. RS 14-
109, 15-203, 16-205, or 17-525, or the Act for the right to use or occupy a
right-of-way for the collocation of small wireless facilities on wireless
support structures or utility poles in the right-of-way or for the
installation, maintenance, modification, operation, and replacement of utility
poles in the right-of-way.
   (B)   If the municipality charges occupation taxes under Neb. RS 86-704, it
shall not charge a wireless services provider any additional amount for the use
of a right-of-way. The municipality may charge a wireless provider that does
not pay the municipality's occupation tax under Neb. RS 86-704 either a rate of
$250 for each small wireless facility each year, or a fee equal to the
occupation tax charged by the municipality under Neb. RS 14-109, 15-203, 16-
205, or 17-525.
(Ord. 1096, passed 8-27-2019)
§ 122.14  ADMINISTRATIVE REVIEW.
   (A)   Approval process. Small wireless facilities in the right-of-way may be
approved through administrative review if the following requirements are met:
      (1)   A complete application is submitted, all fees are paid and a permit
is obtained by the applicant or provider; and
      (2)   Each new, modified or replacement pole, tower or structure
installed in the right- of-way shall not exceed the height limits of the
respective zoning district. If a height limit is exceeded, then either a
conditional use permit or special use permit is required; and
      (3)   The applicant complies with all of the other requirements of this
chapter.
   (B)   Design standards.
      (1)   Subject to division (A)(2) above, all poles and small wireless
facilities may be approved through administrative review if the following
design standards and recommended design guidelines (if adopted) are met by the
applicant:
         (a)   Height, shape, design and color for poles and related equipment;
         (b)   Number, location and styles of poles that may be installed or
used;
         (c)   Aesthetic approach for different types of poles and related
equipment;
         (d)   Construction approach per wireless communication facility,
including powering and metering;
         (e)   Structural integrity;
         (f)   Set-backs for poles and ground-mounted equipment;
         (g)   Ground-mounted equipment for small wireless facilities may be
used only to house equipment in support of the operation of the facilities;
         (h)   Lighting, marking and noise requirements;
         (i)   Fencing/landscaping/screening/signage requirements;
         (j)   Collocation analysis;
         (k)   Use of decorative poles, where necessary;
         (l)   A written report will be prepared, signed and sealed by a
Nebraska licensed professional engineer or a qualified employee of the
applicant, which assesses whether the proposed small wireless facility
demonstrates compliance with the radio frequency ("RF") emissions limits
established by the FCC. The qualified employee of the applicant shall submit
his or her qualifications with the report.
      (2)   The governing body may approve by resolution additional recommended
design guidelines. Further changes to those recommended design guidelines are
subject to the discretion of the municipality.
(Ord. 1096, passed 8-27-2019)
§ 122.15  RIGHT-OF-WAY CONSTRUCTION AND INSTALLATION REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Lighting. Towers may not be artificially lighted, unless required by
public safety, the FAA or applicable municipal regulation.
   (B)   State or federal requirements. All towers and antennas must meet
current standards and regulations of the FAA, FCC and any other agency of the
local, state or federal government with authority to regulate towers and
antennas.
   (C)   Building codes. To ensure the structural integrity of poles and
towers, the owner of a pole or tower shall ensure that the pole or tower is
maintained in compliance with industry standards and applicable state and local
building code standards.
   (D)   Public notice. For purposes of this chapter, any application for a
wireless communication facility, including small wireless facilities and poles,
variance, exception or appeal of a request for a permit requires public notice
to all adjoining property owners and all owners of surrounding properties as
may be required by the Municipal Code.
   (E)   Equipment cabinets. The equipment cabinets shall comply with all
applicable building codes and zoning requirements.
   (F)   Site plan. A site plan is required. A scaled site plan shall clearly
indicate the location, type, height and width of the proposed pole, on-site
land uses and zoning, adjacent land uses and zoning, adjacent roadways, photo
simulations, a depiction of all proposed transmission equipment, proposed means
of access, setbacks from property lines, elevation drawings or renderings of
the proposed pole and any other structures, topography, utility runs and other
information deemed necessary to assess compliance with this chapter.
   (G)   Inventory of existing sites. Not more than one time per year, each
applicant owning a macro cell tower shall provide to the municipality an
inventory of the wireless provider's existing towers, antennas, or sites
approved for towers or antennas, that are either within the jurisdiction of the
municipality or within one mile of the border thereof, including specific
information about the location and tower height. The municipality may share
such information with other applicants applying for administrative review or
other permits under this chapter or other organizations seeking to locate
antennas within the jurisdiction of the municipality; provided, however, that
the municipality is not, by sharing such information, in any way representing
or warranting that such sites are available or suitable.
   (H)   Color. To the extent feasible, the antennas shall be placed and
colored to blend into the architectural detail and coloring of the host
structure. Towers and antennas shall be painted a color that best allows them
to blend into the surroundings. The use of grays, blues, greens, dark bronze,
browns or other site-specific colors may be appropriate; however, each case
shall be evaluated individually.
   (I)   Signs. No facilities may bear any signage other than that required by
law or expressly permitted or required by the municipality.
   (J)   Visual impact. All small wireless facilities in residential districts,
historic and downtown districts shall be sited and designed with stealth
features to minimize adverse visual impacts on surrounding properties and the
traveling public to the greatest extent reasonably possible, consistent with
the proper functioning of the wireless communication facilities. Such wireless
communication facilities and equipment enclosures shall be integrated through
location and design to blend in with the existing characteristics of the site.
Stealth and concealment techniques must be appropriate given the proposed
location, design, visual environment, and nearby uses, structures, and natural
features. Such wireless communication facilities shall also be designed to
either resemble the surrounding landscape and other natural features where
located in proximity to natural surroundings or be compatible with the built
environment or be consistent with other uses and improvements permitted in the
relevant zone.
   (K)   Obstruction. Any new pole or support structure or equipment associated
with small wireless facilities shall not obstruct access to:
      (1)   Any existing above-ground or underground right-of-way user
facilities or public facilities;
      (2)   Any public infrastructure for traffic control, street light or
public transportation purposes including, without limitation, any vehicular
traffic sign or signal or pedestrian traffic sign or signal;
      (3)   Any public transportation street furniture or other improvements at
any public transportation stop;
      (4)   Fire hydrants; or
      (5)   Any doors, gates or other ingress and egress points to any building
appurtenant to the right-of-way.
   (L)   Placement and notice.
      (1)   All pole-mounted transmission equipment shall be mounted as close
as technically possible to the pole so as to reduce the overall visual profile
to the extent feasible subject to applicable safety codes.
      (2)   Prior to the installation or construction of a small wireless
facility within the right-of-way or utility easement, the wireless provider
must notify all utilities located within such right-of-way or utility easement
regarding its proposed use of the right-of-way or utility easement.
   (M)   Accessory equipment. All accessory equipment located at the base of a
pole or tower shall be placed (at the provider's choice) underground or in an
equipment cabinet that is:
      (1)   Designed to blend in with existing surroundings, using
architecturally compatible construction and colors; and
      (2)   Be located so as to be unobtrusive as possible consistent with the
proper functioning of the wireless communication facilities.
   (N)   Site design flexibility. Individual sites vary in the location of
adjacent buildings, existing trees, topography and other local variables. By
mandating certain design standards, there may result a project that could have
been less intrusive if the location of the various elements of the project
could have been placed in more appropriate locations within a given site.
Therefore, the wireless communication facilities and supporting equipment may
be installed so as to best camouflage, disguise or conceal them, to make the
wireless communication facilities more closely compatible with and blend into
the setting or host structure, upon approval by the municipality.
   (O)   Inclusion of base equipment. Where technically feasible, the applicant
may incorporate the cabinet and other equipment into the base of a new pole
(for example, for a small wireless facility) provided there is adequate space
in the right-of-way and that Americans with Disabilities Act sidewalk
accessibility requirements can be met. All provisions of the Americans with
Disabilities Act (including, but not limited to, clear space requirements)
shall be met by the provider.
   (P)   New poles. To the extent technically feasible, new poles must be
designed to match the existing light fixtures and other poles, and they shall
serve a dual purpose (for example, a new light fixture, flag pole or banner
clips).
   (Q)   Maps and as-builts. The wireless provider shall furnish to the
municipality paper and electronic maps showing the location of its equipment in
the right-of-way and as-builts after construction is completed.
(Ord. 1096, passed 8-27-2019)
§ 122.16  ATTACHMENT TO AND REPLACEMENT OF DECORATIVE POLES.
   (A)   Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this chapter, an applicant
may not install a small wireless facility on a decorative pole, or replace a
decorative pole with a new decorative pole unless the municipality has
determined, in its sole discretion, that each of the following conditions has
been met:
      (1)   The application qualifies for issuance of a permit; and
      (2)   The attachments and replacement pole are in keeping with the
aesthetics of the decorative pole.
   (B)   An applicant may not install a small wireless facility on a decorative
pole, replace a decorative pole with a new decorative pole, or install new
above-ground facilities in the Historic District unless the municipality has
determined, in its sole discretion, that each of the following conditions has
also been met:
      (1)   The application qualifies for issuance of a permit; and
      (2)   The attachment and replacement pole are in keeping with the
aesthetics and character of the decorative pole and Historic District.
(Ord. 1096, passed 8-27-2019)
§ 122.17  GENERAL WORK REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   General safety and compliance with laws. The permittee shall employ
due care during the installation, maintenance or any other work in the right-
of-way, and shall comply with all safety and construction requirements of
applicable laws, municipal guidelines, standards and practices and any
additional commonly accepted safety standards.
   (B)   Traffic control. Unless otherwise specified in the permit, the
permittee shall erect a barrier around the perimeter of any excavation and
provide appropriate traffic control devices, signs and lights to protect, warn
and guide the public (vehicular and pedestrian) through the work zone. The
manner and use of these devices shall be as described within a traffic control
plan. The permittee shall maintain all barriers and other traffic control and
safety devices related to an open excavation until the excavation is restored
to a safe condition or as otherwise directed by the municipality.
   (C)   Non-interference. The permittee shall not interfere with any existing
facilities or structures in the right-of-way and shall locate its lines and
equipment in such a manner as not to interfere with the usual traffic patterns
(vehicular or pedestrian) or with the rights or reasonable convenience of
owners of property that abut any right-of-way.
   (D)   Utility locates. Before beginning any excavation in the right-of-way,
the permittee shall comply with the Nebraska One Call Notification Act.
   (E)   Compliance with permit.
      (1)   All construction practices and activities shall be in accordance
with the permit and approved final plans and specifications. The municipality
and its representatives shall be provided access to the work site and such
further information as they may require to ensure compliance with such
requirements. All work that does not comply with the permit, the approved plans
and specifications for the work, or the requirements of this chapter, shall be
removed at the sole expense of the permittee. The municipality may stop work in
order to assure compliance with the provisions of this chapter.
      (2)   In addition to obtaining a permit for installation of a small
wireless facility, an applicant must obtain all other required approvals from
the municipality.
(Ord. 1096, passed 8-27-2019)
§ 122.18  LOCATION OF NEW FACILITIES.
   (A)   The wireless provider shall not locate or maintain its wireless
communication facilities so as to interfere with the use of the right-of-way by
the municipality, by the general public or by other persons authorized to use
or be present in or upon the right-of-way.
   (B)   Whenever any existing electric utilities, natural gas, water or sewer
lines (or other public improvements) and communications facilities are located
underground within a right-of-way, the wireless provider with permission to
occupy the same portion of the right-of-way shall locate its wireless
communication facilities underground at its own expense where technically
feasible. The municipality may, in its sole discretion, approve above-ground
placement of equipment cabinets, pedestals and similar equipment. For
facilities or equipment such as small wireless facilities that cannot, by their
nature, operate unless located above-ground, the wireless provider and
municipality shall work to find a suitable location for such facilities or
equipment.
   (C)   In performing any work in or affecting the right-of-way, the wireless
provider, and any agent or contractor of the provider, shall comply with the
provisions of this chapter and all other applicable laws.
   (D)   A wireless provider shall repair all damage to a right-of-way directly
caused by the activities of the wireless provider in the right-of-way and
return the right-of-way to equal or better condition to that before the damage
occurred pursuant to the competitively neutral and reasonable requirements and
specifications of the municipality. If the applicant fails to make the repairs
that are reasonably required by the municipality within 14 days after written
notice, the municipality may undertake such repairs and charge the wireless
provider the reasonable, documented costs of such repairs. The municipality
shall grant an extension of up to ten days to complete such repairs if the
wireless provider requests such extension within the original 14-day period. In
the event of immediate threat to life, safety, or to prevent serious injury,
the municipality may immediately undertake to restore the site and then notify
the applicant and charge the applicant for all reasonable restoration costs.
(Ord. 1096, passed 8-27-2019)
§ 122.19  REMOVAL, RELOCATION AND ABANDONMENT.
   (A)   Within 30 days following written notice from the municipality, the
wireless provider shall, at its own expense, protect, support, temporarily or
permanently disconnect, remove, relocate, change or alter the position of any
of its wireless communication facilities within the right-of-way, including
relocation of above-ground wireless communication facilities underground
(consistent with the provisions of this chapter), whenever the municipality has
determined, in its sole discretion, that such removal, relocation, change or
alteration is necessary for the construction, repair, maintenance, or
installation of any municipal improvement, the operations of the municipality
on, under or upon the right-of-way, or otherwise is in the public interest. The
wireless provider shall be responsible to the municipality for any damages the
municipality may incur as a result of the provider's failure to remove or
relocate its wireless communication facilities.
   (B)   If the future maintenance or construction of a municipal road requires
the moving or relocating of wireless facilities, utility poles, or wireless
support structures currently located within a right-of-way, such facilities,
poles, or structures shall be removed or relocated by the owner of such small
wireless facilities, poles, or structures at the owner's expense and as
directed by the municipality.
   (C)   The municipality retains the right and privilege to cut or move any
wireless communication facility located within the right-of-way of the
municipality, as the municipality may determine, in its sole discretion, to be
necessary, appropriate or useful in response to any public emergency. If
circumstances permit, the municipality shall notify the wireless provider and
give the provider an opportunity to move its own facilities prior to cutting or
removing the wireless communication facilities. In all cases the municipality
shall notify the wireless provider after cutting or removing the wireless
communication facility as promptly as reasonably possible.
   (D)   Any small wireless facility that is not operated for a continuous
period of 90 days after completion of initial installation, excluding non-
operation due to a natural disaster or other unforeseeable circumstance or
temporary equipment failure, shall be considered abandoned. If a small wireless
facility is abandoned, the small wireless facility owner shall notify the
municipality within 30 days of the abandoned status of such facility, and such
owner shall remove the abandoned facility. The related utility pole shall also
be removed unless such pole is otherwise being used by another utility or is
owned by a party other than the owner of the removed small wireless facility.
   (E)   If the wireless provider fails to timely protect, support, temporarily
or permanently disconnect, remove, relocate, change or alter any of its
wireless communication facilities or remove any of its abandoned wireless
communication facilities as required in this division, the municipality or its
contractor may do so and the provider shall pay all costs and expenses related
to such work, including any damages the municipality incurs arising from the
delay and attorneys' fees and expenses.
(Ord. 1096, passed 8-27-2019)
§ 122.20  INDEMNIFICATION.
   The applicant and wireless provider shall defend, indemnify, and hold
harmless the municipality, its agents, officers, officials and employees from
any and all damages, liabilities, injuries, losses, attorneys' fees, costs, and
expenses, whether for personal injury, death or property damage, arising out of
or in connection with the activities or performance of the applicant or
wireless provider. In the event the municipality becomes aware of any actions
or claims, the municipality shall promptly notify the applicant and wireless
provider and reasonably cooperate in the defense. It is expressly agreed that
the municipality shall have the right to approve, which approval shall not be
unreasonably withheld, the legal counsel providing the municipality's defense,
and the applicant and the wireless provider, as applicable, shall reimburse the
municipality for any costs, expenses and attorneys' fees directly and
necessarily incurred by the municipality in the course of the defense.
(Ord. 1096, passed 8-27-2019)
§ 122.21  INSURANCE.
   No person shall own or operate a small wireless facility within the
municipality without having
secured and at all times maintained in place insurance coverage which conforms
to the following:
   (A)   Comprehensive general liability, automobile, workers compensation,
employer's liability and umbrella insurance in amounts satisfactory to the
municipality;
   (B)   For a small wireless facility in the right-of-way, the commercial
general liability insurance policy shall specifically include the municipality
and its officers, officials, employees, and agents as additional insureds;
   (C)   All insurance policies shall be issued by an agent or representative
of an insurance company licensed to do business in the State of Nebraska; and
   (D)   Such policies shall not be modified or cancelled without 30 days prior
written notice being given to the Municipality and the insurance must be
replaced by the owner of the wireless communication facility up to its original
amounts.
(Ord. 1096, passed 8-27-2019)
§ 122.22  INDEPENDENT TECHNICAL AND LEGAL REVIEW.
   (A)   Although the municipality intends for municipal staff to review
applications to the extent feasible, the municipality may retain the services
of an independent technical consultant and attorney of its choice to provide
technical and legal evaluations of permit applications. The technical
consultant and attorney shall have recognized qualifications in the field of
small wireless facilities. The review may include, but is not limited to:
      (1)   The accuracy and completeness of the items submitted with the
application;
      (2)   The applicability of analysis and techniques and methodologies
proposed by the applicant;
      (3)   The validity of conclusions reached by the applicant; and
      (4)   Whether the proposed small wireless facilities comply with the
applicable approval criteria set forth in this chapter.
   (B)   The applicant shall pay the cost for any independent technical
consultant and attorneys' fees through a deposit, estimated by the
municipality, within ten business days of the municipality's request. When the
municipality requests such payment, the application shall be deemed incomplete
for purposes of application processing time lines until the deposit is
received. In the event that such costs and fees do not exceed the deposit
amount, the municipality shall refund any unused portion within 30 days after
the final permit is released or, if no final permit is released, within 30 days
after the municipality receives a written request from the applicant. If the
costs and fees exceed the deposit amount, then the applicant shall pay the
difference to the municipality before the permit is issued. The technical
consultant and attorney shall provide an itemized description of the services
provided and related fees and costs. The fees shall be limited to a reasonable
approximation of costs and the costs shall be reasonable.
(Ord. 1096, passed 8-27-2019)
§ 122.23  FEDERAL AND STATE SHOT CLOCKS.
   (A)   Eligible facilities requests. This division implements Section 6409(a)
of the Spectrum Act, 47 U.S.C. Section 1455(a), interpreted by the FCC in its
Report and Order No. 14-153, which requires a state or local government to
approve any eligible facilities request for a modification of an existing tower
or base station that does not result in a substantial change to the physical
dimensions of such tower or base station. Eligible facilities requests shall be
governed by the provisions of federal law including, but not limited to,
application review, the 60-day shot clock, tolling and the deemed granted
remedy. Eligible facilities requests are subject to administrative review by
the municipality.
   (B)   Small wireless facilities - collocation on existing structures. This
division implements the 60- day shot clock which is contained in the FCC's
Declaratory Ruling and Third Report and Order released September 27, 2018,
regarding the collocation of small wireless facilities on existing structures.
These requests shall be governed by the provisions of federal law and the Act
including, but not limited to, application review and incompleteness,
restarting of the 60-day shot clock once upon the first finding of
incompleteness, tolling (under federal law and the Act) and available remedies.
The applicant may resubmit the completed application within 30 days without
additional charge. Any subsequent review shall be limited to the specifically
identified information subsequently completed except to the extent material
changes have been made by the applicant, other than those required by the
municipality, in which case a new application and application fee shall be
submitted. The application processing deadline also may be tolled by agreement
of the applicant and the municipality. The municipality may extend the
application processing deadline under the Act for a single period of ten
business days if the municipality notifies the applicant in advance before the
day on which approval or denial is originally due. Upon mutual agreement
between the applicant and the municipality, the municipality may extend the
period for consideration of an application for 30 days under the Act. An
application shall be processed on a nondiscriminatory basis and deemed approved
if the municipality fails to timely approve or deny the application within 90
days after receipt of the application. The municipality may deny a proposed
collocation of a small wireless facility or installation, modification, or
replacement of a utility pole only in accordance with Sec. 37 of the Act.
   (C)   Small wireless facilities - construction (new structures). This
division implements the 90-day shot clock which is contained in the FCC's
Declaratory Ruling and Third Report and Order released September 27, 2018,
regarding the construction of small wireless facilities on a new structure.
These requests shall be governed by the provisions of federal law and the Act
including, but not limited to, application review and incompleteness,
restarting of the 90-day shot clock once upon the first finding of
incompleteness, tolling (under federal law and the Act) and available remedies.
The applicant may resubmit the completed application within thirty days without
additional charge. Any subsequent review shall be limited to the specifically
identified information subsequently completed except to the extent material
changes have been made by the applicant, other than those required by the
municipality, in which case a new application and application fee shall be
submitted. The application processing deadline also may be tolled by agreement
of the applicant and the municipality. The municipality may extend the
application processing deadline for a single period of ten business days if the
municipality notifies the applicant in advance before the day on which approval
or denial is originally due. Upon mutual agreement between the applicant and
the municipality, the municipality may extend the period for consideration of
an application for 30 days. An application shall be processed on a
nondiscriminatory basis and deemed approved if the municipality fails to timely
approve or deny the application within 90 days after receipt of the
application. The municipality may deny a proposed collocation of a small
wireless facility or installation, modification, or replacement of a utility
pole only in accordance with Sec. 37 of the Act.
   (D)   Collocation for other than small wireless facilities. This division
implements, in part, 47 U.S.C. Section 332(c)(7) of the Federal Communications
Act of 1934, as amended, as interpreted by the FCC regarding collocation
applications for other than small wireless facilities including, but not
limited to, application review, the 90-day shot clock and tolling.
   (E)   New macro cell towers. This division implements, in part, 47 U.S.C.
Section 332(c)(7) of the Federal Communications Act of 1934, as amended, as
interpreted by the FCC regarding new macro cell tower applications including,
but not limited to, application review, the 150-day shot clock and tolling.
(Ord. 1096, passed 8-27-2019)
§ 122.99  PENALTY.
   Violation of any of the provisions of this chapter shall be punishable with
a fine of up to $500 for each violation. Each day that a violation occurs or is
allowed to exist by the applicant or wireless provider constitutes a separate
offense.
(Ord. 1096, passed 8-27-2019)
TITLE XIII:  GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   GENERAL OFFENSES
      
131.   WEAPONS
      
132.   CURFEW
      
133.   SEX OFFENDER RESIDENCY RESTRICTIONS
CHAPTER 130:  GENERAL OFFENSES
Section
   
130.01   Signs and handbills
   
130.02   Firecrackers
   
130.03   Nuisances, weeds, litter and stagnant water
   
130.04   Disturbing the peace
   
130.05   Disorderly conduct
   
130.06   Window peeping
   
130.07   Unlicensed or inoperable vehicles
   
130.08   Use of tobacco by minor
 
   
130.99   Penalty
§ 130.01  SIGNS AND HANDBILLS.
   Pursuant to the statutes of the State of Nebraska, including Neb. RS 17-140,
it shall be unlawful for any person to use the streets, sidewalks and public
grounds for signs, sign posts, racks, posting of handbills and advertisements.
(1998 Code, § 6-301)  Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.02  FIRECRACKERS.
   In accordance with the statutes of the State of Nebraska, including Neb. RS
17-137, 17-556 and 28-1241 through 28-1252, it shall be unlawful for any person
to discharge any fireworks other than sparklers, Vesuvius fountains, spray
fountains, torches, color fire cones, star and comet type aerial shells without
explosive charge for the purpose of making a noise, lady fingers not to exceed
seven-eighths inch in diameter with pyrotechnic composition not to exceed one-
half grain each in weight, color wheels, toy cap pistols or toy caps each of
which does not contain more than twenty-five hundredths of a grain of explosive
material, and any other fireworks approved and added to the list of permissible
fireworks by the State Fire Marshal by regulation; provided that a person may
lawfully discharge fireworks for public exhibition or display as approved by
the Fire Chief of the City Fire Department.
(1998 Code, § 6-304)  Penalty, see §
130.99
Cross-reference:
   Fire Regulations, see
Ch. 94
   Fireworks, see §
94.27
   Fireworks Vendors, see
Ch. 115
§ 130.03  NUISANCES, WEEDS, LITTER AND STAGNANT WATER.
   (A)   Lots or pieces of ground within the city shall be drained or filled so
as to prevent stagnant water or any other nuisance accumulating thereon.
   (B)   The owner or occupant of any lot or piece of ground within the city
shall keep the lot or piece of ground and the adjoining streets and alleys free
of any growth of 12 inches or more in height of weeds, grasses, or worthless
vegetation.
   (C)   The throwing, depositing, or accumulation of litter on any lot or
piece of ground within the city is prohibited.
   (D)   It is hereby declared to be a nuisance to permit or maintain any
growth of 12 inches or more in height of weeds, grasses, or worthless
vegetation on any lot or piece of ground within the city or on the adjoining
streets and alleys or to litter or cause litter to be deposited or remain
thereon except in proper receptacles.
   (E)   Any owner or occupant of a lot or piece of ground shall, upon
conviction of violating this section, be guilty of an offense.
   (F)   (1)   Notice to abate and remove such nuisance shall be given to each
owner or owner's duly authorized agent and to the occupant, if any. The city
hereby declares that the method of notice shall be given by first-class mail,
and such mail shall be conspicuously marked as to its importance. Within five
days after receipt of such notice, the owner or occupant of the lot or piece of
ground may request a hearing with the city to appeal the decision to abate or
remove a nuisance by filing a written appeal with the office of the City Clerk.
A hearing on the appeal shall be held within 14 days after filing of the appeal
and shall be conducted by an elected or appointed officer as designated in the
ordinance. The hearing officer shall render a decision on the appeal within
five business days after the conclusion of the hearing. If the appeal fails,
the city may have such work done. Within five days after receipt of such
notice, if the owner or occupant of the lot or piece of ground does not request
a hearing with the city or fails to comply with the order to abate and remove
the nuisance, the city may have such work done.
      (2)   The costs and expenses of any such work shall be paid by the owner.
If unpaid for two months after such work is done, the city may either:
         (a)   Levy and assess the costs and expenses of the work upon the lot
or piece of ground so benefitted in the same manner as other special taxes for
improvements are levied and assessed; or
         (b)   Recover in a civil action the costs and expenses of the work
upon the lot or piece of ground and the adjoining streets and alleys.
   (G)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      LITTER. Includes but is not limited to:
         (a)   Trash, rubbish, refuse, garbage, paper, rags, and ashes;
         (b)   Wood, plaster, cement, brick, or stone building rubble;
         (c)   Grass, leaves, and worthless vegetation except when used as
ground mulch or in a compost pile;
         (d)   Offal and dead animals; and
         (e)   Any machine or machines, vehicles or vehicles, or parts of a
machine or vehicle which have lost their identity, character, utility, or
serviceability as such through deterioration, dismantling, or the ravages of
times, are inoperative or unable to perform their intended functions, or are
cast off, discarded, or thrown away or left as waste, wreckage, or junk.
      WEEDS. Includes, but are not limited to: bindweed (Convolvulus arvensis),
puncture vine (Tribulus terrestris), leafy spurge (Euphorbia esula), Canada
thistle (Cirsium arvense), perennial peppergrass (Lepidium draba), Russian
knapweed (Centaurea picris), Johnson grass (Sorghum halepense), nodding or musk
thistle, quack grass (Agropyron repens), perennial sow thistle (Sonchus
arvensis), horse nettle (Solanum carolinense), bull thistle (Cirsium
lanceolatum), buckthorn (Rhamnus sp.)(tourn), hemp plant (Cannabis sativa), and
ragweed (Ambrosiaceae).
(1998 Code, § 6-305)  (Ord. 880, passed 9-11-2007; Ord. 997, passed 3-11-2014) 
Penalty, see §
130.99
Statutory reference:
   Weeds, litter, and stagnant water, see Neb. RS 17-563
§ 130.04  DISTURBING THE PEACE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to assemble or gather within
the municipality with the intent to do an unlawful or disorderly act or acts,
by force or violence against the municipality, or residents therein, or who
shall disturb the public peace, quiet, security, repose or sense of morality.
Any person or persons so assembled or gathered shall be deemed to be guilty of
a misdemeanor.
(1998 Code, § 6-306)  Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.05  DISORDERLY CONDUCT.
   Any person who shall knowingly start a fight, fight, commit assault or
battery, make unnecessary noise or otherwise conduct themselves in a way as to
breach the peace shall be deemed to be guilty of a misdemeanor.
(1998 Code, § 6-307)  Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.06  WINDOW PEEPING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to go upon the private premises of
another to look or peep into any window, door or other opening in a building
occupied by any other person.
(1998 Code, § 6-308)  Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.07  UNLICENSED OR INOPERABLE VEHICLES.
   No person in charge or control of any property with the municipality, other
than municipal property, whether as owner, tenant, occupant, lessee or
otherwise, shall allow any partially dismantled, inoperable, wrecked, junked or
discarded vehicle to remain on the property longer than ten days, or for any
length of time any vehicle has been unlicensed for a period in excess of one
month; provided this section shall not apply to a vehicle in an enclosed
building; to a vehicle on the premises of a business enterprise, operated in a
lawful place and manner, when the vehicle is necessary to the lawful operation
of the business; or to a vehicle in an appropriate storage place or depository
maintained in a lawful place or manner by the municipality. Any vehicle allowed
to remain on property in violation of the section shall constitute a nuisance
and shall be abated, and person violating this section shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor.
(1998 Code, § 6-309)  (Ord. 800, passed 3-9-2004)  Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.08  USE OF TOBACCO BY MINOR.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person under the age of 19 years to
possess any cigarettes or cigars, electronic nicotine delivery systems,
alternative nicotine products, or tobacco products in any form. Any person
charged with a violation of this section may be free from prosecution if he or
she furnishes evidence for the conviction of the person or persons selling or
giving him or her the cigarettes, cigars, electronic nicotine delivery systems,
alternative nicotine products, or tobacco.
   (B)   It shall not be unlawful for any person under the age of 19 years to:
      (1)   Possess cigarettes, cigars, electronic nicotine delivery systems,
alternative nicotine products, or tobacco products under the direct supervision
of the parent or guardian of such person in the privacy of the parent's or
guardian's home;
      (2)   Sell or handle any unopened container of cigarettes, cigars,
electronic nicotine delivery systems, alternative nicotine products, or tobacco
products in the course of his or her employment by a tobacco licensee; or
      (3)   Possess or purchase cigarettes, cigars, electronic nicotine
delivery systems, alternative nicotine products, or tobacco products for the
purpose of testing or enforcing compliance with statutes, laws or ordinances
governing the sale of cigarettes, cigars, electronic nicotine delivery systems,
alternative nicotine products, or tobacco products as long as law enforcement
is conducting the compliance check.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful to sell, give, or furnish in any way any tobacco
in any form whatever, or any cigarettes or cigarette paper, electronic nicotine
delivery systems, or alternative nicotine products, to any person under 19
years of age.
   (D)   Definitions. For purposes of this section the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      ALTERNATIVE NICOTINE PRODUCT. Any noncombustible product containing
nicotine that is intended for human consumption, whether chewed, absorbed,
dissolved, or ingested by any other means. ALTERNATIVE NICOTINE PRODUCT does
not include any vapor product, cigarette, cigar, or other tobacco product, or
any product regulated as a drug or device by the United States Food and Drug
Administration under Chapter V of the federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act.
      ELECTRONIC NICOTINE DELIVERY SYSTEM. Any product or device containing
nicotine, tobacco, or tobacco derivatives that employs a hearing element, power
source, electronic circuit, or other electronic, chemical, or mechanical means,
regardless of shape or size, to simulate smoking by delivering the nicotine,
tobacco, or tobacco derivatives in vapor, fog, mist, gas, or aerosol form to a
person inhaling from the product or device.
      TOBACCO PRODUCTS. Any substance containing tobacco leaf, including but
not limited to, cigarettes, cigars, pipe tobacco, snuff, chewing tobacco, or
dipping tobacco.
(Ord. 1013, passed 2-10-2015; Ord. 1075, passed 2-12-2019; Ord. 1100, passed 1-
14-2020)
Cross-reference:
   Tobacco and cigarettes, see also
Chapter 120
Statutory reference:
   Tobacco use by minors, see Neb. RS 28-1419, 28-1421, and 28-1427
§ 130.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   In accordance with the statutes of the State of Nebraska, including
Neb. RS 17-505, any person who shall violate or refuse to comply with the
enforcement of any of the provisions of this chapter shall be deemed guilty of
a misdemeanor and upon conviction thereof shall be fined not more than $500 for
any one offense, recoverable with costs.
   (B)   A new violation shall be deemed to have been committed every 24 hours
of failure to comply.
(1998 Code, § 6-401)  (Ord. 724, passed 1-25-2000; Ord. 950, passed 6-22-2010)
CHAPTER 131:  WEAPONS
Section
   
131.01   Discharge of firearms
   
131.02   Slingshots, air guns and BB guns
   
131.03   Concealed handguns
 
   
131.99   Penalty
§ 131.01  DISCHARGE OF FIREARMS.
   Pursuant to the statutes of the State of Nebraska, including Neb. RS 17-556,
it shall be unlawful for any person to fire or discharge any gun, pistol or
other fowling piece, including an air gun, BB gun, slingshot or the like loaded
with rock or other dangerous missiles, within the city; provided, nothing
herein shall be construed to apply to the following:  the city’s gun range,
certified law enforcement officers, self-defense, discharge for educational
purposes, and officially sanctioned public celebrations if the persons so
discharging firearms have prior written permission of the City Council.
(1998 Code, § 6-302)  Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.02  SLINGSHOTS, AIR GUNS AND BB GUNS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to discharge a slingshot, air gun, BB
gun or the like, loaded with rock or other dangerous missiles at any time or
under any circumstances within the city.
(1998 Code, § 6-303)  Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.03  CONCEALED HANDGUNS.
   (A)   Pursuant to the statutes of the State of Nebraska, including Neb. RS
69-2441, the city hereby prohibits the carrying of concealed handguns on or
about the person of a permitholder for such, officers of the law excepted, on
all property within the control of the city including, but not limited to, the
following:
      (1)   City Hall;
      (2)   The city waste water treatment plant;
      (3)   The Aurora Municipal Airport;
      (4)   The Aurora Public Library;
      (5)   The Aurora Memorial Cemetery;
      (6)   Aurora Cellar Youth Center;
      (7)   Streeter Park;
      (8)   Cole Park;
      (9)   Refshauge Park;
      (10)   The Aurora Fire Barn;
      (11)   Mitchell’s Field;
      (12)   Edgerton Park; and
      (13)   The city walking trail.
   (B)   City street right-of-ways, streets, alleys and sidewalks are excluded
from this prohibition.
(Ord. 857, passed 1-23-2007)  Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   In accordance with the statutes of the State of Nebraska, including
Neb. RS 17-505, any person who shall violate or refuse to comply with the
enforcement of any of the provisions of this chapter shall be deemed guilty of
a misdemeanor and upon conviction thereof shall be fined not more than $500 for
any one offense, recoverable with costs.
   (B)   A new violation shall be deemed to have been committed every 24 hours
of failure to comply.
(1998 Code, § 6-401)  (Ord. 724, passed 1-25-2000; Ord. 950, passed 6-22-2010)
CHAPTER 132:  CURFEW
Section
   
132.01   Curfew
   
132.02   City park curfew
   
132.03   City cemetery curfew
 
   
132.99   Penalty
§ 132.01  CURFEW.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      (1)   CURFEW HOURS.  10:00 p.m. on any day until 5:00 a.m. of the
following day.
      (2)   EMERGENCY.  An unforeseen combination of circumstances or the
resulting state that calls for immediate action.  The term includes but is not
limited to a fire, a natural disaster, an automobile accident, or any situation
requiring immediate action to prevent serious bodily injury or loss of life.
      (3)   ESTABLISHMENT.  Any privately-owned place of business operated for
a profit to which the public is invited, including but not limited to any place
of amusement or entertainment.
      (4)   GUARDIAN.
         (a)   A person who, under court order, is the guardian of the person
of a minor; or
         (b)   A public or private agency with whom a minor has been placed by
a court.
      (5)   MINOR.  Any person under 16 years of age.
      (6)   OPERATOR.  Any individual, firm, association, partnership, or
corporation operating, managing, or conducting any establishment.  The term
includes the members or partners of an association or partnership and the
officers of a corporation.
      (7)   PARENT.  A person who is:
         (a)   A natural parent, adoptive parent, or step-parent of another
person; or
         (b)   At least 18 years of age and authorized by a parent or guardian
to have the care and custody of a minor.
      (8)   PUBLIC PLACE.  Any place to which the public or a substantial group
of the public has access and includes, but is not limited to, streets,
highways, and the common areas of schools, hospitals, apartment houses, office
buildings, transport facilities, and shops.
      (9)   REMAIN.
         (a)   Linger or stay; or
         (b)   Fail to leave premises when requested to do so by a police
officer or the owner, operator, or other person in control of the premises.
   (B)   Offenses.
      (1)   A minor commits an offense if he remains in any public place or on
the premises of any establishment within the city during curfew hours.
      (2)   A parent or guardian of a minor commits an offense if he knowingly
permits, or by insufficient control allows, the minor to remain in any public
place or on the premises of any establishment within the city during curfew
hours.
      (3)   The owner, operator, or any employee of an establishment commits an
offense if he knowingly allows a minor to remain upon the premises of the
establishment during curfew hours.
   (C)   Exemptions.
      (1)   It is a exemption to division (B) that the minor was:
         (a)   Accompanied by the minor's parent or guardian;
         (b)   On an errand at the direction of the minor's parent or guardian,
without any detour or stop;
         (c)   In a motor vehicle involved in interstate travel;
         (d)   Engaged in an employment activity, or going to or returning home
from an employment activity, without any detour or stop;
         (e)   Involved in an emergency;
         (f)   On the sidewalk abutting the minor's residence or abutting the
residence of a next-door neighbor if the neighbor did not complain to the
police department  about the minor's presence;
         (g)   Attending an official school, religious, or other recreational
activity supervised by adults and sponsored by the city, a civic organization,
or another similar entity that takes responsibility for the minor, or going to
or returning home from, without any detour or stop, an official school,
religious, or other recreational activity supervised by adults and sponsored by
the city, a civic organization, or another similar entity that takes
responsibility for the minor;
         (h)   Exercising First Amendment rights protected by the United States
Constitution, such as the free exercise of religion, freedom of speech, and the
right of assembly; or
         (i)   Married or had been married or had disabilities of minority
removed in accordance with state law.
      (2)   It is a defense to prosecution under division (B)(3) that the
owner, operator, or employee of an establishment promptly notified the police
department that a minor was present on the premises of the establishment during
curfew hours and refused to leave.
   (D)   Enforcement.  Before taking any enforcement action under this section,
a police officer shall ask the apparent offender's age and reason for being in
the public place.  The officer shall not issue a citation or make an arrest
under this section unless the officer reasonably believes that an offense has
occurred and that, based on any response and other circumstances, including any
investigation additional to the actions required by this division (D) as a
reasonable person would deem necessary, no exemption in division (C) is
present.
(1998 Code, § 6-310)  (Ord. 1030, passed 7-12-2016)   Penalty, see §
132.99
§ 132.02  CITY PARK CURFEW.
   (A)   It is hereby unlawful for any person to ride in or operate any
vehicle, or otherwise loiter, wander, stroll, loaf or play in or upon any city
park including Streeter Park, Cole Park and Refshauge Park between the hours of
11:00 p.m. of any day and 5:00 a.m. of the following day.
   (B)   This section shall not apply to the campground and pool areas of
Streeter Park for anybody utilizing those areas for their intended purposes.
(Ord. 902, passed 7-1-2008)  Penalty, see §
132.99
§ 132.03  CITY CEMETERY CURFEW.
   It is hereby unlawful for any person to ride in or operate any vehicle, or
otherwise loiter, wander, stroll, loaf or play in or upon the Aurora Memorial
Cemetery between the hours of 11:00 p.m. of any day and 5:00 a.m. of the
following day.
(Ord. 902, passed 7-1-2008)  Penalty, see §
132.99
§ 132.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   In accordance with the statutes of the State of Nebraska, including
Neb. RS 17-505, any person who shall violate or refuse to comply with the
enforcement of any of the provisions of this chapter shall be deemed guilty of
a misdemeanor and upon conviction thereof shall be fined not more than $500 for
any one offense, recoverable with costs.
   (B)   A new violation shall be deemed to have been committed every 24 hours
of failure to comply.
(1998 Code, § 6-401)  (Ord. 724, passed 1-25-2000; Ord. 950, passed 6-22-2010)
CHAPTER 133:  SEX OFFENDER RESIDENCY RESTRICTIONS
Section
   
133.01   Findings and intent
   
133.02   Definitions
   
133.03   Sexual predator residency restrictions; exceptions
 
   
133.99   Penalty
§ 133.01  FINDINGS AND INTENT.
   (A)   The Nebraska Legislature has found that certain sex offenders present
a high risk to commit repeat offenses and has enabled municipalities to
restrict those persons’ place of residency as provided in the Sexual Predator
Residency Restriction Act, being Neb. RS 29-4015 to 29-4017.
   (B)   Sex offenders who prey on children and who are high risks to repeat
those acts present an extreme threat to public safety. The cost of sex offender
victimization to these children and to society at large, while incalculable, is
exorbitant.
   (C)   It is the intent of this chapter to serve the city’s compelling
interest to promote, protect and improve the health, safety and welfare of the
citizens of the city by creating certain areas around locations where children
regularly congregate in concentrated numbers where certain sexual predators
cannot reside.
(Ord. 844, passed 7-11-2006)
§ 133.02  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CHILD CARE FACILITY. A facility licensed pursuant to the Child Care
Licensing Act.
   RESIDE. To sleep, live or dwell at a place, which may include more than one
location, and may be mobile or transitory.
   RESIDENCE. A place where an individual sleeps, lives or dwells, which may
include more than one location, and may be mobile or transitory.
   SCHOOL. A public, private, denominational or parochial school which meets
the requirements for state accreditation or approval.
   SEX OFFENDER. An individual who has been convicted of a crime listed in Neb.
RS 29-4003 and who is required to register as a sex offender pursuant to the
Sex Offender Registration Act.
   SEXUAL PREDATOR. An individual who is required to register under the Sex
Offender Registration Act, who has committed an aggravated offense as defined
in Neb. RS 29-4001.01, and who has victimized a person 18 years of age or
younger.
(Ord. 844, passed 7-11-2006)
§ 133.03  SEXUAL PREDATOR RESIDENCY RESTRICTIONS; EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   Prohibited location of residence. It is unlawful for any sexual
predator to reside within 500 feet from a school or child care facility.
   (B)   Measure of distance. For purposes of determining the minimum distance
separation, the distance shall be measured by following a straight line from
the outer property line of the residence to the nearest outer boundary line of
the school or child care facility.
   (C)   Exceptions. This chapter shall not apply to a sexual predator who:
      (1)   Resides within a prison or correctional or treatment facility
operated by the state or a political subdivision;
      (2)   Established a residence before July 1, 2006, and has not moved from
that residence; or
      (3)   Established a residence after July 1, 2006, and the school or child
care facility triggering the restriction was established after the initial date
of the sexual predator’s residence at that location.
(Ord. 844, passed 7-11-2006)  Penalty, see §
133.99
§ 133.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter, for which no other
penalty is provided, shall be subject to the penalty provisions of §
10.99.
   (B)   A person who violates §
133.03 shall be punished by a fine not exceeding $500 and the city may seek any
other relief as otherwise provided by law.
(Ord. 844, passed 7-11-2006)
TITLE XV:  LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   BUILDINGS
      
151.   COMPREHENSIVE DEVELOPMENT PLAN
      
152.   SUBDIVISIONS
      
153.   ZONING
CHAPTER 150:  BUILDINGS
Section
Building Inspector
   
150.001   Power and authority
   
150.002   Inspections
   
150.003   Right of entry
   
150.004   Appeal from Inspector’s decision
   
150.005   Barricades and lights
Building Permits and Floodplain Development Permits
   
150.020   Required
   
150.021   Application
   
150.022   Floodplain development permit application
   
150.023   Approval of application
   
150.024   Issuance
   
150.025   Appeal of disapproval
   
150.026   Fees
Building Moving
   
150.040   Definitions
   
150.041   Permit required
   
150.042   Application for permit
   
150.043   Fee
   
150.044   Damage deposit
   
150.045   Chief of Police approval
   
150.046   Interference with public utilities
   
150.047   Duties of permittee
   
150.048   No general license
Dangerous Buildings
   
150.060   Defined
   
150.061   Standards for repair, vacation or demolition
   
150.062   Duties of Building Inspector
   
150.063   Hearing procedure
   
150.064   Posting the property
   
150.065   Emergency cases
   
150.066   Interested persons; absent from the city
   
150.067   Liability
   
150.068   Duties of the Fire Department
   
150.069   Duties of the Police Department
 
   
150.999   Penalty
BUILDING INSPECTOR
§ 150.001  POWER AND AUTHORITY.
   In accordance with the statutes of the State of Nebraska, including Neb. RS
17-505, 19-902(2), 19-922 and 29-830, these building regulations are adopted by
the city and shall be enforced by its Building Inspector as herein prescribed.
The Building Inspector shall inspect all buildings repaired, altered, built or
moved in the city as often as necessary to ensure compliance with all
applicable city ordinances. The Inspector shall issue permission to continue
any construction, alteration or relocation when satisfied that no provision
will be violated.
(1998 Code, § 9-101)
§ 150.002  INSPECTIONS.
   The Building Inspector shall make any and all inspections necessary to
ensure compliance with these building regulations and other applicable
ordinances of the city.
(1998 Code, § 9-102)
§ 150.003  RIGHT OF ENTRY.
   Pursuant to the statutes of the State of Nebraska, including Neb. RS 29-830
through 29-835, whenever the Building Inspector is refused permission to enter
any building or structure being built or moved or believed to be under repair
or alteration, the Inspector shall apply for, obtain and execute an inspection
warrant; provided that in an emergency situation neither consent nor an
inspection warrant shall be required.
(1998 Code, § 9-103)
§ 150.004  APPEAL FROM INSPECTOR’S DECISION.
   In the event it is claimed that the true intent and meaning of this chapter
has been wrongly interpreted by the Building Inspector, or that the time
allowed for compliance with any order of the Inspector is too short, the owner,
the owner’s agent or the occupant may file a notice of appeal within ten days
after the written decision or order of the Inspector has been made.
Applications for review shall be in writing and shall state the reasons why the
request should be honored. The Mayor and Council shall sit and act as the
city’s Board of Appeals and shall have the power and authority to modify the
decision or order of the Building Inspector. A copy of the decision of the
Board shall be sent to both the Building Inspector and the applicant. This
decision shall be final, subject only to any remedy which the aggrieved person
may have at law or equity.
(1998 Code, § 9-104)
§ 150.005  BARRICADES AND LIGHTS.
   It shall be the duty of the owner, tenant or lessee causing the
construction, demolition or moving of any building or improvement within the
city to have during that work all excavations, open basements, building
materials and debris protected by suitable guards or barricades during the day
and by warning lights at night. The failure, neglect or refusal of those
persons to erect guards shall constitute a violation of this section and the
City Police or Building Inspector shall stop all work and the building permit
shall be deemed revoked until compliance is assured.
(1998 Code, § 9-105)
BUILDING PERMITS AND FLOODPLAIN DEVELOPMENT PERMITS
§ 150.020  REQUIRED.
   Any person intending to build a new structure, add to existing structures or
make any structural changes to the outside perimeter of existing buildings
within the zoning limits of the city, regardless of cost, shall obtain, before
commencing work in connection therewith, a building permit as provided for
herein. Where the intention is to otherwise repair or maintain an existing
building or structure at a cost in excess of $1,500 excluding labor costs, a
building permit shall also be obtained before commencing work in connection
therewith. No person shall erect, construct, enlarge or improve any building or
structure or cause the same to be done within an area of Special Flood Hazard
(Zone A) without first obtaining a separate floodplain development permit for
each building or structure, including the placement of a mobile home.
(1998 Code, § 9-201)
§ 150.021  APPLICATION.
   Application for building permits shall be made upon forms provided by the
City Clerk-Treasurer and shall contain or have attached thereto the following
information:
   (A)   The kind of building, structure or addition, or the extent of repairs
intended to be erected or made;
   (B)   Detailed description of the type of construction and materials to be
used therein;
   (C)   Legal description and location of the real estate;
   (D)   The part or portion of the real estate to be occupied by the building
or improvement;
   (E)   The approximate cost thereof;
   (F)   The utilities proposed to be connected with the building or
improvement; and
   (G)   Any additional plans and specifications as may be required by the
Mayor and Council.
(1998 Code, § 9-202)
§ 150.022  FLOODPLAIN DEVELOPMENT PERMIT APPLICATION.
   (A)   To obtain a floodplain development permit, the applicant shall first
file with the City Clerk- Treasurer an application therefor in writing on a
form furnished for that purpose.
   (B)   Every application shall:
      (1)   Identify and describe the work to be covered by the permit for
which application is made;
      (2)   Describe the land on which the proposed work is to be done by lot,
block, tract and house and street address, or similar description that will
readily identify and definitely locate the proposed building or work;
      (3)   Indicate the use or occupancy for which the proposed work is
intended;
      (4)   Be accompanied by plans and specifications for the proposed
construction;
      (5)   Be signed by the permittee or authorized agent who may be required
to submit evidence to indicate that authority;
      (6)   Within designated flood prone areas, be accompanied by elevations
(in relation to mean sea level) of the lowest floor (including basement) or in
the case of floodproofed nonresidential structures, the elevation to which it
has been floodproofed. Documentation or certification of the elevations will be
maintained by the City Clerk-Treasurer; and
      (7)   Give other information as reasonably may be required by the Mayor
and City Council.
(1998 Code, § 9-203)
§ 150.023  APPROVAL OF APPLICATION.
   Each application for a permit shall be filed in the office of the City
Clerk-Treasurer and shall be referred to the Building Inspector who shall make
an investigation and, if satisfied that no good cause exists why the work
should not be done, approve the application and make due return thereof to the
City Clerk-Treasurer. If the application is for a permit for work within the
fire zone, the Fire Chief shall also investigate and submit findings to the
Council. The Building Inspector shall review all floodplain development permit
applications to determine if the site of the proposed development is reasonably
safe from flooding and that all necessary permits have been received as
required by federal and state law and the floodplain ordinance of the city.
(1998 Code, § 9-204)
Cross-reference:
   Fire zone, see §
94.21
§ 150.024  ISSUANCE.
   Upon the Building Inspector’s approval of a permit concerning a building,
structure or other improvement outside the fire zone, the City Clerk-Treasurer
shall, within 48 hours, issue the permit. Only after approval of a permit
concerning a building, structure or other improvement within the fire zone by
both the Building Inspector and the Fire Chief, shall the City Clerk-Treasurer,
within 48 hours, issue the permit. In no case shall work begin until a permit
has been issued.
(1998 Code, § 9-205)
Cross-reference:
   Fire zone, see §
94.21
§ 150.025  APPEAL OF DISAPPROVAL.
   If any application for a permit be disapproved, the City Clerk-Treasurer
shall, upon application, present the application for permit so denied, together
with all materials associated therewith, to the Board of Adjustment.
(1998 Code, § 9-206)
§ 150.026  FEES.
   At the time of the filing of the application for a building permit, the City
Clerk-Treasurer shall collect a fee as set by City Council resolution which
shall be credited to the General Fund.
(1998 Code, § 9-207)
BUILDING MOVING
§ 150.040  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUILDING. A structure designed, built or occupied as a shelter or roofed
enclosure for persons, animals or property and used for residential, business,
mercantile, storage, commercial, industrial, institutional, assembly, education
or recreational purposes. A structure of the following dimensions or less shall
not fall within this definition: 12 feet wide, 24 feet long and 15 feet high.
   PERSON. Any person, firm, partnership association, corporation, company or
organization of any kind.
(1998 Code, § 9-301)
§ 150.041  PERMIT REQUIRED.
   Pursuant to the statutes of the State of Nebraska, including Neb. RS 17-142,
no person shall move any building over, along, or across any highway, street,
or alley in the city without first obtaining a permit from the City Clerk-
Treasurer.
(1998 Code, § 9-302)  Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.042  APPLICATION FOR PERMIT.
   (A)   (1)   A person seeking issuance of a permit hereunder shall file a
written application for a permit with the City Clerk-Treasurer upon a form
provided by the Clerk-Treasurer.
      (2)   The application shall set forth:
         (a)   A description of the building proposed to be moved, including
the street number from which the building is to be moved, construction
materials, dimensions, number of rooms and condition of the exterior and
interior;
         (b)   A legal description of the lot from which the building is to be
moved, giving the lot, block and tract number, if located in the city;
         (c)   A legal description of the lot to which it is proposed the
building be moved, giving lot, block and tract number, if in the city;
         (d)   The portion of the lot to be occupied by the building when
moved;
         (e)   The highways, street and alleys over, along or across which the
building is proposed to be moved;
         (f)   The proposed moving date and hours; and
         (g)   Any additional information which the City Clerk-Treasurer shall
find necessary to a fair determination of whether a permit should be issued.
   (B)   The following papers shall accompany the application: a tax
certificate. The owner of the building to be moved shall file with the
application sufficient evidence that the building and lot from which it is to
be removed are free of any entanglements and that all taxes and any city
charges against the same are paid in full.
(1998 Code, § 9-303)
§ 150.043  FEE.
   Application for a permit to move a building shall be accompanied by a fee in
the amount set by City Council resolution which shall be paid over by the City
Clerk-Treasurer for credit to the General Fund.
(1998 Code, § 9-304)
§ 150.044  DAMAGE DEPOSIT.
   (A)   An application hereunder shall be accompanied by a cash deposit or
bond in the an amount as set by City Council resolution as an indemnity for
damage which the city may sustain by reason of damage or injury to any highway,
street, alley, sidewalk, fire hydrant or other property of the city which may
be caused by or be incidental to the moving of the building in the city, to
indemnify the city against claims of damages to persons or private property,
and to satisfy claims by private individuals arising out of, caused by, or
incidental to the moving of the building in the city. The City Clerk-Treasurer
shall hold the cash deposit until all provisions of this subchapter have been
complied with.
   (B)   In lieu of the cash deposit required above, a person filing an
application hereunder may file with the City Clerk-Treasurer a bond, approved
as to form by the City Attorney, executed by a bonding or surety company
authorized to do business in the State of Nebraska in an amount as set by City
Council resolution, conditioned upon the assurance that this and other
applicable ordinances and laws will be complied with. The bond shall run to the
city for the use and benefit of any persons intended to be protected thereby
and shall be conditioned on the payment of any damages to public or private
property and the payment for any damages or losses resulting from any
malfeasance, misfeasance or nonfeasance or negligence in connection with any of
the activities or conditions upon which the permit applied for is granted.
(1998 Code, § 9-305)
§ 150.045  CHIEF OF POLICE APPROVAL.
   After the permit fee has been paid, the City Clerk-Treasurer shall refer the
application to the Chief of Police for review and designation of the route over
which the building may be moved; and, upon receipt of approval from the Chief
of Police, the City Clerk-Treasurer shall issue the permit.
(1998 Code, § 9-306)
§ 150.046  INTERFERENCE WITH PUBLIC UTILITIES.
   Whenever it shall be necessary for a permittee in moving a building to
interfere with any electric, telephone or telegraph poles or wires, the public
service company or companies owning, using or operating poles or wires shall,
upon notice as is provided in their respective franchises, or if no provision
for notice is made therein, then upon 24 hours’ notice, be present and assist,
and, if necessary, move poles and wires; and the expense of the removal, as
estimated, shall be paid in advance by the permittee unless it is otherwise
provided in the companies’ franchises. Whenever the moving of a building
necessitates interference with any water main or sewer main belonging to the
city, notice in writing of the time and route of the building moving operations
shall be given to the City Building Inspector who shall proceed in behalf of
the city. The notice herein provided for shall be given to the city and to the
public service company or companies by the licensed house mover.
(1998 Code, § 9-307)
§ 150.047  DUTIES OF PERMITTEE.
   Every permittee under this subchapter shall:
   (A)   Move a building only over streets designated for that use in the
written permit;
   (B)   Notify the City Clerk-Treasurer in writing of a desired change in the
moving date and hours as proposed in the application;
   (C)   Notify the City Clerk-Treasurer in writing of any and all damage done
to property belonging to the city within 24 hours after the damage or injury
has occurred;
   (D)   Cause red lights to be displayed during the night time on every side
of the building while standing on a street in a manner as to warn the public of
the obstruction and in a manner as to protect the public from damage or injury
by reason of the moving of the building;
   (E)   Remove the building from the city streets after four days of occupancy
unless an extension is granted by the Mayor;
   (F)   Comply with all applicable ordinances and laws now existing or
hereinafter adopted upon relocating the building in the city;
   (G)   Pay the expense of a traffic officer ordered by the Chief of Police to
accompany the movement of the building to protect the public from injury;
   (H)   Within ten days from the issue date of the permit the permittee shall
remove all rubbish and materials and fill all excavations to existing grade at
the original building site so that the premises are left in a safe and sanitary
condition; and
   (I)   See that the sewer line is plugged with a concrete stopper, the water
is shut off, and the meter is returned to the City Water Department. Notify the
gas and electric companies to remove their services.
(1998 Code, § 9-308)
§ 150.048  NO GENERAL LICENSE.
   There shall be no license issued nor general permit given to any person to
move buildings at will or generally within the city.
(1998 Code, § 9-309)
DANGEROUS BUILDINGS
§ 150.060  DEFINED.
   In accordance with the statutes of the State of Nebraska, including Neb. RS
17-550, 18-1720, 18-1722, 18-1722.01 and 19-922, all buildings or structures
which have any or all of the following defects shall be deemed DANGEROUS
BUILDINGS and as such shall be deemed public nuisances.
   (A)   Those whose interior walls or other vertical structural members list,
lean or buckle to an extent that a plumb line passing through the center of
gravity falls outside of the middle third of its base;
   (B)   Those which, exclusive of the foundation, show 33% or more of damage
or deterioration of the supporting member or members, or 50% of damage or
deterioration of the non-supporting enclosing or outside walls or covering;
   (C)   Those which have improperly distributed loads upon the floors or roofs
in which the same are overloaded or which have insufficient strength to be
reasonably safe for the purpose used;
   (D)   Those which have been damaged by fire, wind or other causes so as to
have become dangerous to life, safety, morals or the general health and welfare
of the occupants or the people of the city;
   (E)   Those which have become or are so dilapidated, decayed, unsafe,
unsanitary or which so utterly fail to provide the amenities essential to
decent living that they are unfit for human habitation or are likely to cause
sickness or disease so as to work injury to the health, morals, safety or
general welfare of those living therein;
   (F)   Those having light, air and sanitation facilities which are inadequate
to protect the health, morals, safety or general welfare of human beings who
live or may live therein;
   (G)   Those having inadequate facilities for egress in case of fire or
panic, or those having insufficient stairways, elevators, fire escapes or other
means of escape;
   (H)   Those which have parts thereof which are so attached that they may
fall and injure public members or property;
   (I)   Those which because of their condition are unsafe, unsanitary or
dangerous to the health, morals, safety or general welfare of the people of the
city; and
   (J)   Those existing in violation of any provision of the building
regulations or other ordinances of the city.
(1998 Code, § 9-401)
§ 150.061  STANDARDS FOR REPAIR, VACATION OR DEMOLITION.
   The following standards shall be followed in substance by the Building
Inspector in ordering repair, vacation or demolition:
   (A)   If the dangerous building can reasonably be repaired so that it will
no longer exist in violation of the terms of this code, it shall be ordered
repaired;
   (B)   If the dangerous building is in a condition as to make it dangerous to
the health, morals, safety or general welfare of its occupants, it shall be
ordered to be vacated;
   (C)   If the dangerous building is 50% damaged or deteriorated, it shall be
repaired within 30 days from notice or demolished;
   (D)   If the dangerous building cannot be repaired so that it will no longer
exist in violation of the terms of this code, it shall be demolished; and
   (E)   If the dangerous building is a fire hazard existing or erected in
violation of the terms of this code or of a statute of the State of Nebraska,
it shall be demolished.
(1998 Code, § 9-402)
§ 150.062  DUTIES OF BUILDING INSPECTOR.
   The Building Inspector shall:
   (A)   Inspect any building, wall or structure about which complaints are
filed by any person to the effect that a building, wall or structure is or may
be existing in violation of this code;
   (B)   Inspect any building, wall or structure reported by the Fire
Department or the Police Department as probably existing in violation of the
terms of this code;
   (C)   Notify in writing the owner, occupant, lessee, mortgagee, agent and
all other persons having an interest in a building, as shown by the land
records of the Register of Deeds of the county, which is found by the Inspector
to be a dangerous building that:
      (1)   The owner must vacate or repair or demolish the building in
accordance with the terms of the notice and this code;
      (2)   The occupant or lessee must vacate the building, or may have it
repaired in accordance with the notice and remain in possession; and
      (3)   The mortgagee, agent or other persons having an interest in the
building may at their own risk repair, vacate or demolish the building or have
the work or act done; provided, that any person notified to repair, vacate or
demolish a building shall be given a reasonable time, not exceeding 30 days, as
may be necessary to do, or have done, the work or acts required by the notice.
   (D)   Set forth in the notice a description of the building or structure
deemed unsafe, a statement of the particulars which make the building or
structure a dangerous building, and an order requiring the same to be put in a
condition as to comply with the terms of this code within a length of time, not
exceeding 30 days, as is reasonable;
   (E)   Report to the Mayor and Council any noncompliance with a notice
provided for herein;
   (F)   Appear at all hearings conducted by the Mayor and Council and testify
as to the condition of dangerous buildings; and
   (G)   Place a notice on all dangerous buildings reading substantially as
follows:
      This building has been found to be a dangerous building by the Building
Inspector. This notice is to remain on this building until it is repaired,
vacated or demolished in accordance with the notice which has been given the
owner, occupant, lessee, mortgagee or agent of this building, and all other
persons having an interest in the building as shown by the land records of the
Register of Deeds of the county. If you wish to contest this determination of
the Building Inspector, you must appear before the next regular meeting of the
Mayor and Council to show cause why the building should not be repaired,
vacated or demolished in accordance with the statement of particulars set forth
in the Inspector’s notice. It is unlawful to remove this notice until the
notice is complied with.
(1998 Code, § 9-403)
§ 150.063  HEARING PROCEDURE.
   At their next regular meeting, the Mayor and Council shall:
   (A)   Hold a hearing at which they shall hear testimony and receive other
evidence as the Building Inspector, owner, occupant, mortgagee, lessee and
other persons having an interest in the building shall offer relative to the
dangerous building;
   (B)   Make written findings of fact as to whether or not the building in
question is a dangerous building; and
   (C)   If warranted, pass a resolution declaring the building to be unsafe
because of one or more violations of this code, and commanding the owner,
occupant, mortgagee, lessee, agent and all other persons having an interest in
the building to repair, vacate or demolish the building; provided that any
person so notified, except the owners, shall have the privilege of either
vacating or repairing the dangerous building. Any person not the owner but
having an interest therein may demolish the dangerous building at that person’s
risk to prevent the acquiring of a lien against the land by the city.
(1998 Code, § 9-404)
§ 150.064  POSTING THE PROPERTY.
   Pursuant to the statutes of the State of Nebraska, including Neb. RS 18-
1722.01, whenever the Mayor and Council have determined by resolution that a
property is unsafe or unfit for human occupancy because of one or more
violations of this code, the Building Inspector shall file a copy of the
resolution in the office of the Register of Deeds of the county (without
payment of a fee) and place a notice on the property reading substantially as
follows:
      This building has been found by the Mayor and Council to be a unsafe
because of one or more violations of the building regulations. This notice is
to remain on this property until it is repaired, vacated or demolished in
accordance with the notice which has been given the owner, occupant, lessee,
mortgagee or agent of this building, and all other persons having an interest
in the building as shown by the land records of the Register of Deeds of the
county. It is unlawful to remove this notice until compliance therewith.
(1998 Code, § 9-405)
§ 150.065  EMERGENCY CASES.
   In a case where it reasonably appears that there is immediate danger to the
lives or safety of persons unless a dangerous building is immediately repaired,
vacated or demolished, the Building Inspector shall report these facts to the
Mayor and Council and the Mayor and Council shall direct the immediate repair,
vacation or demolition of the building, and the costs of emergency actions
shall be collected in the same manner as above.
(1998 Code, § 9-406)
§ 150.066  INTERESTED PERSONS; ABSENT FROM THE CITY.
   In cases, except emergency cases, where the owner, occupant, lessee,
mortgagee or any other interested person in the building as shown by the land
records of the Register of Deeds of the county, is absent from the city, all
notices and orders provided for herein shall be sent by certified mail to the
last known address of each person, and a copy of the notice shall be posted in
a conspicuous place on the dangerous building to which it relates; provided,
however, if after diligent investigation and inquiry, the owner, occupant,
lessee or mortgagee is unable to be located, in addition to posting the
building, service of those notices and orders shall be made by publication of
each in the same manner as is provided for service of summons in the statutes
of the State of Nebraska, including Neb. RS 25-505.01 through 25-530.08.
(1998 Code, § 9-407)
§ 150.067  LIABILITY.
   No officer, agent or employee of the city shall render himself or herself
personally liable for any damage that may accrue to persons or property as a
result of any act required or permitted in the discharge of his or her duties
under this subchapter.
(1998 Code, § 9-408)
§ 150.068  DUTIES OF THE FIRE DEPARTMENT.
   The employees of the Fire Department shall make a written report to the
Building Inspector of all buildings or structures which are, may be, or are
suspected to be dangerous buildings within the terms of this subchapter. The
reports must be delivered within 24 hours of the discovery of those conditions
by any employee of the Fire Department.
(1998 Code, § 9-409)
§ 150.069  DUTIES OF THE POLICE DEPARTMENT.
   The employees of the Police Department shall make a written report to the
Building Inspector of all buildings or structures which are, may be, or are
suspected to be dangerous buildings within the terms of this subchapter. The
reports must be delivered within 24 hours of the discovery of those conditions
by any employee of the Police Department.
(1998 Code, § 9-410)
§ 150.999  PENALTY.
   (A)   In accordance with the statutes of the State of Nebraska, including
Neb. RS 17-505, any person who shall violate or refuse to comply with the
enforcement of any of the provisions of this chapter shall be deemed guilty of
a misdemeanor and upon conviction thereof shall be fined not more than $500 for
any one offense, recoverable with costs.
   (B)   A new violation shall be deemed to have been committed every 24 hours
of failure to comply.
(1998 Code, § 9-501)  (Ord. 724, passed 1-25-2000; Ord. 950, passed 6-22-2010)
CHAPTER 151:  COMPREHENSIVE DEVELOPMENT PLAN
Section
   
151.01   Adopted by reference
§ 151.01  ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The comprehensive development plan, copies of which are on file in the
office of the City Clerk- Treasurer, is adopted and incorporated as part of
this code of ordinances as fully as if set out at length herein.
(Ord. 956, passed 11-9-2010; Ord. 961, passed 6-14-2011; Ord. 964, passed 7-12-
2011; Ord. 974, passed 5-8-2012)
CHAPTER 152:  SUBDIVISIONS
Section
   
152.01   Adopted by reference
§ 152.01  ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The subdivision ordinance, copies of which are on file in the office of the
City Clerk-Treasurer, is adopted and incorporated as part of this code of
ordinances as fully as if set out at length herein.
(Ord. 958, passed 11-9-2010)
CHAPTER 153:  ZONING
Section
   
153.01   Adopted by reference
§ 153.01  ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The zoning ordinance, copies of which are on file in the office of the City
Clerk-Treasurer, is adopted and incorporated as part of this code of ordinances
as fully as if set out at length herein.
(Ord. 957, passed 12-22-2010; Ord. 967, passed 2-28-2012; Ord. 968, passed 2-
28-2012; Ord. 975, passed 5-8-2012)
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Nebraska Revised Statutes
References to Prior Code
References to Resolutions
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO NEBRASKA REVISED STATUTES
Neb. RS Section Code Section
Neb. RS Section              Code Section
3-501 through 3-514          33.20
7-526                        93.003
9-433                        118.01
9-501 through 9-513          118.01
9-811                        118.01
9-841                        118.01
10-101 through 10-143        36.12
10-606 through 10-612        36.12
Ch. 11, art. 1               34.16
11-104                       30.01
11-105                       30.01
11-109                       30.01
11-110                       30.01
11-111                       30.01
11-112                       30.01
11-113                       30.01
11-114                       30.01
11-115                       30.01
11-116                       30.01
11-117                       30.01
11-118                       30.01
13-503                       36.01
13-606                       36.02
13-609                       36.14
13-903                       36.05
13-1802                      34.17
14-109                       122.13
15-203                       122.13
16-205                       122.13
16-318(3)                    32.17
16-714 through 16-716        36.10
16-691.01                    36.11
17-102 through 17-104        32.03
17-105                       31.01
17-106                       31.01
                             32.01,
17-107                       32.15,
                             34.17
17-108                       30.30
                             32.01,
17-108.02                    32.17,
                             32.19,
                             32.20
17-110 through 17-114        32.01
17-118                       32.24,
                             34.17
17-119                       32.19
                             32.24,
                             32.26,
17-121                       33.18,
                             90.02,
                             93.078,
                             112.02
                             32.26,
17-123                       90.01,
                             112.02,
                             113.03
17-124                       32.24
17-130                       94.22
17-131                       94.22
17-132                       94.22
17-135                       110.02
17-136                       94.22,
                             113.03
                             94.22,
17-137                       94.26,
                             115.01,
                             130.02
17-138                       93.083
17-140                       95.05,
                             130.01
17-141                       95.22
17-142                       95.38,
                             150.041
17-143                       114.01
17-144                       114.01,
                             114.05
                             52.32,
17-145                       112.02,
                             112.03
17-147                       34.01
17-148                       32.02
17-149                       52.27
17-149.01                    52.27
17-150                       32.27
17-405                       32.27
17-503                       95.04
17-503.01                    95.04
                             10.99,
                             30.99,
                             31.20,
                             50.99,
                             51.99,
                             52.99,
                             70.99,
                             91.99,
                             92.99,
                             93.999,
                             94.01,
                             94.20,
                             94.22,
17-505                       94.25,
                             94.99,
                             95.99,
                             112.99,
                             113.99,
                             114.99,
                             115.99,
                             116.99,
                             117.99,
                             118.99,
                             130.99,
                             131.99,
                             132.99,
                             150.001,
                             150.999
17-509 through 17-521        95.43
17-521                       114.01
17-522 through 17-724        95.23
17-524                       95.43
                             113.01,
17-525                       113.04,
                             121.01,
                             122.13
                             93.002,
                             93.004—
                             93.006,
                             93.008,
                             93.009,
                             93.011,
                             93.014,
17-526                       93.017,
                             93.030,
                             93.033,
                             93.045,
                             93.060,
                             93.061,
                             93.063,
                             93.076
17-531 through 17-546        51.01
17-536                       51.16
17-537                       51.04
17-540                       36.11
17-541                       32.20
17-543                       32.20
17-547                       93.076
17-548                       93.012,
                             93.013
                             94.22,
17-549                       94.25,
                             113.03
17-550                       94.22,
                             150.060
17-551                       114.01—
                             114.05
17-552                       114.02—
                             114.04
                             95.02,
17-555                       95.03,
                             95.21
17-556                       130.02,
                             131.01
                             93.076,
                             95.03,
17-557                       95.20,
                             95.21,
                             95.38,
                             95.40
                             95.03,
17-557.01                    95.20,
                             95.21
17-558                       95.37
17-559                       95.37
17-561                       114.01
17-563                       130.03
                             95.01,
                             95.35,
17-567                       95.39,
                             95.41,
                             95.44
17-568                       32.27
17-568.01                    32.27
17-568.02                    36.03
17-602                       35.03
                             30.01,
                             30.30,
17-604                       32.15,
                             32.16,
                             32.29
17-606(2)                    32.17
17-607                       36.09
17-608                       36.11
17-609                       36.11
17-610                       32.28
17-611                       30.30
17-612                       30.30
                             31.22,
                             31.24,
17-613                       31.25,
                             31.26,
                             36.03
                             10.15,
17-614                       31.22,
                             31.23,
                             31.27
17-615                       31.25
17-616                       31.23
17-702                       36.08
17-703                       36.06
17-708                       36.04
17-709                       36.04
17-710                       36.07
17-711                       36.04
17-714                       36.05
17-715                       36.05
17-718                       34.01
17-720                       36.10
17-803                       36.11
17-919                       32.28
17-925.01                    52.15
17-925.02                    52.31
17-925.03                    52.31
17-925.04                    52.31
17-926 through 17-943        32.23
17-926 through 17-947        34.60
17-948 through 17-951        32.22,
                             34.30
17-953 et seq.               34.01
17-953                       95.06
17-953.01                    95.06
17-954                       95.06
17-955                       95.06
18-131                       31.24
                             31.20,
18-132                       90.03,
                             94.20
18-305 through 18-312        30.31
18-412.01                    36.03
18-720                       95.02
18-1208                      121.01
18-1216                      36.06
18-1701                      32.17
18-1705                      95.43
18-1712 through 18-1714      32.25
                             10.99,
                             91.99,
18-1720                      92.02,
                             92.99,
                             150.060
                             10.99,
18-1722                      32.19,
                             150.060
                             32.19,
18-1722.01                   150.060,
                             150.064
18-1751                      95.43
18-1752                      91.07
18-1756                      36.03
18-1801 through 18-1805      36.12
18-1917                      112.01
18-2001 through 18-2005      95.43
18-2102.01 et seq.           33.21
18-2102.01                   33.16,
                             33.21
18-2715                      33.16
19-710                       92.03
19-901 et seq.               33.16,
                             33.17
19-901 to 19-914             33.17
19-901 to 19-915             33.17
19-902(2)                    150.001
19-903                       33.16
19-903 to 19-904.01          33.17
19-907                       33.17
19-908                       33.16,
                             33.17
19-909                       33.17
19-910                       33.17
19-912                       33.17
19-912.01                    33.17
19-915                       31.27
19-916                       33.16
                             31.20,
19-922                       150.001,
                             150.060
19-926                       33.16
19-927                       33.16
19-928                       33.16
19-929                       33.16
19-929(3)                    33.17
19-930 to 19-933             33.16
19-1101                      32.17
19-1102                      32.17
19-1103                      32.17
19-1301                      32.03,
                             36.08
19-1302                      36.08
19-1303                      36.08
19-1304                      36.08
19-2408 through 19-2415      95.43
19-2427 through 19-2431      95.43
                             50.01,
19-2701                      51.01,
                             52.25,
                             52.26
19-2804                      36.02
19-2902                      36.02
19-2903                      36.02
19-2904                      36.02
19-2905                      36.02
19-2906 through 19-2909      36.02
19-3701                      31.26
23-114.02                    33.17
23-122                       32.17
25-505.01 through 25-530.08  117.07,
                             150.066
25-2703                      31.20
Ch. 28, art. 3               110.21
Ch. 28, art. 4               110.21
28-523                       95.07
Ch. 28, art. 7               110.21
Ch. 28, art. 8               110.21
28-906                       93.006
28-908                       94.02
Ch. 28, art. 11              110.21
Ch. 28, art. 12              110.21
28-1241 through 28-1250      115.01
28-1241 through 28-1252      130.02
28-1419                      130.08
28-1420 to 28-1429           120.02
28-1420                      120.01
                             120.01,
28-1421                      120.04,
                             130.08
                             122.01,
28-1422                      120.02,
                             122.04
28-1423                      120.03
28-1424                      120.04
28-1425                      120.04,
                             120.07
28-1426                      120.05
28-1427                      130.08
28-1428                      120.06
28-1429                      120.07
28-1465                      34.17
28-1466                      34.17
28-1472                      34.17
29-215                       34.17
29-830 through 29-835        150.003
29-830                       150.001
29-4001.01                   133.02
29-4003                      133.02
29-4015 to 29-4017           133.01
32-101                       Ch. 35
32-109                       32.01
32-110                       35.03
32-115                       35.03
32-404                       35.01,
                             35.05
32-405                       35.04
32-533                       32.01
32-556                       35.01
32-557                       35.06
32-559                       35.04
32-560                       32.01,
                             32.03
32-561                       32.01
32-562                       35.10
32-567                       35.10
32-568                       32.01
32-570                       35.10
32-603                       32.01
32-604                       32.01
32-606                       35.07
32-607                       35.07
32-608                       35.08,
                             35.09
32-615                       35.09
32-616                       35.09
32-617                       35.09
32-621                       35.09
32-622                       35.07
32-625                       35.07
32-625(2)                    35.09
32-627                       35.07,
                             35.09
32-628                       35.09
32-629                       35.09,
                             35.10
32-630                       35.09,
                             35.10
32-710                       35.09
32-802                       35.02
32-952 through 32-959        35.04
32-1301                      35.10
32-1302                      35.10
32-1303                      35.10
32-1304                      35.10
32-1305                      35.10
32-1306                      35.10
32-1307                      35.10
32-1308                      35.10
32-1309                      35.10
32-1406                      32.03
32-1525                      35.11
33-139.01                    34.03
33-141                       32.17
35-101                       34.03
35-102                       34.01
35-103                       34.03
35-106                       121.01
35-108                       34.03
37-1254.01                   34.17
37-1254.02                   34.17
45-601 through 45-622        36.13
45-623                       36.13
48-115                       34.02,
                             34.03
48-1503                      36.03
49-801(16)                   10.05
49-1408                      30.31
49-1425                      30.31
49-1499.04                   30.31
49-1499.63 through 49-14,103 30.31
49-14,102                    30.31
49-14,103.01                 30.31
49-14,103.02                 30.31
49-14,103.03                 30.31
49-14,103.04                 30.31
49-14,103.05                 30.31
49-14,103.06                 30.31
51-201 through 51-219        33.15,
                             34.41
51-201.01                    34.45
51-202                       33.15
51-204                       33.15
51-205                       34.41
51-206                       34.44
51-207                       34.41
51-210                       34.42
                             34.41,
51-211                       34.45,
                             34.46
51-212                       34.45
51-213                       34.47
51-214                       34.47
51-215                       36.08
51-216                       34.43,
                             36.08
53-103.01 through 53-103.42  110.01
53-116.01                    110.24
53-118                       110.47
53-124                       110.23,
                             110.26
53-124.01                    110.23
53-124.12                    110.26
53-124.15                    110.45
53-125                       110.22
53-131                       110.23
53-132                       110.23,
                             121.01
53-133                       110.23,
                             110.45
53-134                       110.23
53-134.03                    110.47,
                             110.23
53-134.04                    110.30
53-135                       110.25
53-135.01                    110.23,
                             110.25
53-148                       110.27
53-160                       121.01
53-167.02                    110.52
53-167.03                    110.52
53-168.06                    110.20
53-175                       110.21
53-177                       110.45
53-177.01                    110.45
53-178                       110.46
53-180                       110.02
53-183                       110.49
53-184                       110.50
53-186                       110.03
53-186(2)                    110.03
53-186.01                    110.03
53-194.03                    110.21
53-1,101                     110.28
53-1,102                     110.29
53-1,115                     110.30
53-1,121                     110.04
54-601                       93.010
54-602                       93.010
                             93.030,
54-603                       93.060,
                             93.061,
                             93.063
54-605                       93.032
54-607                       93.003
54-619                       93.005
55-133                       70.01
60-4,163                     34.17
60-4,164                     34.17
60-4,196                     34.17
60-4,197                     34.17
60-4,211.01                  34.17
60-4,211.02                  34.17
60-606 through 60-676        70.01
60-607                       70.01
60-610                       70.01
60-613                       70.01
60-624                       70.01
60-631                       70.01
60-638                       70.01
60-646                       70.01
60-654                       70.01
60-656                       70.01
60-658.01                    70.01
60-661                       70.01
60-669                       70.01
60-670                       70.01
60-671                       70.01
60-672                       70.01
60-676                       70.01
                             70.15,
                             Ch. 73, Sch. II,
60-680                       Ch. 73, Sch. IV,
                             Ch. 73, Sch. V,
                             Ch. 74, Sch. II,
                             95.36
                             Ch. 73, Sch. IV,
60-681                       Ch. 73, Sch. V,
                             Ch. 74, Sch. II
60-683                       70.16
60-683(3)                    71.02
60-6,114                     70.19
60-6,118                     70.01
60-6,166                     94.03
60-6,183                     94.04
60-6,184                     94.05
60-6,211.08                  110.03
60-6,250                     95.41
60-6,288 to 60,6,290         70.19
60-6,294                     70.19
66-489.02                    121.01
66-4,140                     121.01
66-4,145                     121.01
66-4,146                     121.01
69-2441                      131.03
70-624.04                    30.31
70-1601 through 70-1615      51.12
71-605                       34.63
71-1572 through 71-1580      33.19
71-4301 through 71-4307      32.22,
                             34.30
71-4402                      93.046
71-4403                      93.032,
                             93.045
71-4404                      93.047
71-4406                      93.048
71-4408                      93.012
71-4601 through 71-4620      117.01
71-4603                      116.01
71-4621 through 71-4635      116.01
71-4622                      116.02
71-4629                      116.03,
                             116.04
73-101 et seq.               36.03
74-1323                      114.04
74-1336                      114.01
76-704 through 76-724        95.37,
                             95.43
77-1702                      36.14
77-2201                      32.17
77-2201 through 77-2215      32.17
77-2202                      32.17
77-2209                      32.17
77-2210                      32.17
77-2212                      32.17
77-2337                      36.08
77-2341                      36.11
77-2363                      36.09
77-2364                      36.09
77-2365.01                   36.09,
                             36.10
77-2366                      36.09,
                             36.10
77-2367                      36.09
77-2386                      36.09
77-2602                      121.01
77-2632                      36.09
77-3442                      34.40
77-3443                      34.40
77-3444                      35.04
77-4008                      121.01
81-145 through 81-162        36.03
81-501.01 to 81-531          34.06
81-502                       94.20
81-506                       32.25,
                             34.08
                             32.25,
81-512                       34.06,
                             94.20
                             32.25,
81-520.01                    94.20,
                             94.24
81-829.65                    34.17
81-1444                      34.16
81-2101 through 81-2145      113.01
81-2121                      113.02
81-2124                      113.02
81-2125                      113.02
81-2129                      113.02
81-2132                      113.02
84-712(2)                    32.17
84-712 through 84-712.09     32.17
84-1408                      31.02
84-1410                      31.05
84-1411                      31.02
84-1413                      31.04
                             121.01,
86-704                       122.01,
                             122.13
                             
 
REFERENCES TO PRIOR CODE
Prior Code Section 2013 Code Section
Prior Code Section 2013 Code Section
1-101              32.01
1-102              32.02
1-103              32.03
1-104              32.03
1-201              32.15
1-202              32.16
1-203              32.16
1-205              32.18
1-206              32.19
1-207              32.20
1-208              32.21
1-209              32.22
1-210              32.23
1-211              32.24
1-212              32.25
1-213              32.26
1-214              32.27
1-215              32.28
1-401              30.15
1-501              31.01
1-503              31.03
1-506              31.06
1-702              35.02
1-902              30.31
2-101              33.01
2-201              33.15
2-202              33.16
2-203              33.17
2-204              33.18
2-205              33.19
2-206              33.20
2-207              33.21
3-101              51.01
3-102              51.02
3-103              51.03
3-104              51.04
3-105              51.05
3-106              51.06
3-107              51.07
3-108              51.08
3-109              51.09
3-110              51.10
3-111              51.11
3-112              51.12
3-113              51.13
3-114              51.14
3-115              51.15
3-116              51.16
3-117              51.17
3-118              51.18
3-119              51.19
3-120              51.35
3-120A             51.36
3-120B             51.37
3-120C             51.38
3-120D             51.39
3-120E             51.40
3-120F             51.41
3-201              52.15
3-202              52.01
3-203              52.25
3-204              52.26
3-205              52.27
3-206              52.28
3-207              52.29
3-208              52.50
3-209A             52.51
3-209B             52.52
3-209C             52.53
3-209D             52.54
3-209E             52.55
3-209F             52.56
3-209G             52.57
3-210              52.58
3-211              52.59
3-212              52.30
3-213              52.31
3-214              52.32
3-215              52.33
3-216              52.34
3-217              52.35
3-218              52.36
3-219              52.37
3-401              34.15
3-402              34.16
3-501              34.30
3-601              34.45
3-602              34.46
3-701              34.60
3-702              34.61
3-703              34.62
3-704              34.63
                   30.99,
3-801              50.99,
                   51.99,
                   52.99
4-101              90.01
4-102              90.02
4-201              91.01
4-202              91.02
4-203              91.03
4-204              91.04
4-205              91.05
4-206              91.06
4-207              91.07
4-301              92.01
4-302              92.02
4-303              92.03
4-401              91.99,
                   92.99
4-402              91.99,
                   92.99
5-101              70.01
5-201              70.15
5-202              70.16
5-301              71.01,
                   Ch. 73, Sch. I
5-302              71.02
5-303              71.03
5-304              71.04
5-305A             72.15
5-305B             72.16
5-305C             72.17
5-305D             72.18
5-306              72.01
5-307A             72.30,
                   Ch. 74, Sch. I
5-307B             72.31
5-307C             72.32
5-307D             72.33
5-308              72.02
5-309              72.03
5-401              70.99
6-101              93.045
6-102              93.001
6-103              93.030
6-104              93.031
6-105              93.046
6-106              93.047
6-107              93.048
6-108              93.032
6-109              93.002
6-110              93.003
6-111              93.004
6-112              93.005
6-113              93.006
6-114              93.007
6-115              93.008
6-116              93.009
6-117              93.010
6-118              93.011
6-119              93.012
6-120              93.013
6-121              93.014
6-122              93.060
6-123              93.061
6-124              93.062
6-125              93.063
6-126              93.015
6-127              93.016
6-128              93.017
6-129              93.033
6-201              93.075
6-202              93.076
6-203              93.077
6-204              93.078
6-205              93.100
6-206              93.101
6-207              93.102
6-208              93.103
6-209              93.104
6-210              93.079
6-211              93.080
6-212              93.081
6-213              93.082
6-214              93.083
6-215              93.084
6-301              130.01
6-302              131.01
6-303              131.02
6-304              130.02
6-305              130.03
6-306              130.04
6-307              130.05
6-308              130.06
6-309              130.07
6-310              132.01
                   93.999,
6-401              130.99,
                   131.99,
                   132.99
7-101              94.01
7-102              94.02
7-103              94.03
7-104              94.04
7-105              94.05
7-201              94.20
7-202              94.21
7-203              94.22
7-204              94.23
7-205              94.24
7-206              94.25
7-207              94.26
7-208              94.27
7-301              94.99
8-101              95.01
8-102              95.02
8-103              95.03
8-104              95.04
8-105              95.05
8-106              95.06
8-201              95.20
8-202              95.21
8-203              95.22
8-204              95.23
8-301              95.35
8-302              95.36
8-303              95.37
8-304              95.38
8-305              95.39
8-306              95.40
8-307              95.41
8-308              95.42
8-309              95.43
8-401              95.99
9-101              150.001
9-102              150.002
9-103              150.003
9-104              150.004
9-105              150.005
9-201              150.020
9-202              150.021
9-203              150.022
9-204              150.023
9-205              150.024
9-206              150.025
9-207              150.026
9-301              150.040
9-302              150.041
9-303              150.042
9-304              150.043
9-305              150.044
9-306              150.045
9-307              150.046
9-308              150.047
9-309              150.048
9-401              150.060
9-402              150.061
9-403              150.062
9-404              150.063
9-405              150.064
9-406              150.065
9-407              150.066
9-408              150.067
9-409              150.068
9-410              150.069
9-501              150.999
10-103             110.48
10-301             112.01
10-302             112.02
10-303             112.03
10-304             112.04
10-305             112.05
10-306             112.06
10-307             112.07
10-401             113.01
10-402             113.02
10-403             113.03
10-404             113.04
10-501             114.01
10-502             114.02
10-503             114.03
10-504             114.04
10-505             114.05
10-601             115.01
10-701             116.01
10-702             116.02
10-703             116.03
10-704             116.04
10-705             116.05
10-706             116.06
10-801             117.01
10-802             117.02
10-803             117.03
10-804             117.04
10-805             117.05
10-806             117.06
10-807             117.07
10-808             117.08
10-809             117.09
10-810             117.10
10-811             117.11
10-901             118.01
10-902             118.02
10-903             118.03
10-904             118.04
10-905             118.05
                   112.99,
                   113.99,
                   114.99,
10-1001            115.99,
                   116.99,
                   117.99,
                   118.99
                   
 
REFERENCES TO RESOLUTIONS
Res. No. Date Passed Description
Res. No. Date Passed Description
06-03    2-14-2006   52.31
7-26     1-22-2008   51.10
07-27    1-22-2007   52.31
10-04    2-23-2010   52.31
13-08    5-28-2013   51.10
13-09    5-28-2013   52.31
13-10    5-28-2013   51.10
13-11    5-28-2013   52.31
16-06    5-10-2016   51.10
16-07    5-10-2016   52.31
18-01    1-9-2018    51.10
18-02    1-9-2018    52.31
19-09    7-23-2019   51.10
20.04    3-24-2020   91.06
                    
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
826      - -         52.32
-        12-10-1991  110.48
                     72.30—
703      8-25-1998   72.33,
                     Ch. 74, Sch. I
705      10-27-1998  72.30,
                     Ch. 74, Sch. I
712      8-24-1999   95.02
                     30.99,
                     50.99,
                     51.99,
                     52.99,
                     70.99,
                     91.99,
                     92.99,
                     93.999,
                     94.99,
                     95.99,
724      1-25-2000   112.99,
                     113.99,
                     114.99,
                     115.99,
                     116.99,
                     117.99,
                     118.99,
                     130.99,
                     131.99,
                     132.99,
                     150.999
                     91.20—
727      4-25-2000   91.25,
                     91.99
734      9-26-2000   72.03
                     93.077,
                     93.078,
738      2-13-2001   93.085,
                     93.100—
                     93.102
740      2-27-2001   52.51
745      5-8-2001    Ch. 73, Sch. III
758      9-11-2001   35.12
754      10-23-2001  70.17
757      10-23-2001  72.04
761      11-11-2001  93.085
762      12-11-2001  51.21,
                     51.99
771      9-24-2002   95.23
780      1-14-2003   Ch. 73, Sch. II
781      1-14-2003   Ch. 73, Sch. II
800      3-9-2004    130.07
794      2-10-2004   35.12
807      9-28-2004   Ch. 73, Sch. I
809      10-12-2004  94.22
813      1-25-2005   33.01
                     119.01—
                     119.04,
                     119.15—
822      4-26-2005   119.23,
                     119.35,
                     119.50—
                     119.57,
                     119.99
825      6-28-2005   Ch. 74, Sch. II
838      3-14-2006   52.15
842      5-9-2006    90.03
                     133.01—
844      7-11-2006   133.03,
                     133.99
851      12-12-2006  72.30,
                     Ch. 74, Sch. I
857      1-23-2007   131.03
864      4-24-2007   Ch. 73, Sch. IV
865      5-3-2007    Ch. 73, Sch. I
866      5-3-2007    Ch. 73, Sch. I
867      5-12-2007   Ch. 73, Sch. II
869      5-22-2007   53.01—
                     53.06
874      8-28-2007   Ch. 73, Sch. II
875      8-28-2007   Ch. 73, Sch. V
880      9-11-2007   130.03
881      9-11-2007   Ch. 73, Sch. I
882      10-9-2007   Ch. 73, Sch. VI,
                     Ch. 73, Sch. VII
883      1-22-2008   70.18
884      1-22-2008   Ch. 73, Sch. I
898      5-21-2008   36.25
902      7-1-2008    132.02,
                     132.03
917      11-11-2008  51.20
919      11-25-2008  Ch. 73, Sch. II
925      1-13-2009   50.02
                     96.01—
926      3-24-2009   96.07,
                     96.99
                     30.99,
                     50.99,
                     51.99,
                     52.99,
                     70.99,
                     91.99,
                     92.99,
                     93.999,
                     94.99,
                     95.99,
950      6-22-2010   112.99,
                     113.99,
                     114.99,
                     115.99,
                     116.99,
                     117.99,
                     118.99,
                     130.99,
                     131.99,
                     132.99,
                     150.999
956      11-9-2010   151.01
958      11-9-2010   152.01
957      12-22-2010  153.01
959      2-8-2011    32.40—
                     32.44
961      6-14-2011   151.01
964      7-12-2011   151.01
966      10-25-2011  35.02
967      2-28-2012   153.01
968      2-28-2012   153.01
974      5-8-2012    151.01
975      5-8-2012    153.01
980      12-11-2012  95.44
981      12-11-2012  32.29
985      5-28-2013   51.10,
                     51.11
987      9-10-2013   Adopting Ordinance
989      11-26-2013  Ch. 74, Sch. II
994      3-11-2014   32.01
995      3-11-2014   31.23
996      3-11-2014   32.17
997      3-11-2014   130.03
999      6-24-2014   94.27
1008     2-10-2015   32.01
1009     2-10-2015   35.08
1010     2-10-2015   35.09
1011     2-10-2015   121.01
1012     2-10-2015   120.01—
                     120.07
1013     2-10-2015   130.08
1015     3-24-2015   Ch. 73, Sch. I
                     111.02,
1017     7-14-2015   111.06,
                     111.08
1018     7-14-2015   94.25,
                     94.28
1030     7-12-2016   132.01
                     119.02,
                     119.03,
1038     9-27-2016   119.15,
                     119.35,
                     119.55—
                     119.57
1040     1-10-2017   94.26
1041     1-24-2017   52.15
1056     4-10-2018   34.17
1057     4-10-2018   32.01
1058     4-10-2018   31.24
1059     4-10-2018   33.16
1060     4-10-2018   70.01
1075     2-12-2019   130.08
1077     3-26-2019   Ch. 73, Sch. I
1080     5-28-2019   51.03
1081     5-28-2019   51.19
1082     5-28-2019   51.14
1091     6-25-2019   Ch. 74, Sch. II
                     122.01—
                     122.05,
1096     8-27-2019   122.10—
                     122.23,
                     122.99
1098     1-14-2020   35.10
                     120.01,
1099     1-14-2020   120.03,
                     120.04
1100     1-14-2020   130.08
                    
 
