BELLEVUE, NEBRASKA
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2025 S-9 Supplement contains:
Local legislation through Ord. 4172, passed 1-21-2025
 
Published by:
AMERICAN LEGAL PUBLISHING
525 Vine Street * Suite 310 * Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-800-445-5588 www.amlegal.com
CITY OFFICIALS
Mayor             Rusty Hike
                  
Council President Rich Casey
                  
City Clerk        Susan Kluthe
                  
Council Ward 1    Thomas Burns
Council Ward 2    Rich Casey
Council Ward 3    Kathy Welch
Council Ward 4    Julie Collins
Council Ward 5    Don Preister
Council Ward 6    Jerry McCaw
 
CHAPTER 1: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
1-1   How Code designated and cited
   
1-2   Rules of construction; definitions
   
1-3   Provisions considered as continuations of existing ordinances
   
1-4   When § 1-2 does not apply
   
1-5   Incorporation by reference
   
1-6   Parenthetical and reference matter
   
1-7   Catchlines of sections
   
1-8   Reference to Code, conflicts
   
1-9   Police power extended to city property
   
1-10   Altering Code
   
1-11   General penalty; continuing violations
   
1-12   Penalty nonexclusive
   
1-13   Severability of parts of Code
   
1-14   Effect of repeals
   1-15—1-19   Reserved
   
1-20   Waiver of permit fees
§ 1-1 HOW CODE DESIGNATED AND CITED.
   All ordinances embraced in the following chapters, articles, divisions and
sections shall constitute and be designated “The Code of the City of Bellevue,
Nebraska,” and may be so cited. Such Code may also be cited as the “Bellevue
City Code.”
(1964 Code, § 1-1)
Statutory reference:
   Revision, publication of ordinances, see Neb. RS 1943, § 16-247
§ 1-2 RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   In the construction of this Code and of all ordinances of this city,
the following rules of construction and definitions shall be observed, unless
such construction or definitions would be inconsistent with the manifest intent
of the city council, would be repugnant to the context of the provisions or the
context clearly requires otherwise.
   (B)   Generally: All words and phrases shall be construed and understood
according to the common and approved usage of language; but technical words and
phrases and such others as may have acquired a peculiar and appropriate meaning
in the law shall be construed and understood according to such peculiar and
appropriate meaning.
      CITY. The City of Bellevue in the County of Sarpy in the State of
Nebraska.
      CITY COUNCIL. The governing body of the city.
      CODE. This Code of Ordinances as designated and cited in section
1-1 above.
      COMPUTATION OF TIME. The time within which an act is to be done, as
provided in the civil procedure statutes, is computed by excluding the first
day and including the last, unless the last day falls upon any legal holiday or
on Saturday, in which case the last day is also excluded.
      COUNTY. The County of Sarpy in the State of Nebraska.
      DAY. A day is the period of time between any midnight and the midnight
following.
      DAYTIME, NIGHTTIME. “Daytime” is the period of time between sunrise and
sunset. “Nighttime” is the period of time between sunset and sunrise.
      DELEGATION OF AUTHORITY. Whenever a provision appears in this Code
requiring an officer of the city to do some act or make certain inspections, it
is to be construed to authorize such officer to designate, delegate and
authorize subordinates to perform the required act or make the required
inspection unless the terms of the provision or section expressly designates
otherwise.
      EASEMENT. A right, liberty, privilege or advantage without profit which
the owner of one parcel of land may have in the lands of another. A right in
the owner of one parcel of land, by reason of such ownership, to use the land
of another for a special purpose not inconsistent with a general property right
in the owner.
      GENDER. A word importing the masculine gender only shall extend and be
applied to females and to firms, partnerships, associations and corporations as
well as to males.
      IN THE CITY or IN THIS CITY. Any territory within the corporate limits of
this city and the police jurisdiction thereof, and any other territory over
which regulatory power has been conferred on the city by general or special
act, except as otherwise specified.
      JOINT AUTHORITY. Words purporting to give authority to three or more
officers or other persons shall be construed as giving such authority to a
majority of such officers or other persons, unless it is otherwise specifically
declared.
      LAW. Any statute, ordinance or regulation promulgated by the United
States, the state, the county, the city or any agency thereof, as well as the
rules and regulations of other bodies politic that may be appropriate.
      MONTH. A calendar month.
      NUMBER. Any word importing the singular number shall include the plural,
and any word importing the plural number shall include the singular.
      OATH. Includes an affirmation in all cases in which, by law, an
affirmation may be substituted for an oath, and in such cases the words “swear”
and “sworn” shall be equivalent to the words “affirm” and “affirmed.”
      OFFICIAL TIME STANDARD. Whenever certain hours are named in this Code
they shall mean standard time or daylight savings time as may be in current use
in the city.
      OFFICIALS, EMPLOYEES, BOARDS, COMMISSIONS, ETC. Whenever reference is
made to officials, employees, boards, commissions or other agencies of the city
by title only, i.e., “mayor,” “clerk,” “chief of police,” etc., they shall be
deemed to refer to the officials, employees, boards, commissions or other
agencies of this city.
      OR, AND. “Or” may be read “and,” and “and” may be read “or,” if the
context of the provision requires it.
      OWNER. When applied to a building or land, include any part owner, joint
owner, tenant in common, tenant in partnership, joint tenant or tenant by the
entirety of the whole or of a part of such building or land.
      PERSON. Includes and shall be applied to a firm, partnership,
association, corporation, organization, club, society, group acting as a unit
or body politic and corporate, as well as to an individual.
      PERSONAL PROPERTY. Includes money, goods, chattels, evidences of debt,
things in action and any other species of property, except real property.
      PRECEDING, FOLLOWING. The words “preceding” and “following” shall mean
the next before and the next after, respectively.
      PROPERTY. Real, personal and mixed property.
      PUBLIC PLACE. Any public way, park, cemetery, school yard or open space
adjacent thereto; any public lake or stream; and any place or business open to
the use of the public in general, open to public view or to which the public
has access.
      PUBLIC WAY. Any street, alley, boulevard, parkway, highway, sidewalk or
other public thoroughfare.
      REAL PROPERTY. Includes lands, tenements and hereditaments.
      REASONABLE TIME. In all cases where any section of this Code or city
ordinance shall require any act to be done in a reasonable time or reasonable
notice to be given, such REASONABLE TIME OR NOTICE shall be deemed to mean such
time only as may be necessary for the prompt performance of such duty, or
compliance with such notice.
      RESIDENCE. The place adopted by a person as his place of habitation, and
to which, whenever he is absent, he has the intention of returning. When a
person eats at one place and sleeps at another, the place where such person
sleeps shall be deemed to be his RESIDENCE.
      ROADWAY. That portion of a street improved, designed or ordinarily used
for vehicular traffic.
      SHALL, MAY. The word “shall” is mandatory, and the word “may” is
discretionary.
      SIDEWALK. Any portion of the street between the curb, or the lateral line
of the roadway and the adjacent property line intended for the use of
pedestrians.
      SIGNATURE, SUBSCRIPTION. A mark when the person cannot write, when his
name is written near such mark and is witnessed by a person who writes his own
name as witness.
      STATE. The State of Nebraska.
      STREET. Public streets, avenues, boulevards, highways, roads, alleys,
lanes, viaducts, bridges, public ways and approaches thereto and other public
thoroughfares in the city devoted to public use.
      TENANT, OCCUPANT. The words “tenant” and “occupant,” applied to a
building or land shall mean any person who occupies the whole or a part of such
building or land, whether alone or with others.
      TENSE. Words used in the past or present tense shall include the future
as well as the past or present.
      TO. “To” means “to and including” when used in reference to a series of
sections of this Code or when reference is made to the Reissue Revised Statutes
of Nebraska, 1943.
      WEEK. A week consists of seven consecutive days.
      WRITING, WRITTEN. The words “writing” and “written” shall include
typewriting, printing on paper and any other mode of representing words and
letters.
      YEAR. A calendar year.
(1964 Code, § 1-2)
§ 1-3 PROVISIONS CONSIDERED AS CONTINUATIONS OF EXISTING ORDINANCES.
   The provisions appearing in this Code, so far as they are the same in
substance as those of ordinances existing at the time of the effective date of
this Code, shall be considered as continuations thereof and not as new
enactments.
(1964 Code, § 1-3)
§ 1-4 WHEN § 1-2 DOES NOT APPLY.
   The rules of construction and definitions set forth in section
1-2 shall not be applied to any section of this Code or city ordinance which
shall contain any express provision excluding such construction or definition,
or when the subject matter or context of such provisions or ordinances may be
repugnant thereto.
§ 1-5 INCORPORATION BY REFERENCE.
   All standard codes, rules, regulations, and other subject matter herein or
hereafter properly incorporated by reference, together with subsequent
amendments thereto, pursuant to state law, and future incorporations by
reference shall be kept and preserved in the office of the city clerk.
§ 1-6 PARENTHETICAL AND REFERENCE MATTER.
   The matter in parentheses at the ends of sections in this Code is for
information only and is not a part of this Code. Citations to the 1964 Code of
the city (1964 Code) and to later ordinances indicate only the source of such
section and the text may or may not be changed by this Code. Reference matter
not in parentheses is for information only and is not a part of this Code.
§ 1-7 CATCHLINES OF SECTIONS.
   The catchlines of the several sections of this Code printed in boldface type
are intended as mere catchwords to indicate the contents of the section and
shall not be deemed or taken to be titles of such sections, nor as any part of
the section, nor, unless expressly so provided, shall they be so deemed when
any of such sections, including the catchlines, are amended or reenacted.
(1964 Code, § 1-5)
§ 1-8 REFERENCE TO CODE, CONFLICTS.
   In addition to the rules of construction and definitions specified in this
chapter, the following rules shall be observed in the construction of this
Code:
   (A)   All references to chapters, articles or sections are to the chapters,
articles and sections of this Code unless otherwise specified.
   (B)   If the provisions of different chapters of this Code conflict with or
contravene each other, the provisions of each chapter shall prevail as to all
matters and questions growing out of the subject matter of such chapter.
   (C)   If conflicting provisions are found in different sections of the same
chapter, the provisions of the section which was most recently adopted shall
prevail unless such construction would be inconsistent with the meaning of such
chapter.
§ 1-9 POLICE POWER EXTENDED TO CITY PROPERTY.
   The police power of the city is hereby extended to include all lands or
property owned or leased by the city or any agency of the city and the general
ordinances of the city shall be applicable on such property.
§ 1-10 ALTERING CODE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to change or amend by additions or
deletions, any part or portion of this Code, or to insert or delete pages, or
portions thereof, or to alter or tamper with such Code in any manner whatsoever
which will cause the law of the city to be misrepresented thereby; provided,
that supplementation of this Code by authorized persons shall be permitted.
§ 1-11 GENERAL PENALTY; CONTINUING VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   Whenever in this Code or in any ordinance of the city an act is
prohibited or is made or declared to be unlawful or an offense or a
misdemeanor, or whenever in such Code or ordinance the doing of any act is
required or the failure to do any act is declared to be unlawful, and no
specific penalty is provided therefor, the violation of any such provision or
the failure to perform any such act shall be punished by a fine of not
exceeding $500.00 or by imprisonment not to exceed six months or both such fine
and imprisonment in the discretion of the court, and such violator may be
committed to the city or county jail until such fine and costs of prosecution
are paid.
   (B)   Each day any such violation or failure to perform such act shall
continue shall constitute a separate offense, unless otherwise specifically
provided.
(1964 Code, § 1-7)
Statutory reference:
   Fines, penalties for violation of ordinances, see Neb. RS 1943, § 16-246
§ 1-12 PENALTY NONEXCLUSIVE.
   (A)   The imposition of a criminal offense and/or a criminal fine/penalty
does not prevent the city from pursuing civil remedies the city may have under
state law.
   (B)   The remedy in a civil proceeding will not prevent the city from
prosecuting the same conduct as a criminal offense.
   (C)   Neither the imposition of a criminal offense and/or a criminal fine/
penalty nor any remedy achieved in a civil proceeding shall prevent the
revocation or suspension of any license, franchise or permit issued or granted
under the provisions of this Code.
   (D)   In the event any violation of this Code is designated as a nuisance
under the provisions of this Code, such nuisance may be summarily abated by the
city in addition to the imposition of a fine or imprisonment.
(Ord. 3163, § 1, passed 8-13-2001)
§ 1-13 SEVERABILITY OF PARTS OF CODE.
   The sections, paragraphs, sentences, clauses and phrases of this Code are
severable, and if any phrase, clause, sentence, paragraph or section of this
Code shall be declared invalid, unenforceable or unconstitutional by the valid
judgment of decree of a court of competent jurisdiction, such invalidity,
unenforceability or unconstitutionality shall not affect any of the remaining
phrases, clauses, sentences, paragraphs or sections of this Code.
(1964 Code, § 1-6)
§ 1-14 EFFECT OF REPEALS.
   The repeal of an ordinance shall not revive any ordinance in force before or
at the time the ordinance repealed took effect. The repeal of an ordinance
shall not affect any punishment or penalty incurred before the repeal took
effect, nor any suit, prosecution or proceeding pending at the time of such
repeal, for an offense committed or cause of action arising under the ordinance
repealed.
(1964 Code, § 1-4)
§ 1-15—1-19 RESERVED.
§ 1-20 WAIVER OF PERMIT FEES.
   (A)   The payment of fees to the city for building permits, electrical
permits, mechanical permits and plumbing permits and related inspections issued
or made by the city within the city’s zoning jurisdiction under the provisions
of this Code are hereby waived for the following institutions:
      (1)   The Bellevue School District;
      (2)   The School District of Omaha;
      (3)   The Papillion-LaVista School District;
      (4)   School District No. 46;
      (5)   Metropolitan Technical Community College;
      (6)   Any school, which as of the date of the adoption of this section,
has been accredited or approved pursuant to Neb. RS §§ 79-318 and 79-703;
      (7)   Any college or university which has been accredited by a regional
accrediting association recognized by the U.S. Department of Education; and
      (8)   The Papio-Missouri River Natural Resources District.
   (B)   The payment of fees to the city for building permits, electrical
permits, mechanical permits and plumbing permits and related inspections issued
or made by the city within the city’s zoning jurisdiction under the provisions
of this Code are hereby waived for any and all work performed by, or on behalf
of or for the benefit of the city.
   (C)   Nothing contained in this section shall be construed as exempting the
city or any of the institutions set forth under subsection (A) of this section
from securing all permits and undergoing all inspections required under the
provisions of this Code.
(Ord. 3162, § 1, passed 8-13-2001; Ord. 3446, § 1, passed 10-8-2007)
CHAPTER 2: ADMINISTRATION
   Article
      
I.   IN GENERAL
      
II.   CITY COUNCIL
      
III.   LEGISLATION
      
IV.   OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES
      
V.   CIVIL SERVICE
      
VI.   LAW ENFORCEMENT POLICE RESERVE FORCE
ARTICLE I: IN GENERAL
Section
   
2-1   Correspondence—Public availability
   
2-2   Same—Authority of city administrator
   2-3—2-15   Reserved
Statutory reference:
   Cities of the first class, see Neb. RS 1943, Ch. 16
§ 2-1 CORRESPONDENCE—PUBLIC AVAILABILITY.
   Correspondence addressed to the city council which is received by the city
clerk or any other officer or employee of the city shall not become a public
record until received and filed by the council at a regular, special or
adjourned meeting of the council. Correspondence received in the city clerk’s
office or other offices after 12:00 noon on the Wednesday preceding a regular
council meeting shall not be placed on the agenda unless it concerns a matter
to be considered by the council at the next regular meeting or is determined by
the mayor or the city administrator to be an urgent matter which should be
brought to the immediate attention of the council. Correspondence shall not be
read aloud at a council meeting unless requested by a majority of the council.
(1964 Code, § 2-52)
§ 2-2 SAME—AUTHORITY OF CITY ADMINISTRATOR.
   The city administrator is authorized to open and examine all mail or other
written communications addressed to the city council and to give it immediate
attention to the end that all administrative business referred to in such
communications and not necessarily requiring council action may be acted upon
between council meetings.
(1964 Code, § 2-53)
§§ 2-3—2-15 RESERVED.
ARTICLE II: CITY COUNCIL
Section
Division 1: Generally
   2-16—2-25   Reserved
Division 2: Meetings
   
2-26   Time and location of regular meetings and pre-council meetings
   
2-27   Special meetings
   
2-28   Public, except for executive sessions
   
2-29   Agenda; submission of materials; formulation; public availability, etc.
   
2-30   Order of business
   
2-31   Minutes—Clerk to prepare
   
2-32   Same—Reading
   2-33—2-40   Reserved
Division 3: Presiding Officer
   
2-41   Designation
   
2-42   Vacancy in office
   
2-43   Extent of participation
   
2-44   Authority to establish seating arrangement
   
2-45   Questions to be restated, explained, etc.
   
2-46   Authority to sign documents, etc.
   
2-47   Authority to require sworn testimony
   2-48—2-58   Reserved
Division 4: Procedural Rules
   
2-59   Rules of order—Adoption generally
   
2-60   Same—Failure to observe
   
2-61   Debate—Getting the floor
   
2-62   Same—Interruptions
   
2-63   Same—Limitation
   
2-64   Same—Point of personal privilege
   
2-65   Same—Points of order
   
2-66   Same—Privilege of closing
   
2-67   Same—Questions to staff
   
2-68   Manner of addressing council—In general
   
2-69   Same—After motion
   
2-70   Same—Selection of spokesman
   
2-71   Protesting council action
   
2-72   Remarks of councilman and synopsis of debate
   
2-73   Rules of decorum—Councilmen
   
2-74   Same—Employees
   
2-75   Same—Enforcement
   
2-76   Same—Members of audience
   
2-77   Same—Persons addressing council
   2-78—2-88   Reserved
Division 5: Voting
   
2-89   Changing vote; abstentions
   
2-90   Conflict of interest
   
2-91   Failure to vote
   
2-92   Procedure
   
2-93   Reconsideration of council action
   
2-94   Mayor’s right to vote
   
2-95   Mayor’s veto
   2-96   Declarations of emergency and restrictions on activities
   2-97—2-106   Reserved
Statutory reference:
   Council and proceedings, see Neb. RS 1943, §§ 16-401 et seq.
   Council meetings generally, see Neb. RS 1943, §§ 16-401 et seq.
   Open Meetings Act, see Neb. RS 1943, §§ 84-1407 et seq.
DIVISION 1: GENERALLY
§§ 2-16—2-25 RESERVED.
DIVISION 2: MEETINGS
§ 2-26 TIME AND LOCATION OF REGULAR MEETINGS AND PRE-COUNCIL MEETINGS.
   The city council shall hold regular meetings on the first and third Tuesdays
in each month at the hour of 6:00 p.m. in the council chambers of the city hall
in the city or in such other place within the city limits to which such meeting
may be adjourned. If by reason of fire, flood or other emergency it shall be
unsafe to meet in the city hall, the meetings may be held for the duration of
the emergency at such other place as is designated by the mayor or, if he or
she should fail to act, by four (4) members of the city council. When the day
for any regular meeting falls on a holiday recognized by the city, no meeting
shall be held on such holiday. In such case, the regular meeting shall be held
at the same time and location on the next business day. The city council may
cancel or reschedule a regular city council meeting by a vote of a majority of
the members of the council.
(1964 Code, § 2-57) (Ord. 2430, §§ 1, 2, passed 8-11-1986; Ord. 3319, § 1,
passed 6-14-2004; Ord. 3395, passed 12-12-2005; Ord. 3511, § 1, passed 3-9-
2009; Ord. 3807, § 1, passed 4-13-2015; Ord. 3927, § 2, passed 2-11-2019)
§ 2-27 SPECIAL MEETINGS.
   Special meetings may be called at any time by the mayor or by four members
of the city council by delivering personally or by mail written notice to each
councilman and to each local newspaper of general circulation, radio or
television station which requests notice in writing. Such notice must be
delivered personally or by mail at least 24 hours before the time of such
meeting as specified in the notice. The call and notice shall specify the time
and place of the special meeting and the business to be transacted. No other
business shall be considered at such meetings. Such written notice may be
dispensed with as to any councilman who at or prior to the time the meeting
convenes files with the city clerk a written waiver of notice. Such waiver may
be given by telegram. Such written notice may also be dispensed with as to any
councilman who is actually present at the meeting at the time it convenes.
(1964 Code, § 2-58)
§ 2-28 PUBLIC, EXCEPT FOR EXECUTIVE SESSIONS.
   (A)   All regular and special meetings of the city council shall be public;
provided, that the city council may hold executive sessions during a regular or
special meeting from which the public may be excluded for the purpose of
considering matters which are not of a nature of public dissemination, but no
formal action may be taken at the executive session.
   (B)   No member of the city council, employee of the city or any other
person present during an executive session of the council shall disclose to any
person the content or substance of any discussion which took place during such
executive session unless the city council shall authorize the disclosure of
such information by majority vote.
   (C)   Any dissemination or disclosure of information that was discussed or
disclosed during executive session may result in an allegation of misconduct
towards any elected official or disciplinary action being initiated for any
employee of the city. Any individual attending an executive session whom is
neither an elected official or a city employee will be required to sign a
confidentiality agreement in order to participate in said executive session.
(1964 Code, § 2-59) (Ord. 3977, § 1, passed 12-3-2019)
§ 2-29 AGENDA; SUBMISSION OF MATERIALS; FORMULATION; PUBLIC AVAILABILITY, ETC.
   All new ordinances or new resolutions affecting policy that are to be placed
on a city council agenda must be submitted, in their proposed form, to the city
administrator by noon on the Monday that is three weeks prior to the city
council meeting at which the ordinance or resolution will be introduced. All
reports, communications, ordinances, resolutions, contract documents or other
matters to be placed on a council agenda must be submitted, in their proposed
form, to the city administrator by noon on the Monday that is two weeks prior
to the council meeting at which the item will be discussed. The above timeline
may be expedited with approval of the city administrator. The city clerk shall
prepare the agenda of all such matters under the direction of the city
administrator. The agenda and all supporting documentation referenced herein
shall be delivered to the council members on the Wednesday preceding the
regularly scheduled Tuesday council meeting to which it pertains and shall be
made available to the public no later than 4:00 p.m. on the same Wednesday. The
agenda may be altered after being made available to the public and city council
members as provided for in Neb. Res. § 84-1411 (as may be amended) and any
altered agenda shall be provided to the council members and made available to
the public.
(1964 Code, § 2-60) (Ord. 3511, § 2, passed 3-9-2009; Ord. 3681, passed 9-10-
2012; Ord. 3807, § 2, passed 4-13-2015; Ord. 3927, § 2, passed 2-11-2019; Ord.
4071, § 1, passed 2-1-2022)
§ 2-30 ORDER OF BUSINESS.
   (A)   The business of the council shall be taken up for consideration and
disposition in the following order:
      (1)   Pledge of allegiance;
      (2)   Invocation;
      (3)   Call to order and roll call;
         (a)   Election of presiding officer (when applicable);
       (4)   Open Meetings Act;
      (5)   Approval of agenda, consent agenda, minutes and advisory committee
reports;
         (a)   Approval of minutes from prior meeting;
         (b)   Adjourn sine die (only when new members need sworn in);
         (c)   Presiding officer calls to order and roll call (only when new
members need sworn in);
         (d)   Approval of the agenda;
         (e)   Approval of the consent agenda;
         (f)   Approval of advisory committee report;
      (6)   Approval of claims (statements of account);
      (7)   Special presentations (quarterly budget update);
      (8)   Organizational Matters (when necessary to elect a new council
president);
      (9)   Approved Citizen Communication;
      (10)   Liquor licenses;
      (11)   Ordinances for adoption (third reading);
      (12)   Ordinances for public hearing (second reading);
      (13)   Ordinances for introduction (first reading) read only;
      (14)   Public hearing on matters other than ordinances;
      (15)   Resolutions for adoption;
      (16)   Current business;
      (17)   Administrative reports;
      (18)   Closed or Executive Session; and
      (19)   Adjournment.
   (B)   The order of business shall not be changed except by a majority vote
of the city council. The city clerk shall have the authority at his or her
discretion, when preparing any agenda for a city council meeting, to group
items together that are of a similar nature or are related by subject matter
when it appears reasonable to do so for efficient progression of such meeting.
(1964 Code, § 2-54) (Ord. 3943, § 1, passed 5-7-2019)
§ 2-31 MINUTES—CLERK TO PREPARE.
   The city clerk shall have exclusive responsibility for preparation of the
minutes, and any directions for changes in the minutes shall be made only by
majority action of the city council.
(1964 Code, § 2-55)
§ 2-32 SAME—READING.
   Unless the reading of the minutes of a council meeting is ordered by a
majority vote of the council, such minutes may be approved without reading if
the city clerk has previously furnished each councilman with a copy.
(1964 Code, § 2-56)
§§ 2-33—2-40 RESERVED.
DIVISION 3: PRESIDING OFFICER
§ 2-41 DESIGNATION.
   The mayor shall be the presiding officer at all meetings of the city
council. In the absence of the mayor, the president of the council shall
preside. In the absence of both the mayor and the president of the council, the
city clerk shall call the council to order, whereupon a temporary presiding
officer shall be elected by the councilmen present to serve until the arrival
of the mayor or president of the council or until adjournment. Wherever in this
chapter the term “mayor” is used, it shall apply equally to the presiding
officer as defined in this section.
(1964 Code, § 2-61)
Statutory reference:
   Council president to preside in absence of mayor, see Neb. RS § 16-402
   Mayor to preside at council meetings, see Neb. RS 1943, § 16-312
§ 2-42 VACANCY IN OFFICE.
   In the event of a vacancy in the office of mayor, the president of the
council shall perform the duties of the mayor for the unexpired term.
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 1943, § 32-568
§ 2-43 EXTENT OF PARTICIPATION.
   When the mayor is the presiding officer, he shall have the right to debate,
but shall have no vote except in case of a tie. When the president of the
council is acting as presiding officer, he shall be entitled to move, second,
debate and vote from the chair.
(1964 Code, § 2-62)
§ 2-44 AUTHORITY TO ESTABLISH SEATING ARRANGEMENT.
   The mayor shall, following each councilman’s election and at such other time
as he may deem it necessary, establish the seating arrangement of the members
of the council.
(1964 Code, § 2-63)
§ 2-45 QUESTIONS TO BE RESTATED, EXPLAINED, ETC.
   The presiding officer or such member of the city staff as he may designate
shall verbally restate each question immediately prior to calling for the vote.
Following the vote the city clerk shall announce whether the question was
carried or was defeated. The presiding officer in his discretion may publicly
explain the effect of a vote for the audience or he may direct a member of the
city staff to do so before proceeding to the next item of business.
(1964 Code, § 2-64)
§ 2-46 AUTHORITY TO SIGN DOCUMENTS, ETC.
   The presiding officer shall sign all ordinances, resolutions, contracts and
other documents which require his signature and which were adopted in his
presence, unless he is unavailable, in which case the signature of an alternate
presiding officer may be used.
(1964 Code, § 2-65)
§ 2-47 AUTHORITY TO REQUIRE SWORN TESTIMONY.
   The presiding officer may require any person addressing the city council to
be sworn as a witness and to testify under oath, and the presiding officer
shall so require if directed to do so by a majority vote of the council.
(1964 Code, § 2-66)
§§ 2-48—2-58 RESERVED.
DIVISION 4: PROCEDURAL RULES
§ 2-59 RULES OF ORDER—ADOPTION GENERALLY.
   Except as provided in this Code, other rules adopted by the city council or
applicable provisions of state law, the procedures of the council shall be
governed by the latest revised edition of Robert’s Rules of Order.
(1964 Code, § 2-84)
§ 2-60 SAME—FAILURE TO OBSERVE.
   Rules adopted to expedite the transaction of the business of the council in
an orderly fashion are deemed to be procedural only, and the failure to
strictly observe such rules shall not affect the jurisdiction of the council or
invalidate any action taken at a meeting that is otherwise held in conformity
with law.
(1964 Code, § 2-85)
§ 2-61 DEBATE—GETTING THE FLOOR.
   Every councilman desiring to speak shall first address the chair, shall gain
recognition by the presiding officer, and shall confine himself to the question
under debate and shall avoid personalities and indecorous language.
(1964 Code, § 2-67)
§ 2-62 SAME—INTERRUPTIONS.
   A councilman, once recognized, shall not be interrupted when speaking,
unless called to order by the presiding officer, unless a point of order or
personal privilege is raised by another councilman or unless the speaker
chooses to yield to a question by another councilman. If a councilman while
speaking is called to order, he shall cease speaking until the question of
order is determined and, if determined to be in order, he may proceed. Members
of the city staff after recognition by the presiding officer shall hold the
floor until completion of their remarks or until recognition is withdrawn by
the presiding officer.
(1964 Code, § 2-68)
§ 2-63 SAME—LIMITATION.
   No councilman shall be allowed to speak more than once upon any particular
subject until every other councilman who desires to speak has spoken.
(1964 Code, § 2-69)
§ 2-64 SAME—POINT OF PERSONAL PRIVILEGE.
   The right of a councilman to address the council on a question of personal
privilege shall be limited to cases in which his integrity, character or
motives are questioned or where the welfare of the council is concerned. A
councilman raising a point of personal privilege may interrupt another
councilman who has the floor only if the presiding officer recognizes the
privilege.
(1964 Code, § 2-70)
§ 2-65 SAME—POINTS OF ORDER.
   The presiding officer shall determine all points of order subject to the
right of any councilman to appeal to the council. If any appeal is taken, the
question shall be, “Shall the decision of the presiding officer be sustained?”
A majority vote shall conclusively determine such question of order.
(1964 Code, § 2-71)
§ 2-66 SAME—PRIVILEGE OF CLOSING.
   The councilman moving for the adoption of an ordinance, resolution or motion
shall have the privilege of closing debate.
(1964 Code, § 2-72)
§ 2-67 SAME—QUESTIONS TO STAFF.
   Every councilman desiring to question the city staff shall after recognition
by the presiding officer address his question to the city administrator, the
city clerk or the city attorney, who shall be entitled either to answer the
inquiry himself or to designate a member of his staff for that purpose.
(1964 Code, § 2-73)
§ 2-68 MANNER OF ADDRESSING COUNCIL—IN GENERAL.
   Each person desiring to address the council shall step up to the microphone
in front of the table, state his or her name and address for the record, write
his or her name and address on the form at the podium provided by the city
clerk, state the subject he or she wishes to discuss, state whom he or she is
representing if such person represents an organization or other persons and,
unless further time is granted by majority vote of the council, shall limit his
or her remarks to five minutes, unless the council establishes different time
limits at the outset. All remarks shall be addressed to the council as a whole
and not to any member thereof. Any question asked of a council member or a
member of the city staff may be directed by the council, if deemed relevant, to
the appropriate staff member, and said staff member will bring the matter back
to the council as a regular agenda item, when necessary.
(1964 Code, § 2-74) (Ord. 3570, § 1, passed 3-22-2010)
§ 2-69 SAME—AFTER MOTION.
   After a motion has been made or a public hearing has been closed, no member
of the public shall address the council from the audience on the matter under
consideration without first securing permission to do so by a majority vote of
the city council.
(1964 Code, § 2-75)
§ 2-70 SAME—SELECTION OF SPOKESMAN.
   In order to expedite matters and to avoid repetitious presentations,
whenever any group of persons wishes to address the council on the same subject
matter, it shall be proper for the presiding officer to request that a
spokesman be chosen by the group to address the council, and, in case
additional matters are to be presented by any other member of such group, to
limit the number of such persons addressing the council.
(1964 Code, § 2-76)
§ 2-71 PROTESTING COUNCIL ACTION.
   Any councilman shall have the right to have the reasons for his dissent from
or his protest against any action of the council entered in the minutes. Such
dissent or protest which is to be entered into the minutes shall be made in the
following manner: “I would like the minutes to show that I am opposed to this
action for the following reasons:….”
(1964 Code, § 2-77)
§ 2-72 REMARKS OF COUNCILMAN AND SYNOPSIS OF DEBATE.
   A councilman may request through the presiding officer the privilege of
having an abstract of his statement on any subject under consideration by the
council entered in the minutes. If the council consents thereto, such statement
shall be entered in the minutes.
(1964 Code, § 2-78)
§ 2-73 RULES OF DECORUM—COUNCILMEN.
   While the council is in session, the members must preserve order and
decorum, and a member shall neither by conversation or otherwise delay or
interrupt the proceedings or the peace of the council nor disturb any member
while speaking nor refuse to obey the orders of the presiding officer.
(1964 Code, § 2-79)
§ 2-74 SAME—EMPLOYEES.
   Members of the city staff and employees shall observe the same rules of
order and decorum as are applicable to the city council.
(1964 Code, § 2-80)
§ 2-75 SAME—ENFORCEMENT.
   The chief of police or such member or members of the police department as he
may designate shall be sergeant at arms of the city council and shall carry out
all orders given by the presiding officer for the purpose of maintaining order
and decorum at the council meetings. Any councilman may move to require the
presiding officer to enforce the rules, and the affirmative vote of a majority
of the council shall require him to do so.
(1964 Code, § 2-81)
§ 2-76 SAME—MEMBERS OF AUDIENCE.
   Any person in the audience who engages in disorderly conduct such as hand
clapping, stamping of feet, whistling, using profane language, yelling and
similar demonstrations, which conduct disturbs the peace and good order of the
meeting, or who refuses to comply with the lawful orders of the presiding
officer shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon instructions from the
presiding officer, it shall be the duty of the sergeant at arms, as designated
by the presiding officer, to remove any such person from the council chamber
and to place him under arrest.
(1964 Code, § 2-82)
§ 2-77 SAME—PERSONS ADDRESSING COUNCIL.
   Any person making impertinent, slanderous or profane remarks or who becomes
boisterous while addressing the council shall be called to order by the
presiding officer and, if such conduct continues, may at the discretion of the
presiding officer be ordered barred from further audience before the council
during that meeting.
(1964 Code, § 2-83)
§§ 2-78—2-88 RESERVED.
DIVISION 5: VOTING
§ 2-89 CHANGING VOTE; ABSTENTIONS.
   A member may change his vote only if he makes a timely request to do so
immediately following the announcement of the vote by the city clerk and prior
to the time that the next item in the order of business is taken up. A
councilman who publicly announces that he is abstaining from voting on a
particular matter shall not subsequently be allowed to withdraw his abstention.
(1964 Code, § 2-86)
§ 2-90 CONFLICT OF INTEREST.
   Any councilman who is disqualified from voting on a particular matter by
reason of a conflict of interest shall publicly state or have the presiding
officer state the nature of such disqualification in open meeting. Where no
clearly disqualifying conflict of interest appears, the matter of
disqualification may, at the request of the councilman affected, be decided by
the other councilmen. A councilman who is disqualified by reason of a conflict
in interest in any matter shall not remain in his seat during the debate and
vote on such matter, but shall request and be given the permission of the
presiding officer to step down from the council table and leave the council
chamber. A councilman stating such disqualification shall not be counted as a
part of a quorum and shall be considered absent for the purpose of determining
the outcome of any vote on such matter.
(1964 Code, § 2-87)
§ 2-91 FAILURE TO VOTE.
   Every councilman should vote unless disqualified by reason of a conflict of
interest. A councilman who abstains from voting in effect consents that a
majority of the quorum may decide the question voted upon.
(1964 Code, § 2-88)
§ 2-92 PROCEDURE.
   Any vote of the council, including a roll call vote, may be registered by
the members by answering “yes” for an affirmative vote or “no” for a negative
vote upon his name being called by the city clerk, or by pressing a switch to
cause a green light to show for an affirmative vote or a red light to show for
a negative vote upon a vote being called for by the presiding officer. The
result of any vote registered by means of a lighting system shall be audibly
announced by the city clerk and recorded in the minutes as the vote.
(1964 Code, § 2-91)
§ 2-93 RECONSIDERATION OF COUNCIL ACTION.
   A motion to reconsider any action taken by the council may be made only on
the day such action was taken or at the next regularly scheduled meeting. Such
motion to reconsider may be made only by one of the councilmen who voted with
the prevailing side. Nothing herein shall be construed to prevent any
councilman from making or remaking the same main motion or any other motion at
a subsequent meeting of the council.
(1964 Code, § 2-92)
§ 2-94 MAYOR’S RIGHT TO VOTE.
   The mayor shall have a right to vote when his or her vote will provide the
additional vote required to create a number of votes equal to a majority of the
number of members elected to the council.
(1964 Code, § 2-93) (Ord. 3620, passed 6-27-2011)
§ 2-95 MAYOR’S VETO.
   The mayor shall have the power to approve or veto any ordinance passed by
the city council and to approve or veto any order, bylaw, resolution, award of
or vote to enter into any contract, or the allowance of any claim. If the mayor
approves the ordinance, order, bylaw, resolution, contract, or claim, he or she
shall sign it, and it shall become effective. If the mayor vetoes the
ordinance, order, bylaw, resolution, contract, or any item or items of
appropriations or claims, he or she shall return it to the city council stating
that the measure is vetoed and the reasons for the veto. The mayor may issue
the veto at the meeting at which the measure passed or within seven calendar
days after the meeting. If the mayor issues the veto after the meeting, the
mayor shall notify the city clerk of the veto in writing and the reasons for
the veto. The clerk shall notify the city council in writing of the mayor’s
veto within one (1) business day. Any ordinance, order, bylaw, resolution,
award of or vote to enter into any contract, or the allowance of any claim
vetoed by the mayor, may be passed over the mayor’s veto by a vote of two-
thirds (2/3) of all the members elected to the city council, provided that
within seven (7) days of notification from the clerk of the mayor’s veto a
member of the council requests, in writing, to the Clerk the same be placed on
the next possible regularly scheduled city council meeting. If the mayor
neglects or refuses to sign any ordinance, order, bylaw, resolution, award of
or vote to enter into any contract, or the allowance of any claim, but fails to
veto the measure within the time required by this section, the measure shall
become effective without his or her signature. The mayor may veto any item or
items of any appropriation bill or any claims bill, and approve the remainder
thereof, and the item or items so vetoed may be passed by the council over the
veto as in other cases.
(Ord. 3567, § 1(2-95), passed 3-22-2010; Ord. 3785, § 1, passed 12-8-2014)
§ 2-96 DECLARATIONS OF EMERGENCY AND RESTRICTIONS ON ACTIVITIES. 
   (A)   When not inconsistent with the context, words used in the present
tense include the future, words in the plural number include the singular, and
words in the singular number include the plural. The word “shall” is always
mandatory and not merely directory.
   (B)   For the purposes of this chapter, the following terms, phrases, words
and their derivations shall have the meaning given herein:
   EMERGENCY. An unforeseen combination of circumstances or the resulting state
that calls for immediate action. The term includes, but is not limited to, a
fire, natural disaster, vehicle accident, disaster, riot or civil commotion,
act of God, or any situation which requires immediate action to prevent serious
bodily injury or loss of life, or which involves conditions which impair
transportation, food or fuel supplies, medical care, fire, health or police
protection or other vital facilities of the city.
   ESTABLISHMENT. Any privately-owned place of business operated for a profit
to which the public is invited, including but not limited to any place of
amusement or entertainment.
   PUBLIC PLACE. Any place to which the public or a substantial group of the
public has access and includes, but is not limited to, sheets, common areas of
schools, shopping centers, parking lots, parks, playgrounds, transportation
facilities, theaters, restaurants, shops, bowling alleys, taverns, cafes,
arcades and similar areas that are open to the use of the public. As a type of
public place, a street is a way or place, of whatever nature, open to the use
of the public as a matter of right for purposes of vehicular travel or in the
case of a sidewalk thereof for pedestrian travel. “Street” includes that legal
right of way, including but not limited to the cartway of traffic lanes, the
curb, the sidewalks, whether paved or unpaved, and any grass plots or other
grounds found within the legal right of way of a street.
   REMAIN. To stay behind and to stay unnecessarily in a public place.
   TIME OF NIGHT. Referred to herein is based upon the prevailing standard of
time generally observed at that hour by the public in the city; prima facie the
time then observed in the city administrative offices and police stations.
   (C)   The mayor, or the council president in the event of his/her inability
to act, shall have the authority to declare an emergency within the city
whenever conditions arise by reason of war, conflagration, flood, heavy snow
storm, blizzard, catastrophe, disaster, riot or civil commotion, or acts of
God, including conditions, without limitation because of enumeration, which
impair transportation, food or fuel supplies, medical care, fire, health or
police protection or other vital facilities of the city. Pursuant to Neb. RS §
81-829.50, the mayor has the ability to declare an emergency. This section will
allow the mayor, his/her designee, the council president in the event the mayor
is unavailable, and the chief of police powers to restrict activities after the
declaration of an emergency. Said orders shall only be in effect for seventy-
two (72) hours. Any extension required after seventy-two (72) hours will
require council approval.
      (1)   The mayor or the council president in the event of his/her
inability to act, is hereby authorized, if he/she finds that the city or any
part thereof is suffering or is in imminent danger of suffering civil
disturbance, disorder, riot or other occurrence which will seriously and
substantially endanger the health, safety and property of the citizens, to
declare a state of emergency.
      (2)   Whenever, in the judgment of the mayor or the council president in
the event of his/her inability to act, an emergency exists within the city, he/
she shall have power to impose by proclamation any regulations necessary to
preserve the peace and order of the city.
      (3)   After proclamation of an emergency, or any order thereunder, the
mayor or other person authorized to do so under this article shall forthwith
provide for notice thereof to be given to members of the council, and any state
or other local agencies are required under Nebraska law.
      (4)   After proclamation of an emergency, the following orders may be
made and shall only be in effect for seventy-two (72) hours unless otherwise
extended by the city council:
         (a)   The chief of police may issue an order prohibiting or limiting
the number of persons who may gather or congregate upon the public highways,
public streets, or public sidewalks, or in any outdoor place, except persons
who are awaiting transportation, engaging in recreational activities at a usual
and customary place, traveling to and from employment, or peaceably entering or
leaving buildings.
         (b)   The chief of police may establish a curfew limiting the hours
when persons may go upon or travel the public streets.
         (c)   The mayor or the council president in the event of his/her
inability to act, may require the closing of cocktail lounges, taverns and bars
and prohibit the sale or service of alcoholic beverages in any hotel,
restaurant, club or other establishment, and require the closing of all other
business establishments.
         (d)   The mayor or the council president in the event of his/her
inability to act may prohibit or restrict the sale of gasoline or other
inflammable liquids.
         (e)   The mayor, or the council president in the event of his/her
inability to act, his/her designee, or the chief of police may do any and all
things and take such measures as are necessary to preserve the health, safety,
and property of the citizens of this community.
   (D)   The proclamation shall continue in effect until the principal
executive officer finds that the disaster or emergency has been dealt with to
the extent that those conditions no longer exist. The local governing body by
resolution may terminate a local state of emergency proclamation at any time,
and upon such termination the principal executive officer shall terminate the
proclamation. Any order or proclamation declaring, continuing, or terminating a
local emergency shall be given prompt and general publicity by posting the same
to the City of Bellevue’s official social media sites and the City of
Bellevue’s official website. The proclamation shall be filed promptly with the
clerk of the local government who shall post the same on their bulletin board
outside their office during the duration of the declaration and the Nebraska
Emergency Management Agency.
   (E)   Any person who violates any of the prohibitions or provisions of any
section of this chapter or any rules, regulations, or orders of the mayor or
chief of police under this chapter shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor. The
penalty for such violation shall be a fine in any sum not exceeding $500 or
imprisoned six months, or both said fine and imprisonment at the discretion of
the sentencing court.
(Ord. 3999, § 1, passed 7-7-2020)
§§ 2-97—2-106 RESERVED.
ARTICLE III: LEGISLATION
Section
Division 1: Generally
   
2-107   Ordinances, resolutions and contracts; approval by administrative staff
prerequisite to submission to council
   2-108—2-118   Reserved
Division 2: Amendments to Code
   
2-119   Effect
   
2-120   Manner
   
2-121   Language
   
2-122   New material
   
2-123   Repeal
   
2-124   Subject to general penalty
   
2-125   Supplementation of Code
   2-126—2-136   Reserved
Statutory reference:
   Ordinances generally, see Neb. RS 1943, §§ 16-246 et seq.
   Passage of ordinances, see Neb. RS 1943, §§ 16-403 et seq.
   Publication of ordinances, see Neb. RS 1943, § 18-131
DIVISION 1: GENERALLY
§ 2-107 ORDINANCES, RESOLUTIONS AND CONTRACTS; APPROVAL BY ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
PREREQUISITE TO SUBMISSION TO COUNCIL.
   All ordinances, resolutions and contract documents shall, before
presentation to the council, have been approved as to form and legality by the
city attorney and shall have been examined and approved for administration by
the city administrator or his or her authorized representatives.
(1964 Code, § 2-90) (Ord. 3604, § 2, passed 1-24-2011)
§§ 2-108—2-118 RESERVED.
DIVISION 2: AMENDMENTS TO CODE
§ 2-119 EFFECT.
   Any and all additions and amendments to this Code, when passed in such form
as to indicate the intention of the city council to make the same a part
hereof, shall be deemed to be incorporated in this Code so that reference to
“The Code of the City of Bellevue, Nebraska,” shall be understood and intended
to include such additions and amendments.
§ 2-120 MANNER.
   All ordinances passed subsequent to the adoption of this Code which amend,
repeal or in any way affect this Code may be numbered in accordance with the
numbering system of this Code and printed for inclusion herein, or in the case
of repealed chapters, sections and subsections or any part thereof, by
subsequent ordinances, such repealed portions may be excluded from the Code by
omission from reprinted pages affected thereby, and the subsequent ordinances
as numbered and printed or omitted, in the case of repeal, shall be prima facie
evidence of such subsequent ordinances until such time that this Code and
subsequent ordinances numbered or omitted are readopted as a new code of
ordinances by the city council.
§ 2-121 LANGUAGE.
   Amendments to any of the provisions of this Code should be made by amending
such provisions by specific reference to this Code in substantially the
following language: “That section ____________ of The Code of the City of
Bellevue, Nebraska, is hereby amended to read as follows:….” The new provisions
shall then be set out in full as desired.
§ 2-122 NEW MATERIAL.
   (A)   In the event a new section not heretofore existing in the Code is to
be added, the following language may be used: “That The Code of the City of
Bellevue, Nebraska, is hereby amended by adding a section (or article, chapter
or other designation as the case may be), to be numbered ____________, which
reads as follows:….” The new provisions shall then be set out in full as
desired.
   (B)   In lieu of subsection (A) hereof, when the city council desires to
enact an ordinance of a general and permanent nature embracing a subject not
previously existing in the Code, which the council desires to incorporate into
the Code, a provision in substantially the following language may be made part
of such ordinance: “It is the intention of the board of directors, and it is
hereby ordained, that the provisions of this ordinance shall become and be made
a part of The Code of the City of Bellevue, Nebraska, and the sections of this
ordinance may be renumbered to accomplish such intention.”
§ 2-123 REPEAL.
   All sections, articles, chapters or other provisions of this Code desired to
be repealed should be specifically repealed by section number, article number,
chapter or other number, as the case may be.
§ 2-124 SUBJECT TO GENERAL PENALTY.
   In case of the amendment by the city council of any section of this Code for
which a penalty is not provided, the general penalty as provided in section
1-11 of this Code shall apply to the section as amended; or in case such
amendment contains provisions for which a penalty, other than the
aforementioned general penalty, is provided in another section in the same
chapter, the penalty so provided in such other section shall be held to relate
to the section so amended, unless such penalty is specifically repealed
therein.
§ 2-125 SUPPLEMENTATION OF CODE.
   (A)   By contract or by city personnel, supplements to this Code shall be
prepared and printed whenever authorized or directed by the city council. A
supplement to the Code shall include all substantive permanent and general
parts of ordinances passed by the city council or adopted by initiative and
referendum during the period covered by the supplement and all changes made
thereby in the Code. The pages of a supplement shall be so numbered that they
will fit properly into the Code and will, where necessary, replace pages which
have become obsolete or partially obsolete, and the new pages shall be so
prepared that, when they have been inserted, the Code will be current through
the date of the adoption of the latest ordinance included in the supplement.
   (B)   In preparing a supplement to this Code, all portions of the Code which
have been repealed shall be excluded from the Code by the omission thereof from
reprinted pages.
   (C)   When preparing a supplement to this Code, the codifier (meaning the
person, agency or organization authorized to prepare the supplement) may make
formal, nonsubstantive changes in ordinances and parts of ordinances included
in the supplement, insofar as it is necessary to do so to embody them into a
unified Code. For example, the codifier may:
      (1)   Organize the ordinance material into appropriate subdivisions;
      (2)   Provide appropriate catchlines, headings and titles for sections
and other subdivisions of the Code printed in the supplement, and make changes
in such catchlines, headings and titles;
      (3)   Assign appropriate numbers to sections and other subdivisions to be
inserted in the Code and, where necessary to accommodate new material, change
existing section or other subdivision numbers;
      (4)   Change the words “this ordinance” or words of the same meaning to
“this chapter,” “this article,” “this division,” etc., as the case may be, or
to “sections ____________ to ____________” (inserting section numbers to
indicate the sections of the Code which embody the substantive sections of the
ordinance incorporated into the Code); and
      (5)   Make other nonsubstantive changes necessary to preserve the
original meaning of ordinance sections inserted into the Code; but, in no case,
shall the codifier make any change in the meaning or effect of ordinance
material included in the supplement or already embodied in the Code.
§§ 2-126—2-136 RESERVED.
ARTICLE IV: OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES
Section
Division 1: Generally
   
2-137   Appointment of appointive officers generally
   
2-138   Qualification of city officers—When required
   
2-139   Same—Procedure
   
2-140   Bonds of city officers generally
   
2-141   Powers and duties of mayor generally
   
2-142   City attorney; duties; compensation
   
2-143   City engineer; duties
   
2-144   Filling vacancies
   
2-145   Procedure of changeover in government
   2-146—2-156   Reserved
Division 2: City Administrator
   
2-157   Office created
   
2-158   Purpose
   
2-159   Scope of office
   
2-160   Appointment
   
2-161   Term
   
2-162   Removal
   
2-163   Compensation
   
2-164   Responsibility
   
2-165   Duties
   
2-166   Administrative powers
   
2-167   Mayor, council relationship with city personnel restricted
   
2-168   Cooperation with mayor, council
   
2-169   Political activity
   2-170—2-180   Reserved
Division 3: City Clerk, Treasurer
   
2-181   Appointment
   
2-182   Council proceedings journal
   
2-183   Custody of laws
   
2-184   Record books
   
2-185   Bond records
   
2-186   Warrant records
   
2-187   Retention, disposition of records
   
2-188   Publication of city council proceedings
   
2-189   Possession, use of seal
   
2-190   Notices to council members of special meetings
   
2-191   Notices to council committees
   
2-192   Monthly report
   
2-193   Additional duties
   
2-194   Custodian of city moneys
   
2-195   Separate accounting
   
2-196   Receipts generally
   
2-197   Paving, curbing taxes
   
2-198   Monthly report—Required; scope
   
2-199   Same—Verification
   
2-200   Same—Failure; removal
   
2-201   Auditing of records and reports
Division 4: Code of Ethics
   
2-202   Declaration of policy and definitions
   
2-203   Standards of conduct
   
2-204   Prohibition on conflict of interest
   
2-205   Conflict of interest; disclosure
   
2-206   Interest of spouse
   
2-207   Misuse of official information
   
2-208   Sanctions for elected official for misconduct
   2-209—220   Reserved
Statutory reference:
   Officers, employees, see Neb. RS 1943, §§ 16-302.1 et seq.
DIVISION 1: GENERALLY
§ 2-137 APPOINTMENT OF APPOINTIVE OFFICERS GENERALLY.
   The mayor shall, by and with the approval of a majority of the city council,
appoint a city treasurer, clerk, engineer, attorney and such other officers
deemed necessary. The mayor may, with the approval of a majority of the city
council, appoint a city administrator. The vote thereon shall be recorded in
the minutes of the meeting by the city clerk, together with the names of the
members voting for and against such appointment. All appointed officials may be
removed at any time by the mayor with the approval of a majority of the city
council. All appointed officers shall perform such duties as prescribed by
ordinance. The office of city administrator may not be held by the mayor. The
appointed city administrator may concurrently hold any other appointed office
provided for in this section.
(1964 Code, § 2-5) (Ord. 3766, § 1, passed 6-9-2014)
§ 2-138 QUALIFICATION OF CITY OFFICERS—WHEN REQUIRED.
   Every member of the city council and each officer elected to any office in
the city shall qualify on or before the first meeting in December following
their election.
(1964 Code, § 2-7)
§ 2-139 SAME—PROCEDURE.
   Qualification for each city officer who is not required to give bond shall
consist in his subscribing and taking oath to support the Constitution of the
United States, the constitution of the state and this Code and any other
ordinances of the city and to perform faithfully and impartially the duties of
his office, such oath to be filed in the office of the city clerk. Each officer
who is required to give bond shall file the required bond in the office of the
city clerk with sufficient sureties, conditioned for the faithful discharge of
the duties of his office, with an oath endorsed thereon in the same terms as in
case of officers who are not required to give bond.
(1964 Code, § 2-8)
§ 2-140 BONDS OF CITY OFFICERS GENERALLY.
   (A)   The following officers shall each give bond for their respective
offices with good and sufficient sureties or a surety bond to be approved by
the mayor and city council, in sums as follows:
      (1)   City treasurer .....$100,000.00
   (B)   The mayor and city council, by resolution, may require the city
treasurer, if they deem it advisable, to give additional bond equal to double
the amount of money passing through his hands.
   (C)   The mayor and city council may require a bond from any other officer
conditioned in such sum as they may by resolution designate. The premium, if
any, on all bonds required by this section, if surety bonds be given, shall be
paid out of the general fund of the city.
   (D)   No bond of city officers shall be deemed to be given or complete until
approval thereof and of the sureties thereon, is made by the mayor and the city
council.
(1964 Code, § 2-1) (Ord. 2040, § 1, passed 10-24-1977)
§ 2-141 POWERS AND DUTIES OF MAYOR GENERALLY.
   (A)   The mayor shall have charge over all the property belonging to the
city and not in the particular charge of any officer. He shall require of all
city officers a receipt for any articles belonging to the city in their charge.
All outgoing city officers shall deliver over to the mayor an account for all
such articles whenever their terms of office expire. The mayor shall examine
into and satisfy himself as to the correctness of every appropriation ordinance
before approving the same. All financial reports of the city treasurer shall be
audited by the mayor and city council, and if found correct, the same shall be
endorsed and shall be filed in the office of the city clerk.
   (B)   The mayor shall sign the clerk’s minutes of all meetings after they
have been spread at large upon the journal when the same shall have been
approved by the action or the acquiescence of the city council. He shall sign
all warrants for the payment of money when ordered by the city council. He
shall issue all permits in writing which are required by ordinance. He shall
sign all ordinances, resolutions and orders which have been passed, approved
and declared to be the law of the city. He shall cause the ordinances of the
city to be carried into effect and shall be vigilant and active to promote the
peace and welfare of the city. He shall require of all officers the faithful
performance of their duties as prescribed by law, this Code and any other city
ordinances. He shall call special meetings of the city council at his
discretion.
(1964 Code, § 2-2)
Statutory reference:
   Powers and duties of mayor, see Neb. RS 1943, §§ 16-312 et seq.
§ 2-142 CITY ATTORNEY; DUTIES; COMPENSATION.
   The city attorney shall be the legal advisor of the city council and city
officers. The city attorney shall commence, prosecute and defend all suits and
actions necessary to be commenced, prosecuted or defended on behalf of the
city, or that may be ordered by the city-council. He or she shall attend
meetings of the city council and give them his or her opinion upon any matter
submitted to him or her either orally or in writing as may be required. The
mayor and city council shall have the right to pay the city attorney additional
compensation for legal services performed by him or her for the city or to
employ additional legal assistance and to pay for such legal assistance out of
the funds of the city.
(1964 Code, § 2-3) (Ord. 3766, passed 6-9-2014)
Statutory reference:
   City attorney, see Neb. RS 1943, § 16-319
§ 2-143 CITY ENGINEER; DUTIES.
   (A)   The city engineer shall make a record of the minutes of his or her
surveys and of all work done for the city, including sewers and sewerage
systems and accurately make such plats, sections, profiles and maps as may be
necessary in the prosecution of any public work, which shall be public records
and belong to the city and be turned over to his or her successor.
   (B)   The city engineer shall, when requested by the mayor or city council,
make estimates of the cost of labor and material which may be done or furnished
by contract with the city and make all surveys, estimates and calculations
necessary to be made for the establishment of grades, the building of culverts,
sewers, bridges, curbing, gutters, and the repair and improvement of streets,
and the erection and repair of buildings and shall perform such other duties as
the city council may require.
   (C)   The mayor may, with the approval of a majority of the city council,
whenever they deem it expedient, employ a special engineer to make or assist in
making any particular estimate or survey; and any estimate or survey made by
such special engineer shall have the same validity and serve in all respects as
though the same had been made by the city engineer.
(Ord. 3703, § 1, passed 2-11-2013; Ord. 3766, passed 6-9-2014)
§ 2-144 FILLING VACANCIES.
   (A)   Any vacancy on the city council resulting from causes other than
expiration of the term shall be filled by appointment by the mayor with the
consent of a majority of the elected members of the city council to hold office
for the remainder of the term. The council shall at once give public notice of
the vacancy by causing to be published in a newspaper of general circulation
within this city or by posting in three public places in the city the office
vacated and the length of the unexpired term.
   (B)   The mayor shall cast his or her vote for or against the nominee in the
case of a tie vote of the council. All council members present shall cast a
ballot for or against the nominee.
(1964 Code, § 2-6) (Ord. 2040, § 2, passed 10-24-1977; Ord. 3710, § 1, passed
3-11-2013)
Statutory reference:
   Filling vacancies, see Neb. RS 1943, § 16-217
§ 2-145 PROCEDURE OF CHANGEOVER IN GOVERNMENT.
   The change in office for city officers shall be made as follows: the mayor
and the city council shall meet on the first regular meeting in December
following the annual city election, and the outgoing officers and the outgoing
members of the city council shall present their reports; and, upon the old city
council having completed its business up to the preceding regular meeting, the
outgoing members of the city council shall surrender their offices to the
incoming members; and the outgoing officers shall thereupon each surrender to
his successor in office all property, records, papers and money belonging to
such successor.
(1964 Code, § 2-9)
§§ 2-146—2-156 RESERVED.
DIVISION 2: CITY ADMINISTRATOR
Statutory reference:
   City administrator, see Neb. RS 1943, § 16-308
§ 2-157 OFFICE CREATED.
   There is hereby created and established the office of city administrator in
and for the city.
(Ord. 2022, § 1, passed 8-8-1977)
§ 2-158 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of the office of city administrator is to provide for the
centralization of the administrative responsibilities of all affairs of the
city which are under the direction of the mayor and council.
(Ord. 2022, § 1, passed 8-8-1977)
§ 2-159 SCOPE OF OFFICE.
   The city administrator shall be the non-elected administrative head of city
government under the direction and control of the mayor and council.
(Ord. 2022, § 2, passed 8-8-1977)
§ 2-160 APPOINTMENT.
   The city administrator shall be appointed by the mayor with the approval of
a majority of the elected members of the city council.
(Ord. 2022, § 13, passed 8-8-1977)
§ 2-161 TERM.
   The city administrator shall serve until the end of the term of office of
the mayor by whom he was appointed.
(Ord. 2022, § 3, passed 8-8-1977)
§ 2-162 REMOVAL.
   The city administrator may be removed from office at any time upon notice
given by the mayor with the approval of a majority of the elected members of
the council.
(Ord. 2022, § 3, passed 8-8-1977)
§ 2-163 COMPENSATION.
   The salary of the city administrator shall be fixed by resolution of the
mayor and council.
(Ord. 2022, § 3, passed 8-8-1977)
§ 2-164 RESPONSIBILITY.
   The city administrator shall be responsible to the city council for the
efficient conduct of his office.
(Ord. 2022, § 2, passed 8-8-1977)
§ 2-165 DUTIES.
   In addition to the general authority as administrative head of the city, and
not as a limitation thereof, it shall be the duty of the city administrator:
   (A)   To attend all meetings of the city council with the duty of reporting
any matter concerning city affairs under his supervision and direction; and to
attend such other meeting of departments and officials as his duties may
require, or as may be directed by the mayor and council.
   (B)   To make investigations into all of the affairs of the city and to make
recommendations to the mayor and council for the adoption of such measures and
ordinances as are deemed necessary or expedient for the good government of the
city.
   (C)   To analyze the functions, duties, and activities of the various
departments, divisions, and services of the city and of all employees thereof,
and to make recommendations regarding the same to the mayor and council; and to
faithfully carry out the directives and recommendations of the mayor and
council in coordinating the administrative functions and operation of the
various departments, divisions and services.
   (D)   To keep the mayor and council fully advised as to the financial
condition of the city and its needs, and he shall be responsible for the
preparation of the annual estimates of revenues and expenditures of a proposed
budget for the presentation of a complete financial plan for the city to the
mayor and council prior to the consideration and adoption of the annual
appropriations ordinance by the governing body. With the adoption of the budget
and the passage of the appropriations ordinance by the governing body, the city
administrator shall be responsible for the supervision and control of the
budgeted expenditures.
   (E)   To prepare and submit to the mayor and council as of the end of the
fiscal year, a complete report on the finances and administrative activities of
the city for the preceding year.
   (F)   To appoint and remove all department heads and employees in all city
departments. The administrator is also responsible for the appointment of all
subordinate employees in the departments, divisions, and services over which he
exercises jurisdiction, according to the limitations and provisions of the city
civil service laws. He may also provide for the transfer of such employees
within such departments, divisions, and services to meet the varying workload
emergencies.
   (G)   To investigate, or have investigated, all complaints filed against any
employee, department, division, service of the city, and to report such
investigation with recommendation to the mayor and council.
   (H)   To perform such other duties and exercise such other powers as may be
required by ordinance, or prescribed by resolution of the mayor and council.
(Ord. 2022, § 12, passed 8-8-1977; Ord. 2626, § 1, passed 8-12-1991)
§ 2-166 ADMINISTRATIVE POWERS.
   The city administrator shall have the power, except as otherwise provided by
city ordinances or state statutes, to:
   (A)   Direct the affairs of the city, including planning and directing and
coordinating personnel matters of all city employees.
   (B)   Recruit, interview and test job applicants.
   (C)   Ensure all appointments are made on the basis of merit.
   (D)   Maintain a classification system for city employees and administer the
pay plan.
   (E)   Keep records of all city employees.
   (F)   Ensure hearing to grievance procedures, promote training programs, and
foster good employee relations.
(Ord. 2022, § 5, passed 8-8-1977)
§ 2-167 MAYOR, COUNCIL RELATIONSHIP WITH CITY PERSONNEL RESTRICTED.
   The mayor and council reserve the right to make inquiries of any personnel
relative to municipal activities. Except for purposes of inquiry, the city
council and mayor shall deal with the administrative services of the city
through the administrator and, neither the mayor, council nor members thereof
shall give orders directly to any subordinate of the city administrator.
(Ord. 2022, § 4, passed 8-8-1977)
§ 2-168 COOPERATION WITH MAYOR, COUNCIL.
   The city administrator shall work within the policies set forth by the mayor
and council. The city administrator shall deal with the mayor and council as a
body. All official city affairs and all reports shall be provided to the mayor
and council.
(Ord. 2022, § 7, passed 8-8-1977)
§ 2-169 POLITICAL ACTIVITY.
   The city administrator shall not participate in a local election that
affects the offices of mayor, city councilman or any other elective municipal
position, except for the casting of an individual ballot.
(Ord. 2022, § 6, passed 8-8-1977)
§§ 2-170—2-180 RESERVED.
DIVISION 3: CITY CLERK, TREASURER
Statutory reference:
   City clerk, see Neb. RS § 16-317
   Powers and duties of city treasurer, see Neb. RS 1943, §§ 16-717—16-720, 19-
1101
   Treasurer, see Neb. RS 1943, § 16-318
§ 2-181 APPOINTMENT.
   The mayor, with the concurrence of a majority of the members of the city
council, shall appoint the city clerk and the city treasurer. One person may be
appointed to fill both appointive offices, but such appointment shall not be
considered as combining said offices. Such appointees shall hold such offices
until the end of the term of office of the mayor by whom they were appointed.
(Ord. 2080, § 3, passed 10-9-1978)
§ 2-182 COUNCIL PROCEEDINGS JOURNAL.
   The city clerk shall attend every meeting of the city council and shall keep
a correct journal of the proceedings thereof.
(1964 Code, § 2-16) (Ord. 2080, § 1, passed 10-9-1978)
§ 2-183 CUSTODY OF LAWS.
   The city clerk shall have the custody of all laws and ordinances of the
city.
(Ord. 2080, § 1, passed 10-9-1978)
§ 2-184 RECORD BOOKS.
   (A)   The city clerk shall keep and preserve the proceedings of the mayor
and city council in two separate and distinct record books as follows:
      (1)   Minute record. There shall be recorded in the minute record the
miscellaneous and informal doings of the mayor and city council.
      (2)   Ordinance record. There shall be recorded in the ordinance record
the formal proceedings of the mayor and city council in the matter of passing,
approving, publishing or posting and certifying to ordinances. Such ordinance
minutes shall be recorded and spread at large in the “ordinance record” book on
printed forms.
   (B)   In all cases, where single ordinances are introduced for the
consideration of the mayor and city council, the city clerk shall cause to be
introduced an appropriate resolution incorporating by reference the “ordinance
record” into the minute record. The minute record shall contain no proceedings
relative to the passage and approval of ordinances save and except the above
resolution.
(1964 Code, § 2-17)
Statutory reference:
   Publication of ordinances, see Neb. RS 1943, §§ 16-403, 16-405, 18-131, 18-
132
§ 2-185 BOND RECORDS.
   The city clerk shall keep a record of all outstanding bonds against the
city, showing the number and amount of each, for and to whom the bonds were
issued. When any bonds are purchased, paid, or canceled, the record shall show
that fact. The annual report of the clerk shall particularly include the bonds
issued and sold during the year, and the terms of sale, with every item of
expense thereof.
(1964 Code, § 2-16) (Ord. 2080, § 1, passed 10-9-1978)
§ 2-186 WARRANT RECORDS.
   The city clerk shall attest all orders for money or warrants for the payment
of money and shall enter the same in numerical order in a book to be kept for
that purpose.
(1964 Code, § 2-16)
§ 2-187 RETENTION, DISPOSITION OF RECORDS.
   The city clerk shall keep and carefully preserve all papers and books which
may come into his or her possession as clerk, filing and arranging them in a
manner convenient for reference. After the period of time specified by the
state records board pursuant to the Records Management Act, Neb. RS §§ 84-1201
to 84-1220, the clerk may transfer the journal of council proceedings to the
state archives of the Nebraska State Historical Society for permanent
preservation.
(1964 Code, § 2-16) (Ord. 4006, §§ 1, 2, passed 10-6-2020)
§ 2-188 PUBLICATION OF CITY COUNCIL PROCEEDINGS.
   Within 30 days after any meeting of the city council, the city clerk shall
prepare and publish the proceedings of the city council in a legal newspaper
within the county; provided that the charge for such publication shall not
exceed three-fourths of the legal rate for advertising notices. Such
publication charge shall be paid and allowed as other claims against the
general fund. No warrant in payment for the publication of any proceedings of
the city council, any ordinance, resolution or other legal publication printed
for the city shall be issued until proof of publication thereof and five
additional printed copies thereof shall have been delivered by the publisher to
the city clerk.
(1964 Code, § 2-18)
Statutory reference:
   Publication of city council proceedings, see Neb. RS 1943, § 19-1102
§ 2-189 POSSESSION, USE OF SEAL.
   The city clerk shall keep the seal of the city and shall duly attest thereby
the mayor’s signature to all deeds and papers required to be so attested.
(1964 Code, § 2-16)
§ 2-190 NOTICES TO COUNCIL MEMBERS OF SPECIAL MEETINGS.
   Whenever required by the mayor or requested by three members of the city
council, the city clerk shall issue to the police chief a notice to be
delivered to the members of the city council of any special meeting of the
council.
(1964 Code, § 2-16)
§ 2-191 NOTICES TO COUNCIL COMMITTEES.
   The city clerk shall notify any committees of the city council of the
business entrusted to them.
(1964 Code, § 2-16)
§ 2-192 MONTHLY REPORT.
   The city clerk shall make, at the end of each month, a report showing the
amount appropriated to each fund of the city, and the whole amount of warrants
drawn thereon.
(Ord. 2080, § 1, passed 10-9-1978)
§ 2-193 ADDITIONAL DUTIES.
   The city clerk shall perform such other duties as may be required by this
Code and the ordinances of the city or by the council.
(1964 Code, § 2-16) (Ord. 2080, § 1, passed 10-9-1978)
§ 2-194 CUSTODIAN OF CITY MONEYS.
   The city treasurer shall be the custodian of all money belonging to the
city.
(Ord. 2080, § 2, passed 10-9-1978)
§ 2-195 SEPARATE ACCOUNTING.
   The city treasurer shall keep a separate account of each fund or
appropriation, and the debts and credits belonging thereto.
(Ord. 2080, § 2, passed 10-9-1978)
§ 2-196 RECEIPTS GENERALLY.
   The city treasurer shall give every person paying money into the treasury a
receipt therefor, specifying the date of payment and on what account paid. A
copy of such receipts, except tax receipts, shall be filed with the treasurer’s
monthly report.
(Ord. 2080, § 2, passed 10-9-1978)
§ 2-197 PAVING, CURBING TAXES.
   The city treasurer shall prepare all paving and curbing tax lists and shall
collect all paving and curbing taxes.
(Ord. 2080, § 2, passed 10-9-1978)
§ 2-198 MONTHLY REPORT—REQUIRED; SCOPE.
   The city treasurer shall, at the end of every month, and as often as may be
requested, render an account to the city council, under oath, showing the state
of the city treasury at the date of such account, the amount of money remaining
in each fund and the amount paid therefrom, and the balance of the money in the
treasury. Such report shall be accompanied by a statement of all receipts and
disbursements, together with all warrants redeemed and paid by the treasurer.
Such report shall be filed with the city clerk.
(Ord. 2080, § 2, passed 10-9-1978)
§ 2-199 SAME—VERIFICATION.
   The city treasurer shall produce and show all funds shown by the required
monthly report to be on hand, or satisfy the council or its committee that such
funds are in the treasurer’s custody or control.
(Ord. 2080, § 2, passed 10-9-1978)
§ 2-200 SAME—FAILURE; REMOVAL.
   If the city treasurer neglects or fails for the space of ten days from the
end of every month to render the required monthly report, that office may be
declared vacant by resolution of the mayor and city council; and the mayor
shall appoint, and the council confirm, some person to fill the vacancy until
the next election for city officers.
(Ord. 2080, § 2, passed 10-9-1978)
§ 2-201 AUDITING OF RECORDS AND REPORTS.
   The city treasurer’s annual report, together with the records of the city
clerk, shall be audited by a qualified accountant employed by resolution of the
mayor and city council at the close of the fiscal year, with instructions to
report its findings within six months following the close of the fiscal year.
(1964 Code, § 2-19)
Statutory reference:
   Nebraska Municipal Auditing Law, see Neb. RS 1943, §§ 19-2901 et seq.
DIVISION 4: CODE OF ETHICS
§ 2-202 DECLARATION OF POLICY AND DEFINITIONS.
   It is the policy of the city that the proper operation of democratic
government requires that public officials and employees be independent,
impartial and responsible to the people; that governmental decisions and policy
be made in proper channels of the governmental structure; that public office
not be used for personal gain; and that the public have confidence in the
integrity of its government. In recognition of these goals, a code of ethics
for all city officials and employees is adopted. When used in this division,
city employee, employee, city official and official shall have the following
meanings:
   CITY EMPLOYEE or EMPLOYEE. Any person employed by the city, but does not
include independent contractors hired by the city.
   CITY OFFICIAL or OFFICIAL. Unless otherwise expressly defined, means the
mayor, members of the city council, city administrator, all division and
department heads, whether such person is salaried, hired or elected, and all
other persons holding appointed positions designated by this code, as it may be
amended from time to time. The term “city official” also includes individuals
appointed by the mayor and city council to all city commissions, committees,
boards, task forces, or other city bodies unless specifically exempted from
this division by the city council.
(Ord. 3664, § 1(2-202), passed 3-12-2012)
§ 2-203 STANDARDS OF CONDUCT.
   (A)   No city official or employee shall transact any business in his
official capacity with any entity in which he or she has a business interest.
The term “business interest” means a business:
      (1)   In which the city official or employee is a partner, director or
officer; or
      (2)   In which the city official or employee or an immediate family
member of the city official or employee is a stockholder of closed corporation
stock worth $1,000.00 or more at fair market value or which represents more
than a five percent equity interest, or is a stockholder of publicly traded
stock which represents more than two percent equity interest.
   (B)   No city official or employee shall formally appear before the body of
which the official or employee is a member while acting as an advocate for
himself or any other person, group, or entity.
   (C)   No city official or employee shall represent, for compensation, any
other private person, group or entity in his or her official capacity before
any department, commission, board or committee of the city. Any city official
or employee acting in a capacity other than his or her official capacity before
such department, commission, board or committee of the city shall disclose the
same and shall not participate in the matter in his or her official capacity.
   (D)   No city official or employee shall represent, directly or indirectly,
any other private person, group or entity in any action or proceeding directly
against the interests of the city, or in any litigation in which the city or
any department, commission, or board or committee thereof is a named party, if
the city official or employee previously participated in the action or events
which precipitated such action or proceeding against the interests of the city;
provided, however, nothing herein shall limit an official from representing a
court appointed criminal defendant or representing a party to a civil action
where the city is named a party by way of its holding a lien interest for a
special assessment where the validity of the special assessment is not an
issue; and provided further, that nothing herein shall limit the authority of
the city attorney and his or her staff to represent the city, its boards,
commissions, committees and officers in the discharge of their duties.
   (E)   No city official or employee shall represent, directly or indirectly,
any private person, group or entity in any action or proceeding in court which
was instituted by a city official or employee in the course of official duties,
except as provided in subsection (D) of this section.
   (F)   No city official shall represent any private person, group or entity
in any action or proceeding in court which was instituted by or arising from a
decision of a board, commission, committee, task force or other body on which
the official served in his or her official capacity with regard to the specific
decision being challenged.
   (G)   No city official or employee shall accept or solicit any gift or
favor, that might reasonably tend to influence that individual in the discharge
of official duties or that the official or employee knows or should know has
been offered with the intent to influence or reward official conduct.
   (H)   No city official or employee shall solicit or accept other employment
to be performed or compensation to be received while still a city official or
employee, if the employment or compensation could reasonably be expected to
impair independence in judgment or performance of city duties. If a city
official or employee accepts or is soliciting a promise of future employment
from any person or entity who has a substantial interest in a person, entity or
property which would be affected by any decision upon which the official or
employee might reasonably be expected to act, investigate, advise, or make a
recommendation, the official or employee shall disclose that fact to the
council, board, or commission on which he or she serves or to his or her
supervisor and shall take no further action on matters regarding the potential
future employer.
   (I)   No city official or employee shall use his or her official position to
secure a special privilege or exemption for himself/herself or others, or to
secure confidential information for any purpose other than official
responsibilities.
   (J)   No city official or employee shall use city facilities, personnel,
equipment or supplies for private purposes, except to the extent such are
lawfully available to the public.
   (K)   City officials and employees shall not exceed their authority or
breach the law or ask others to do so and they should work in full cooperation
with other public officials and employees unless prohibited from so doing by
law or officially recognized confidentiality of their work.
   (L)   No city official or employee in the course of his or her official
duties shall grant any special consideration, treatment, or advantage to any
citizen beyond that which is available to every other citizen in the same
circumstances.
   (M)   Preferential consideration of the request or petition of any
individual citizen or group of citizens shall not be given. No person shall
receive special advantages beyond that which are available to any other
citizen.
(Ord. 3664, § 1(2-203), passed 3-12-2012)
§ 2-204 PROHIBITION ON CONFLICT OF INTEREST.
   (A)   A city official or employee may not participate in a vote or decision
on a matter affecting a person, entity, or property in which the official or
employee is associated or involved. Where the interest of a city official or
employee in the subject matter of a vote or decision is remote or incidental,
the city official or employee may participate in the vote or decision and need
not disclose the interest. Nothing herein shall be construed however, from
preventing a city official or employee from participating in a vote or decision
regarding a collective bargaining agreement to which he is a member of such
union or is otherwise affected thereby.
   (B)   The term REMOTE INTEREST means an interest of a person or entity,
including a city official or employee, who would be affected in the same way as
the general public. The interest of a council member in the property tax rate,
general city fees, city utility charges, or a comprehensive zoning ordinance or
similar decisions is incidental to the extent that the council member would be
affected in common with the general public.
   (C)   The term INCIDENTAL INTEREST means an interest in a person, entity or
property which has insignificant value, or which would be affected only in a de
minimis fashion by a decision. This section does not establish dollar limits on
the terms “insignificant value” and “de minimis,” which shall have their usual
meanings and be subject to interpretation on a case by case basis.
(Ord. 3664, § 1(2-204), passed 3-12-2012)
§ 2-205 CONFLICT OF INTEREST; DISCLOSURE.
   (A)   A city official shall disclose the existence of any business with
which the official is associated involving a person, entity or property which
would be affected by a vote or decision of the body of which the city official
is a member or that he or she serves as a corporate officer or member of the
board of directors of a nonprofit entity for which a vote or decision regarding
funding by or through the city is being considered. City officials and
employees of the city shall comply with applicable provisions of state law
relative to conflicts of interest and generally regulating the conduct of
public officials or employees.
   (B)   To comply with this section, any council member who has a conflict of
interest, as set forth in subsection (A) of this section, in any matter before
the city council, shall disclose such fact on the records of the city council
prior to or immediately after opening discussion of the issue, or at such time
thereafter that the conflict becomes apparent if the existence of a conflict is
not realized prior to opening discussion of the issue. Upon disclosure of a
conflict, the council member shall step down from the council table, leave the
council chamber and refrain from participating in any discussion or voting
thereon, provided that such exceptions shall be observed as is permitted by
law. This provision shall apply if a council member has disqualified himself or
herself from voting.
   (C)   To comply with this section, any member of any official board,
commission or committee, other than the city council, who has a conflict of
interest as defined herein, in any matter before the board, commission or
committee, of which he or she is a member, shall disclose such fact on the
records of such board, commission or committee prior to or immediately after
opening discussion of the issue, or at such time thereafter that the conflict
becomes apparent if the existence of a conflict is not realized prior to
opening discussion of the issue. Upon disclosure of a conflict, the member
shall refrain from participating, in his or her official capacity, in any
discussion or voting thereon, provided that such exceptions shall be observed
as are permitted by law.
   (D)   To comply with this section, a city employee shall notify his or her
supervisor in writing of any substantial interest he or she may have in a
person, entity or property which would be affected by an exercise of
discretionary authority by the city employee and a supervisor shall reassign
the matter. In addition, any employee who has a financial or other special
interest in a matter before the city council or any board, commission, or
committee, and who participates in discussion with or gives an official opinion
to the council or to such board, commission or committee relating to such
matter, shall disclose on the records of the council or such board, commission
or committee, as the case may be, prior to or immediately after opening
discussion of the issue or at such time thereafter that the conflict becomes
apparent if the existence of a conflict is not realized prior to opening
discussion of the issue, the nature and extent of such interest.
(Ord. 3664, § 1(2-205), passed 3-12-2012)
§ 2-206 INTEREST OF SPOUSE.
   (A)   A spouse of a city official or employee involved in a business with
which he or she is associated shall be deemed to apply to that city official or
employee for the purposes of sections 2-204 and 2-205 concerning disclosure.
   (B)   A city official or employee may not participate in a vote or decision
affecting a business with which an individual is associated if that individual
is related in the first or second degree of consanguinity or affinity to the
city official or employee. For the purposes of this section, business with
which an individual is associated shall be defined the same as business
interest in section 2-203(A).
(Ord. 3664, § 1(2-206), passed 3-12-2012)
§ 2-207 MISUSE OF OFFICIAL INFORMATION.
   (A)   No city official or employee shall willfully and knowingly use
confidential information for pecuniary gain to any other person confidential
information acquired by him or her in the course of and by reason of his
official duties, nor shall any public official or employee use any such
information for the purpose of pecuniary gain.
   (B)   No former city official or former employee shall use any confidential
information to which he or she had access by virtue of his or her official
capacity and which has not been made public concerning the property,
operations, policies, or affairs of the city.
(Ord. 3664, § 1(2-207), passed 3-12-2012)
§ 2-208 SANCTIONS FOR ELECTED OFFICIAL FOR MISCONDUCT.
   (A)   Any member of the Bellevue city council or the mayor (hereinafter
referred to as "elected official") of the City of Bellevue may be sanctioned
for misconduct as outlined herein. Misconduct has been outlined in Policy
Resolution 35; however, said misconduct is not an exhaustive list of misconduct
and other misconduct may be identified pursuant to city code or state law.
Sanctions, shall be initiated as follows:
   (B)   Upon the filing of written charges that must be: 1) signed and
verified (in front of a notary public) by the person(s) making the claim(s); 2)
provided to the city clerk within 60 days of the alleged incident; 3) if the
written charge is filed by a citizen, the citizen must be a resident of
Bellevue and must list their home address in the written charge; if the written
charge is filed by an individual or entity conducting business with the city,
the individual or entity must list their business address in the written charge
and include a statement of the business conducted with the city; if the written
charge is filed by an employee, staff member, elected official, or any
individual in the administration for the City of Bellevue, the written charge
must include a statement of their position with the city; and 4) must provide a
detailed statement of the misconduct alleged. The city clerk shall then provide
a copy of the written charges to the city administrator and copy all elected
officials.
      (1)   The city administrator, after receiving the written charges from
the city clerk will review the written charge to ensure that the requirements
in division (A) above are met.
      (2)   If after review the requirements in division (A)(1) are not met,
the matter will be administratively closed by the city administrator and said
closure will be documented and kept in the city clerk's office and the
individual filing the written charge will be notified by mail (if mailing
address was listed) by the city clerk, or by email if the individual has a
city-issued email address. All elected officials will be notified of this
action. If any elected official contests the closure of the written charge,
they may have a resolution created as outlined in division (A)(3) and the
resolution shall be set for the next regularly scheduled city council meeting.
      (3)   If after review, the requirements in division (A)(1) are met, the
city administrator shall have a resolution created for the next regularly
scheduled city council meeting. The resolution shall set a time and place for
hearing on the written charges and shall attach the written charges to the
resolution as Exhibit "A." The resolution shall be placed on the next regularly
scheduled meeting for council consideration. At said council meeting, the
council shall decide by majority vote whether the written charge shall move
forward for a formal hearing before the council or whether it should be
dismissed. The accused elected official shall abstain from the vote. If the
council votes to approve the resolution, the written charge shall be set for
hearing not less than seven days nor more than 45 days subsequent to the
passage of the resolution. Said hearing may be set for special hearing. If the
council does not approve the resolution, the matter will be deemed dismissed
and the city clerk will notify the individual filing the written charge via
mail (if mailing address was listed).
      (4)   If the city council approves the resolution and sets the matter for
hearing, the city clerk shall notify the individual who filed the written
charges of the time and place of said hearing by mailing notification to them
at the address stated in their written charges, or if the charges were filed by
a city official, employee, other elected official, or city staff, notice may be
sent via e-mail. The city clerk shall also e-mail the approved resolution to
the accused elected official and notify him or her of the date and time of the
scheduled hearing.
      (5)   If the matter is set for hearing, the elected official whose
conduct shall have been called into question shall have the right to be present
to interrogate witnesses, to be represented by counsel at his or her cost, and
either in person or by counsel make a statement or argument to the council
regarding the allegations made against him or her. The individual(s) bringing
forth the alleged misconduct shall be present at the hearing in order for the
hearing to proceed. The accused, either personally or through counsel if
represented, shall have the right to confront and cross-examine their accuser.
All hearings will be recorded via audio recording.
      (6)   The city attorney shall act as prosecuting attorney and shall have
the right to examine or cross examine each witness presented, or call
witnesses, and to make any statement or argument to the council. If the city
attorney is the one bringing the written charge, the city shall contract
another attorney to be the acting city attorney for the purposes of this
hearing.
      (7)   The hearing shall be limited to the charges as outlined in the
written charge only.
      (8)   If the hearing is not concluded prior to 10:00 p.m., the council
may, by motion to continue and majority vote, end the hearing and re-schedule
the hearing for the next regularly scheduled meeting or special meeting and
shall publish the same in accordance with the rules and regulations for setting
such hearings.
      (9)   If upon such hearing, the council shall by a majority vote (with
the exception of the elected official who is charged with the misconduct) find
or determine that the elected official in question is guilty of misconduct, the
city council may then determine the appropriate sanction to be applied.
      (10)   The sanction to be applied shall be made by motion, voted upon in
a separate motion apart from the finding(s), and be agreed upon by a majority
vote (with the exception of the elected official who is charged with the
misconduct). The determination after hearing and any sanction applied shall be
made during an open meeting on the record and shall be memorialized in writing
by a resolution. The city council is committed to following a model of
progressive sanctions for allegations of misconduct. When deemed appropriate
the city attorney shall disclose any prior sanctions. The following sanctions
may be imposed by the city council if there is a finding that the elected
official in question is guilty of misconduct as charged.
         (a)   Written reprimand. This sanction would include a written letter
outlining the misconduct violation, date of occurrence, and that the elected
official was counseled on said matter. A written reprimand may be administered
by the city council after hearing. A copy of the written reprimand will be
provided to the accused elected official and to all other members of the
council and the mayor. A written reprimand should be used as a corrective step
or warning to the elected official for specific misconduct allegations that are
not severe in nature but that are violations of city code or this policy.
         (b)   Public reprimand. This sanction would include a verbal
admonishment during an open meeting of the city council and would outline the
reason for the reprimand. A public reprimand may only be administered by the
city council after a hearing. The date, time, and nature of said public
reprimand will be memorialized in writing. A public reprimand should be used
for corrective action if prior written reprimands were not effective or when
the severity of the misconduct warrants a public admonishment due to the nature
of the complaint.
         (c)   Removal from committee assignment(s) and/or loss of seniority.
This sanction would include a finding after a hearing that the elected
official's behavior warrants action greater than a written reprimand or public
reprimand and that due to the elected official's behavior he or she should be
removed from specific committee(s), task force, removal as council president or
lose seniority within the council. The removal from a committee, task force,
council president, or loss of seniority may only be administered by the city
council after a hearing. The date, time and sanction outlined herein will be
memorialized in writing. Removal from a committee or committees, task force,
council president, or loss of seniority should be used if the misconduct would
lose public trust or council trust for the elected official to remain on the
committee, task force, as council president or keep the seniority position, if
the misconduct impacts the operations of the committee, the offense was
committed during a committee meeting, or the offense was directed toward
another committee member or member addressing that committee.
(Ord. 3978, § 1, passed 12-3-2019)
§§ 2-209—2-220 RESERVED.
ARTICLE V: CIVIL SERVICE
Section
Division 1: Generally
   
2-221   Adoption of provisions
   
2-222   Positions covered
   
2-223   Creation and elimination of positions
   
2-224   Reduction in force policy
   
2-225   Establishment of salaries and compensation
   
2-226   Payment of compensation for services
   
2-227   City’s duty to civil service commission
   
2-228   Political fund contribution and political service
   
2-229   Obstructing examinations
   2-230—2-240   Reserved
Division 2: Civil Service Commission
   
2-241   Civil service commission created
   
2-242   Appointment of members
   
2-243   Members’ term of office
   
2-244   Removal from office
   
2-245   Compensation of members
   
2-246   Meetings
   
2-247   Chairperson
   
2-248   Secretary/chief examiner
   
2-249   Quorum
   
2-250   Powers and duties
   2-251—2-260   Reserved
Division 3: Civil Service Provisions
   
2-261   Appointments and promotions
   
2-262   Requirements for civil service position applicants
   
2-263   Filling of vacant positions
   
2-264   Probationary period
   
2-265   Disciplinary actions
   
2-266   Leave of absence
Editor’s note:
   Ord. 2394, § 1, enacted December 16, 1985, was not expressly amendatory of
the Code;
    hence, inclusion herein as the substantive sections of art. V, divisions 1
though 3 was at
    the discretion of the editor.
Statutory reference:
   Civil Service Act, see Neb. RS 1943, §§ 19-1825 et seq.
DIVISION 1: GENERALLY
§ 2-221 ADOPTION OF PROVISIONS.
   There is hereby adopted by the City of Bellevue the Civil Service Act, being
Neb. RS §§ 19-1825 to 19-1848. Such Civil Service Act shall be in words and
terms as contained in this article.
(Ord. 4006, §§ 1, 2, passed 10-6-2020)
§ 2-222 POSITIONS COVERED.
   This civil service ordinance shall apply only to all present full-time
police officers or fire fighters of the city, including any paid full-time
police or fire chief, and future appointees to such full-time positions. Full-
time police officers shall mean police officers in positions which require
certification by the Nebraska Law Enforcement Training Center, who have the
power of arrest, who are paid regularly by the city, and for whom law
enforcement is a full-time career, but shall not include clerical, custodial,
or maintenance personnel. Full-time firefighter shall mean duly appointed
firefighters who are paid regularly by the city and for whom firefighting is a
full-time career, but shall not include clerical, custodial, or maintenance
personnel who are not engaged in fire suppression.
(Ord. 2394, § 1(art. I, § 1), passed 12-16-1985; Ord. 3601, § 1, passed 4-25-
2011)
Statutory reference:
   Application of civil service ordinance, see Neb. RS 1943, § 19-1829
§ 2-223 CREATION AND ELIMINATION OF POSITIONS.
   All positions subject to the civil service act shall be created or
eliminated by the mayor and city council.
(Ord. 2394, § 1(art. I, § 2), passed 12-16-1985)
§ 2-224 REDUCTION IN FORCE POLICY.
   (A)   Establishment. The mayor and city council shall establish a reduction
in force policy for employees covered by this article, and in so doing, shall
consider recommendations from the civil service commission, but shall not be
bound by such recommendations. Prior to the adoption of a reduction in force
policy the mayor and city council shall, after giving reasonable notice to each
police officer by first-class mail, conduct a public hearing.
   (B)   Factors. The mayor and city council shall adopt a reduction in force
policy which shall consider factors including, but not limited to:
      (1)   The multiple job skills recently or currently being performed by
the employee;
      (2)   The knowledge, skills, and abilities of the employee;
      (3)   The performance appraisal of the employee, including any recent or
pending disciplinary actions involving the employee;
      (4)   The employment policies and staffing needs of the department,
together with contracts, ordinances, and statutes related thereto;
      (5)   Required federal, state or local certifications or licenses; and
      (6)   Seniority.
(Ord. 2394, § 1(art. IV, § 1), passed 12-16-1985)
§ 2-225 ESTABLISHMENT OF SALARIES AND COMPENSATION.
   This civil service ordinance [Ordinance No. 2394] shall not be construed to
infringe upon the power and authority of the mayor and city council to
establish salaries and compensation of employees.
(Ord. 2394, § 1(art. I, § 3), passed 12-16-1985)
§ 2-226 PAYMENT OF COMPENSATION FOR SERVICES.
   No treasurer, auditor, comptroller, or other officer or employee of the city
shall approve the payment of or be in any manner concerned in paying, auditing,
or approving any salary, wage, or other compensation for services to any person
to whom this article and the Nebraska Civil Service Act apply, unless the
person to receive such salary, wage, or other compensation has been appointed
or employed in compliance with such Act.
(Ord. 2394, § 1(art. I, § 4), passed 12-16-1985)
§ 2-227 CITY’S DUTY TO CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION.
   The mayor and city council shall provide the commission with suitable and
convenient rooms and accommodations and cause the same to be furnished, heated,
lighted, and supplied with all office supplies and equipment necessary to carry
on the business of the commission and with such clerical assistance as may be
necessary. It shall be the duty of the city to appropriate each fiscal year,
from the general funds of the city, a sum of money sufficient to pay the
necessary expenses involved in carrying out the purposes of the civil service
act, including, but not limited to, reasonable attorney’s fees for any special
counsel appointed by the commission. The city administrator may authorize the
use of the city attorney by the commission. If not so authorized, the
commission may appoint special counsel subject to the establishment by the city
administrator of the hourly or monthly rate of pay of such special counsel. The
city shall afford the commission, its members and employees all reasonable
facilities and assistance to inspect all books, papers, documents, and accounts
applying or in any way appertaining to any and all positions and employments
subject to civil service and shall produce such books, papers, documents and
accounts. All city officers and employees shall attend and testify whenever
required to do so by the commission, the accused, or the city administrator.
(Ord. 2394, § 1(art. I, § 5), passed 12-16-1985)
Statutory reference:
   Municipality to provide facilities and assistance to civil service
commission, see Neb. RS 1943, § 19-1834
§ 2-228 POLITICAL FUND CONTRIBUTION AND POLITICAL SERVICE.
   No person holding any position subject to civil service shall be under any
obligation to contribute to any political fund or to render any political
service to any person or party whatsoever. No person shall be removed, reduced
in position or salary or otherwise prejudiced for refusing to do so. No public
officer, whether elected or appointed, shall discharge, promote, demote, or in
any manner change the official rank, employment, or compensation of any person
under civil service, or promise or threaten to do so for giving, withholding,
or neglecting to make any contribution of money, services, or any valuable
thing for any political purposes.
(Ord. 2394, § 1(art. I, § 6), passed 12-16-1985)
§ 2-229 OBSTRUCTING EXAMINATIONS.
   No commissioner or any other person shall by himself or herself or in
cooperation with one or more persons:
   (A)   Defeat, deceive, or obstruct any person in respect to the right of
examination according to the rules and regulations made pursuant to the civil
service act;
   (B)   Falsely mark, grade, estimate, or report upon the examination and
standing of any person examined or certified in accordance with such act or aid
in so doing;
   (C)   Make any false representation concerning the same or concerning the
person examined;
   (D)   Furnish any person any special or secret information for the purpose
of improving or injuring the prospects or chances of any person so examined or
certified to be examined or certified; or
   (E)   Persuade any other person or permit or aid in any manner any other
person to impersonate him or her in connection with any examination,
application, or request to be so examined.
(Ord. 2394, § 1(art. I, § 7), passed 12-16-1985)
§§ 2-230—2-240 RESERVED.
DIVISION 2: CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION
Statutory reference:
   Civil service commission, see Neb. RS 1943, §§ 19-1827 et seq.
§ 2-241 CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION CREATED.
   There is hereby created in the city, a civil service commission which shall
have five members who shall each be a citizen of the United States, a resident
of the city for at least three years immediately preceding his or her
appointment, and an elector of the county wherein such person resides.
(Ord. 2394, § 1(art. II, § 1), passed 12-16-1985)
Statutory reference:
   Size of civil service commission, see Neb. RS 1943, § 19-1827
§ 2-242 APPOINTMENT OF MEMBERS.
   The members of the civil service commission shall be appointed by the city
administrator, with the approval of the city council. At the time of the
appointment, not more than three members of the civil service commission,
including the one to be appointed, shall be registered electors of the same
political party.
(Ord. 2394, § 1(art. II, § 2), passed 12-16-1985)
§ 2-243 MEMBERS’ TERM OF OFFICE.
   The term of office of the members appointed to the civil service commission
shall be five years, except that the first five members appointed pursuant
hereto shall be appointed for different terms as follows: One for one year; one
for two years; one for three years; one for four years; one for five years.
Reappointments are for five-year periods.
(Ord. 2394, § 1(art. II, § 3), passed 12-16-1985)
Statutory reference:
   Terms of office of members of civil service commission, see Neb. RS 1943, §
19-1827
§ 2-244 REMOVAL FROM OFFICE.
   The members of the commission shall devote due time and attention to the
performance of the duties specified in this act. Any member of the civil
service commission may be removed from office for incompetency, dereliction of
duty, malfeasance in office, or other good cause by the city administrator,
with the approval of the city council, except that no member of the civil
service commission shall be removed until written charges have been preferred,
due notice given such member, and a full hearing had before the mayor and city
council. Any member so removed may appeal to the district court in the manner
provided by law.
(Ord. 2394, § 1(art. II, § 4), passed 12-16-1985)
Statutory reference:
   Removal of members of civil service commission, see Neb. RS 1943, § 19-1827
§ 2-245 COMPENSATION OF MEMBERS.
   Members of the civil service commission shall serve without compensation.
(Ord. 2394, § 1(art. II, § 5), passed 12-16-1985)
§ 2-246 MEETINGS.
   The civil service commission shall hold meetings as may be required for the
proper discharge of its duties.
(Ord. 2394, § 1(art. II, § 6), passed 12-16-1985)
§ 2-247 CHAIRPERSON.
   The civil service commission shall elect one of its members as chairperson
immediately after the appointment of the first five members pursuant hereto,
and annually thereafter.
(Ord. 2394, § 1(art. II, § 7), passed 12-16-1985)
§ 2-248 SECRETARY/CHIEF EXAMINER.
   The civil service commission shall appoint a secretary and chief examiner
for the commission. The secretary shall keep the records of the commission,
preserve all reports made to it, and perform such other duties as the
commission may prescribe. The chief examiner shall superintend and keep a
record of all examinations held under the commission’s direction and perform
such other duties as the commission shall prescribe. The commission may merge
the positions of secretary and chief examiner and appoint one person to perform
the duties of both positions.
(Ord. 2394, § 1(art. II, § 8), passed 12-16-1985; Ord. 3601, § 2, passed 4-25-
2011)
§ 2-249 QUORUM.
   Three members of the five member commission shall constitute a quorum for
the transaction of business.
(Ord. 2394, § 1(art. II, § 9), passed 12-16-1985)
§ 2-250 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   The commission shall adopt and promulgate procedural rules and
regulations which shall provide in detail the manner in which examinations may
be held and shall provide for any other matters assigned to it by the city
administrator. At least one copy of the rules and regulations, and any
amendments shall be given to each full-time police officer and full-time
firefighter.
   (B)   The commission shall provide that all tests shall be practical and
consist only of subjects which will fairly determine the capacity of persons
who are to be examined to perform the duties of the position to which an
appointment is to be made and shall include, but not be limited to, tests of
physical fitness and of manual skill and psychological testing.
   (C)   The commission shall provide, by the rules and regulations, for a
credit of ten percent in favor of all applicants for an appointment under civil
service to an entry-level position, who served in time of war or in any
expedition of the armed forces of the United States and who have equaled or
exceeded the minimum qualifying standards established by the city administrator
for such entry-level position. The city administrator shall define which
positions are entry-level positions, qualifying for such credit.
   (D)   The commission may conduct an investigation concerning and report upon
all matters regarding the enforcement and effect of the civil service act and
the rules and regulations prescribed hereunder.
   (E)   The commission may inspect all institutions, departments, positions,
and employments affected by the civil service act to determine whether such act
and all such rules and regulations are being obeyed. Such investigations may be
conducted by the commission or by any commissioner designated by the commission
for that purpose. The commission shall also make a like investigation on the
written petition of a citizen, duly verified, stating that irregularities or
abuses exist or setting forth, in concise language, the necessity for such an
investigation. If the city administrator, with the approval of the city
council, determines special legal counsel is necessary, the commission may be
represented by special counsel appointed by the commission in any such
investigation. In the course of such an investigation, the commission or
designated commissioner, shall have the power to administer oaths, issue
subpoenas to require the attendance of witnesses and the production of them of
books, papers, documents, and accounts appertaining to the investigation, and
to cause the deposition of witnesses, residing within or without the state, to
be taken in the manner prescribed by law for like depositions in civil actions
in the courts of this state. The oaths administered and subpoenas issued shall
have the same force and effect as the oaths administered by a district judge in
a judicial capacity, and subpoenas issued by the district courts of the state.
The failure of any person so subpoenaed to comply shall be deemed a violation
of the civil service act and shall be punishable as such. No investigation
shall be made pursuant to this section if there is a written accusation
concerning the same subject matter against a person in the civil service. Such
accusation shall be handled pursuant to section 2-265.
   (F)   The commission shall provide that all hearings and investigations
before the commission or designated commissioner shall be governed by the civil
service act and the rules of practice and procedure to be adopted by the
commission. In the conduct thereof, they shall not be bound by the technical
rules of evidence. No informality in any proceedings or hearing or in the
manner of taking testimony shall invalidate any order, decision, rule, or
regulation made, approved, or confirmed by the commission, except that no
order, decision, rule or regulation made by any designated commissioner
conducting any hearing or investigation alone shall be of any force or effect
unless it is concurred in by a majority of the appointed members of the
commission, including the vote of any commissioner making the investigation.
   (G)   The commission shall establish and maintain a roster of officers and
employees.
   (H)   The commission shall provide for, establish, and hold annual
competitive tests to determine the relative qualifications of persons who seek
employment in any position and, as a result thereof, establish eligible lists
for the various positions.
   (I)   The commission shall make recommendations concerning a reduction in
force policy to the mayor and city council.
   (J)   The commission shall keep such records as may be necessary for the
proper administration of the civil service act.
   (K)   The commission shall establish and maintain a list of names and
addresses of those eligible for appointment to or promotion within the
department. Such list shall be established and maintained through the open
competitive examinations, administered annually, as required in this article,
with the time and date of any examination to be established by the city
administrator. Any person having satisfactorily passed the examination for any
position shall be placed on the list of those eligible for appointment or
promotion to such position.
   (L)   The commission, upon request of the city administrator, shall certify
the names of the persons who are the three highest on the eligible list,
following the most recent examination, and whose qualifications have been
validated by the commission for a vacant position.
   (M)   The commission shall begin and conduct all civil suits which may be
necessary for the proper enforcement of the civil service act and the rules of
the commission. The commission may be represented, in any particular case, by
special counsel appointed by the commission.
(Ord. 2394, § 1(art. II, § 10), passed 12-16-1985; Ord. 3601, § 3, passed 4-25-
2011)
§§ 2-251—2-260 RESERVED.
DIVISION 3: CIVIL SERVICE PROVISIONS
§ 2-261 APPOINTMENTS AND PROMOTIONS.
   Appointing authority shall mean the city administrator. All appointments to
and promotions in the police and fire department shall be made solely on merit,
efficiency, and fitness, which shall be ascertained by open competitive
examination and impartial investigation by the commission. Appointments shall
mean all means of selecting, appointing, or employing any person to hold any
position or employment subject to civil service. Full-time police officers
shall mean police officers in positions which require certification by the
Nebraska Law Enforcement Training Center, created pursuant to section 81-1402,
who have the power of arrest, who are paid regularly by the city, and for whom
law enforcement is a full-time career, but shall not include clerical,
custodial, or maintenance personnel. Full-time firefighter shall mean duly
appointed firefighters who are paid regularly by the city and for whom
firefighting is a full-time career, but shall not include clerical, custodial,
or maintenance personnel who are not engaged in fire suppression. Promotion or
demotion shall mean changing from one position to another, accompanied by a
corresponding change in current rate of pay. Position shall mean an individual
job which is designated by an official title indicative of the nature of the
work.
(Ord. 2394, § 1(art. III, § 1), passed 12-16-1985; Ord. 3601, § 4, passed 4-25-
2011)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 1943, § 19-1829
§ 2-262 REQUIREMENTS FOR CIVIL SERVICE POSITION APPLICANTS.
   An applicant for a position of any kind under civil service shall be able to
read and write the English language, meet the minimum job qualifications of the
position as established by the city administrator and be of good moral
character. An applicant shall be required to disclose his or her past
employment history and his or her criminal record, if any. Prior to certifying
to the city administrator the names of the persons eligible for the position or
positions, the commission shall validate the qualifications of such persons.
(Ord. 2394, § 1(art. III, § 2), passed 12-16-1985)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 1943, § 19-1829
§ 2-263 FILLING OF VACANT POSITIONS.
   (A)   Considerations. If the city administrator, with the approval of the
city council, fills a vacancy in a position subject to the civil service act,
he or she shall consider factors, including, but not limited to:
      (1)   The multiple job skills recently or currently being performed by
the applicant which are necessary for the position;
      (2)   The knowledge, skills, and abilities of the applicant which are
necessary for the position;
      (3)   The performance appraisals of any applicant who is already employed
in the police or fire department, including any recent or pending disciplinary
actions involving the employee;
      (4)   The employment policies and staffing needs of the police or fire
department, together with contracts, ordinances, and statutes related thereto;
      (5)   Required federal, state or local certifications or licenses
necessary for the position; and
      (6)   The qualifications of the applicants who are already employed in
the department and have successfully completed all parts of the examination for
the position. No person shall be reinstated in or transferred, suspended, or
discharged from any such position or employment contrary to the civil services
act;
   (B)   Procedure for filling vacant positions. Whenever a position subject to
this article becomes vacant, the city administrator shall make requisition upon
the commission for the names and addresses of the persons eligible for
appointment and may decline to fill such vacancy for an indefinite period. Upon
the request of the appointing authority, the commission shall certify the names
of the persons who are the three highest on the eligible list, following the
most recent examination, and whose qualifications have been validated by the
commission for the vacant position. If the commission certifies fewer than
three names for each vacancy to the city administrator, the city administrator,
with the approval of the city council, may appoint one of such persons to fill
the vacancy, may decline to fill the vacancy, or may order that another
examination be held by the civil service commission. When more than one vacancy
exists for a position, the commission shall certify the next three highest
names on the eligibility list and ensure that three names are referred for each
vacancy designated to be filled by the city administrator.
   (C)   Temporary appointment. If a vacancy occurs and there is no eligible
list for the position or if the commission has not certified persons from the
eligible list, a temporary appointment may be made by the city administrator,
with the approval of the city council. Such temporary appointment shall not
continue for a period longer than six months. No person shall receive more than
one temporary appointment to serve more than six months as a temporary
appointee in any one fiscal year.
(Ord. 2394, § 1(art. III, § 3), passed 12-16-1985; Ord. 3601, § 5, passed 4-25-
2011; Ord. 3763, § 1, passed 3-24-2014)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 1943, § 19-1829
§ 2-264 PROBATIONARY PERIOD.
   (A)   To enable the city administrator to exercise a choice in the filling
of positions, no appointment, employment, or promotion in any position in the
civil service shall be deemed complete until after the expiration of a period
of:
      (1)   One year after certification by the Nebraska Law Enforcement
Training Center for police officers; and
      (2)   Six months probationary service for firefighters, as such
probationary period may be provided in the rules of the civil service
commission, during which time the city administrator may terminate the
employment of the person appointed by him or her if, during the performance
test thus afforded and upon an observation or consideration of the performance
of duty, the city administrator deems such person unfit or unsatisfactory for
service in the department.
   (B)   The city administrator, with the approval of the city council, may
appoint one of the other persons certified by the commission and such person
shall likewise enter upon such duties until some person is found who is fit for
appointment, employment, or promotion for the probationary period provided and
then the appointment, employment, or promotion shall be complete.
(Ord. 2394, § 1(art. III, § 4), passed 12-16-1985; Ord. 3601, § 6, passed 4-25-
2011)
Statutory reference:
   Probationary period, see Neb. RS 1943, § 19-1835
§ 2-265 DISCIPLINARY ACTIONS.
   (A)   Tenure of employment. The tenure of a person holding a position of
employment subject to this article shall be only during good behavior.
   (B)   Causes for disciplinary action. Any such person may be removed or
discharged, suspended with or without pay, demoted, reduced in rank, or
deprived of vacation, benefits, compensation, or other privileges, except
pension benefits, for any of the following reasons:
      (1)   Incompetency, inefficiency, or inattention to or dereliction of
duty;
      (2)   Dishonesty, prejudicial conduct, immoral conduct, insubordination,
discourteous treatment of the public or a fellow employee, any act of omission
or commission tending to injure the public service, any willful failure on the
part of the employee to properly conduct himself or herself, or any willful
violation of the Civil Service Act or the rules and regulations adopted
pursuant to such act;
      (3)   Mental or physical unfitness for the position which the employee
holds;
      (4)   Drunkenness or the use of intoxicating liquors, narcotics, or any
other habit-forming drug, liquid or preparation to such an extent that the use
interferes with the efficiency or mental or physical fitness of the employee or
precludes the employee from properly performing the functions and duties of his
or her position;
      (5)   Conviction of a felony or misdemeanor tending to injure the
employee’s ability to effectively perform the duties of his or her position;
and
      (6)   Any other act or failure to act which, in judgment of the civil
service commission, is sufficient to justify the offender to be an unsuitable
and unfit person to be employed in the public service.
   (C)   Disciplinary action procedure.
      (1)   No employee in the civil service who shall have been permanently
appointed or inducted into civil service shall be removed, suspended, demoted
or discharged except for cause and, then, only upon the written accusation of
the chief of police, chief of the fire department, a city administrator or the
city council, or any citizen or taxpayer.
      (2)   Allegations and disciplinary process.
         (a)   Upon receipt of a written accusation of employee misconduct, or
where the chief of police or chief of the fire department has information that
an employee has been or is involved in conduct which, if true, may warrant
discipline under the Nebraska Civil Service Act, the chief of police or chief
of the fire department shall cause an investigation to be immediately conducted
to determine the validity of the accusation or information. If, as part of the
investigation, the employee whose conduct is being investigated is questioned,
any applicable contract provisions concerning such questioning shall be
observed except as prohibited by law.
         (b)   Following the conclusions of his/her investigation, the chief of
police or chief of the fire department shall make a written recommendation to
the city administrator concerning appropriate disciplinary action, if any, to
be taken against the employee. The recommendation shall include a summary of:
            1.   The written accusation; provided that if the investigation is
initiated by the chief of police or chief of fire department upon information
concerning the employee’s alleged misconduct, the recommendation shall include
the chiefs accusation of misconduct;
            2.   The extent of the investigation;
            3.   The conclusions of the investigation;
            4.   The basis for the recommendation, including the facts upon
which the discipline is proposed; and
            5.   Any other information the chief may consider relevant to the
recommendation.
         (c)   Unless the recommended disciplinary action shall be for the
removal, suspension, demotion or discharge of the employee, the recommendation
of the chief or police or chief of the fire department shall be final. In those
instances where the recommendation of the chief of police or chief of the fire
department is final hereunder, the employee shall, commensurate with
notification to the city administrator, be personally served with a copy of the
recommendation and final action.
         (d)   Nothing in this section shall preclude the chief of police or
chief of the fire department from suspending any employee with pay at any time
during the investigation or following its conclusion, pending a final
determination by the city administrator.
      (3)   (a)   Upon receipt of any recommendation from the chief of police
or chief of the fire department that disciplinary action be taken against an
employee for his/her removal, suspension without pay, demotion or discharge,
the city administrator shall, within three working days, notify the employee in
writing of the following:
            1.   The recommendation of the chief of police or chief of the fire
department;
            2.   The basis of the recommendation, including a summary of the
facts upon which the discipline is proposed;
            3.   The date of a hearing to be conducted by the city
administrator which shall not be less than three days nor more than five days
from the date of service of notice on the employee;
            4.   That the purpose of such hearing shall be to allow the city
administrator to make a determination as to whether reasonable grounds exist to
support the proposed disciplinary action;
            5.   That the employee shall be given an opportunity at said
hearing to respond orally or in writing and to present his/her version of the
facts relevant to the incident giving rise to the proposed disciplinary action.
That the employee shall be entitled to representation by legal counsel or any
one person of his choice;
            6.   That his/her failure to appear or respond in writing by the
time set for the hearing shall be considered a waiver of that opportunity and
may result in the implementation of the proposed discipline. Notification shall
be in writing and be made by certified mail, return receipt requested, to the
residence of the employee as last shown on the personnel records of the city,
or by personally delivering same to the employee.
         (c)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to preclude the city
administrator upon the recommendation of the chief of police or chief of the
fire department from suspending any employee with pay pending the hearing or
the city administrator’s determination thereafter.
      (4)   Within five calendar days following the conclusion of the hearing
conducted by the city administrator, or the scheduled date of the hearing in
the event the employee fails to appear or present information in accordance
with the time frame provided, the city administrator shall make a determination
as to the disciplinary action, if any, to be taken against the employee. Said
determination shall consider all information presented to him/her in connection
with the hearing. No disciplinary action shall be taken except for cause as
defined by the law of the Nebraska Civil Services Act.
         (a)   The determination of the city administrator shall be in writing
and, if so determined, provide for the effective date of the implementation of
the disciplinary action. A copy of his/her determination shall be provided to
the employee and the chief of police or chief of the fire department.
Notification to the employee shall be made by certified mail, return receipt
requested, to the residence of the employee as last shown on the personnel
records of the city, or by personally delivering the same to the employee.
         (b)   The determination by the city administrator shall be final;
provided, however, that any employee so removed, suspended, demoted or
discharged may, within ten days following receipt of notification of such
disciplinary action, file with the secretary of the civil service commission a
written demand for an investigation and public hearing by the civil service
commission (the “commission”). The demand shall substantially be in the form
required by paragraph (D)(1) of this section, but shall not delay or otherwise
affect the effective date of the determination by the city administrator unless
mutually agreed between the employee and the city administrator.
         (c)   The failure of the employee to timely file a written demand
required by paragraph (C)(4)(b) of this section shall be construed as a waiver
of all further proceedings or rights under this section or the Nebraska Civil
Service Act. The failure of the city administrator or chief of police or chief
of the fire department to meet the time constraints imposed under this
paragraph (C) of this section shall not be construed to rescind or prohibit any
disciplinary recommendation or action.
         (d)   In the event the chief of police or chief of the fire department
is the subject of any disciplinary investigation based upon written accusation,
the city shall not impose any disciplinary action upon him/her resulting in
removal, demotion, suspension without pay or discharge without the opportunity
for a predetermination hearing following notice. Provided that the chief of
police or chief of the fire department shall be entitled to invoke the rights
accorded to any other employee under paragraph (D) of this section; provided,
further, however, that he/she has made a demand as required by subparagraph (2)
of this paragraph (C) of this section.
   (D)   Investigation; public hearing by civil service commission.
      (1)   Upon receipt of a timely written demand for investigation and
public hearing, the secretary of the civil service commission shall notify the
city administrator by providing him/her with a copy of the demand within three
days following its receipt. The demand shall identify the purpose of the
investigation, which shall be limited to whether the disciplinary action:
         (a)   Was arbitrary or capricious; or
         (b)   Taken for political or religious reasons and, if so, the basis
of the employee’s belief concerning the same.
      (2)   Following such notification from the secretary of the civil service
commission, the city administrator shall, within seven days, furnish the
secretary with copies of:
         (a)   The recommendation of the chief of police or chief of the fire
department;
         (b)   Any written materials or information supplied to the city
administrator by the employee in conjunction with the predetermination hearing;
         (c)   The city administrator’s own determination;
         (d)   Any other material or information the city administrator may
consider as appropriate to those matters raised by the employee’s demand for
investigation and hearing;
         (e)   A copy of all materials furnished to the secretary shall also be
forwarded by the city administrator to the employee.
      (3)   Following receipt of the materials or information from the city
administrator, the secretary of the civil service commission shall schedule a
meeting of the commission at a time not less than ten days nor more than 20
days following receipt of the employee’s demand for investigation and hearing.
At the meeting, the commission shall first make an investigation by reviewing
all materials or information submitted by the city administrator in order to
determine whether there was any basis for determining that cause existed for
imposing disciplinary action against the employee; provided that nothing herein
shall be construed to preclude the commission from supplementing that
information to include whatever other information or material the commission
might deem appropriate to its investigation.
      (4)   Unless the commission concludes upon such investigation there
existed no basis for a determination of cause for disciplinary action against
the employee, the commission shall immediately thereafter convene a public
hearing to determine whether by a preponderance of the evidence the
disciplinary action taken against the employee should be affirmed. In the event
the commission concludes in its investigation that there existed no basis for a
determination of cause for disciplinary action, the commission shall order the
employee to be reinstated or reemployed retroactive to the effective date of
the disciplinary action.
      (5)   The public hearing shall be conducted in accordance with the
Nebraska Civil Service Act and shall be duly recorded or reported. It shall
continue from day to day until closed; provided, further:
         (a)   The chair shall be the presiding officer at the hearing;
provided, however, that he/she may seek the assistance of counsel in making
ruling on evidentiary matters.
         (b)   Counsel for the commission shall be entitled to participate on
behalf of the commission during the hearing to facilitate its understanding or
determination of the issues.
         (c)   The employee shall be permitted to appear in person and by
counsel to present his/her case.
         (d)   The city shall be permitted to appear through the office of the
city administrator or counsel, or both.
         (e)   Both parties may present evidence by oral testimony or documents
and shall have the right of cross-examination.
      (6)   In conducting its hearing, the commission, through each of its
members, shall have the power to administer oaths, subpoena witnesses and
compel the production of books and papers pertinent to its investigation or
hearing. Any person who shall fail to appear in response to a subpoena, or to
answer any question or produce any books or papers pertinent to any such
investigation or hearing, or who shall knowingly give false testimony therein
shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and be subject to such penalties as may be
fixed by ordinance.
      (7)   Following the conclusion of the public hearing, the commission
shall, within ten days thereof and based upon a preponderance of the evidence,
make a determination affirming the disciplinary action; modifying the same to a
suspension with or without pay or demotion in position or pay; or ordering the
employee’s reinstatement or reemployment in accordance with such conditions or
terms as it may determine appropriate. The findings and judgment of the
commission shall be certified in writing to the city, by serving the city
administrator and the employee, by serving the employee or his/her counsel of
record, by the secretary by certified mail, return receipt requested, or by
personal serve and so enforced.
      (8)   Any appeal from the order or judgment of the commission shall be
conducted pursuant to the Nebraska Civil Service Act.
      (9)   The time constraints imposed by paragraph (D) of this section shall
be directory and not jurisdictional. The failure of the commission to meet
those constraints shall not be construed to prohibit it from conducting any
investigation or public hearing nor imposing any disciplinary action, including
the affirmation of the action taken by the city administrator.
(Ord. 2394, § 1(art. III, § 5), passed 12-16-1985; Ord. 2442, §§ 1, 2, passed
11-24-1986; Ord. 2495, § 1, passed 2-8-1988; Ord. 3601, § 7, passed 4-25-2011)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 1943, § 19-1832
§ 2-266 LEAVE OF ABSENCE.
   A leave of absence with or without pay may be granted by the city
administrator, with the approval of a majority of the city council, to any
person under civil service. The city administrator shall give notice of such
leave to the commission. All appointments for temporary employment resulting
from such leaves of absence shall be made from the eligible list, if any, of
the civil service.
(Ord. 2394, § 1(art. III, § 6), passed 12-16-1985)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 1943, § 19-1838
ARTICLE VI: LAW ENFORCEMENT POLICE RESERVE FORCE
Section
Division 1: Generally
   
2-267   Establishment of law enforcement reserve force
   
2-268   Purpose of the reserve force
   
2-269   Reserve force members as peace officers
   
2-270   Reserve force qualifications; duties; training; manual; weapons;
coordinator
   
2-271   Compensation, benefits and equipment for members of the reserve force
   
2-272   Reserve force member’s rights and duties when activated
   
2-273   Reserve officer bond
   
2-274   Reserve force supplementary capacity
   
2-275   Members of the reserve force as volunteers; basis of compensation and
worker’s compensation coverage
Statutory reference:
   Law enforcement reserve forces, see Neb. RS 1943, §§ 81-1438 et seq.
DIVISION 1: GENERALLY
§ 2-267 ESTABLISHMENT OF LAW ENFORCEMENT RESERVE FORCE.
   There is hereby established a law enforcement-police reserve force
(hereinafter referred to in sections 2-267 through 2-275 as the reserve force).
Members of the reserve force shall be appointed at the discretion of the city
council. The reserve force shall consist of such number of members as shall be
determined from time to time by the city council. The reserve force and its
members shall be under the direction of the chief of police.
(Ord. No. 3271, § 1, 4-14-2003)
Statutory reference:
   Law enforcement reserve forces authorized, see Neb. RS 1943, § 81-1438
§ 2-268 PURPOSE OF THE RESERVE FORCE.
    The reserve force has been established to assist the city police department
and its fulltime police officers both in the day-to-day delivery of law
enforcement services and in emergency situations. Members of the reserve force
will act in a supplementary capacity to the fulltime police force and will not
be utilized as a means to reduce the authorized size of the city police
department.
(Ord. No. 3271, § 1, 4-14-2003)
§ 2-269 RESERVE FORCE MEMBERS AS PEACE OFFICERS.
   (1)   Each member of the reserve force shall serve as a peace officer, as
that term is defined by the laws of this state, and act on the order and at the
discretion and direction of the chief of police.
   (2)   Either the mayor or the chief of police may dismiss any member of the
reserve force for any reason and without any hearing whatsoever; and each
member of the reserve force shall have the right to resign from the reserve
force at any time. The civil service ordinance for the City of Bellevue shall
not apply to the members of the reserve force.
(Ord. No. 3271, § 1, 4-14-2003)
Statutory reference:
   Service of reserve officers as police officers, see Neb. RS 1943, § 81-1440
§ 2-270 RESERVE FORCE QUALIFICATIONS; DUTIES; TRAINING; MANUAL; WEAPONS;
COORDINATOR.
   (1)   The state commission on law enforcement and criminal justice (the
commission) is by state law required to establish minimum physical, mental,
educational and moral qualifications for all members of any reserve force. The
commission is also required by state law to establish minimum training
standards and be responsible for providing such training for all members of any
reserve force.
   (2)   Each member of the reserve force shall receive training through or
under the supervision of the Nebraska Law Enforcement Training Center and shall
achieve the minimum training standards prescribed by the commission, all to be
done within one year from the date of the member’s appointment by the city
council to the reserve force.
   (3)   The city council shall adopt and publish, from time to time, a reserve
force manual setting forth the minimum qualifications, training standards, and
standard operating procedures for the reserve force and such higher
qualifications, standards and operating procedures as may actually be used.
   (4)   No member of the reserve force may carry a weapon or otherwise act as
a peace officer until he/she has been approved by the city council. After such
approval, a member of the reserve force may carry a weapon only when authorized
by the chief of police and only when discharging official duties as a duly
constituted peace officer. Except while on duty pursuant to official duty as a
peace officer or as otherwise specifically authorized by law, a member of the
reserve force shall not carry a weapon.
   (5)   A member of the reserve force shall wear no insignia of rank while
serving under the direction of the chief of police and serving with regular
police officers.
   (6)   The chief of police shall appoint a regular fulltime police officer as
the reserve force coordinating and supervising officer. Such regular fulltime
police officer shall report directly to the chief of police.
(Ord. No. 3271, § 1, 4-14-2003)
§ 2-271 COMPENSATION, BENEFITS AND EQUIPMENT FOR MEMBERS OF THE RESERVE FORCE.
   (1)   Each member of the reserve force shall be paid at a minimum rate of
$1.00 per year. The city council may provide, from time to time, for additional
monetary assistance for the purchase and maintenance of equipment (hereinafter
defined in subsection (4) of this section) used by the members of the reserve
force.
   (2)   The city council shall provide for hospital and medical assistance to
the members of the reserve force who sustain injury in the course of performing
official duties in accordance with this chapter 2, article VI of the Bellevue
City Code. Such benefits shall be provided in the same manner as those benefits
provided for fulltime police officers.
   (3)   Nothing in the Bellevue City Code shall be construed to authorize or
permit a member of the reserve force to become eligible for participation in
any pension fund or retirement fund or system created by the laws of the State
of Nebraska to which a fulltime police officer is privy or may become a party.
   (4)   Uniforms, shoes, badges and other ancillary equipment to be determined
by the chief of police and used by a member of the reserve force (collectively,
the equipment) shall be purchased by the city and the equipment shall remain
the property of the city. Upon separation from the reserve force, the member
separated shall return all of the equipment that has been entrusted to him/her
to the chief of police.
(Ord. No. 3271, § 1, 4-14-2003)
Statutory reference:
   Compensation and benefits for reserve officers, see Neb. RS 1943, § 81-1441
§ 2-272 RESERVE FORCE MEMBER’S RIGHTS AND DUTIES WHEN ACTIVATED.
   Members of the reserve force, upon being activated by the chief of police
and while on assigned duty, shall be vested with the same rights, privileges,
obligations and duties of any other peace officer of this state.
(Ord. No. 3271, § 1, 4-14-2003)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 1943, § 81-1443
§ 2-273 RESERVE OFFICER BOND. 
   No appointment of a member of the reserve force shall be valid until either
a bond in the amount of $2,000.00, payable to the City of Bellevue, has been
filed with the city clerk by the member appointed or a blanket surety bond has
been filed with the city clerk arranged and paid for by the city council that
bonds all members of the reserve force. Such bond shall be subject to the
provisions of Neb. RS § 11-1.
(Ord. No. 3271, § 1, 4-14-2003)
Statutory reference:
   Bond, see Neb. RS 1943, § 81-1444
§ 2-274 RESERVE FORCE SUPPLEMENTARY CAPACITY.
   (1)   The city council will not reduce the authorized size of the city
police department because of the establishment or utilization of the reserve
force.
   (2)   Members of the reserve force shall act only in a supplementary
capacity to the regular city police force and shall in no case assume fulltime
duties of peace officers without first complying with all requirements for such
fulltime peace officers.
(Ord. No. 3271, § 1, 4-14-2003)
Statutory reference:
   Bond, see Neb. RS 1943, § 81-1444
§ 2-275 MEMBERS OF THE RESERVE FORCE AS VOLUNTEERS; BASIS OF COMPENSATION AND
WORKER'S COMPENSATION COVERAGE. 
   (1)   Notwithstanding the provision of section
2-271 of this Code, each member of the reserve force shall be an individual who
performs for and donates hours of service to the city for civic, charitable and
humanitarian reasons, without promise, expectation or receipt of any
significant compensation for his/her services rendered and he/she shall be
considered a volunteer as that term is defined by the code of federal
regulations.
   (2)   In determining the compensation to be paid to any member of the
reserve force for injuries resulting in disability or death received in the
performance of his/her duties as a member of the reserve force or pursuant to
an order of any court of competent jurisdiction, the wages of such member of
the reserve force shall be taken to be those received by him/her from his/her
regular employer and he/she shall receive such proportion thereof as he/she is
entitled to under the provisions of the workers’ compensation laws of this
state.
(Ord. No. 3271, § 1, 4-14-2003)
CHAPTER 2.5: SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESSES
Section
   
2.5-1   Purpose and intent
   
2.5-2   Definitions
   
2.5-3   Classification of businesses
   
2.5-4   License required; application for license
   
2.5-5   Investigation of application
   
2.5-6   License issuance and display
   
2.5-7   License fee
   
2.5-8   Inspections
   
2.5-9   License term and renewal
   
2.5-10   License suspension
   
2.5-11   License revocation
   
2.5-12   Transfer of license
   
2.5-13   Location of sexually oriented business
   
2.5-14   Nonconforming uses
   
2.5-15   Films or videos
   
2.5-16   Additional regulations concerning public nudity or semi-nudity
   
2.5-17   Additional regulations concerning alcohol
   
2.5-18   Prohibition of children in a sexually oriented business
   
2.5-19   Hours of operation
   
2.5-20   Display of sexually oriented materials to general public
   
2.5-21   Enforcement and penalties
§ 2.5-1 PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   It is the purpose of this chapter to regulate sexually oriented businesses
to promote the health, safety, morals and general welfare of the citizens of
the city and to establish reasonable and uniform regulations to prevent the
deleterious location and concentration of sexually oriented businesses within
the city. The provisions of this chapter have neither the purpose nor effect of
imposing a limitation or restriction on the content of any communicative
materials, including sexually oriented materials. Similarly, it is not the
intent nor effect of this chapter to restrict or deny access by adults to
sexually oriented materials protected by the First Amendment, or to deny access
by the distributors and exhibitors of sexually oriented entertainment to their
intended market. Neither is it the intent nor effect of this chapter to condone
or legitimize the distribution of obscene material or sexual activities.
(Ord. 3553, § 1(2.5-1), passed 1-11-2010)
§ 2.5-2 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning:
   ADULT ARCADE. Any place to which the public is permitted or invited wherein
coin operated or slug-operated or electronically, electrically or mechanically
controlled still or motion picture machines, projectors, or other image
producing devices are maintained to show images to five or fewer persons per
machine at any one time, and where the images so displayed are distinguished or
characterized by the depicting or describing of “specified sexual activities”
and/or “specified anatomical areas”.
   ADULT BOOKSTORE, ADULT VIDEO STORE OR ADULT NOVELTY STORE.
      (1)   A commercial establishment which has a significant or substantial
portion of its stock-in-trade, or derives a significant or substantial portion
of its revenues or devotes a significant or substantial portion of its interior
business or advertising, or maintains a substantial section of its sales or
display space for sale or rental, for any form of consideration, any one or
more of the following:
         (a)   Books, magazines, periodicals or other printed matter, or
photographs, films, motion pictures, video cassettes, video reproductions,
slides, laser or compact discs, or other visual representations which are
characterized by their emphasis upon the exhibition or display of “specified
sexual activities” or “specified anatomical areas”; or
         (b)   Instruments, devices, or paraphernalia which are designed for
use or marketed primarily for stimulation of human genital organs or
sadomasochistic use or abuse of the user or others.
      (2)   A commercial establishment may have other business purposes that do
not involve the offering for sale or rental of material depicting or describing
“specified sexual activities” or “specified anatomical areas” and still be
categorized as an adult bookstore, adult novelty store or adult video store.
Such other business purposes will not serve to exempt such commercial
establishment from being categorized as an adult bookstore, adult novelty
store, or adult video store so long as one of its principal business purposes
is the offering for sale or rental for consideration the specified materials
which depict or describe “specified sexual activities” or “specified anatomical
areas” or if the business advertises the sale or rental of any such material in
a way that can be seen or heard from the outside of the location.
   ADULT CABARET. A nightclub, bar, restaurant, or similar commercial
establishment which regularly features any of the following:
      (1)   Persons who appear in a state of nudity.
      (2)   Live performances which are characterized by the exposure of
“specified anatomical areas” or by “specified sexual activities.”
      (3)   Films, motion pictures, video cassettes or video reproductions,
slides, laser or compact discs, or other visual representations which are
characterized by their emphasis upon the exhibition or display of “specified
sexual activities” or “specified anatomical areas.”
   ADULT MOTEL. A hotel, motel or similar commercial establishment which does
any of the following:
      (1)   Offers accommodations to the public for any form of consideration
and provides patrons with closed-circuit television transmissions, films,
motion pictures, videocassettes, slides, compact discs or other photographic
reproductions which are characterized by the depiction or description of
“specified sexual activities” or “specified anatomical areas” and has a sign
visible from the public right-of-way which advertises the availability of this
adult type of photographic reproductions.
      (2)   Offers a sleeping room for rent for a period of time that is less
than ten hours.
      (3)   Allows a tenant or occupant of a sleeping room to sub-rent the room
for a period of time that is less than ten hours.
   ADULT MOTION PICTURE THEATER. A commercial establishment where, for any form
of consideration, films, motion pictures, video cassettes, slides, or similar
photographic reproductions are regularly shown which are characterized by, or
where the principal subject of depiction or description is, “
   ADULT THEATER. A theater, concert hall, auditorium, or similar commercial
establishment which regularly features persons who appear in a state of nudity
or live performances which are characterized by the exposure of “specified
anatomical areas” or by “specified sexual activities.”
   EMPLOYEE, EMPLOY and EMPLOYMENT. Describe and pertain to any person who
performs any service on the premises of a sexually oriented business on a full-
time, part-time or contract basis, regardless of whether the person is
denominated as an employee, independent contractor, agent, or by another
status. EMPLOYEE does not include a person exclusively on the premises for
repair or maintenance of the premises, or for the delivery of goods to the
premises.
   ESCORT. A person who, for consideration, agrees or offers to act as a
companion, guide, or date for another person, or who agrees or offers to
privately model lingerie or to privately perform a striptease for another
person.
   ESCORT AGENCY. A person or business association, who furnishes, offers to
furnish, or advertises to furnish escorts as one of its primary business
purposes for a fee, tip, or other consideration.
   ESTABLISHMENT. Any of the following:
      (1)   The opening or commencement of any sexually oriented business as a
new business.
      (2)   The conversion of an existing business to a sexually oriented
business or from one type of sexually oriented business to another type or
types of sexually oriented business.
      (3)   The addition of any sexually oriented business to any other
existing sexually oriented business.
      (4)   The relocation of any sexually oriented business.
   LICENSEE. A person in whose name a license to operate a sexually oriented
business has been issued but also includes the individual listed as an
applicant on the application for a license, as well as all members, partners
and shareholders of any proprietorship, partnership, limited liability company
or partnership, corporation, association and any other legal entity which owns,
or is owned by, such legal entity.
   MANAGER’S STATION. A permanently designated area marked accordingly within
an adult oriented business where an adult oriented business manager is located
in the normal course of operations.
   NUDE OR SEMI-NUDE MODEL STUDIO. A commercial establishment which regularly
features a person who appears in a state of nudity and is provided to be
observed, sketched, drawn, painted, sculpted, or photographed by other persons
who pay money or any form of consideration. The term NUDE MODEL STUDIO does not
include a proprietary school licensed by the state; or a college, junior
college or university supported entirely or in part by public taxation; or a
private college or university which maintains and operates educational programs
in which credits are transferable to a college, junior college or university
supported entirely or partly by taxation.
   NUDE, NUDITY or STATE OF NUDITY. The showing or depiction of the human post-
pubertal male or female genitals, pubic area or buttocks with less than a full
opaque covering, the showing or depiction of covered male genitals in a
discernibly turgid state, or the showing or depiction of the female breast with
less than a full opaque covering of any portion thereof below the top of the
areolae of the nipple. The term NUDE, NUDITY or STATE OF NUDITY includes the
entire portion of the human female breast below the top of the areolae of the
nipple, but does not include any portion of the cleavage of the human female
breast exhibited by a dress, blouse, shirt, leotard, bathing suit or other
clothing.
   OPERATE or CAUSE TO BE OPERATED. To cause to function or to put or keep in a
state of doing business. The term OPERATOR means any person on the premises of
a sexually oriented business who is authorized to exercise operational control
of the business, or who causes to function or who puts or keeps in operation,
the business. A person may be found to be OPERATING or CAUSING TO BE OPERATED a
sexually oriented business regardless of whether or not that person is an
owner, part owner, or licensee of the business.
   PERSON. An individual, proprietorship, partnership, limited liability
company or partnership, corporation, association or other legal entity,
including all members, partners and shareholders of such legal entity, and any
other legal entity which owns, or is owned by, such legal entity.
   RESIDENTIAL. A single-family, two-family, or multiple-family use as defined
in the Ordinances of the City of Bellevue.
   SEMI-NUDE. A state of dress in which clothing covers no more than the
genitals, pubic region, and the female breast below the top of the areola of
the nipple, with other portions of the body covered by supporting straps,
materials or devices. The term SEMI-NUDE includes the entire portion of the
human female breast below the top of the areolae of the nipple, but does not
include any portion of the cleavage of the human female breast exhibited by a
dress, blouse, shirt, leotard, bathing suit or other clothing.
   SEXUAL ENCOUNTER CENTER. A business or commercial enterprise that offers for
any form of consideration:
      (1)   Physical contact in the form of wrestling or tumbling between
persons of the same or opposite sex when one or more of the persons is in a
state of nudity or semi-nude.
      (2)   Activities between male and female persons and/or persons of the
same sex when one or more of the persons is in a state of nudity or semi-nude.
   SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESS. An adult arcade, adult bookstore or adult
novelty store or adult video store, adult cabaret, adult motel, adult motion
picture theater, adult theater, escort agency, semi-nude model studio or sexual
encounter center.
   SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREAS. The human, post-pubertal male or female
genitals, pubic area, or buttocks with less than a full opaque covering, the
male genitals in a discernibly turgid state even if completely and opaquely
covered, or the female breast with less than a full opaque covering of any
portion thereof below the top of the areolae of the nipple.
   SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITIES.
      (1)   The fondling or other erotic touching of human genitals, pubic
area, buttocks or female breasts whether clothed or unclothed;
      (2)   Acts whether actual or simulated, of human sexual intercourse, oral
copulation, masturbation, or sodomy; or
      (3)   Excretory functions as part of or in connection with any of the
activities set forth in subsections (1) through (2) of this definition.
   SUBSTANTIAL ENLARGEMENT. The increase in floor area occupied by the business
by more than 25 percent as the floor area exists on the date the ordinance from
which this chapter is derived takes effect or on the date of the issuance of a
sexually oriented business license.
   TRANSFER OF OWNERSHIP OR CONTROL.
      (1)   The sale, lease or sublease of the business;
      (2)   The transfer of securities which constitute a controlling interest
in the business, whether by sale, exchange or similar means; or
      (3)   The establishment of a trust, gift, or other similar legal device
which transfers the ownership or control of the business, except for transfer
by bequest or other operation of law upon the death of the person possessing
the ownership or control.
(Ord. 3553, § 1(2.5-2), passed 1-11-2010)
§ 2.5-3 CLASSIFICATION OF BUSINESSES.
   Sexually oriented businesses are classified as follows:
   (A)   Adult arcade;
   (B)   Adult bookstore, adult video store or adult novelty store;
   (C)   Adult cabaret;
   (D)   Adult motel;
   (E)   Adult motion picture theater;
   (F)   Adult theater;
   (G)   Escort agency;
   (H)   Nude or semi-nude model studio;
   (I)   Sexual encounter center.
(Ord. 3553, § 1(2.5-3), passed 1-11-2010)
§ 2.5-4 LICENSE REQUIRED; APPLICATION FOR LICENSE.
   (A)   It is unlawful to establish, operate, or cause to operate, a sexually
oriented business without a valid license issued by the city for the particular
type of classification of business.
   (B)   An application for a license must be made to the planning director on
a form provided by the planning director.
   (C)   The applicant must meet all qualifications stated in this chapter
before a license is issued and continuously thereafter during the license term.
The application shall require and the applicant shall provide such information
and documentation as is specified in this chapter.
   (D)   If a person who wishes to operate a sexually oriented business is an
individual, he/she must sign the application for a license as applicant. If a
person who wishes to operate a sexually oriented business is other than an
individual, each officer, director, general partner, managing partner or other
person who will participate directly in decisions relating to management of the
business shall sign the application for a license as applicant. Each applicant
must meet the qualifications as stated in this chapter and each applicant shall
be considered as a licensee if a license is granted.
   (E)   The completed application for a sexually oriented business license
shall contain the following information and shall be accompanied by the
following documents:
      (1)   If the applicant is:
         (a)   An individual, the individual shall state his or her legal name
and any aliases and submit proof that he or she is 21 or more years of age;
         (b)   A partnership or limited liability company, the partnership or
limited liability company shall state its complete name, and the names of all
partners or members, residence address and whether the partnership or company
is general or limited, a copy of the partnership, LLC/LLP organizational
agreement, if any, the names of any parent or subsidiary companies (and the
names of all partners, members, officers, directors or stockholders of such
companies), and verification of current state registration, if any;
         (c)   A corporation, the corporation shall state its complete name,
the date of its incorporation, evidence that the corporation is in good
standing under the laws of its state of incorporation, the name, capacity and
address of all officers, directors and stockholders, and the name of the
registered corporate agent, names of any parent or subsidiary companies (and
the names of all partners, members, officers, directors or stockholders of such
companies), and the address of the registered office for service of process.
      (2)   Name of business. If the applicant intends to operate the sexually
oriented business under a name other than that of the applicant, he or she must
state the sexually oriented business’s name and submit any registration
documents.
      (3)   Whether the applicant has been convicted of a crime as specified in
section 2.5-6(A)(7)(a), and, if so, the crime, date, place and jurisdiction.
      (4)   Whether the applicant has had a previous license or holds a present
license under this chapter or other similar sexually oriented business
ordinances from another city or county and whether any license has been denied,
suspended or revoked in this or any other jurisdiction, including the name and
location of the sexually oriented business for which the permit was denied,
suspended or revoked, as well as the date of the denial, suspension or
revocation, and whether the applicant has been a partner or member in a
partnership or limited liability company or an officer, director, or
stockholder of a corporation that is licensed under this chapter or in another
jurisdiction or whose license has previously been denied, suspended or revoked,
including the name and location of the sexually oriented business for which the
license was denied, suspended or revoked as well as the date of denial,
suspension or revocation.
      (5)   Whether the applicant holds any other licenses under this chapter
or operates other similar sexually oriented businesses in another city or
county and, if so, the names and locations of such other businesses.
      (6)   The classification of license for which the applicant is filing.
      (7)   The location of the proposed sexually oriented business, including
a legal description of the property, street address and telephone number(s), if
any.
      (8)   The applicant’s mailing address and residential address.
      (9)   The applicant’s driver’s license number, social security number,
and state or federal issued tax identification number.
      (10)   The application must be accompanied by a sketch or diagram showing
the configuration of the premises, including a statement of total floor space
occupied by the business. The sketch or diagram need not be professionally
prepared but must be drawn to a designated scale or drawn with marked
dimensions of the interior of the premises to an accuracy of plus or minus six
inches.
   (F)   A person commits a misdemeanor if he or she operates a sexually
oriented business without a valid license issued by the city for that
particular classification of business.
   (G)   The applicant must be qualified according to the provisions of this
chapter and the premises must be inspected and found to be in compliance with
the law and this chapter by the city planning director and police department.
   (H)   The fact that a person possesses other types of state or county
licenses does not exempt him or her from the requirement of obtaining a
sexually oriented business license.
(Ord. 3553, § 1(2.5-4), passed 1-11-2010)
§ 2.5-5 INVESTIGATION OF APPLICATION.
   (A)   Upon receipt of a copy of an application for a sexually oriented
business license, the chief of police or designee shall conduct an
investigation of the applicant and application including a location inspection
and shall issue an investigation report.
   (B)   The chief of police or designee shall forward a copy of the
application and investigation report to the building inspector and the building
inspector shall inspect the location.
(Ord. 3553, § 1(2.5-5), passed 1-11-2010)
§ 2.5-6 LICENSE ISSUANCE AND DISPLAY.
   (A)   The planning director shall approve or deny the issuance of a license
to an applicant within 45 days after receipt of an application. The planning
director may deny the application if he or she finds one or more of the
following to be true:
      (1)   An applicant is not then 21 or more years of age.
      (2)   An applicant is currently required to register pursuant to the
Nebraska Sex Offender Registration Act.
      (3)   An applicant or an applicant’s spouse is overdue in his or her
payment to the city or county of fees, fines, or penalties assessed against him
or her or imposed upon him or her in relation to any business, including any
proprietorship, partnership, limited liability company or partnership,
corporation, association and any other legal entity, as well as all members,
partners and shareholders of such legal entity.
      (4)   An applicant has failed to provide information reasonably necessary
for issuance of the license including all information requested on the
application form or has falsely answered a question or request for information
on the application form.
      (5)   The premises to be used for the sexually oriented business is not
in compliance with state or local building codes, rules and regulations.
      (6)   The investigation, inspection and license fees required by this
chapter have not been paid.
      (7)   An applicant has been convicted of a crime:
         (a)   Involving any of the following offenses as described in state
statutes:
            1.   Prostitution;
            2.   Pandering;
            3.   Keeping a place of prostitution;
            4.   Debauching a minor;
            5.   Obscenity;
            6.   Contributing to the delinquency of a child;
            7.   Child pornography;
            8.   Possession, distribution or sale of child pornography;
            9.   Incest;
            10.   Public indecency;
            11.   Allowing a child to participate in child pornography;
            12.   Sexual assault or sexual assault of a child as described in
state statutes;
            13.   Solicitation of a child, or harboring a runaway child as
described in State statutes; or
            14.   Criminal attempt, conspiracy, or solicitation to commit any
of the foregoing offenses;
         (b)   For which:
            1.   Less than five years have elapsed since the date of conviction
or the date of release from confinement for the conviction, or the date of
release from probation or parole, whichever is the later date, if the
conviction is a misdemeanor offense;
            2.   Less than ten years have elapsed since the date of conviction
or the date of release from confinement for the conviction, or the date of
release from probation or parole, whichever is the later date, if the
conviction is a felony offense; or
            3.   Less than ten years have elapsed since the date of the last
conviction or the date of release from confinement for the last conviction, or
the date of release from probation or parole, whichever is the later date, if
the convictions are of two or more misdemeanors of the offenses listed in
subsection (A)(7)(a) of this section.
   (B)   The fact that a conviction is being appealed has no effect on the
disqualification of the applicant under subsection (A) of this section.
   (C)   An applicant who has been convicted of an offense listed in subsection
(A)(7)(a) of this section may qualify for a sexually oriented business license
only when the time period required by subsection (A)(7)(b) of this section has
elapsed and all fines arising from the criminal offenses have been fully paid.
   (D)   The planning director shall approve or deny the issuance of a license
to an applicant within 45 days after receipt of an application. The planning
director, upon approving the issuance of a sexually oriented business license,
shall cause to be sent to the applicant, by certified mail, return receipt
requested, written notice of that action and that the applicant must pay the
investigation/inspection and license fees at the office of the planning
director. The planning director’s approval of the issuance of a license does
not authorize the applicant to operate a sexually oriented business until the
applicant has paid all fees required by this chapter and has obtained
possession of the license. The planning director, upon denial of the issuance
of a sexually oriented business license, shall cause to be sent to the
applicant, by certified mail, return receipt requested, written notice of that
action and the applicant can appeal such decision to the city council, in
writing filed with the city clerk, within 30 days of the date of denial. The
city council will hear the appeal within 30 days from the date the written
appeal is received. After hearing, the city council will affirm or reverse the
decision of the planning director within 30 days after conclusion of the
hearing. The hearing will be informal and rules of evidence do not apply. The
applicant has the right to be represented. In case of reversal, the license
shall issue and the applicant shall be subject to the provisions of this
chapter.
   (E)   The license, if granted, must state on its face the name of the person
or persons to whom it is granted, the expiration date, the address of the
sexually oriented business, and the classification for which the license is
issued. The license must be posted in a conspicuous place at or near the
entrance to the sexually oriented business so that it may be easily read at any
time.
   (F)   A sexually oriented business license shall issue for only one
classification and the applicant can operate a business for only one licensed
location in the city.
   (G)   The police department, fire department, and the city planning director
shall complete their certification that the premises is in compliance or not in
compliance within 20 days of receipt of the application by the planning
director. The certifications of the police department and fire department shall
be promptly presented to the planning director.
(Ord. 3553, § 1(2.5-6), passed 1-11-2010)
§ 2.5-7 LICENSE FEE.
   (A)   The annual license fee for a sexually oriented business shall be as
stated in the Master Fee Schedule.
   (B)   In addition to the annual license fee to be paid to the city at
license issue as required by subsection (A) of this section, an applicant for
an initial sexually oriented business license shall, at the time of making
application, pay a nonrefundable investigation fee of $250.00 for the city to
conduct an investigation of the application and for the city also to conduct
inspections of the location to ensure that the proposed sexually oriented
business is in compliance with the location and other restrictions set forth in
section 2.5-13
(Ord. 3553, § 1(2.5-7), passed 1-11-2010)
§ 2.5-8 INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   An applicant, licensee, operator or employee shall permit
representatives of the city police department, fire department, city building
inspector, and any other state, county or city agency in the performance of any
function connected with the enforcement of this chapter or other applicable
laws, to inspect the premises of a sexually oriented business, for the purpose
of ensuring compliance with the law, at any time it is occupied or open for
business.
   (B)   An applicant, licensee or operator of a sexually oriented business or
his or her agent or employee commits a misdemeanor offense if he refuses to
permit an inspection of the premises by a representative of an agency
designated in subsection (A) of this section at any time it is occupied or open
for business.
(Ord. 3553, § 1(2.5-8), passed 1-11-2010)
§ 2.5-9 LICENSE TERM AND RENEWAL.
   (A)   Each license shall expire one year from the date of issuance and may
be renewed only by making application as provided in this chapter.
   (B)   A sexually oriented business license may be renewed only by making
application as provided in section 2.5-4. Application for renewal should be
made at least 45 days before the expiration date, and when made less than 45
days before the expiration date, the expiration of the license will not be
affected by the pendency of the application.
(Ord. 3553, § 1(2.5-9), passed 1-11-2010)
§ 2.5-10 LICENSE SUSPENSION.
   (A)   The chief of police shall direct the planning director to suspend a
license for a period not to exceed 30 days if he or she determines that a
licensee or an employee of a licensee:
      (1)   Violated or is not in compliance with any section of this chapter.
      (2)   Is required to register under the Nebraska Sex Offender
Registration Act.
      (3)   Engaged in or permitted consumption of alcoholic beverages on the
sexually oriented business premises.
      (4)   Refused to allow an inspection of the sexually oriented business
premises as authorized by this chapter.
      (5)   Knowingly permitting illegal or criminal activity by any person on
the sexually oriented business premises.
   (B)   Notice of the suspension shall be sent to the licensee’s business
address and applicant’s residence address by the planning director via
certified mail.
   (C)   Appeal of the decision of the planning director and the chief of
police as to the existence of or noncompliance with the matters set forth in
this section shall be made in writing to the city council within ten days of
licensee’s receipt of the suspension notice. The hearing will occur within 15
days from the filing of the appeal upon written notice mailed at least ten days
prior to the hearing to the business address and applicant residence address as
it appears on the application which the licensee is to amend if the residence
addresses changes. Hearing will be informal and the rules of evidence shall not
apply. At said hearing, the license holder or its representatives may present
oral or written evidence in support of the continuance of its license. After
the license holder has concluded presenting all of his or her evidence, the
city, through its representative, may present oral or written evidence in
support of revocation of the license. Licensee may confront and question any
witnesses or evidence in opposition to the continuation of its license.
(Ord. 3553, § 1(2.5-10), passed 1-11-2010)
§ 2.5-11 LICENSE REVOCATION.
   (A)   The city council shall revoke a license if a cause of suspension in
section 2.5-10 occurs and the license has been suspended within the preceding
12 months.
   (B)   The city council shall revoke a license if council determines that:
      (1)   A licensee gave false or misleading information in the material
submitted during the application process;
      (2)   A licensee or an employee has knowingly allowed possession, use or
sale of controlled substances on the premises;
      (3)   A licensee or an employee has knowingly allowed prostitution on the
premises;
      (4)   A licensee or an employee knowingly operates the sexually oriented
business during a period of time when the licensee’s license was suspended;
      (5)   A licensee has been convicted of an offense listed in section 2.5-6
(A)(7)(a) for which the time period required in section 2.5-6(A)(7)(b) has not
elapsed;
      (6)   On two or more occasions within a 24-month period, a person or
persons committed an offense in or on the licensed premises of a crime listed
in section 2.5-6(A)(7)(a) for which a conviction has been obtained and the
person or persons convicted were licensees or employees of the sexually
oriented business at the time the offenses were committed; or
      (7)   A licensee or an employee of the sexually oriented business has
knowingly allowed any act of sexual intercourse, sodomy, oral copulation,
masturbation or other sex act to occur in or on the licensed premises. This
subsection shall not apply to an adult motel unless the licensee or employee
knowingly allowed such sexual acts to occur either in exchange for money or in
a public place or within public view.
   (C)   After revocation, the licensee shall not be issued a sexually oriented
business license for two years from the date revocation became effective. If,
subsequent to revocation, the city council finds that the basis for the
revocation has been corrected or abated, the applicant may be granted a license
if at least 90 days have elapsed since the date revocation became effective and
a corrective plan which addresses the violation and assures that the violation
will not occur again is provided to council. If the license was revoked under
subsection (B)(5) of this section, an applicant may not be granted another
license until the appropriate number of years required under section 2.5-6(A)
(7)(b) has elapsed.
   (D)   The determination by the city council as to the existence of or non-
compliance with the above matters shall be made in open city council session
after mailing notice of hearing time, place and date to the license holder or
its representatives 15 days in advance of said hearing, stating that council
will consider revoking the license and the grounds therefor. The hearing shall
be informal and the rules of evidence shall not apply. At said hearing, the
license holder or its representatives may present oral or written evidence in
support of the continuance of its license. After the license holder has
concluded presenting all of his or her evidence, the city, through its
representative, may present oral or written evidence in support of revocation
of the license. Licensee may confront and question any witnesses or evidence in
opposition to the continuation of its license.
(Ord. 3553, § 1(2.5-11), passed 1-11-2010)
§ 2.5-12 TRANSFER OF LICENSE.
   A licensee shall not transfer his or her license to another, nor shall a
licensee operate a sexually oriented business under the authority of a license
at any place other than the location designated in the license.
(Ord. 3553, § 1(2.5-12), passed 1-11-2010)
§ 2.5-13 LOCATION OF SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESS.
   (A)   No sexually oriented business shall be established, operated or caused
to be operated, in any zoning district other than a BG-general business zoning
district as defined in the city zoning ordinances.
   (B)   No sexually oriented business shall be established, operated or caused
to be operated, within 1,000 feet of:
      (1)   A church or other building primarily used for religious services or
associated church structure such as a parish or fellowship hall;
      (2)   A public or private educational facility including but not limited
to child day care facilities, nursery schools, preschools, home schools,
elementary schools, middle schools, high schools, special education schools,
community colleges, colleges and universities (for purposes of this provision,
school includes the school grounds and playgrounds);
      (3)   A property line of a lot devoted to a residential use, either
single or multiple family;
      (4)   A park;
      (5)   A hospital;
      (6)   Community recreation center;
      (7)   Public library; or
      (8)   Facility for youth service such as youth center, boys or girls
club, scout, 4-H or other youth program meeting building.
   (C)   No sexually oriented business shall be established, operated, caused
to be operated or substantially enlarged, within 1,000 feet of another sexually
oriented business.
   (D)   For the purposes of subsection (B) of this section, measurement shall
be made in a straight line, without regard to intervening structures or
objects, from the nearest property line of the premises where a sexually
oriented business is conducted, to the nearest property line of the premises of
a use listed in subsection (B) of this section. The presence of any political
subdivision boundary shall be irrelevant for purposes of calculating and
applying the distance requirements of this section.
   (E)   For purposes of subsection (C) of this section, the distance between
any two sexually oriented businesses shall be measured in a straight line,
without regard to any intervening structures or objects, from the closest
exterior wall of the structure in which each business is located.
(Ord. 3553, § 1(2.5-13), passed 1-11-2010)
§ 2.5-14 NONCONFORMING USES.
   (A)   Any sexually oriented business lawfully operating on the date of the
enactment of the ordinance from which this chapter is derived that is in
violation of this chapter shall be deemed a nonconforming use. The
nonconforming use will be permitted to continue no later than one year from the
date of the enactment of the ordinance from which this chapter is derived,
unless sooner terminated for any reason or voluntarily discontinued for a
period of 30 days or more. Such nonconforming uses shall not be increased,
enlarged, extended or altered except that the use may be changed to a
conforming use upon application and issuance of a license.
   (B)   A sexually oriented business lawfully operating as a conforming use is
not rendered a nonconforming use by the establishment of a section 2.5-13(B)
use, subsequent to the grant of the sexually oriented business license, within
1,000 feet of the sexually oriented business. This provision applies only to
the renewal of a valid license, and does not apply when an application for a
license is submitted after a license has expired, has not been continuously in
effect, or has been revoked.
(Ord. 3553, § 1(2.5-14), passed 1-11-2010)
§ 2.5-15 FILMS OR VIDEOS.
   (A)   A person who operates or causes to be operated a sexually oriented
business, classified as an adult arcade, which exhibits on the premises in a
viewing room of 150 square feet or less of floor space a film, video, cassette,
or other video reproduction which depicts specified sexual activities or
specified anatomical areas, shall comply with the following requirements:
      (1)   It is the duty of the owners and operator of the premises to ensure
that at least one employee is on duty and situated in each manager’s station at
all times that any patron is present inside the premises.
      (2)   The interior of the premises shall be configured in such a manner
that there is an unobstructed view from a manager’s station of every area of
the premises to which any patron is permitted access for any purpose excluding
restrooms. Restrooms may not contain video reproduction equipment. If the
premises has two or more manager’s stations designated, then the interior of
the premises shall be configured in such a manner that there is an unobstructed
view of each area of the premises to which any patron is permitted access for
any reason from at least one of the manager’s stations and all must be staffed
when viewing access is made available so that all areas other than restrooms
are supervised at all times viewing access is permitted. The supervision
required in this subsection must be by direct line of sight from the manager’s
station.
      (3)   It shall be the duty of the owners and operator, and it shall also
be the duty of any agents and employees present in the premises, to ensure that
the view area specified in subsection (A)(2) of this section remains
unobstructed by any doors, walls, merchandise, display racks, or other
materials at all times and to ensure that no patron is permitted access to any
area of the premises which has been designated as an area in which patrons will
not be permitted in the application filed pursuant to this chapter.
      (4)   No viewing room may be occupied by more than one person at any
time.
      (5)   The premises shall be equipped with overhead lighting fixtures of
sufficient intensity to illuminate every place to which patrons are permitted
access at an illumination of not less than one foot-candle as measured at the
floor level.
      (6)   It shall be the duty of the owners and operator and it shall also
be the duty of any agents and employees present in the premises to ensure that
the illumination described above is maintained at all times that any patron is
present in the premises.
   (B)   A person having a duty under subsection (A) above commits a
misdemeanor if he or she knowingly fails to fulfill that duty.
(Ord. 3553, § 1(2.5-15), passed 1-11-2010)
§ 2.5-16 ADDITIONAL REGULATIONS CONCERNING PUBLIC NUDITY OR SEMI-NUDITY.
   (A)   No person shall appear, in a sexually oriented business, in a state of
nudity or engage in or simulate specified sexual activities.
   (B)   No person shall appear, in a sexually oriented business, in a semi-
nude condition unless the person is an employee who, while semi-nude, shall be
at least six feet from any patron or customer and on a stage at least two feet
from any door.
   (C)   No employee shall, while semi-nude in a sexually oriented business,
solicit any pay or gratuity from any patron or customer, and no patron or
customer shall pay or give any gratuity to any employee while said employee is
semi-nude in a sexually oriented business.
   (D)   No employee shall, while semi-nude in a sexually oriented business,
touch a patron or customer or the clothing of a patron or customer.
(Ord. 3553, § 1(2.5-16), passed 1-11-2010)
§ 2.5-17 ADDITIONAL REGULATIONS CONCERNING ALCOHOL.
   No sexually oriented business shall sell or serve alcohol and no sexually
oriented business shall permit the consumption of alcohol on the premises of
the sexually oriented business.
(Ord. 3553, § 1(2.5-17), passed 1-11-2010)
§ 2.5-18 PROHIBITION OF CHILDREN IN A SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESS.
   No person under the age of 19 years shall be allowed on the premises of a
sexually oriented business and it is the licensee’s affirmative duty to enforce
this minor age restriction through supervision and verification by
identification.
(Ord. 3553, § 1(2.5-18), passed 1-11-2010)
§ 2.5-19 HOURS OF OPERATION.
   No sexually oriented business may remain open at any time between the hours
of 1:00 a.m. and 8:00 a.m. on weekdays and Saturdays and 1:00 a.m. and noon
(12:00) on Sundays.
(Ord. 3553, § 1(2.5-19), passed 1-11-2010)
§ 2.5-20 DISPLAY OF SEXUALLY ORIENTED MATERIALS TO GENERAL PUBLIC.
   (A)   No sexually oriented business shall display posters, signs, depictions
or other visual representation on outside walls or any inside or outside window
which depict any of the following:
      (1)   Human sexual intercourse, masturbation or sodomy;
      (2)   Fondling or other erotic touching of human genitals, buttocks, or
female breasts;
      (3)   Less than completely and opaquely covered human genitals, buttocks,
or that portion of the female breast below the top of the areola of the nipple;
or
      (4)   Human male genitals in a discernibly turgid state, whether covered
or uncovered.
   (B)   The windows and doors of a sexually oriented business will be tinted
to the extent that there is no view of the interior from the exterior of the
business.
   (C)   The term DISPLAY means to locate an item in such a manner that,
without obtaining assistance from an employee of the business establishment:
      (1)   It is available to the general public for handling and inspection;
or
      (2)   The cover or outside packaging on the item is visible to members of
the general public.
(Ord. 3553, § 1(2.5-20), passed 1-11-2010)
§ 2.5-21 ENFORCEMENT AND PENALTIES.
   Any person who violates any of the prohibitions or provisions of any article
or section of this chapter and ordinance shall be deemed guilty of a
misdemeanor. Unless otherwise specified in the particular article or section
for which the person stands convicted of violating, the penalty for such
violation shall be a fine in any sum not exceeding $500.00 or imprisonment for
a term not to exceed six months or both said fine and imprisonment at the
discretion of the sentencing court. A separate violation shall be deemed to
have been committed on each 24-hour period that a violation continues.
(Ord. 3553, § 1(2.5-21), passed 1-11-2010)
CHAPTER 3: ADVERTISING
   Article
      
I.   IN GENERAL
      
II.   BUS STOP BENCHES
      
III.   BILLS, SIGNS, POSTERS, ETC.
ARTICLE I: IN GENERAL
Section
   3-1—3-15   Reserved
ARTICLE II: BUS STOP BENCHES
Section
Division 1: Generally
   
3-16   General authorization
   
3-17   Location restricted
   
3-18   Bench specifications
   
3-19   Advertising restricted
   3-20—3-25   Reserved
Division 2: Permit
   
3-26   Required
   
3-27   Restricted
   
3-28   Application
   
3-29   Minimum number required
   
3-30   Same—Fee
   
3-31   Investigation
   
3-32   Consideration by council
   
3-33   Priority of application
   
3-34   Liability of permittee
   
3-35   Bond; insurance
   
3-36   Conditions of permit
   
3-37   Revocation; removal of bench
   
3-38   Expiration
   
3-39   Credit for removal allowed in certain cases
   3-40—3-55   Reserved
DIVISION 1: GENERALLY
§ 3-16 GENERAL AUTHORIZATION.
   It is hereby made lawful for persons to install and maintain benches for the
convenience of the public at places on public property where regular stops are
made by vehicles engaged in public transportation and to place advertising
matter and signs upon such benches, subject to the regulations, limitations and
qualifications of this article.
(1964 Code, § 13-23)
§ 3-17 LOCATION RESTRICTED.
   Benches authorized by the provisions of this article shall be located and
placed only as provided herein:
   (A)   No bus bench may be placed at any location other than a posted bus
stop at which a bus regularly stops.
   (B)   Benches shall be, at a minimum, a distance of two feet from the curb
and shall be placed so as to not obstruct pedestrian traffic flow or the
cleaning of snow, ice or debris from sidewalks.
   (C)   Benches shall be placed in locations where the distance from the face
of the curb to the property line is eight feet or more.
   (D)   No bench shall be positioned in such a manner as to block access to
private property, or create sight or traffic hazards for motorists.
   (E)   No more than one bench shall be placed at any bus stop.
   (F)   All benches shall be inspected by the permittee periodically and shall
be maintained by the permittee in a clean, safe and sightly condition.
   (G)   All benches in existence prior to January 1, 2008, and not in
compliance with the provisions of this article shall be removed at the
permittee’s expense no later than December 31, 2008; provided however, that in
the event there is a contract for advertising on any such benches that the
permittee entered into prior to January 1, 2008, said benches may remain until
such contracts expire or until November 30, 2009, whichever occurs first. To
qualify for such extended period beyond December 31, 2008, a verified statement
must be made by the permittee for each bench including therein that such
contract was made and entered into prior to December 31, 2007, and a copy of
the contract shall be attached to the statement.
(1964 Code, § 14-24) (Ord. 3456, § 1, passed 4-14-2008)
§ 3-18 BENCH SPECIFICATIONS.
   All benches installed by permission of this article shall conform rigidly to
the following specifications unless otherwise approved by the public works
director.
   (A)   The bench shall not be more than six feet in length, not to exceed 42
inches in height and must be at least 30 inches in depth.
   (B)   The bench must be of heavy construction materials to weigh not less
than 400 pounds in its finished state.
   (C)   The end-pieces and legs shall be constructed of concrete or solid
metal materials strong enough to support 2,000 pounds of direct weight.
   (D)   The backrest shall be constructed of hardwood, plywood, metal, thick
fiberglass or new polymer materials currently manufactured for commercial use.
   (E)   The seat shall be constructed of hardwood, metal, thick fiberglass or
new polymer materials currently manufactured for commercial use.
   (F)   The several parts of the benches shall be joined by bolts and anchor
points of three-eighths inch or greater diameter, epoxy materials, and/or
welded together to maintain a minimum strength of 2,000 pounds.
   (G)   Special designed benches shall be permitted in locations subject to
approval of the public works director.
(1964 Code, § 14-31) (Ord. 3456, § 2, passed 4-14-2008)
§ 3-19 ADVERTISING RESTRICTED.
   Only such advertising matter shall be placed on the benches installed under
the provisions of this article that are ordinarily displayed in other
advertising mediums.
(1964 Code, § 14-31) (Ord. 3456, § 3, passed 4-14-2008)
§§ 3-20—3-25 RESERVED.
DIVISION 2: PERMIT
§ 3-26 REQUIRED.
   No person shall install or maintain any bench under provisions of this
article without first obtaining a permit to do so from the public works
director or his or her designee.
(1964 Code, § 14-25) (Ord. 3456, § 4, passed 4-14-2008)
§ 3-27 RESTRICTED.
   No more than one permittee shall be allowed a permit for any single
intersection under the provisions of this division.
(1964 Code, § 14-25)
§ 3-28 APPLICATION.
   Any person desiring a permit required by the provisions of this division
shall submit a written application therefor, to the public works director, on a
pre-printed form provided by the department of public works, giving the
location of the proposed bench or benches and such other information as the
public works director may, in his or her discretion, require.
(1964 Code, § 14-25) (Ord. 3456, § 5, passed 4-14-2008)
§ 3-29 MINIMUM NUMBER REQUIRED.
   No application for a permit required by the provisions of this division
shall be accepted initially from any person for less than three benches; and no
new or renewal permit shall be issued for less than that number to any
applicant unless he or she pays the required fee for, and maintains, at least
such number of benches.
(1964 Code, § 14-25) (Ord. 3456, § 6, passed 4-14-2008)
§ 3-30 SAME—FEE.
   Each application for a permit hereunder shall be accompanied by a fee of
$75.00 for each bench. Permits expire annually on December 31 and renewal
application must be accompanied by a fee of $75.00 for each bench.
(1964 Code, § 14-26) (Ord. 3456, § 7, passed 4-14-2008)
§ 3-31 INVESTIGATION.
   (A)   All applications for a permit required by the provisions of this
division shall be referred for investigation to the traffic division of the
police department, covering the following points and such others as may appear
pertinent:
      (1)   Would the maintenance of a bench at the proposed location tend to
obstruct passage along a public way or create a hazard to persons traveling
thereon?
      (2)   Would the maintenance of a bench at the proposed location promote
the convenience of the traveling public?
      (3)   Would the maintenance of a bench at the proposed location
detrimentally affect the abutting property owner or tenant?
   (B)   The results of such investigations shall be reported to the public
works director.
(1964 Code, § 14-27) (Ord. 3456, § 8, passed 4-14-2008)
§ 3-32 CONSIDERATION BY COUNCIL.
   Unless, after an unfavorable report on a particular location, the applicant
for a permit required by the provisions of this division withdraws his or her
application for that location, the public works director shall, upon
consideration of the report of the police department, decide whether or not a
permit shall issue.
(1964 Code, § 14-27) (Ord. 3456, § 9, passed 4-14-2008)
§ 3-33 PRIORITY OF APPLICATION.
   Priority of initial application for any location shall not cause any rights
to vest in the applicant although the city council may give this circumstance
such weight as the equities of the case demand in deciding between competing
applicants. A permittee who has performed his undertaking under this article
satisfactorily and applies for renewal before the expiration of an old permit
shall be given priority over another applicant for a permit for the same
location.
(1964 Code, § 14-28)
§ 3-34 LIABILITY OF PERMITTEE.
   The permittee under this division shall defend, at his own expense, any
litigation arising from the installation or maintenance of a bench for which he
holds a permit.
(1964 Code, § 14-32)
§ 3-35 BOND; INSURANCE.
   Before proceeding to install any bench under the provisions of this
division, the permittee shall file individual bond in the penal sum of
$1,000,000.00 to save the city harmless from any damage or suit for damage
alleged to arise from the installation or maintenance of any bench installed by
such permittee. Sureties on such bond are not required, but evidence of public
liability insurance in the amounts hereinafter stated shall be filed, at or
prior to the time of filing applications for such permit with the public works
director. The public liability insurance shall be $1,000,000.00 for the death
or injury of one person, with a total limit of personal injury liability of
$1,000,000.00 and property damage of not less than $500,000.00. One bond and
one insurance policy may be filed with the public works director to cover the
maintenance of any number of benches.
(1964 Code, § 14-32) (Ord. 3456, § 10, passed 4-14-2008)
§ 3-36 CONDITIONS OF PERMIT.
   By the acceptance of a permit under the provisions of this division, the
permittee thereby agrees to:
   (A)   Be bound by all of the provisions of this article;
   (B)   Inspect each bench periodically;
   (C)   Maintain each bench in a clean, safe and sightly condition; and
   (D)   Post and maintain the indemnifying bond and public liability insurance
required by this division.
(1964 Code, § 14-29)
§ 3-37 REVOCATION; REMOVAL OF BENCH.
   If the permittee under the provisions of this division shall fail to comply
with any condition of his or her permit, the public works director shall give
the permittee 30 days notice of such failure. If the permittee fails to correct
the situation causing noncompliance with this article within such time period,
and after notice to and approval of the city council, the public works director
may revoke the permit and remove and store the bench in such noncompliance,
charging the costs thereof against the permittee. The permittee may recover the
bench if he or she pays such costs within 60 days after such removal; otherwise
title to the bench shall fully vest in the city.
(1964 Code, § 14-29) (Ord. 3456, § 11, passed 4-14-2008)
§ 3-38 EXPIRATION.
   Permits issued under the provisions of this division shall expire annually
on December 31 following their date of issuance.
(1964 Code, § 14-26)
§ 3-39 CREDIT FOR REMOVAL ALLOWED IN CERTAIN CASES.
   If a bench is ordered removed hereunder where the permittee is not at fault,
the city shall proportionately credit the fee paid by the permittee for such
bench against any fees to become due hereunder thereafter from such permittee
to the city. If any application is denied, the fee submitted therewith shall be
credited to the permittee making such application upon any future fees due to
the city hereunder from such applicant. Provided, however, that no credit will
be allowed after reaching the point where further credits would reduce the fees
due hereunder below $50.00 for any six-month period.
(1964 Code, § 14-30)
§§ 3-40—3-55 RESERVED.
ARTICLE III: BILLS, SIGNS, POSTERS, ETC.
Section
Division 1: Generally
   
3-56   Posting generally
   
3-57   Destroying lawful posters
   
3-58   Signs, banners across streets
   
3-59   Marking on streets, sidewalks
   
3-60   Civic, etc., signs in public right-of-way
   
3-61   Sound vehicles
   3-62—3-75   Reserved
Division 2: Handbills
   
3-76   Definitions
   
3-77   Exemptions
   
3-78   Prohibited where properly posted
   
3-79   Inhabited private premises
   
3-80   Depositing on uninhabited vacant premises
   
3-81   Restricted in public places
   
3-82   Shopping centers, parking lots
   
3-83   Placing on vehicles
DIVISION 1: GENERALLY
§ 3-56 POSTING GENERALLY.
   No person shall post any bills, signs, posters or advertisements on any
buildings, fences, poles or other property belonging to another without the
consent of the owner thereof.
(Ord. 2154, § 1, passed 12-8-1980)
§ 3-57 DESTROYING LAWFUL POSTERS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to wrongfully and maliciously tear down,
deface or cover up any posted advertisement or bill of any person when the same
is lawfully posted and put up during the time such sign or advertisement shall
be of value.
(Ord. 2154, § 2, passed 12-8-1980)
§ 3-58 SIGNS, BANNERS ACROSS STREETS.
   No person shall erect or place any sign or banner of wood, cloth or metal or
other material across any street or sidewalk in the city without first having
obtained authorization from the city to do so.
(Ord. 2154, § 3, passed 12-8-1980)
§ 3-59 MARKING ON STREETS, SIDEWALKS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to advertise, or attempt to advertise,
by marking or painting on any of the streets or sidewalks within the city
without first having obtained authorization from the city to do so.
(Ord. 2154, § 4, passed 12-8-1980)
§ 3-60 CIVIC, ETC., SIGNS IN PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY.
   No signs, banners, billboards or similar structures and objects directly
relating to charitable, historical, religious or other civic services and
nonprofit activities may be installed in the public right-of-way without first
having obtained authorization from the city to install such structures.
(Ord. 2154, § 5, passed 12-8-1980)
§ 3-61 SOUND VEHICLES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to advertise any goods, wares or
merchandise of any kind by the use of any amplifying equipment used by or
mounted on any vehicle without first having obtained authorization from the
city to use such equipment.
(Ord. 2154, § 6, passed 12-8-1980)
§§ 3-62—3-75 RESERVED.
DIVISION 2: HANDBILLS
§ 3-76 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this division, the following words and phrases shall
have the meanings respectively ascribed to them:
   COMMERCIAL HANDBILL. Any printed or written matter, any sample or device,
dodger, circular, leaflet, pamphlet, paper, booklet or any other printed or
otherwise reproduced original or copy of any matter of literature:
      (1)   Which advertises for sale any service, merchandise, product,
commodity or thing;
      (2)   Which directs attention to any business, merchandise or commercial
establishment or other activity for the purpose of either directly or
indirectly promoting the interests thereof by sales;
      (3)   Which directs attention to or advertises any meeting, theatrical
performance, exhibition or event of any kind, for which an admission fee is
charged for the purpose of private gain or profit; but the terms of this clause
shall not apply where an admission fee is charged or a collection is taken up
for the purpose of defraying the expenses incident to such meeting, theatrical
performance, exhibition or event of any kind which is held, given or takes
place in connection with the dissemination of information which is not
restricted under the ordinary rules of decency, good morals, public peace,
safety and good order; provided that nothing contained in this clause shall be
deemed to authorize the holding, giving or taking place of any meeting,
theatrical performance, exhibition or event of any kind without a license, if
such license is or may be required by any law of this state or any ordinance of
this city; or
      (4)   Which, while containing reading matter other than advertising
matter, is predominantly and essentially an advertisement, and is distributed
or circulated for advertising purposes or for the private benefit and gain of
any person so engaged as advertiser or distributor.
   NEWSPAPER. Any newspaper of general circulation as defined by general law,
either sold or distributed without charge; any newspaper duly entered with the
post office department of the United States in accordance with the federal
statute or regulation and any newspaper filed and recorded with any recording
officer as provided by general law; and, in addition thereto, shall mean and
include any periodical or current magazine regularly published with not less
than four issues per year and sold to the public.
   NONCOMMERCIAL HANDBILL. Any printed or written matter, any sample or device,
dodger, circular, leaflet, pamphlet, magazine, paper, booklet or any other
printed or otherwise reproduced original or copies of any matter of literature
other than a commercial handbill or newspaper as defined herein.
   VEHICLE. Every device in, upon or by which any person or property is or may
be transported or drawn upon a highway, including devices used exclusively upon
stationary rails or tracks.
(Ord. 2153, § 1, passed 12-8-1980)
§ 3-77 EXEMPTIONS.
   The provision of this division shall not apply to the distribution of mail
by the United States, nor to newspapers, except that newspapers shall be placed
on private property in such a manner as to prevent their being carried or
deposited by the elements upon any street, sidewalk or other public place or
upon private property, nor to the distribution of political cards and
literature on any election day.
(Ord. 2153, § 2, passed 12-8-1980)
§ 3-78 PROHIBITED WHERE PROPERLY POSTED.
   No person shall throw, deposit or distribute any commercial or noncommercial
handbill in any parking lot or shopping center or upon any building therein if
there is placed on said premises, in a conspicuous position near the entrance
thereof, a sign bearing the words “no trespassing,” “no peddlers or agents,”
“no advertisement” or any similar notice.
(Ord. 2153, § 3, passed 12-8-1980)
§ 3-79 INHABITED PRIVATE PREMISES.
   No person shall throw, deposit or distribute any commercial or noncommercial
handbill in or upon private premises which are inhabited, except by handing or
transmitting any such handbill directly to the owner, occupant or other person
then present in or upon such private premises. Provided, however, that in case
of inhabited private premises which are not posted, such person, unless
requested by anyone upon such premises not to do so, may place or deposit any
such handbill in or upon such premises if such handbill is so placed or
deposited as to secure or prevent the same from being blown or drifted about
such premises or sidewalks, streets or other public places, and except that
mailboxes may not be so used when so prohibited by federal postal law or
regulation.
(Ord. 2153, § 4, passed 12-8-1980)
§ 3-80 DEPOSITING ON UNINHABITED VACANT PREMISES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to throw or deposit any commercial or
noncommercial handbill in or upon any private premises which are uninhabited or
vacant.
(Ord. 2153, § 5, passed 12-8-1980)
§ 3-81 RESTRICTED IN PUBLIC PLACES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to hand out or distribute or sell any
commercial or noncommercial handbill in any public place; except that a
handbill may be personally delivered to any person willing to accept the same;
provided that nothing contained in this section shall be construed as
prohibiting political candidates from distributing political and campaign cards
and literature in public places.
(Ord. 2153, § 6, passed 12-8-1980)
§ 3-82 SHOPPING CENTERS, PARKING LOTS.
   No person shall throw or deposit any commercial or noncommercial handbill in
or upon any shopping center or parking lot, nor shall any person hand out or
distribute or sell any commercial handbill in any shopping center or parking
lot; provided, however, that it shall not be unlawful in any shopping center or
parking lot for any person to hand out or distribute without charge to the
receiver thereof any noncommercial handbill to any person willing to accept it.
(Ord. 2153, § 7, passed 12-8-1980)
§ 3-83 PLACING ON VEHICLES.
   No person shall throw or deposit any commercial or noncommercial handbill in
or upon any vehicle; provided, however, that it shall not be unlawful in any
shopping center or parking lot for a person to hand out or distribute without
charge to the receiver thereof a noncommercial handbill to any occupant of a
vehicle who is willing to accept it.
(Ord. 2153, § 8, passed 12-8-1980)
CHAPTER 4: ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
   Article
      
I.   IN GENERAL
      
II.   LICENSE
ARTICLE I: IN GENERAL
Section
   
4-1   Definitions
   
4-2   Applicability of chapter
   
4-3   Right of entry of police to licensed premises
   
4-4   Liability of owner of licensed premises for violations
   
4-5   Liability of licensee for acts of agents, employees, etc.
   
4-6   Possession, etc., generally
   
4-7   Premises for sale of beer and alcoholic liquor—Sales to be made in
separate rooms
   
4-8   Same—Front entrance required; customers and public to use only front
entrance
   
4-9   Premises where alcoholic liquor sold for consumption on premises
   
4-10   Sale to minors, incompetents
   
4-11   Misrepresentation of age
   
4-12   Alcoholic beverages; hours of sale
   
4-13   Possession for sale in other than original container
   
4-14   Consumption of liquor on public property, public roads, streets, alleys
   
4-15   Consumption upon premises where sold
   
4-16   Distribution of beverage by nonbeverage user prohibited
   4-17—4-30   Reserved
Statutory reference:
   Liquor generally, see Neb. RS 1943, Ch. 53
§ 4-1 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this chapter, the following words and phrases shall have
the meanings respectively ascribed to them by this section:
   ALCOHOL. The product of distillation of any fermented liquid, whether
rectified or diluted, whatever may be the origin thereof, and shall include
synthetic ethyl alcohol. It shall not include denatured alcohol or wood
alcohol.
   ALCOHOLIC LIQUOR. The four varieties of liquor defined in this section as
alcohol, spirits, wine and beer, and every liquid or solid, patented or not,
containing alcohol spirits, wine or beer, and capable of being consumed as a
beverage by a human being. The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to:
      (1)   Alcohol used in the manufacture of denatured alcohol produced in
accordance with acts of Congress and regulations promulgated thereunder;
      (2)   Flavoring extracts, syrups or medical, mechanical, scientific,
culinary or toilet preparations, or food products unfit for beverage purposes,
but shall not be construed to exclude or not apply to alcoholic liquor used in
the manufacture, preparation or compounding of such products; or
      (3)   Wine intended for use and used by any church or religious
organization for sacramental purposes.
   BEER. A beverage obtained by alcoholic fermentation of an infusion or
concoction of barley, or other grain, malt and hops in water, and shall
include, among other things, beer, ale, stout, lager beer, near beer, porter
and the like.
   CLUB. A corporation organized under the laws of this state, not for
pecuniary profit, solely for the promotion of some common object other than the
sale or consumption of alcoholic liquors, kept, used and maintained by its
members through the payment of annual dues, and owning, hiring or leasing a
building or space in a building, of such extent and character as may be
suitable and adequate for the reasonable and comfortable use and accommodation
of its members and their guests and provided with suitable and adequate kitchen
and dining room space and equipment and maintaining a sufficient number of
servants and employees for cooking, preparing and serving food and meals for
its members and their guests; provided that such CLUB files with the city
council at the time of its application for a license under this chapter, two
copies of a list of names and residences of its members, and similarly files
within ten days of the election of any additional member, his name and address;
and provided further, that its affairs and management are conducted by a board
of directors, executive committee or similar body chosen by the members at
their annual meeting, and that no member or any officer, agent or employee of
the CLUB is paid, directly or indirectly receives, in the form of salary or
other compensation, any profits from the distribution or sale of alcoholic
liquor to the club or the members of the CLUB or its guests introduced by
members other than the amount of such salary as may be fixed and voted at any
annual meeting by the members or by its board of directors or other governing
body out of the general revenue of the CLUB.
   COMMISSION. The Nebraska Liquor Control Commission.
   DISTRIBUTOR. The person importing or causing to be imported into the state,
or purchasing or causing to be purchased within the state, alcoholic liquors
for sale or resale to retailers licensed under this chapter, whether the
business of the distributor is conducted under the terms of a franchise or any
other form of an agreement with a manufacturer or manufacturers, or has caused
alcoholic liquors to be imported into the state or purchased in the state from
a manufacturer or manufacturers and was licensed to conduct such a business by
the commission on May 1, 1970, or has been so licensed since that date.
   HOTEL. Every building or other structure kept, used, maintained, advertised
and held out to the public to be a place where food is actually served and
consumed and sleeping accommodations are offered for adequate pay to travelers
and guests, whether transient, permanent or residential, in which 25 or more
rooms are used for the sleeping accommodations of such guests and having one or
more public dining rooms where meals are served to such guests, such sleeping
accommodations and dining rooms being conducted in the same buildings in
connection therewith and such building or buildings, structure or structures
being provided with adequate and sanitary kitchen and dining room equipment and
capacity.
   MANUFACTURE. To distill, rectify, ferment, brew, make, mix, concoct,
process, blend, bottle or fill an original package with any alcoholic liquor,
and shall include blending but shall not include the mixing or other
preparation of drinks for serving by those persons authorized and permitted in
this act to serve drinks for consumption on the premises where sold.
   MANUFACTURER. Every brewer, fermenter, distiller, rectifier, winemaker,
blender, processor, bottler or person who fills or refills an original package
and others engaged in brewing, fermenting, distilling, rectifying or bottling
alcoholic liquors as above defined, including a wholly owned affiliate or duly
authorized agent for a manufacturer.
   NONBEVERAGE USER. Every manufacturer of any of the products set forth and
described in Neb. RS 1943, § 53-160, when the same contains alcoholic liquor,
and all laboratories, hospitals and sanatoria using alcoholic liquor for
nonbeverage purposes.
   ORIGINAL PACKAGE. Any bottle, flask, jug, can, cask, barrel, keg, hogshead
or other receptacle or container whatsoever, used, corked or capped, sealed and
labeled by the manufacturer of alcoholic liquor, to contain and to convey any
alcoholic liquor.
   RESTAURANT. Any public place kept, used, maintained, advertised and held out
to the public as a place where meals are served, and where meals are actually
and regularly served, without sleeping accommodations, such place being
provided with adequate and sanitary kitchen and dining room equipment and
capacity and having employed therein a sufficient number and kind of employees
to prepare, cook and serve suitable food for its guests.
   RETAILER. A person who sells, or offers for sale, alcoholic liquors for use
and consumption and not for resale in any form.
   SALE. Any transfer, exchange or barter in any manner or by any means
whatsoever for a consideration, and shall include all sales made by any person,
whether principal, proprietor, agent, servant or employee.
   SELL AT RETAIL and SALE AT RETAIL. Sales for use or consumption and not for
resale in any form.
   SPIRITS. Any beverage which contains alcohol obtained by distillation, mixed
with water or other substance in solution, and shall include brandy, rum,
whiskey, gin or other spirituous liquors, and such liquors when rectified,
blended or otherwise mixed with alcohol or other substances.
   TO SELL. To solicit or receive an order for, to keep or expose for sale or
to keep with intent to sell.
   WINE. Any alcoholic beverage obtained by the fermentation of the natural
contents of fruits or vegetables, containing sugar, including such beverages
when fortified by the addition of alcohol or spirits, as above defined.
(1964 Code, § 3-1)
Statutory reference:
   Definitions, see Neb. RS 1943, § 53-103
§ 4-2 APPLICABILITY OF CHAPTER.
   The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to alcohol used in the
manufacture of denatured alcohol produced in accordance with acts of congress
and regulations promulgated thereunder. Nor shall the provisions of this
chapter apply to flavor extracts, syrups or medicinal, mechanical, scientific,
culinary or toilet preparations, or food products unfit for beverage purposes,
but the provisions of this chapter shall not be construed to exclude or not
apply to alcoholic liquor used in the manufacture, preparation or compounding
of such products. None of the provisions of this chapter shall apply to
alcoholic liquor used in the manufacture, preparation or compounding of such
products. None of the provisions of this chapter shall apply to wine intended
for use and used by any church or religious organization for sacramental
purposes.
(1964 Code, § 3-2)
§ 4-3 RIGHT OF ENTRY OF POLICE TO LICENSED PREMISES.
   All police officers of the city are authorized to enter at any time upon any
premises of any licensee under the liquor control act of the state to determine
whether any of the provisions of such act or this chapter, or any rules or
regulations adopted by the city or by the state liquor control commission have
been or are being violated and at such time to examine sufficiently the
premises of such licensee in connection therewith.
(1964 Code, § 3-17)
Statutory reference:
   Right of entry of local authorities to licensed premises, see Neb. RS 1943,
§ 53-134
§ 4-4 LIABILITY OF OWNER OF LICENSED PREMISES FOR VIOLATIONS.
   If the owner of any licensed premises or any person from whom the licensee
derives the right to possession of such premises or the agent of such owner or
persons, shall knowingly permit the licensee to use such licensed premises in
violation of this chapter, such owner, agent or other person shall be deemed
guilty of a violation of this chapter to the same extent as the licensee and be
subject to the same punishment.
(1964 Code, § 54-18)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 1943, § 53-1,101
§ 4-5 LIABILITY OF LICENSEE FOR ACTS OF AGENTS, EMPLOYEES, ETC.
   Every act or omission of whatsoever nature constituting a violation of any
of the provisions of this chapter by any officer, director, manager or other
agent or employee of any licensee, if such act is committed or omission is made
with the authorization, knowledge or approval of the licensee, shall be deemed
and held to be the act of such employer or licensee, and the employer or
licensee shall be punished in the same manner as if the act or omission had
been done or omitted by him personally.
(1964 Code, § 3-19)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 1943, § 53-1,102
§ 4-6 POSSESSION, ETC., GENERALLY.
   No person shall manufacture, bottle, blend, sell, barter, transport,
deliver, furnish or possess any alcoholic liquor for beverage purposes, except
as specifically provided in this chapter or by law; provided, nothing herein
contained shall prevent the possession and transportation of alcoholic liquor
for the personal use of the possessor, his family and guests; nor prevent the
making of wine, cider or other alcoholic liquor by a person from fruits,
vegetables or grains, or the product thereof, by simple fermentation and
without distillation, if it is made solely for the use of the maker, his family
and guests; nor prevent any duly licensed practicing physician or dentist from
possessing or using alcoholic liquor in the strict practice of his profession,
or any hospital or other institution caring for the sick and diseased persons,
from possessing and using alcoholic liquor for the treatment of bona fide
patients of such hospital or other institution, or any drug store employing a
licensed pharmacist from possessing or using alcoholic liquors in the
compounding of prescriptions of duly licensed physicians; nor prevent the
possession and dispensation of wine by an authorized representative of any
church for the purpose of conducting any bona fide rite or religious ceremony
conducted by such church; nor prevent persons who are 16 years old or older
from carrying beer from grocery stores when they are accompanied by a person
not a minor; nor prevent persons who are 16 years old or older from handling
beer containers and beer in the course of their employment in grocery stories;
nor prevent persons who are 16 years or older from removing and disposing of
alcoholic liquor containers for the convenience of the employer and customers
in the course of their employment as waiters, waitresses or busboys, by any
restaurant, club, hotel or similar organization.
(1964 Code, § 3-6)
Statutory reference:
   Similar state law, see Neb. RS 1943, § 53-168.06
§ 4-7 PREMISES FOR SALE OF BEER AND ALCOHOLIC LIQUOR—SALES TO BE MADE IN
SEPARATE ROOMS.
   No person holding a license for the sale at retail of beer and of alcoholic
liquors other than beer shall sell or keep for sale beer and alcoholic liquor
other than beer except in separate and distinct rooms or premises. Rooms or
premises shall be deemed separate and distinct only when located in buildings
which are not adjacent or when so separated by walls or partitions that access
cannot be had directly from one to the other by means of doors or other
openings.
(1964 Code, § 3-7)
§ 4-8 SAME—FRONT ENTRANCE REQUIRED; CUSTOMERS AND PUBLIC TO USE ONLY FRONT
ENTRANCE.
   No person holding a license for the sale at retail of alcoholic liquors,
including beer, shall sell any such liquors or conduct any of the business for
which such license is required in any room or premises not provided with a
public entrance at the front thereof, opening upon a public street and no
person holding such license shall permit the use of any entrance other than
such front entrance for any purpose other than the use thereof by the licensee,
his family or employees or for ingress and egress by other persons for the
purpose of lawful labor or business other than the purchase at retail or the
consumption of alcoholic liquors.
(1964 Code, § 3-8)
§ 4-9 PREMISES WHERE ALCOHOLIC LIQUOR SOLD FOR CONSUMPTION ON PREMISES.
   All side and rear exits of rooms or premises where alcoholic liquors are
sold for consumption on the premises shall be properly lighted, the doors shall
swing outward and there shall be installed on all such exit doors a mechanical
device more commonly known as a panic bar.
(1964 Code, § 3-9)
§ 4-10 SALE TO MINORS, INCOMPETENTS.
   No person shall sell or give any alcoholic liquors to or procure any such
liquor for or permit the sale or gift of any such liquor for or permit the sale
or gift of any such liquor to or the procuring of any such liquor for, any
minor or any person who is mentally incompetent or any person who is physically
or mentally incapacitated due to the consumption of such liquors.
(1964 Code, § 3-11)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 1943, § 53-180
§ 4-11 MISREPRESENTATION OF AGE.
   No minor shall obtain, or attempt to obtain, alcoholic liquor by
misrepresentation of age, or by any other method, in any tavern or other place
where alcoholic liquor is sold.
(1964 Code, § 3-11)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 1943, § 53-180.01
§ 4-12 ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES; HOURS OF SALE.
   (A)   For the purposes of this section, ON THE PREMISES shall be defined as
alcoholic beverages sold at retail by the drink for consumption on the premises
of the licensed establishment. OFF THE PREMISES shall be defined as alcoholic
beverages sold at retail in the original container for consumption off the
premises of the licensed establishment.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any licensed person or persons or their
agents to sell any alcoholic beverages within the City of Bellevue during the
hours provided herein:
      (1)   The sale or distribution for consumption off the premises on any
day between the hours of 1:00 a.m. and 6:00 a.m.; or
      (2)   The sale or dispensing for consumption on the premises on any day
between the hours of 2:00 a.m. and 6:00 a.m.
   (C)   No person or persons shall consume any alcoholic beverages on licensed
premises for a period of time longer than 15 minutes after the time fixed
herein for stopping the sale of alcoholic beverages on the said premises.
   (D)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to prohibit licensed
premises from being open for other business on days and hours during which the
sale or dispensing of alcoholic beverages is prohibited by this section.
(1964 Code, § 3-12) (Ord. 2200, § 1, passed 4-26-1982; Ord. 2636, § 1, passed
10-15-1991; Ord. 3577, § 1, passed 6-28-2010; Ord. 3680, passed 8-27-2012; Ord.
3739, § 1, passed 10-14-2013)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 1943, § 53-179
§ 4-13 POSSESSION FOR SALE IN OTHER THAN ORIGINAL CONTAINER.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to have in his possession for sale at
retail any alcoholic liquors contained in bottles, casks or other containers
except the original package.
(1964 Code, § 3-13)
Statutory reference:
   Similar state law, see Neb. RS 1943, § 53-184
§ 4-14 CONSUMPTION OF LIQUOR ON PUBLIC PROPERTY, PUBLIC ROADS, STREETS, ALLEYS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to consume alcoholic liquors in the
public parks, streets, alleys, parking areas, roads or highways, or inside
vehicles while upon the public parks, streets, alleys, parking areas, roads or
highways; or upon property owned by the state or any governmental subdivision
thereof, unless authorized by the city council or unless otherwise provided by
law.
(1964 Code, § 3-14)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 1943, § 53-186
§ 4-15 CONSUMPTION UPON PREMISES WHERE SOLD.
   No person shall drink any alcoholic liquors other than beer upon any
premises where only beer is sold at retail; provided, that nothing contained in
this section shall be construed to prohibit persons purchasing beer upon
premises within which beer is lawfully sold for consumption on the premises
from drinking such beer on said premises.
(1964 Code, § 3-15)
§ 4-16 DISTRIBUTION OF BEVERAGE BY NONBEVERAGE USER PROHIBITED.
   No beverage user shall sell, give away or otherwise dispose of any alcohol,
purchased under a license as such nonbeverage user, in any form fit for
beverage purposes.
(1964 Code, § 3-16)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 1943, § 53-187
§§ 4-17—4-30 RESERVED.
ARTICLE II: LICENSE
Section
   
4-31   Licenses for the sale of alcoholic beverages—Application and review
   
4-31.1   Same—Criteria for approval or denial of applications
   
4-32   Occupation taxes—Imposed
   
4-33   Same—Collection
   
4-34   One-day liquor licenses
   
4-35   Exhibition and posting of license
   
4-36   Revocation, suspension of license
   
4-37   Nudity in licensed premises
   
4-38   Declaration of nuisance; abatement
   
4-39   Special designated permit for consumption of alcoholic liquor—Issuance
   
4-40   Same—Occupation tax fee
Statutory reference:
   Powers, duties of city relative to licenses to sell alcoholic beverages
within the city, see Neb. RS 1943, §§ 53-134 et seq.
§ 4-31 LICENSES FOR THE SALE OF ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES—APPLICATION AND REVIEW.
   (A)   Application. Any person or persons desiring to obtain a license to
sell alcoholic liquors at retail shall file an application with the Nebraska
Liquor Control Commission as required by the Nebraska Liquor Control Act and
the rules and regulations adopted pursuant thereto. The commission shall then
notify the city clerk of the filing of said application by registered or
certified mail.
   (B)   Scheduling of municipal hearing. The governing body shall then set the
time and place for a hearing regarding said application and give notice thereof
pursuant to subsection 4-31(C). Such hearing shall be held within 21 days of
the date the city receives notice of the application from the commission.
Two or more proceedings which are legally or factually related may be heard and
considered together unless any party thereto makes a showing sufficient to
satisfy the council that prejudice would result therefrom.
   (C)   Notice of municipal hearing. Notice of the hearing shall be given to
the applicant by the city clerk and shall contain the date, time and location
of the hearing. Notice of the time and place of such hearing shall be published
in a legal newspaper in, or of general circulation in the municipality one
time, not less than seven, nor more than 14 days before the time of the
hearing. Such notice shall include, but not be limited to, a statement that all
persons desiring to give evidence before the governing body in support of or in
protest against the issuance of such license may do so at the time of the
hearing.
   (D)   Procedures applicable to municipal hearing.
      (1)   Hearings will be informal and will be conducted by the mayor. The
intent is that the hearing will allow an inquiry into the facts, and not become
an adversary action.
      (2)   The governing body may examine, or cause to be examined, under
oath, any applicant; examine, or cause to be examined, the books and records of
any such applicant; to hear testimony and to take proof for its information in
the performance of its duties. For the purpose of obtaining any of the
information desired, the governing body may authorize the city clerk, city
administrator, city attorney, or other duly designated agent, to act on its
behalf.
      (3)   The governing body and its representatives shall not be bound by
the strict rules of evidence, and shall have full authority to control the
procedures of the hearing, including the admission or exclusion of testimony or
other evidence. The governing body may admit and give probative effect to
evidence which possesses probative value commonly accepted by reasonably
prudent individuals. The mayor may limit testimony where it appears
incompetent, irrelevant, or unduly repetitious. Each witness may present his or
her testimony in narrative fashion or by question and answer. Evidence may be
received orally or by affidavit given under oath. All witnesses shall be sworn.
      (4)   If there is opposition to any application and such opposition
desires the opportunity to present arguments and to cross-examine the applicant
and any witnesses in favor of such application, they shall choose a
spokesperson to perform such function, who shall notify the city administrator
of his/her representation prior to the start of the hearing.
      (5)   In all cases, the burden of proof and persuasion shall be on the
party filing the application.
      (6)   Any member of the governing body, the city attorney, and the city
administrator may question any witness, call witnesses, or request information.
   (E)   Recommendation to the control commission. After the governing body has
conducted a hearing regarding an application, it shall determine the
desirability of the application and shall adopt a resolution recommending
either issuance or refusal of such license. The resolution shall be spread at
large in the minute record of the council meeting and a copy of said resolution
shall be mailed to the Nebraska Liquor Control Commission by first class mail,
postage prepaid, together with a statement of the cost of the published notice.
The city must report its recommendation for approval or denial to the Nebraska
Liquor Control Commission within 45 days of its receipt of the notice of the
pending application from the Nebraska Liquor Control Commission.
(1964 Code, § 3-3) (Ord. 2424, § 1, passed 6-9-1986)
§ 4-31.1 SAME—CRITERIA FOR APPROVAL OR DENIAL OF APPLICATIONS.
   In addition to the absolute prohibition contained in the Liquor Control Act
against the granting of licenses to sell alcoholic liquor under certain
conditions specified therein, the city council shall consider the following
criteria when determining whether or not to recommend approval or denial of an
application for a retail alcoholic liquor license, for the upgrading of a
license to sell alcoholic liquor, or for the expansion or change in location of
the premises:
   (A)   Whether the applicant is fit, willing, and able to properly provide
the service proposed in conformance with all provisions, requirements, needs,
and regulations provided for in the Nebraska Liquor Control Act.
   (B)   Information contained in the public records of the Nebraska Liquor
Control Commission and/or investigations conducted by the police department
relating to the applicant(s).
   (C)   Whether the applicant can ensure that all alcoholic beverages,
including beer and wine, will be handled by persons in accordance with Neb. RS
§ 53-168.06 the Nebraska Liquor Control Act.
   (D)   Whether the applicant has demonstrated that the type of management and
control exercised over the licensed premises will be sufficient to ensure that
the licensee can conform to all the provisions, requirements, rules, and
regulations provided for in the Nebraska Liquor Control Act and this article.
   (E)   Whether the applicant has taken reasonable precautions to protect
against the possibility of shoplifting of alcoholic beverages.
   (F)   Past instances of discrimination involving the applicant(s) as
evidenced by findings of fact before any administrative board or agency of the
municipality or any other governmental board or agency or any other
governmental unit or court of law.
   (G)   Past compliance with state laws and liquor regulations and municipal
ordinances and regulations.
   (H)   Whether the applicant or its representatives have suppressed any facts
or provided any nonfactual information to the governing body or its employees
or designated agents in regard to the license application or liquor
investigations. The applicant is required to cooperate in providing a full
disclosure to the investigating agents of the municipality.
   (I)   Proximity of and impact on schools, hospitals, libraries, and public
institutions or facilities.
   (J)    Whether the type of entertainment to be offered, if any, will be
appropriate and nondisruptive to the neighborhood where the premises are
located and to the community at large.
   (K)   Whether or not applicant has ever forfeited bond to appear in court to
answer charges of having committed a felony, or charges of having violated any
law or ordinance enacted in the interest of good morals and decency, or has
been convicted of violating or forfeiting bond to appear in court and answer
charges for violating any law or ordinance relating to alcoholic liquors.
   (L)   Whether or not the proposed premises conform to all building
regulations and all fire regulations imposed by the Municipal Code of the City
of Bellevue.
   (M)   Whether the residence requirements of Neb. RS § 53-125 are met.
   (N)   The adequacy of existing law enforcement resources and services in the
area.
   (O)   The recommendation of the police department or any other law
enforcement agency.
   (P)   Existing motor vehicle and pedestrian traffic flow in the vicinity of
the proposed licensed premises, potential traffic and parking problems, and the
proximity and availability of on-street and off-street parking.
   (Q)   Zoning restrictions and the municipality’s zoning and land-use
policies.
   (R)   Sanitation or sanitary conditions on or about the proposed licensed
premises.
   (S)   The existence of a citizens’ protest and any other evidence in support
of or in opposition to the application.
   (T)   The existing population, and projected growth, both city-wide and
within the area to be served.
   (U)   The existing liquor licenses, the class of such license, and the
location of such licenses.
   (V)   The nature and needs of the neighborhood or community where the
proposed premises are located as well as its projected growth.
   (W)   Whether the type of business or activity proposed to be operated in
conjunction with the proposed license is and will be consistent with the public
interest.
   (X)   Other information and data that may reasonably be considered pertinent
to the issuance of the license.
(Ord. 4006, §§ 1, 2, passed 10-6-2020)
§ 4-32 OCCUPATION TAXES—IMPOSED.
   (A)   For the purpose of raising revenue within the city, there is hereby
levied an occupation tax upon designated businesses pertaining to the sale of
alcoholic beverages conducted in the city as described in the Master Fee
Schedule.
   (B)   All retail license fees received by the city treasurer shall inure to
the school fund of the district lying wholly or partially within the corporate
city limits of the city.
   (C)   All occupation taxes levied shall be paid to the city treasurer for
the benefit of the general fund of the city, immediately upon issuance of a
license under the Nebraska Liquor Control Act for such businesses.
   (D)   The city treasurer shall issue his or her receipt for such tax when
paid, properly dated, specifying the person from whom paid and for what
purpose. If such city treasurer is unable to collect such occupation tax when
due, he or she shall immediately report such facts to the city attorney, who
shall then proceed by civil suit in the name of the city to collect the amount
due. This remedy shall not be exclusive of any other right of action but merely
cumulative.
(1964 Code, § 3-5) (Ord. 2297, §§ 1, 2, passed 11-14-1983; Ord. 2524, § 1,
passed 11-14-1988; Ord. 2644, § 1, passed 11-12-1991; Ord. 3494, § 1, passed 3-
9-2009)
Statutory reference:
   Authority to levy occupation taxes, see Neb. RS 1943, § 16-205
§ 4-33 SAME—COLLECTION.
   The city treasurer shall issue his receipt for the occupation tax when paid,
properly dated, specifying the person for whom paid and for what purpose. If
such city treasurer be unable to collect such occupation tax when due, he shall
immediately report such facts to the city attorney, who shall then proceed by
civil suit in the name of the city to collect the amount due. This remedy shall
not be exclusive of any other right of action but merely cumulative.
(1964 Code, § 3-5)
§ 4-34 ONE-DAY LIQUOR LICENSES.
   The city shall allow licenses for alcoholic liquors, including beer, issued
for consumption on the premises, to a municipal corporation, a fine arts museum
incorporated as a nonprofit corporation or religious or fraternal nonprofit
corporation which has been exempted from payment of federal income taxes and
does not hold a retail liquor license under this section, subject to the
conditions provided in Neb. RS 1943, § 53-124.
§ 4-35 EXHIBITION AND POSTING OF LICENSE.
   Every licensee under the liquor control act of the state shall cause his
license to be framed and hung in plain public view in a conspicuous place on
the licensed premises.
(1964 Code, § 3-4)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 1943, § 53-148
§ 4-36 REVOCATION, SUSPENSION OF LICENSE.
   A retail license to sell alcoholic liquors, which this council is legally
empowered to revoke, may be either revoked or suspended by the city council
whenever it shall find, after notice and hearing as provided by law, that the
holder of any such license has violated any of the provisions of the state
liquor control act, or of this chapter, or rule or regulation of the state
liquor control commission, or any statutory provision or ordinance of the city
now existing or hereafter passed, enacted in the interest of good morals and
decency.
(1964 Code, § 3-4.1)
§ 4-37 NUDITY IN LICENSED PREMISES.
   (A)   It shall be cause for revocation or suspension of any license issued
under the provisions of this article if the licensee, his manager or agent,
shall allow any live person to appear, or have reasonable cause to believe that
any live person shall appear in any licensed premises in a state of nudity, to
provide entertainment, to provide service, to act as hostess, manager or owner,
or to serve as an employee in any capacity.
   (B)   For the purposes of this section, the term NUDITY shall mean the
showing of the human male or female genitals, pubic area or buttocks or the
human female breast, including the nipple or any portion below the nipple with
less than a full opaque covering.
(1964 Code, § 3-4.1)
§ 4-38 DECLARATION OF NUISANCE; ABATEMENT.
   Any place where alcoholic liquor is sold in violation of the provisions of
the state liquor control act or of this chapter is hereby defined to be a
nuisance and may be abated and suppressed after charges are made by the council
and a hearing had thereon, pursuant to reasonable notice by registered or
certified mail to the parties charged with maintaining such nuisance.
(1964 Code, § 3-4.1)
§ 4-39 SPECIAL DESIGNATED PERMIT FOR CONSUMPTION OF ALCOHOLIC LIQUOR—ISSUANCE.
   (A)   The city council does hereby designate the city clerk as the agent for
the city council for the sole and only purpose of approving or denying the
issuance of a special designated permit for the consumption of alcoholic liquor
at a designated location. Such approval or denial shall be considered as the
determination of the city council.
   (B)   The following criteria are hereby adopted as prerequisites to the
approval of a special designated permit:
      (1)   The applicant has met all the requirements set forth in Neb. RS
1943, § 53-124.11, and all rules and regulations as promulgated by the Nebraska
Liquor Control Commission.
      (2)   The designated location is appropriate and proper and does not
otherwise prohibit the consumption of alcoholic liquor thereon.
      (3)   The special designated permit and the designated location shall not
allow or permit the selling or dispensing of liquor to minors because of its
designated location.
      (4)   The designated location shall not have had any liquor violations
occur within the past year.
      (5)   The applicant shall not have been found guilty of violating liquor
license laws of the State of Nebraska or the city within the past five years.
(Ord. 2525, §§ 1, 2, passed 11-14-1988)
Editor’s note:
   Nonamendatory Ord. 2525, §§ 1 and 2, adopted Nov. 14, 1988, has been
codified as § 4-39 at the editor’s discretion.
§ 4-40 SAME—OCCUPATION TAX FEE.
   (A)   There is hereby imposed an occupation tax fee upon the issuance of a
special designated permit for consumption of alcoholic liquors as described in
the Master Fee Schedule. Said sum shall be collected by the city clerk and
credited to the general fund of the city.
   (B)   Before delivery of the special designated permit to the permittee, the
city clerk shall collect and receipt payment of the fee herein imposed.
(Ord. 2487, §§ 1, 2, passed 11-9-1987; Ord. 3494, § 2, passed 3-9-2009)
Editor’s note:
   Nonamendatory Ord. 2487, §§ 1 and 2, adopted November 9, 1987, has been
codified herein as § 4-40 at the editor’s discretion.
Statutory reference:
   Authority to levy occupation taxes, see Neb. RS 1943, § 16-205
CHAPTER 5: AMUSEMENTS
   Article
      
I.   IN GENERAL
      
II.   BINGO
      
III.   LICENSES
      
IV.   LOTTERIES
ARTICLE I: IN GENERAL
Section
   5-1—5-15   Reserved
§§ 5-1—5-15 RESERVED.
ARTICLE II: BINGO
Section
   5-16—5-35   Reserved
Editor’s note:
   Ord. 3495 repeals §§ 5-16 through 5-27 of this Code, regulated by the state
of Nebraska pursuant to the Nebraska Bingo Act.
Statutory reference:
   Nebraska Bingo Act, see Neb. RS 1943, §§ 9-201 et seq.
§§ 5-16—5-35 RESERVED.
ARTICLE III: LICENSES
Section
   
5-36   Required; exceptions
   
5-37   Petition; required information
   
5-38   Notice and hearing
   
5-39   Fee
   
5-40   Revocation
§ 5-36 REQUIRED; EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   No person, association, firm, or corporation shall conduct or operate
any carnival, circus, show, temporary amusement park, music concert, or other
public event within the limits of the city without first having obtained a
license from the city. No license shall be required for any activity in an
inhabited private home to which no admission or other fee is charged. Nor shall
a license be required for any activity sponsored by a school, church, or
another nonprofit organization which activity is held upon the premises of such
sponsoring organization. This section shall not apply to any live entertainment
performance for which a fee is paid under section
23-57 of this Code.
   (B)   For purposes of this Article III, PUBLIC EVENT is defined as an
activity or series of activities, specific to an identifiable time and place,
most often produced in conjunction with community organizations, held on city-
owned property, and generally occurring once a year. A PUBLIC EVENT includes,
but is not limited to:
      (1)   Any activity involving entertainment and/or amplified sound, food,
beverage, merchandise sales or any activity promoted as a festival, trade show
open to the public, craft show, public dance, special event, concert, or
performance;
      (2)   Any activity that substantially increases or disrupts the normal
flow of traffic on any street or highway;
      (3)   Any activity which involves the use of public facilities; and
      (4)   Any activity which involves the use of any city services that would
not be necessary in the absence of such an event.
(Ord. 3759, § 1, passed 3-24-2014)
§ 5-37 PETITION; REQUIRED INFORMATION.
   (A)   Before any such license shall be granted by the city, the applicant
therefor shall file an application in the office of the city clerk.
   (B)   The following information shall be furnished by the applicant upon the
form furnished by the city clerk:
      (1)   Description and location of the place where the activity is to take
place;
      (2)   What provisions have been made for sanitary facilities, running
water, power, and parking;
      (3)   The day or days upon which the event is to take place;
      (4)   The times during which it is to take place; and
      (5)   The name and address of the person(s) requesting the permit, and
the corporate officers and their names, if the applicant is a corporation.
(Ord. 3759, § 2, passed 3-24-2014)
§ 5-38 NOTICE AND HEARING.
   Notice of said application shall be published one time in a legal newspaper
of general circulation in said county, giving the time and place at which said
application will be considered by the city council. Said notice shall be
published no less than five (5) days prior to the date of the hearing before
the city council. After full consideration, and the hearing of remonstrances,
if there be any, the city may, in its discretion, grant or withhold said
license.
(Ord. 3759, § 3, passed 3-24-2014)
§ 5-39 FEE.
   Before any such license shall be issued by the city, the applicant therefor
shall pay into the city treasury an event fee as described in the Master Fee
Schedule. Any fee required by this section for each vendor/owner/concessionaire
shall not be subject to a temporary business license fee under section
23-21 of this Code. In addition, each person, association, firm, or corporation
that conducts or operates any carnival, circus, show, temporary amusement park,
music concert, or other public event within the limits of the city shall pay to
the city a fee as described in the Master Fee Schedule for each ride, show,
concession stand or any other type of sales booth in operation at such event.
(Ord. 3759, § 4, passed 3-24-2014)
§ 5-40 REVOCATION.
   Any person, association, firm, or corporation licensed under the provisions
of this article, who shall be convicted of the violation of any law regulating
such places of amusement, shall have their license revoked immediately upon
order of the Chief of Police or his designee.
(Ord. 3759, § 5, passed 3-24-2014)
ARTICLE IV: LOTTERIES
Section
   
5-51   Minimum playing age specified; owner’s responsibilities
   
5-52   Location of lottery machines
   
5-53   Penalty for violation
Editor’s note:
   Ord. 2306, §§ 1—3, adopted February 27, 1984, did not specifically amend the
Code. Inclusion herein as Art. IV, §§ 5-51—5-53, has been at the discretion of
the editor.
Statutory reference:
   Nebraska Lottery and Raffle Act, see Neb. RS 1943, §§ 9-401 et seq.
§ 5-51 MINIMUM PLAYING AGE SPECIFIED; OWNER’S RESPONSIBILITIES.
   No person under the age of 18 years of age shall play any bingo game or
participate in any way in any lottery, raffle or lottery by the sale of pickle
cards. The owner, proprietor, or licensee of any place of business which any
form of lottery is played or offered for play shall take necessary precautions
to prohibit the playing of lotteries by persons under 18 years of age, and
shall be equally responsible for prohibiting unauthorized persons from playing
lotteries.
(Ord. 2306, § 1, passed 2-17-1984)
§ 5-52 LOCATION OF LOTTERY MACHINES.
   Whenever any lottery machines are located within a building where other
merchandise is sold or other forms of business are conducted which are open to
the public, such lottery machines shall be placed in an area separated from the
general public access. Separation shall be by partition or other method with
access to the lottery machine area controlled from general public view and
usage.
(Ord. 2306, § 2, passed 2-27-1984)
§ 5-53 PENALTY FOR VIOLATION.
   Any person who violates any provision of this article shall, upon conviction
thereof, be subject to a fine not exceeding $500.00. Any person or licensee who
violates any provision of this article shall, upon conviction thereof, in
addition to the above specified penalty, be subject to having the lottery
machines removed from his place of business.
(Ord. 2306, § 3, passed 2-27-1984)
CHAPTER 6: ANIMALS AND FOWL
   Article
      
I.   IN GENERAL
      
II.   DOGS AND CATS
      
III.   RABIES CONTROL
      
IV.   HORSES
      
V.   COMMERCIAL ANIMAL ESTABLISHMENTS
      
VI.   REGULATION OF BEES
      
VII.   REGULATION OF POT-BELLIED PIGS
ARTICLE I: IN GENERAL
Section
   
6-0   Definitions
   
6-1   Animal care
   
6-2   Fowl running at large
   
6-3   Animals running at large generally; herding or tying animals in certain
places
   
6-4   Keeping of wild animals
   
6-5   Performing animal exhibitions
   
6-6   Animal waste
   
6-6.1   Public nuisances
   
6-6.2   Dogs or cats damaging property of others
   
6-7   Owner liability
   
6-8   Enforcement
   
6-9   Penalties; uniform citations
   6-10—6-15   Reserved
Statutory reference:
   Authority relative to animals, see Neb. RS 1943, §§ 16-206, 16-235, 16-236
   Livestock, see RS 1943, Ch. 54
   Offenses against animals, see Neb. RS 1943, §§ 28-1004 et seq.
§ 6-0 DEFINITIONS.
   As used in this chapter, unless otherwise specified, the following terms
mean:
   ANIMAL. Any live, vertebrate creature, domestic or wild.
   ANIMAL CONTROL AUTHORITY. The entity with which the city contracts for
enforcement of this chapter.
   ANIMAL SHELTER. Any facility operated by a humane society, or municipal
agency, or its authorized agents for the purpose of impounding or caring for
animals held under the authority of this chapter or state law.
   AUCTIONS. Any place or facility where animals are regularly bought, sold or
traded, except for those facilities otherwise defined in this chapter. This
paragraph does not apply to individual sales of animals by owners.
   COMMERCIAL ANIMAL ESTABLISHMENT. Any pet shop, grooming shop, auction,
riding school or stable, zoological park, circus, performing animal exhibit or
kennel.
   DOG. Any canine animal, male or female, sexed or neutered.
   GROOMING SHOP. A commercial establishment where animals are bathed, clipped,
plucked or otherwise groomed.
   HUMANE OFFICER. Any individual employed, appointed or authorized by an
animal control authority with which the City is then under contract for the
purpose of aiding in the enforcement of Neb. RS §§ 54-617 to 54-624 (1943), as
amended, or any other law or ordinance relating to the licensure of animals,
control of animals, or seizure and impoundment of animals and shall include any
state or local law enforcement officer or other employee whose duties in whole
or in part include assignments that involve the seizure and impoundment of any
animal.
   KENNEL. An entity which:
      (1)   Is engaged in the commercial business of buying, selling, breeding,
training for a fee, care or boarding of dogs, or keeps four or more dogs over
four months of age; and
      (2)   Does not possess a valid pet avocation permit nor a valid pet shop
permit.
   LICENSING AUTHORITY. The City of Bellevue, Nebraska.
   OWNER. Any person, or in the case of a minor, the minor’s parent or other
legal guardian; partnership; corporation or other entity owning, possessing,
keeping, harboring, maintaining custody over or entrusted with safeguarding and
handling at least one animal located within the city’s boundaries or within two
miles thereof.
   PET. Any licensed animal kept for pleasure rather than utility.
   PET ANIMAL AVOCATION. The care, breeding, showing or sale of dogs or cats by
a competent adult person who is registered with the animal control authority
and who shall own, keep, harbor or maintain four or more dogs or cats, but no
more than five dogs or five cats total and no more than six total dogs and cats
six months of age or older on the lot on which he or she resides or on a
contiguous lot, which lot or lots are not zoned for business.
   PUBLIC NUISANCE. Any animal or animals which:
      (1)   Molest passers-by or passing vehicles;
      (2)   Attack other animals;
      (3)   Trespass on school grounds;
      (4)   Are repeatedly at large;
      (5)   Damage private or public property;
      (6)   Bark, whine or howl in an excessive, continuous or untimely
fashion; or
      (7)   Annoy, disturb, injure or endanger the comfort, repose, health,
peace or safety of persons or property within the city’s boundaries and within
two miles thereof.
   RESTRAINT. Any animal secured by a leash or lead or within the real property
limits of its owners.
   RIDING SCHOOL OR STABLE. Any place that has available for hire, boarding
and/or riding instruction any horse, pony, donkey, mule or burro.
   STRAY ANIMAL. Any unlicensed animal found roaming at large, frequenting or
remaining on private or public property without the consent of the owner or
tenant of said property.
   VETERINARY HOSPITAL. Any establishment maintained and operated by a licensed
veterinarian for surgery, diagnosis and treatment of diseases and injuries of
animals.
   WILD ANIMAL. Any live monkey (nonhuman primate), raccoon, skunk, fox,
poisonous or dangerous snake, poisonous or dangerous insect, leopard, panther,
tiger, lion, lynx or any other warm-blooded animal, which is now or
historically has been found in the wild, or in the wild state, within the
boundaries of the United States, its territories, or possessions. This term
includes, but is not limited to, animals such as: deer, skunk, opossum,
raccoon, mink, armadillo, coyote, squirrel, fox and wolf.
   WILD STATE. An animal’s original, natural condition of living; not
domesticated.
   ZOOLOGICAL PARK. Any facility, other than a pet shop or kennel, displaying
or exhibiting one or more species of non-domesticated animals operated by a
person, partnership, corporation or governmental agency.
(Ord. 2162, § 1, passed 3-23-1981; Ord. 2753, § 1, passed 5-1-1993; Ord. 3199,
§ 1, passed 6-10-2002; Ord. 3524, § 1, passed 7-27-2009; Ord. 3679, § 1, passed
8-27-2012; Ord. 3894, § 1, passed 1-22-2018)
§ 6-1 ANIMAL CARE.
   (A)   No owner shall fail to provide his animals with sufficient good and
wholesome food and water, proper shelter and protection from the weather,
veterinary care when needed to prevent suffering and with humane care and
treatment.
   (B)   No person shall beat, cruelly ill-treat, torment, overload, overwork
or otherwise abuse an animal, or cause, instigate or permit any dogfight,
cockfight, bullfight or other combat between animals or between animals and
humans.
   (C)   No owner of an animal shall abandon such animal.
   (D)   Chickens or ducklings younger than eight weeks of age may not be sold
in quantities of less than 25 to a single purchaser.
   (E)   No person shall give away any live animal, fish, reptile or bird as a
prize for, or as an inducement to enter any contest, game or other competition;
or as an inducement to enter a place of amusement; or offer such vertebrate as
an incentive to enter into any business agreement whereby the offer was for the
purpose of attracting trade.
   (F)   No person shall set within the city any leg-hold traps other than the
type generally recognized as rodent control devices, except as provided below.
Nothing in this section shall prohibit federal, state or local authorities from
trapping nuisance or dangerous animals as such authorities deem necessary under
the circumstances.
      (1)   Animal trapping shall be limited to the hunting and trapping season
(s) as prescribed by Nebraska State Statute(s) and the Nebraska Game and Parks
Commission.
      (2)   Trap sets shall be limited to snare and metal box traps.
      (3)   No traps shall be permitted on any land without written permission
from the owner or all owners of property where the trap line is to be run.
      (4)   No trap set shall be permitted within 200 feet of any occupied
building without written permission from the owner.
      (5)   No trap shall be set within 200 feet of any public park, designated
forest or any feral cat community approved by the city council.
      (6)   Each trap shall be properly tagged according to Nebraska State
Statute and the Nebraska Game and Parks Commission.
      (7)   Traps shall be set in full compliance with any and all licensing
and permit requirements of Nebraska State Statute(s) and Nebraska Game and
Parks Commission.
      (8)   If any domestic pet or animal is taken in a trap set, the incident
shall be immediately reported to the Bellevue Police Department.
   (G)   No person shall expose any known poisonous substance, whether mixed
with food or not, so that the same shall be liable to be eaten by any animal,
provided that it shall not be unlawful for a person to expose on his own
property common rat poison mixed only with vegetable substances.
(1964 Code, § 4-3) (Ord. 2162, § 7, passed 3-23-1981; Ord. 3822, § 1, passed
11-9-2015; Ord. 4082, § 1, passed 3-1-2022)
Statutory reference:
   Cruelty to animals, see Neb. RS 1943, §§ 28-1004 et seq.
§ 6-2 FOWL RUNNING AT LARGE.
   No owner or keeper of chickens, ducks, geese, turkeys, guinea fowl or any
other fowl shall permit the same to run at large within the city at any time.
(1964 Code, § 4-2)
§ 6-3 ANIMALS RUNNING AT LARGE GENERALLY; HERDING OR TYING ANIMALS IN CERTAIN
PLACES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the owner of any animal to permit the same to
run at large out of such owner’s control, even if such animal is properly
licensed.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for the owner of any horses, mules, cattle, hogs,
sheep or goats to herd such animals upon the streets, avenues, alleys, parks,
open grounds or public grounds, or to picket, lariat, tie or secure by a rope
or otherwise such animals upon any public street, alley, park, railroad right-
of-way, private grounds or vacant lot without the consent of the owner, agent,
occupant, tenant or person in possession, charge or control thereof.
(1964 Code, § 4-1) (Ord. 3199, § 2, passed 6-10-2002)
Statutory reference:
   Authority to regulate or prohibit animals and fowl running at large, see
Neb. RS 1943, § 16-235
§ 6-4 KEEPING OF WILD ANIMALS.
   (A)   No person shall keep or permit to be kept on his or her premises any
wild animal for display or for exhibition purposes, whether gratuitously or for
a fee. This section shall not be construed to apply to zoological parks,
performing animal exhibitions or circuses.
   (B)   No person shall keep or permit to be kept any wild animal as a pet.
(Ord. 2162, § 8, passed 3-23-1981; Ord. 3679, § 2, passed 8-27-2012)
§ 6-5 PERFORMING ANIMAL EXHIBITIONS.
   (A)   No performing animal exhibition or circus shall be permitted in which
animals are induced or encouraged to perform through the use of chemical,
mechanical, electrical or manual devices in a manner which will cause, or is
likely to cause, physical injury or suffering.
   (B)   All equipment used on a performing animal shall fit properly and be in
good working condition.
(Ord. 2162, § 9, passed 3-23-1981)
§ 6-6 ANIMAL WASTE.
   (A)   The owner of every animal shall be responsible for the removal of any
excreta deposited on public walks, recreation areas or private property by his
animal(s) or deposited as a result of the owner’s cleaning of an animal cage,
pen or other animal facility.
   (B)   The owner of every animal shall be responsible for the removal of any
trash or garbage that is scattered or removed from its rightful place by his
animal.
(Ord. 2162, § 10, passed 3-23-1981)
§ 6-6.1 PUBLIC NUISANCES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person owning any animal to do any of the
following:
   (A)   Permit unsanitary conditions to exist on any premises where an animal
is kept which would cause foul or obnoxious odors, attract flies or vermin or
otherwise threaten the public health and safety.
   (B)   Permit an animal to act in a manner that subjects someone with a
threat of harm or injury, including but not limited to, the chasing of vehicles
or the molesting, or frightening of passersby or neighbors.
(Ord. 3524, § 2, passed 7-27-2009)
§ 6-6.2 DOGS OR CATS DAMAGING PROPERTY OF OTHERS.
   It shall be unlawful for the owner of a dog or cat to allow or permit his
dog or cat to damage the property of others or to cause bodily injury. If the
owner is adjudged guilty of a violation of this section, the court may, in
addition to the penalty provided for the violation of this Code, order such
disposition or destruction of the offending dog/cat as may seem reasonable and
proper.
(Ord. 3524, § 3, passed 7-27-2009)
§ 6-7 OWNER LIABILITY.
   (A)   The owner of every animal shall be liable to the owner of any real or
personal property whose property is damaged, altered or defaced by his animal.
   (B)   The owner or owners of any dog shall be liable for any and all damages
that may accrue to any person, other than a trespasser, by reason of having
been chased, bitten or mauled by any such dog.
(Ord. 2162, § 12, passed 3-23-1981)
§ 6-8 ENFORCEMENT.
   The civil and criminal provisions of this chapter shall be enforced by those
persons or agencies designated by municipal authority. It shall be a violation
of this chapter for any person to interfere with a humane officer in the
performance of his duties.
(Ord. 2162, § 13, passed 3-23-1981)
§ 6-9 PENALTIES; UNIFORM CITATIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to violate any provision of this
chapter and any person doing so shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and
shall:
      (1)   Be punished by a fine of not less than $25.00 nor more than $300.00
for each offense and a similar amount for each successive day such person fails
to remedy a prior violation; and/or
      (2)   Be ordered by the court to turn the animal into the animal control
authority for adoption or disposal.
   (B)   If any person is found guilty by a court of violating section
6-4 of this chapter, his permit to own, keep, harbor or have custody of animals
shall be deemed automatically revoked and no new permit may be issued.
   (C)   Every police officer, code enforcement officer, humane officer, or
officer of any animal control authority with which the city has contracted
shall be and hereby is authorized to issue an official notice pursuant to
section
6-11 of this chapter.
   (D)   Every police officer shall be and hereby is authorized to issue a
uniform citation to any person deemed to be in violation of any of the
provision of this chapter. Any person issued a citation for violating any of
sections 6-2, 6-6, 6-19, 6-20, and 6-37 may enter a guilty plea and waive his
or her court appearance and pay a fine of $25.00 and court costs via U.S. mail
or electronically. Should the violator refuse to sign said citation, the
officer is authorized to take the person into custody and require an appearance
bond in accordance with the bond schedule issued by the court. Any person
refusing to sign the citation shall be guilty of a separate offense and shall
be charged with interfering with an officer in the performance of his duty.
   (E)   If a police officer, code enforcement officer, humane officer or
officer of any animal control authority with which the city has contracted
determines that there has been a violation of section 6-17(d), section
6-18 or section
6-10 of this chapter, such officer may immediately confiscate the vicious
animal. The owner of an animal confiscated pursuant to this subsection (E)
shall be responsible for reasonable costs incurred for care given to such
animal and/or reasonable costs incurred in the destruction of such animal as is
authorized by this chapter.
(1964 Code, § 4-38) (Ord. 2162, § 14, passed 3-23-1981; Ord. 3020, § 1, passed
7-12-1999; Ord. 3199, § 3, passed 6-10-2002; Ord. 3524, § 4, passed 7-27-2009)
§§ 6-10—6-15 RESERVED.
ARTICLE II: DOGS AND CATS
Section
Division 1: Generally
   
6-16   Interference with enforcement of article
   
6-17   Restraint
   
6-18   Dangerous and potentially dangerous dogs
   
6-19   Female dogs and cats in heat
   
6-20   Continuous barking, howling, yowling, etc.
   
6-21   Barking dog notices
   
6-22   Restraint—Dogs
   
6-23   Number restricted
   6-24—6-30   Reserved
Division 2: Dog and Cat Tags
   
6-31   License—Required
   
6-32   Same—Application procedure generally
   
6-33   Same—Duration
   
6-34   Same—Time of application
   
6-35   Same—Fee exemption
   
6-36   Dog and cat tags issuance
   
6-37   When worn
   
6-38   License period; time of renewal application; when due
   
6-39   Amount of fee
   
6-39.1   Late charge
   
6-40   Sterilization
   
6-41   Vaccination
   
6-42   Duplication license
   
6-43   Transfer of license
   
6-44   Presumption of age
   
6-45   Delivery records
   
6-46   Attachment of tags; time of payment of fee
   
6-47   Pet animal avocation permit
   6-48—6-50   Reserved
Division 3: Impoundment
   
6-51   City to provide dog and cat pound, dog and cat pound attendant and
humane officer
   
6-52   Impoundment and violation notice
   
6-53   Dogs and cats on school property during school hours
   
6-54   Length of confinement
   
6-55   Purchase of unclaimed animal
Division 4: Feral Cat Colony Caretaker Permit
   
6-56   Purpose of permit
   
6-57   Permit required
   
6-58   Application for permit; issuance; fee
   
6-59   Duration; renewal of permit; revocation
   
6-60   Reclamation from animal control authority
   
6-61   Colony size, care and feeding
   6-62—6-65   Reserved
Editor’s note:
   Ord. 2629, §§ 1 through 36, adopted September 9, 1991, enacted new
provisions for Art. II and III, and § 37 of the aforesaid ordinance repealed
former §§ 6-16 through 6-76 which derived from the Code of 1964, Ch. 4; Ord.
2162, adopted March 23, 1981; Ord. 2202, adopted June 28, 1982; and Ord. 2383,
adopted September 23, 1985. Provisions for cats were added.
Statutory reference:
   Authority to regulate dogs and collect a license tax for dogs, see Neb. RS
1943, § 16-206
DIVISION 1: GENERALLY
§ 6-16 INTERFERENCE WITH ENFORCEMENT OF ARTICLE.
   Any person who shall interfere with the city clerk or any other officer in
his endeavor to carry into effect any provisions of this article, shall be
deemed guilty of a violation of this article.
(Ord. 2629, § 1, passed 9-9-1991)
§ 6-17 RESTRAINT.
   (A)   An owner of a dog or cat shall at all times keep such animal under
restraint.
   (B)   An owner shall at all times exercise proper care and control of his/
her animals to prevent them from becoming a public nuisance.
   (C)   An owner of a female dog or cat in heat shall at all times confine
such animal in a building or secure enclosure in a manner ensuring that such
animal cannot come in contact with another animal except for planned breeding.
   (D)   An animal that poses an immediate threat of significant bodily harm to
any person may be killed by any police officer, code enforcement officer,
humane officer or officer of any animal control authority with which the city
has contracted if such animal is located upon any lot or ground that such
animal’s owner does not own, occupy, lease, have possession, charge or control
of, even if such animal is licensed and vaccinated for rabies.
   (E)   Any person may use whatever means necessary and not otherwise
prohibited to protect himself or others from any vicious animal only when there
is an immediate danger from said animal and no person can be held accountable
for any inhumane treatment of an animal when his/her actions are solely to
protect himself/herself or others from significant bodily harm.
(Ord. 2629, § 2, passed 9-9-1991; Ord. 3199, § 5, passed 6-10-2002; Ord. 3679,
§ 4, passed 8-27-2012)
§ 6-18 DANGEROUS AND POTENTIALLY DANGEROUS DOGS.
   (A)   Definitions. As used in this section, unless otherwise specified, the
following terms mean:
      ANIMAL CONTROL AUTHORITY. An entity authorized to enforce the animal
control laws of the City.
      ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER. Any individual designated or authorized by an
animal control authority for the purpose of aiding in the enforcement of this
article or of any other law or ordinance relating to the licensing of animals,
control of animals, or seizure and impoundment of animals, and also includes
any state or local law enforcement officer as well as any other state or local
employee whose duties in whole or in part include assignments that involve the
seizure and impoundment of any animal or animals.
      DANGEROUS DOG. A dog that, according to the records of the animal control
authority:
         (a)   Has killed a human being;
         (b)   Has inflicted injury on a human being that requires medical
treatment;
         (c)   Has killed or inflicted serious injury on a domestic animal
without provocation;
         (d)   Ferociously and without provocation has attacked, snapped at, or
bitten one or more human beings, or one or more other domestic animals, one or
more times, or has a history of any of such behaviors;
         (e)   Has been previously determined to be a potentially dangerous dog
by the animal control authority of the City, the owner of which has received
notice from the animal control authority of the City of such determination, and
that inflicts an injury on a human being that does not require medical
treatment, injures a domestic animal, or threatens the safety of humans or
domestic animals;
         (f)   Is owned or harbored primarily or in part for the purpose of
animal fighting; or
         (g)   By training, disposition, or behavior poses a potential risk of
attacking and inflicting injury without provocation upon human beings or other
domestic animals.
      DOMESTIC ANIMAL. A dog, cat or pot-bellied pig.
      OWNER. Any person, firm, corporation, organization, political
subdivision, or department possessing, harboring, keeping, or having control or
custody of a domestic animal.
      SERIOUS INJURY ON A DOMESTIC ANIMAL. An injury to a domestic animal that
requires treatment administered by a veterinarian, veterinary clinic,
veterinary hospital, or veterinary office that results in one or more sutures,
surgery, or treatment for one or more broken bones.
      POTENTIALLY DANGEROUS DOG. Means:
         (a)   Any dog that, when unprovoked, inflicts an injury on a human
being that does not require medical treatment, either on public or private
property;
         (b)   Any dog that, when unprovoked, injures a domestic animal, either
on public or private property;
         (c)   Any dog that, when unprovoked, chases or approaches a person who
is upon a street, sidewalk, or any other public ground or public area, in a
menacing or threatening fashion or apparent attitude of attack; or
         (d)   Any specific dog with a known propensity, tendency, or
disposition to attack when unprovoked, or to cause injury, or to threaten the
safety of human beings or other domestic animals.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to keep or harbor a dangerous dog
or a potentially dangerous dog, except as otherwise provided in this article.
   (C)   No animal may be declared to be a dangerous dog or a potentially
dangerous dog if it inflicts injury or damage upon a human being committing a
willful trespass or other tort upon premises occupied by the owner of the
animal or upon a human being committing or attempting to commit a crime.
   (D)   No animal may be declared to be a dangerous dog or a potentially
dangerous dog for taking action to defend or protect a human being within the
immediate vicinity of the animal from an unjustified attack or assault.
   (E)   No animal used in lawful activities of law enforcement officials shall
be declared to be a dangerous dog or a potentially dangerous dog.
   (F)   No animal may be declared to be a dangerous dog under subdivisions (a)
or (e) of the “dangerous dog” definition this section if the injury, or threat
of safety was sustained by an individual who, at the time, was tormenting,
abusing, or assaulting the animal, or has, in the past, been observed or
reported to have tormented, abused or assaulted the animal.
   (G)   Seizure and confinement. It shall be the duty of the animal control
authority to capture, secure, and remove to the animal shelter or other
suitable impoundment or care facility, in as humane manner as is practicable
under the circumstances, any animal running at large, owned, kept, harbored, or
confined in violation of this article. The animals so impounded shall be
treated in a humane manner and shall be provided with a sufficient supply of
food and fresh water each day. Each impounded animal shall be kept and
maintained at the animal shelter, impoundment, or other care facility for a
period of not less than five days after public notice has been given unless
keeping or harboring the animal is lawful within the City and the animal has
been reclaimed earlier by its owner. Notice of impoundment of all animals,
including any significant marks or identifications, shall be posted at the
office of the animal control authority within twenty-four hours after
impoundment as public notification of such impoundment.
      (1)   If keeping or harboring the impounded animal is lawful within the
City, then such animal may be reclaimed by its owner during the period of
impoundment by payment of the required fees as set by the animal control
authority. The owner shall then be required to comply with applicable licensing
and rabies vaccination requirements within 72 hours after release. If the
animal is not claimed at the end of the required waiting period after public
notice has been given, the animal control authority may dispose of the animal
in accordance with the applicable rules and regulations pertaining to the same,
provided that if, in the judgment of the animal control authority, a suitable
home can be found for any such animal, the animal shall be turned over to that
person and the new owner shall then be required to pay all fees and comply with
all applicable licensing and vaccinating requirements provided in this article.
      (2)   The City and/or animal control authority shall acquire legal title
to any unlicensed animal impounded in the animal shelter for a period longer
than the required waiting period after giving notice.
      (3)   All expenses of licensing such animals and maintaining the city dog
pound and the salary of the humane officer shall be paid out of the General
Fund of the city, and all sums collected by the City Clerk for animal licensing
and all impounding charges collected shall be deposited to and become a part of
the General Fund of the City, unless otherwise provided for by a contract
entered into pursuant to Article II, Division 3, of this chapter.
   (H)   Potentially dangerous dog; determination. The preliminary
determination as to whether a particular animal is a potentially dangerous dog
shall be made by the city’s animal control authority on the basis of reasonable
evidence, which may include but shall not be limited to reports and statements
of witnesses, observation, and the opinion of experts. If the animal control
officer has reasonable cause to believe that the animal threatens the safety of
the public or of domestic animals, the animal control officer may enter upon
any premises upon which the animal is kept and remove the animal from those
premises to a place of impoundment.
      (1)   If the animal control authority has preliminarily determined an
animal to be a potentially dangerous dog as defined in subsection (A) above,
the animal control authority shall initiate administrative proceedings to make
such determination final by serving a preliminary determination notice on such
animal’s owner either (i) personally, (ii) by certified mail, return receipt
requested, addressed to the owner at the owner’s usual place of residence, or
(iii) by residence service, which shall mean leaving a copy at the owner’s
usual place of residence with some person of suitable age and discretion
residing therein. The preliminary determination notice shall contain:
         (a)   The name and address of the owner whose animal is the subject of
the proceeding;
         (b)   The name, description and any known license number of the animal
that is the subject of the proceeding;
         (c)   A statement that the animal control authority has preliminarily
determined the animal to be a potentially dangerous dog and a summary
description of the facts that form the basis of such preliminary determination;
         (d)   A summary of the effects of a final determination that the
animal is a potentially dangerous dog, including a summary or copy of the
requirements of subsections (J) to (M) below, and a statement that
noncompliance by the owner with such requirements will result in the owner
being declared a reckless owner by the animal control authority;
         (e)   A statement of the effective date on which the preliminary
determination notice will become a final determination order if the owner does
not file a timely written request for hearing with the animal control
authority, which effective date shall be not less than ten days after the date
of mailing (or of personal or residence service) of the preliminary
determination notice; and
         (f)   A statement that the owner may file with the city’s animal
control authority a written request for hearing within ten days after the date
of the mailing (or within ten days after the personal or residence service) of
the preliminary determination notice.
      (2)   If the owner whose animal is preliminarily determined to be a
potentially dangerous dog does not file a written request for hearing with the
animal control authority within ten days after the date of mailing (or within
ten days after the personal or residence service) of the preliminary
determination notice, the preliminary determination notice shall become a final
determination order on the effective date stated in the preliminary
determination notice, and the city’s animal control authority shall so indicate
in the records of the animal control authority. In such a case, the owner shall
comply with subsection (M) immediately, with subsections (J) and (K) within
thirty days after such effective date, and with subsection (1) within ninety
days after such effective date. If the owner fails to comply with any of such
sections within the time limits specified, the animal control authority shall
initiate administrative proceedings under subsection (I) to declare the owner a
reckless owner.
      (3)   If the owner whose animal is preliminarily determined to be a
potentially dangerous dog files a written request for hearing with the animal
control authority within ten days after the date of mailing (or within ten days
after the personal or residence service) of the preliminary determination
notice, a hearing on such preliminary determination notice shall be held by a
hearing officer designated by the animal control authority. The hearing shall
be held if practicable within ten days after the date of receipt by the animal
control authority of the written request for hearing. The animal control
authority may schedule the hearing with the owner by telephone. The animal
control authority shall provide notice of the time and place of the hearing to
the owner of the animal either telephonically, by personal service, or by
residence service as described in subsection (H)(2) of this section, not less
than forty-eight hours prior to the scheduled hearing. At the hearing, the
owner shall be provided an opportunity to appear and offer evidence to dispute
the preliminary determination notice. A written determination to affirm or
reverse the preliminary determination notice shall be entered by the hearing
officer within ten days after the date of the hearing, if practicable. If the
preliminary determination notice is affirmed, the hearing officer shall enter a
final determination order and, unless the owner initiates a timely appeal under
subsection (4) of this section, such order shall require the owner to comply
with subsection (M) immediately, with subsections (J) and (K) within thirty
days after such effective date, and with subsection (1) within ninety days
after such effective date. If the owner fails to comply with any of such
sections within the time limits specified, the animal control authority shall
initiate administrative proceedings under subsection (I) to declare the owner a
reckless owner.
      (4)   Within ten days after the date of the hearing officer’s decision,
either the owner aggrieved by a decision of the hearing officer or the animal
control authority may appeal such decision to the City of Bellevue Board of
Health in such manner and in accordance with such procedures as the Board of
Health may establish by rule or regulation. The Board of Health may affirm or
reverse the decision of the hearing officer and shall be empowered to enter any
order the hearing officer might have entered. If so ordered by the Board of
Health, the owner shall comply with subsection (M) immediately, with
subsections (J) and (K) within thirty days after such effective date, and with
subsection (1) within ninety days after such effective date. If the owner fails
to comply with any of such sections within the time limits specified, the
animal control authority shall initiate administrative proceedings under
subsection (I) to declare the owner a reckless owner.
      (5)   The animal control authority will notify the owner of any
potentially dangerous dog that has been involved in no incidents of the type
described in section (A) within the two years following the date of the
determination order that such dog is no longer determined to be a potentially
dangerous dog.
   (I)   Reckless owner. If an owner has been convicted of one or more
violations of this Chapter 6 on three separate occasions in any period of
twenty-four consecutive months, the animal control authority shall initiate
administrative proceedings to declare such owner a reckless owner and to revoke
all pet license(s) issued to such owner that are associated with the owner’s
animal(s) that were the subject or subjects of any of such convictions. If an
owner’s animal has been determined to be a dangerous dog or a potentially
dangerous dog and such owner has not complied in a timely manner with the
requirements of this article pertaining to such animals, the animal control
authority shall initiate administrative proceedings to declare such owner a
reckless owner and to revoke all pet license(s) issued to such owner that are
associated with such animal. In either case, such proceedings shall be
instituted by service of a written declaration and revocation notice upon such
owner, either (i) personally, (ii) by certified mail, return receipt requested,
addressed to the owner at the owner’s usual place of residence, or (iii) by
residence service, which shall mean leaving a copy at the owner’s usual place
of residence with some person of suitable age and discretion residing therein.
The declaration and revocation notice shall contain:
      (1)   The name and address of the owner who is subject to such
declaration and revocation notice;
      (2)   The name(s), description(s) and license number(s) of any animal(s)
associated with such violations licensed to the owner;
      (3)   A description of the violations or requirements which form the
basis of such declaration and revocation notice, including the case numbers, if
any;
      (4)   A summary of the effects of such declaration, including the
revocation of such pet license(s) and surrender to the animal control authority
of such animal(s);
      (5)   The date the animal control authority proposes to enter a final
declaration and revocation order, which shall be not less than ten days after
the date of mailing (or of personal or residence service) of the notice, and
      (6)   A statement that the owner may file with the city’s animal control
authority a written request for hearing within ten days after the date of the
mailing (or within ten days after the personal or residence service) of the
declaration and revocation notice.
         (a)   If the owner does not file a written request for hearing within
ten days after the date of mailing (or within ten days after the personal or
residence service) of the declaration and revocation notice, then such
declaration and revocation notice automatically shall become a final
declaration and revocation order, and within twenty-four hours after the
expiration of such ten-days period the owner shall surrender such animal(s) to
the animal control authority. Failure to surrender such animal(s) shall result
in immediate impoundment by the animal control authority in accordance with
section (O). Such surrendered or impounded animal(s) shall immediately become
the property of the animal control authority and may be disposed of or
destroyed humanely by the animal control authority, or placed with a new owner,
as the authority deems appropriate.
         (b)   If the owner files a written request for hearing within ten days
after the date of mailing (or within ten days after the personal or residence
service) of the declaration and revocation notice, a hearing on such
declaration and revocation notice shall be held by a hearing officer designated
by the animal control authority. The hearing shall be held if practicable
within ten days after the date of receipt by the animal control authority of
the written request for hearing. The animal control authority may schedule the
hearing with the owner by telephone. The animal control authority shall provide
notice of the time and place of the hearing to the owner of the animal either
telephonically, by personal service, or by residence service as described in
section (H)(1), not less than forty-eight hours prior to the scheduled hearing.
At the hearing, the owner shall be provided an opportunity to appear and offer
evidence to dispute the declaration and revocation notice. A written
determination to affirm or reverse such declaration and revocation notice shall
be entered by the hearing officer within ten days after the date of the hearing
if practicable. If the decision is to affirm the declaration and revocation
notice, the hearing officer shall enter a final declaration and revocation
order requiring the owner to surrender such animal(s) to the animal control
authority within ten days after the date of the hearing officer’s decision,
unless the owner initiates a timely appeal from such decision under section (H)
(4).
         (c)   Within ten days after the date of the hearing officer’s
decision, either the owner aggrieved by a decision of the hearing officer or
the animal control authority may appeal such decision to the City of Bellevue
Board of Health in such manner and in accordance with such procedures as the
Board of Health may establish by rule or regulation. The Board of Health may
affirm or reverse the decision of the hearing officer and shall be empowered to
enter any order the hearing officer might have entered.
         (d)   An owner who is declared a reckless owner shall be prohibited
from licensing, residing with, or owning any additional animal(s) in the city
for a period of forty-eight consecutive months from the date of entry of the
declaration and revocation order.
   (J)   Dangerous or potentially dangerous dogs; spaying or neutering;
microchip identification and license required. Any animal judicially determined
to be a dangerous dog (but not ordered to be destroyed), and any animal
administratively finally determined to be a potentially dangerous dog, shall be
spayed or neutered and implanted with microchip identification by a licensed
veterinarian at the owner’s expense within thirty days after such determination
is entered, and written proof of spaying or neutering and of microchip
identification number implantation shall be provided to the animal control
authority within seventy-two hours after completion of the procedure. In
addition, such dangerous or potentially dangerous dog shall be required to be
licensed as a dangerous or potentially dangerous dog within thirty days after
the determination.
   (K)   Dangerous or potentially dangerous dogs; proof of insurance. No animal
judicially determined to be a dangerous dog or administratively determined to
be a potentially dangerous dog shall be licensed unless the person having
custody, ownership or control of such animal first presents to the animal
control authority written proof of liability insurance, written by an insurer
authorized to issue such insurance in Nebraska, having limits of liability of
not less than one-hundred thousand dollars ($100,000.00) for injury to any one
person caused by such animal. Such insurance shall be maintained in effect for
the entire period such animal is deemed to be a dangerous dog or potentially
dangerous dog. The animal control authority may require proof that such
insurance coverage remains in effect at any time, but not more frequently than
every sixty days, or may require such policy of insurance to provide that it
may not be cancelled or allowed to expire without thirty days’ prior written
notice to the animal control authority.
   (L)   Dangerous or potentially dangerous dogs; classes required. The owner
of any animal judicially determined to be a dangerous dog or administratively
determined to be a potentially dangerous dog shall be required to attend,
within ninety days after such determination is entered and at the owner’s
expense, a responsible pet ownership class approved by the animal control
authority and, at the discretion and direction of the animal control authority,
an animal behavior class provided or approved by the animal control authority.
   (M)   Dangerous or potentially dangerous dogs; leash, muzzle, muzzle and
harness required. It shall be unlawful for any person owning, harboring, or
having the care of a dangerous dog or potentially dangerous dog to permit or
enable such animal to go beyond the property of such person unless the animal
is under the control of a person 19 years of age or older, the animal is
restrained securely by a harness and leash no more than six feet in length, and
the animal is properly muzzled to reasonably prevent the animal from biting.
      (1)   Definitions. For purposes of this section:
         HARNESS. A close fitting device with straps that encircle the animal’s
body across the chest, over the shoulders, and under the belly behind the front
legs, to which a leash can be securely attached, and which is constructed of
materials sufficient to securely restrain the animal wearing it given the size
and strength of the animal.
         LEASH. A strap, rope or similar tethering device that can be securely
attached to a harness and which is of sufficient strength and weight to
securely restrain the animal wearing the harness.
         MUZZLE. A basket or cage-like device approved by the animal control
authority to cover the animal’s mouth and snout and prevent the animal from
biting, but which allows the animal to open its mouth to pant and drink.
   (N)   Dangerous dogs; confined. No person owning, harboring, or having the
care of a dangerous dog shall permit such animal to go unconfined on the
premises of such person. A dangerous dog shall be securely confined in a humane
manner indoors or in a securely enclosed and locked pen or structure suitably
designed to prevent the entry of children under six years of age and to prevent
the animal from escaping. The pen or structure, if allowed by zoning
regulations, shall have secure sides and a secure top. If the pen or structure
has no bottom secured to the sides, the sides shall be embedded no less than
one foot into the ground or have a concrete pad. The pen or structure shall
also protect the animal from the elements. The owner of a dangerous dog shall
post a clearly visible warning sign on the property where the animal is kept
that informs persons that a dangerous dog is on the property.
   (O)   Dangerous or potentially dangerous dogs; impoundment. Any animal that
has been determined to be a dangerous dog or a potentially dangerous dog that
bites a human being without provocation may be immediately impounded by an
animal control officer and held until disposition of the animal is finally
determined. The owner shall be responsible for the reasonable costs incurred
for the care of such impounded animal.
   (P)   Dangerous dogs; destruction. If an animal that has been determined to
be a dangerous dog as defined in section (A) is found at large and unattended
upon public property, park property, or a public right-of-way, or upon property
not owned or under the control of the owner of the animal, thereby creating a
hazard to persons or property, such animal may, in the discretion of the chief
of police or his or her designee, the animal control authority, the animal
control officer, or a law enforcement officer, be destroyed if the authority or
officer reasonably believes the animal cannot be confined or captured without
unreasonable risk of harm to persons or property. The City shall be under no
duty to attempt the confinement or capture of a dangerous dog found at large
nor shall it have a duty to notify the owner of such animal prior to its
destruction.
   (Q)   Dangerous dogs; failure to comply.
      (1)   Any dangerous dog may be immediately confiscated by an animal
control officer if the owner is in violation of this article. The owner shall
be responsible for the reasonable costs incurred by the animal control
authority for the care of such dangerous dog confiscated by an animal control
officer and for the destruction of any dangerous dog if the action by the
animal control authority is pursuant to law and if the owner violated this
article.
      (2)   In addition to any other penalty, a court may order the animal
control authority to dispose of or destroy a dangerous dog in an expeditious
and humane manner.
   (R)   Impoundment of certain animals during enforcement proceedings. If
there is reasonable cause shown that a domestic animal would constitute a
hazard to the safety of the public at large during the pendency of any action
or proceeding commenced under this article, or that the owner of such animal
has subjected the animal to neglect or cruelty, the court may order such animal
impounded pending the outcome of such proceedings. Any person who owns, kept,
harbored, maintained, or controlled the animal involved in such impoundment
shall pay all expenses of the impoundment to the animal control authority,
including costs of shelter, food, veterinary expenses, boarding, and other
expenses necessitated by the impoundment of the animal or as may be required
for the protection of the public. The animal control authority may require such
person, prior to expiration of ten days after the date of impoundment, to pay
an amount sufficient to pay all reasonable expenses incurred in caring and
providing for the animal, including estimated medical care, for thirty days,
inclusive of the date on which the animal was impounded. If such payment is not
made prior to expiration of such ten-day period, the animal shall become the
property of the animal control authority and may be humanely disposed of,
destroyed, or placed with a new owner, as the animal control authority deems
appropriate. Such payment shall be required for each succeeding thirty-day
period. If any such payment is not made prior to the end of each succeeding
thirty-day period, the animal shall become the property of the animal control
authority and may be humanely disposed of, destroyed, or placed with a new
owner, as the animal control authority deems appropriate.
      (1)   The amount of the payment shall be determined by the animal control
authority based on the current rate for board at the animal shelter and the
condition of the animal after its examination by a veterinarian acting for the
animal control authority. Any such payment received by the animal control
authority in excess of the amount determined by the animal control authority to
be due for the board and care of the animal shall be refunded by the animal
control authority upon expiration of the order of impoundment. Notwithstanding
the foregoing, if the owner of the animal is found not guilty of animal neglect
or cruelty, the owner shall only be required to pay the veterinary expenses and
one-half of the board and care fees determined by the animal control authority
to be due.
      (2)   Notwithstanding the foregoing, if it is determined by a
veterinarian acting for the animal control authority that such animal is
diseased or disabled, that it would be inhumane to allow such animal to
continue to suffer the effects of such disease or disability, and that the
owner of such animal declines to advance the costs of reasonable veterinary
efforts to cure or ameliorate the effects of such disease or disability and
that the costs of such veterinary efforts are not otherwise economically
practicable, then the animal shall immediately become the property of the
animal control authority and may be humanely disposed of, destroyed, or placed
with a new owner, as the animal control authority deems appropriate.
(Ord. 2629, § 3, passed 9-9-1991; Ord. 3199, § 6, passed 6-10-2002; Ord. 3679,
§ 5, passed 8-27-2012; Ord. 3964, § 1, passed 9-3-2019)
§ 6-19 FEMALE DOGS AND CATS IN HEAT.
   No person shall maintain a female dog or cat in heat in the city unless such
female is confined by adequate enclosure to the owner’s property. No female dog
or cat shall be permitted to leave the owner’s property unless on a leash and
in custody of an adult person. The owner or possessor of any female dog or cat
which is impounded because of being found running at large while in heat shall
be deemed guilty of a violation of this section.
(Ord. 2629, § 4, passed 9-9-1991; Ord. 3020, § 2, passed 7-12-1999)
§ 6-20 CONTINUOUS BARKING, HOWLING, YOWLING, ETC.
   (A)   No person shall own, keep or harbor any dog within the city which by
constant and continuous barking, whining, or howling in an excessive,
continuous or untimely fashion shall annoy or disturb the surrounding
neighborhood or other persons. In addition no person shall own, keep or harbor
any cat within the city which by constant and continuous meowing or yowling in
an excessive, continuous or untimely fashion shall annoy or disturb the
surrounding neighborhood or other persons.
   (B)   Any dog which annoys or disturbs the surrounding neighborhood or other
persons by the constant and continued barking, whining or howling in an
excessive, continuous or untimely fashion or any cat which annoys or disturbs
the surrounding neighborhood or other persons by the constant and continued
meowing or yowling in an excessive, continuous or untimely fashion may be
declared a public nuisance and impounded by the licensing authority.
   (C)   A dog or cat so impounded may be reclaimed upon payment of the kennel
fee of $5.00 per day and an impoundment fee of $30.00.
(Ord. 2629, § 5, passed 9-9-1991; Ord. 3020, § 3, passed 7-12-1999)
§ 6-21 BARKING DOG NOTICES.
   (A)   Intent. The City of Bellevue desires to reduce the number of man hours
spent by animal control officers in responding to citizen complaints of barking
dogs. Currently, an animal control officer is sent to the location from which
the complaint originates to investigate the matter. Oftentimes a complainant
refuses to provide his or her name.
   (B)   Enforcement. Upon receiving a complaint in which the complainant does
not provide a name, the animal control authority shall send a form letter to
the address of the location of the barking dog, advising the resident of the
complaint and of procedures that such resident can take to prevent any further
action by the animal control authority. Such letter shall be sent upon the
first two complaints at the location, and an animal control officer shall be
sent on a third or subsequent complaint to investigate the matter.
      (1)   Upon receiving a complaint in which the complainant does provide a
name on either of the first two complaints, the animal control authority shall
send an animal control officer to the location to investigate the matter.
      (2)   The animal control authority shall continue to respond to any
barking dog call in the City of Bellevue that is reported by the city police
department.
(Ord. 3524, § 5, passed 7-27-2009)
§ 6-22 RESTRAINT—DOGS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the owner of any dog within the city to fail
to keep his dog securely restrained or otherwise confined in or upon his
premises in an enclosure sufficient to contain the dog.
   (B)   Each animal shall be separately tethered. No animal shall be tethered
outdoors in excess of 15 minutes at any one time unless an owner, custodian or
person responsible for the animal, 19 years of age or older, is present in the
same yard in which the animal is tethered. The tether shall be at least five
times the length of the animal’s body as measured from the tip of the nose to
the base of the tail, terminates at each end with a swivel, weighs no more than
one-eighth of the animal’s weight, is free of tangles, prevents strangulation
or injury and prevents the animal from being within 15 feet from the edge of
any public street or sidewalk. Provided, that if the tethering method is a
trolley system, at least 15 feet in length and less than seven feet above
ground, and meets the foregoing tether requirements, the animal may be tethered
outdoors for up to one hour with an owner, custodian or person responsible for
the animal, 19 years of age or older, in the same yard in which the animal is
tethered.
   (C)   In addition to the sanctions which may be imposed by law, any person
who fails to keep his dog securely restrained or otherwise confined as required
by this section shall pay the following penalties:
      (1)   For the first violation, a penalty in the sum of $100.00.
      (2)   For the second violation within 24 months of the first violation, a
penalty in the sum of $250.00.
      (3)   For the third violation within 24 months of the first violation,
and each subsequent violation thereafter, a penalty in the sum of $500.00.
(Ord. 3706, § 1, passed 3-25-2013; Ord. 4019, § 1, passed 11-17-2020)
§ 6-23 NUMBER RESTRICTED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to own, keep or harbor at any time more than a
total of three dogs and/or cats over the age of six months per residential or
dwelling unit in the city; provided, however, this section shall not apply to
kennels or holders of a pet animal avocation permit.
   (B)   The number of animals authorized in section
6-47 shall not be in addition to the total number of animals specified under
this section.
(Ord. 3894, § 3, passed 1-22-2018)
§§ 6-24—6-30 RESERVED.
DIVISION 2: DOG AND CAT TAGS
§ 6-31 LICENSE—REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to own, keep, harbor or have custody of
any dog or cat over four months of age within the boundaries of the city and
within two miles thereof without first annually obtaining a license as provided
in this division. Prior to obtaining a license, proof of a rabies vaccination
shall be required, except as provided in section 6-41.
(Ord. 2629, § 6, passed 9-9-1991; Ord. 2753, § 2, passed 5-10-1993; Ord. 3199,
§ 7, passed 6-10-2002)
Statutory reference:
   Authority to collect a license tax for dogs, see Neb. RS 1943, § 16-206
§ 6-32 SAME—APPLICATION PROCEDURE GENERALLY.
   Written application for licenses under this division shall be made to the
licensing authority which shall include the name and address of applicant,
description of the animal, the appropriate fee, a rabies certificate issued by
a licensed veterinarian and a declaration of ownership of the animal signed by
the applicant.
(Ord. 2629, § 7, passed 9-9-1991)
§ 6-33 SAME—DURATION.
   If not revoked, licenses for the keeping of dogs or cats shall be for a
period of one year.
(Ord. 2629, § 8, passed 9-9-1991)
§ 6-34 SAME—TIME OF APPLICATION.
   Applications for initial licenses under this division shall be made within
30 days after obtaining a dog or cat, which has reached the age of three
months, except that this requirement will not apply to a non-resident keeping a
dog or cat within the city for not longer than 60 days. Initial licenses shall
be valid for the period beginning on the date of issuance and ending on
December 31 of the year of issuance. Persons applying for an initial license
shall be required to pay the applicable fees set forth in section 6-39.
(Ord. 2629, § 9, passed 9-9-1991; Ord. 3242, § 1, passed 12-9-2002)
§ 6-35 SAME—FEE EXEMPTION.
   License fees shall not be required for seeing eye dogs or governmental
police dogs.
(Ord. 2629, § 10, passed 9-9-1991)
§ 6-36 DOG AND CAT TAGS ISSUANCE.
   Upon payment of the required license fee, the license authority shall issue
a numbered receipt and tag as necessary to the owner for the dog or cat
licensed. Licenses shall be issued annually, or at other intervals determined
by the authority.
(Ord. 2629, § 11, passed 9-9-1991; Ord. 3524, § 6, passed 7-27-2009)
§ 6-37 WHEN WORN.
   Dogs and cats must wear identification tags or collars at all times when off
the premises of the owner. Cats do not need to wear a collar when confined in a
carrier for travel. In the absence of a tag, a dog or cat shall be regarded as
a stray whenever off its owner’s property.
(Ord. 2629, § 12, passed 9-9-1991)
§ 6-38 LICENSE PERIOD; TIME OF RENEWAL APPLICATION; WHEN DUE.
   Except as provided in section
6-34 concerning the expiration of initial licenses, the licensing period under
this division shall begin on January 1 and run through December 31 of each
year. Applications for renewal licenses will be made available as of December
15 of each year and shall be submitted to the licensing authority on or before
March 15 of each year. Persons applying for a renewal license shall be required
to pay the applicable fees set forth in section 6-39.
(Ord. 2629, § 13, passed 9-9-1991; Ord. 2753, § 3, passed 5-10-1993; Ord. 3242,
§ 2, passed 12-9-2002)
§ 6-39 AMOUNT OF FEE.
   A license shall be issued after payment of the applicable fee as described
in the Master Fee Schedule.
(Ord. 2629, § 14, passed 9-9-1991; Ord. 2753, § 4, passed 5-10-1993; Ord. 3242,
§ 3, passed 12-9-2002; Ord. 3496, § 1, passed 3-9-2009)
§ 6-39.1 LATE CHARGE.
   In the event any person who is required to obtain a license pursuant to the
provisions of this division fails to obtain such a license within the
prescribed time period, such person shall pay a late charge of an amount that
is equal to the amount of the applicable fee required to obtain the license
under section 6-39; provided, however, that the licensing authority is
authorized to waive any late charges when, in its sole and absolute discretion,
the licensing authority deems appropriate.
(Ord. 3242, § 4, passed 12-9-2002)
§ 6-40 STERILIZATION.
   A dog or cat shall be presumed to be unspayed or unneutered unless the
licensing authority is shown a certification by a licensed veterinarian that
the animal is permanently sterilized. The sum as described in the Master Fee
Schedule from the fee shall be held in trust for the owner of an unspayed or
unneutered dog or cat. This trust shall be refunded at any time during the six
month period after the fee is paid by showing the licensing authority a
certification by a licensed veterinarian that said animal is permanently
sterilized. If not claimed during the six-month period, said trust shall become
the property of the licensing authority. After the expiration of the six-month
period, any claim that the animal has died or has become lost or stolen shall
not in itself be cause to refund the trust.
(Ord. 2629, § 15, passed 9-9-1991; Ord. 3496, § 2, passed 3-9-2009)
§ 6-41 VACCINATION.
   Owners of dogs and cats shall pay a fee as described in the Master Fee
Schedule to be held in trust by the licensing authority for the owner, if the
animal is not vaccinated for rabies due to age or other reasons verified by a
licensed veterinarian. Such fee shall be refunded at any time before said
animal reaches the age of one year, upon showing proof of rabies vaccination to
the licensing authority. If the fee is not reclaimed by the owner within nine
months after it was placed in trust with the licensing authority, the fee shall
become the property of the licensing authority. After the expiration of the
nine-month period, any claim that the animal has died or has become lost or
stolen shall not in itself be cause to refund the trust.
(Ord. 2629, § 16, passed 9-9-1991; Ord. 3496, § 3, passed 3-9-2009)
§ 6-42 DUPLICATION LICENSE.
   A duplicate license under this division may be obtained upon payment of the
fee as described in the Master Fee Schedule.
(Ord. 2629, § 17, passed 9-9-1991; Ord. 3496, § 4, passed 3-9-2009)
§ 6-43 TRANSFER OF LICENSE.
   No person may use any license under this division for any animal other than
the animal for which it was issued.
(Ord. 2629, § 18, passed 9-9-1991)
§ 6-44 PRESUMPTION OF AGE.
   All dogs and cats found roaming at large without proper proof of date of
birth shall be regarded as animals at least three months old and therefore
shall be subject to the licensing requirements.
(Ord. 2629, § 19, passed 9-9-1991)
§ 6-45 DELIVERY RECORDS.
   Any person who may desire to harbor a dog or cat shall pay to the licensing
authority the dog or cat fee required by section
6-39 and take his receipt therefor. The licensing authority shall deliver to
such person a plate or tag for the animal. The licensing authority shall keep a
record of such plates or tags furnished by him. The record shall contain the
date, when and to who delivered, the number of the tag, the name of the owner
and the name, description and sex of each dog or cat upon which the fee has
been paid.
(Ord. 2629, § 20, passed 9-9-1991)
§ 6-46 ATTACHMENT OF TAGS; TIME OF PAYMENT OF FEE.
   Each person paying the annual dog and cat fee required by section
6-39 shall attach a metal tag to the collar of the dog or cat showing the
number as provided in section 6-39. The dog and cat fee shall be due and dog
and cat licenses shall be available on the first day of August in each year and
current dog or cat tags shall be on the animal on or before September 1 of each
year.
(Ord. 2629, § 21, passed 9-9-1991)
§ 6-47 PET ANIMAL AVOCATION PERMIT.
   (A)   Permit required. A permit is required for any person who shall own,
keep, harbor or maintain four or more dogs or cats, but no more than five dogs
or five cats total and no more than six total dogs and cats six months of age
or older on the lot on which he or she resides or on a contiguous lot, which
lot or lots are not zoned for business.
   (B)   Application for permit; issuance; fee. Any person desiring a pet
animal avocation permit shall file an application with the authority for
issuance of the permit. The authority shall inspect for and consider the
applicant’s compliance with this chapter in determining whether to issue the
permit. An initial inspection fee of $100.00 shall be paid at the time of
application. In addition, a permit fee of $50.00 shall be paid by the applicant
annually on the anniversary of the issuance date of the permit. The initial
inspection fee required under this subparagraph (B) is waived for animal
rescues, provided such are otherwise in compliance with this chapter.
   (C)   License required. All animals owned, kept, possessed or harbored under
a pet animal avocation permit must be licensed as required by section 6-31.
Proof of individual license on each pet animal must be provided at the time of
inspection.
   (D)   Vaccination required. All animals owned, kept, possessed or harbored
under a pet animal avocation permit must be vaccinated against rabies as
required by section 6-31. Proof of individual rabies vaccination on each pet
animal must be provided at the time of inspection.
   (E)   Duration; renewal of permit; revocation. Such permit shall allow the
applicant to pursue the avocation for a period of one year unless said permit
is revoked. Being found guilty, in a court of law, of any violation of this
chapter, may constitute sufficient cause for revocation of such permit. Failure
to permit inspection pursuant to subsection (F) of this section shall be
grounds for immediate revocation of this permit. Such permit shall be renewed
annually.
   (F)   Maintenance and inspection of premises and animals. A vocational
premises shall be maintained in a clean and safe condition at all times.
Sanitary methods shall be used to prevent or abate any offensive odors. The
authority shall have the right to inspect such premises and the animals therein
at reasonable hours to ascertain that the premises are kept in the
aforementioned conditions and meet the following operational standards and such
other standards as promulgated by the authority.
      (1)   Each animal shall at suitable intervals and at least once every 24
hours, receive a quantity of wholesome foodstuff suitable for the species’
physical condition and age, sufficient to maintain an adequate level of
nutrition for the animal;
      (2)   Each animal shall have available at all times an adequate supply of
clean, fresh, potable water. If water pans or dishes are used, such pans or
dishes shall have weighted bottoms or be mounted or secured in a manner that
prevents tipping;
      (3)   Indoor housing shall provide for adequate ventilation, lighting,
temperature control, and construction so as to provide for the safety and
comfort of the animals;
      (4)   Each animal shall receive care and medical treatment for
debilitating injuries, parasites, and disease, sufficient to maintain the
animal in good health and to minimize suffering; and
      (5)   Animals maintained pursuant to a vocational permit shall be
predominantly maintained indoors. Premises where a vocational permit includes
dogs shall provide a fenced enclosure sufficient to contain any dogs while
outside.
   (G)   Open and available. All areas of the premises inspected for a
vocational permit shall be made open and available for inspection by the
authority.
(Ord. 3894, § 4, passed 1-22-2018)
§§ 6-48—6-50 RESERVED.
DIVISION 3: IMPOUNDMENT
§ 6-51 CITY TO PROVIDE DOG AND CAT POUND, DOG AND CAT POUND ATTENDANT AND
HUMANE OFFICER.
   The city shall provide an adequate dog and cat pound and an attendant and
humane officer for the proper maintenance of the pound. The attendant at such
dog and cat pound and the humane officer may be the same person or, in the
discretion of the mayor and city council, such position may be held by some
other employee of the city.
(Ord. 2629, § 22, passed 9-9-1991)
Statutory reference:
   Authority to provide for pounds and appoint keepers, see Neb. RS 1943, § 16-
236
§ 6-52 IMPOUNDMENT AND VIOLATION NOTICE.
   (A)   Unrestrained pets shall be taken by the police, animal control
officers or humane officers and impounded in an animal shelter and there
confined in a humane manner. The licensing authority shall make an attempt to
notify the owner of an impounded licensed animal as soon as possible after the
animal is impounded.
   (B)   An owner reclaiming an impounded animal shall pay an impoundment fee
for the animal plus a kennel fee for each day the animal has been impounded.
The day on which the animal is impounded shall count as one day and any part of
any day during which the animal is impounded shall also count as a full day.
The impoundment fee and kennel fee shall be as described in the Master Fee
Schedule. In addition to any impoundment fee charged pursuant to any third and
subsequent impoundment of this subsection, the city shall have the power and
right to confiscate any and all animals subject to such impoundment.
   (C)   Unclaimed pound animals shall be kept for not less than five days.
   (D)   Any animal not reclaimed within five days shall become property of the
local government authority, or humane society, and shall be placed for adoption
in a suitable home or humanely destroyed.
   (E)   Stray animals that are roaming at large, remaining on private property
without consent of the owner or tenant, or remaining on or frequenting public
property, are deemed to be the property of the licensing authority. If such
stray animal cannot be captured by a conventional means, every police or humane
officer is authorized to use any means necessary to remove said animal.
   (F)   Prior to any impoundment by the police, animal control officers or
humane officers pursuant to this section, such officer, upon confiscating an
unrestrained pet, shall follow the procedures of the Nebraska Humane Society
Free Ride Home Program, which allows animal control officers to return stray
pets to their owners free of charge if the following conditions are met:
      (1)   The animal is found within one mile of its home;
      (2)   The animal is properly licensed;
      (3)   The animal is properly vaccinated; and
      (4)   There are no previous impounds on the animal.
(Ord. 2629, § 23, passed 9-9-1991; Ord. 3020, § 4, passed 7-12-1999; Ord. 3496,
§ 5, passed 3-9-2009; Ord. 3524, § 7, passed 7-27-2009)
§ 6-53 DOGS AND CATS ON SCHOOL PROPERTY DURING SCHOOL HOURS.
   Any dog or cat, licensed or unlicensed, found on school property in the city
during school hours, shall be picked up and impounded.
(Ord. 2629, § 24, passed 9-9-1991)
§ 6-54 LENGTH OF CONFINEMENT.
   All impounded dogs or cats shall be held for a period of not less than five
days. At the expiration of that time, the impounded dog or cat shall either be
humanely destroyed or disposed of in accordance with section 6-55.
(Ord. 2629, § 25, passed 9-9-1991)
§ 6-55 PURCHASE OF UNCLAIMED ANIMAL.
   Any animal not reclaimed by its owner within five days shall become the
property of the local government authority, or humane society, and shall be
placed for adoption in a suitable home or humanely destroyed. Any impounded
animal, which is unlicensed and unclaimed, may be purchased at the end of a
five-day incarceration period. The purchaser shall pay fees as determined by
the licensing authority. The purchase fee shall be credited to the licensing
authority.
(Ord. 2629, § 26, passed 9-9-1991; Ord. 3496, § 6, passed 3-9-2009; Ord. 3524,
§ 8, passed 7-27-2009)
DIVISION 4: FERAL CAT COLONY CARETAKER PERMIT
§ 6-56 PURPOSE OF PERMIT.
   The purpose of providing for the permitting of feral cat colony caretakers
is to decrease the number of feral cats and feral cat colonies through the
humane methods of trap, neuter and release (TNR), attrition, and relocation.
(Ord. 3750, § 1, passed 1-13-2014)
§ 6-57 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   A permit is required for any person who cares for, but does not own feral
cats that are part of a feral cat colony. It shall be unlawful for any person
to care for a feral cat colony without first obtaining a permit under this
division. A person who obtains a feral cat colony caretaker permit for the
purposes stated under this division shall not be considered an “owner” of the
feral cats under his or her care as that term is defined in Section 6-0 of this
chapter.
(Ord. 3750, § 1, passed 1-13-2014)
§ 6-58 APPLICATION FOR PERMIT; ISSUANCE; FEE.
   (A)   Any person over the age of 18 desiring a feral cat colony caretaker
permit shall file an application with the animal control authority for issuance
of the permit. The authority shall inspect for and consider the applicant’s
compliance with this chapter in determining whether to issue the permit.
Conviction of a violation of this Chapter within the past ten years shall be
grounds for denial of a permit. The applicant must present:
      (1)   A detailed description of each feral cat in the colony;
      (2)   Proof that such feral cats in the colony have been sterilized, ear-
tipped, and vaccinated against rabies, or are being actively trapped to perform
sterilization, ear-tipping and vaccination;
      (3)   The address of the private property at which the colony is
maintained;
      (4)   Written proof of permission from the private property owner to
maintain the colony at such address;
      (5)   Contact information for the applicant; and
      (6)   Such other information as may be required by the animal control
authority.
   (B)   A permit fee/initial inspection fee in the amount stated in the master
fee schedule shall be paid at the time of application. In addition, a permit/
inspection fee in the amount stated in the master fee schedule shall be paid by
the applicant biennially on the anniversary of the issuance date of the permit.
The authority shall have the right to inspect the address of the private
property at which the colony is maintained at reasonable hours from time to
time to ascertain that the premises are suitable for feral cat colony
caretaking. No feral cat colony caretaker permit shall be issued for an address
located on public property.
(Ord. 3750, § 1, passed 1-13-2014)
§ 6-59 DURATION; RENEWAL OF PERMIT; REVOCATION.
   (A)   Such feral cat colony caretaker permit shall allow the applicant to
maintain the feral cat colony for a period of up to two years unless said
permit is revoked. Such permit shall be renewed biennially.
   (B)   The following shall constitute cause for revocation of such permit:
      (1)   Conviction, in a court of law, of any violation of this chapter,
      (2)   Failure to permit biennial or other inspections of the address at
which the feral cat colony is maintained,
      (3)   Inability of the caretaker to provide care for the feral cat
colony, or
      (4)   Failure of the caretaker to actively work toward decreasing the
number of feral cats within the colony through the humane method of trap,
neuter and release (TNR), the continual presence of kittens in the feral cat
colony and/or failure to sterilize adult cats who become members of the colony.
(Ord. 3750, § 1, passed 1-13-2014)
§ 6-60 RECLAMATION FROM ANIMAL CONTROL AUTHORITY.
   The holder of feral cat colony caretaker permit may reclaim from the animal
control authority a feral cat, belonging to the colony for which the permit is
issued and which has been described on the permit application, without proof of
ownership. The fees specified in section
6-52 shall not be required for the return of feral cats from a registered
colony.
(Ord. 3750, § 1, passed 1-13-2014)
§ 6-61 COLONY SIZE, CARE AND FEEDING.
   (A)   The holder of a feral cat colony caretaker permit may maintain a feral
cat colony of: (i) no more than 20 adult feral cats at an address in areas
zoned residential; or (ii) no more than 30 adult feral cats at an address in
areas zoned commercial, provided, that the permit holder for any feral cat
colony must establish that at least eighty percent (80%) of the adult feral
cats in the colony have been spayed, neutered and ear-tipped prior to renewal
of the permit.
   (B)   The holder of a feral cat colony caretaker permit shall remove all
food and water containers set out for feeding feral cats within two (2) hours
of the placement of such containers within the feral cat colony.
   (C)   Any shelters provided for the feral cats by the feral cat colony
caretaker shall not be unsightly to the general public, nor interfere with the
enjoyment or use of adjoining properties, and shall blend in with the colony’s
surroundings.
   (D)   Feeding feral cats shall be discontinued if such feeding causes a
nuisance to neighbors or creates a condition that is contrary to the health,
safety and welfare of the community.
(Ord. 3750, § 1, passed 1-13-2014)
§§ 6-62—6-65 RESERVED.
ARTICLE III: RABIES CONTROL
Section
   
6-66   Definitions
   
6-67   Enforcement
   
6-68   Vaccination and revaccination required
   
6-69   Same—Revaccination
   
6-70   Same—Certificate; tag
   
6-71   Same—Responsibility of cost
   
6-72   Same—Exemptions
   
6-73   Procedure upon animal biting person
   
6-74   Procedures upon being bitten by a rabid animal
   
6-75   Impoundment of unvaccinated dogs and cats
   6-76—6-85   Reserved
Editor’s note:
   See editor’s note to Art. II of this chapter.
Statutory reference:
   Rabies control, see Neb. RS 1943, §§ 71-4401 et seq.
§ 6-66 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this article, the following words and phrases shall have
the meanings respectively ascribed to them by this section:
   CAT. Any feline animal, male or female, sexed or neutered.
   DOG. Any canine animal, male or female, sexed or neutered.
   OWN. Unless otherwise specified, shall mean to possess, keep, harbor, or
have control of, charge or custody of a dog or cat. This term shall not apply
to dogs and cats owned by other persons which are temporarily maintained on the
premises of a veterinarian or kennel operator for a period of no more than 30
days.
   OWNER. Any person possessing, keeping, harboring or having charge or control
of, or permitting any dog or cat to habitually be or remain on, or be lodged or
fed within, such person’s house, yard or premises. This term shall not apply to
veterinarians or kennel operators temporarily maintaining on their premises
dogs or cats owned by other persons for a period of not more than 30 days.
   RABIES CONTROL AUTHORITY. The city humane officer, any police officer or
other officer designated by the mayor.
   VACCINATION AGAINST RABIES. The inoculation of a dog or cat with a rabies
vaccine licensed by the United States Department of Agriculture on the
effective date of this article. Such vaccination must be performed by a
veterinarian duly licensed to practice veterinary medicine in the state.
(Ord. 2629, § 27, passed 9-9-1991)
§ 6-67 ENFORCEMENT.
   The rabies control authority shall enforce the provisions of this article.
(Ord. 2629, § 28, passed 9-9-1991)
§ 6-68 VACCINATION AND REVACCINATION REQUIRED.
   (A)   Every dog and cat shall be vaccinated against rabies within 30 days
after they have reached four months of age, one year after initial vaccination
and thereafter triennially, according to vaccine manufacturer’s guidelines.
Unvaccinated animals acquired or moved into the city must be vaccinated within
30 days after purchase or arrival, unless, under four months of age as
specified above.
   (B)   An owner or keeper of any animal required to be licensed by this
chapter and to be vaccinated by a licensed veterinarian is exempt from the
requirements of this section if a medical reason exists that precludes the
vaccination of the animal. To qualify for this exemption, the owner or keeper
must have a written statement signed by a licensed veterinarian that includes a
description of the animal and the medical reason that precludes the
vaccination.
(Ord. 2629, § 29, passed 9-9-1991; Ord. 3524, § 9, passed 7-27-2009)
Statutory reference:
   Rabies vaccination required, see Neb. RS 1943, § 71-4402
§ 6-69 SAME—REVACCINATION.
   Every dog and cat shall be vaccinated following a period of not more than 36
months since its last vaccination with chick embryo, LEP (low egg passage),
Flurry vaccine or following a period of not more than 24 months since its last
vaccination with killed or inactive vaccine. The intervals of any other anti-
rabies vaccines shall be set by the state veterinarian, and shall follow the
latest recommendations of the United States Public Health Service on the
effective date of this article.
(Ord. 2629, § 30, passed 9-9-1991)
§ 6-70 SAME—CERTIFICATE; TAG.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of each veterinarian, at the time of vaccinating
a dog or cat, to complete a certificate of rabies vaccination which shall
include, but not be limited to the following information:
      (1)   The owner’s name and address.
      (2)   An adequate description of the dog or cat including, but not
limited to, such item as the dog’s or cat’s breed, sex, age, name and
distinctive markings.
      (3)   The date of vaccination.
      (4)   The rabies vaccination by number.
      (5)   The type of rabies vaccine administered.
      (6)   The manufacturer’s serial number of the vaccine used.
   (B)   Such veterinarian shall issue a tag with the certificate of
vaccination.
(Ord. 2629, § 31, passed 9-9-1991)
§ 6-71 SAME—RESPONSIBILITY OF COST.
   The cost of rabies vaccination shall be borne by the owner of the dog or
cat.
(Ord. 2629, § 31, passed 9-9-1991)
§ 6-72 SAME—EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   The provisions of this article with respect to vaccination shall not
apply to any dog or cat owned by a person temporarily remaining within the city
for less than 30 days, to any dog brought into the city for field trials or
show purposes, or to any dog brought into the city for hunting purposes for a
period of less than 30 days or to any cat brought into the city for show
purposes for a period of less than 30 days. Such dogs or cats shall be kept
under strict supervision of the owner.
   (B)   Dogs and cats assigned to a research institution or a similar facility
shall be exempt from the provisions of this article.
(Ord. 2629, § 33, passed 9-9-1991)
§ 6-73 PROCEDURE UPON ANIMAL BITING PERSON.
   (A)   Any dog, cat or any other animal suspected of being afflicted with
rabies or any dog or cat not vaccinated in accordance with sections 6-68 to 6-
70, which has bitten any person and caused an abrasion of the skin of such
person, shall be seized by the rabies control authority and impounded under the
supervision of a licensed veterinarian or public health authority for a period
of not less than ten days. If upon examination by a veterinarian, the dog, cat
or other animal has no clinical signs of rabies at the end of such impoundment,
it may be released to the owner, or in case of a stray, it shall be disposed of
in accordance with applicable laws.
   (B)   Any dog or cat, vaccinated in accordance with the provisions of
sections 6-68 to 6-70, or any other animal which has bitten any person, shall
be confined by the owner or other responsible person as required by the rabies
control authority for a period of at least ten days, at which time the dog, cat
or other animal shall be examined by a licensed veterinarian. If no sign of
rabies is observed by the veterinarian, the dog, cat or other animal may be
released from confinement.
(Ord. 2629, § 34, passed 9-9-1991)
§ 6-74 PROCEDURES UPON BEING BITTEN BY A RABID ANIMAL.
   In the case of dogs and cats known to have been bitten by a rabid animal,
the following rules shall apply:
   (A)   In the case of a dog or cat which has not been vaccinated in
accordance with sections 6-68 to 6-70, and which has been bitten by a known
rabid animal, such bitten or exposed dog or cat shall be immediately destroyed
unless the owner is willing to place such dog or cat in strict isolation in a
kennel under veterinary supervision for a period of not less than six months.
   (B)   If the bitten or exposed dog or cat is vaccinated in accordance with
provisions of sections 6-68 to 6-70 such dog or cat shall be subject to the
following procedures:
      (1)   Such dog or cat shall be immediately revaccinated and confined for
a period of not less than 30 days following vaccination; or
      (2)   If such dog or cat is not immediately revaccinated, such dog or cat
shall be confined in strict isolation in a kennel for a period of not less than
six months under the supervision of a veterinarian; or
      (3)   Such dog or cat shall be destroyed if the owner does not comply
with either paragraph (B)(1) or (B)(2) of this subsection.
(Ord. 2629, § 35, passed 9-9-1991)
§ 6-75 IMPOUNDMENT OF UNVACCINATED DOGS AND CATS.
   (A)   Any dog or cat found outside the owner’s premises whose owner does not
possess a valid certificate of rabies vaccination and valid rabies vaccination
tag for such dog or cat shall be impounded. All impounded dogs and cats shall
be given proper care, treatment and maintenance. Each impounded dog or cat
shall be kept and maintained at the pound for a period of not less than five
days unless reclaimed earlier by the owner.
   (B)   Notice of impoundment of all animals, including any significant marks
of identification, shall be posted at the pound as public notification of
impoundment. Any unvaccinated dog or cat may be reclaimed by its owner during
the period of impoundment by payment of prescribed pound fees and by complying
with the rabies vaccination requirements of this act within 72 hours of
release. Any vaccinated dog or cat impounded because its owner has not
presented a valid certificate of rabies vaccination and a valid rabies
vaccination tag for such dog or cat may be reclaimed by its owner by furnishing
proof of rabies vaccination and payment of all impoundment fees prior to
release.
   (C)   At the expiration of impoundment a dog or cat may be claimed by
payment of established pound fees and by compliance with the rabies vaccination
requirements of this act within 72 hours of release. If the dog or cat is
unclaimed at the end of five days, the authorities may dispose of the dog or
cat in accordance with applicable laws or rules and regulations.
(Ord. 2629, § 36, passed 9-9-1991)
§§ 6-76—6-85 RESERVED.
ARTICLE IV: HORSES
Section
   
6-86   Definitions
   
6-87   Compliance with article; responsibility of parent or guardian
   
6-88   Registration—Required
   
6-89   Same—Fee; number
   
6-90   Rules governing riding
   
6-91   Routes established for riding or leading horses
   
6-92   Riding, etc., on streets, sidewalks, etc., generally
   6-93—6-100   Reserved
Statutory reference:
   State racing commission, see Neb. RS 1943, §§ 2-1201 et seq.
§ 6-86 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this article, the following words and phrases shall have
the meanings respectively ascribed to them by this section:
   HORSE. All members of the equine family both male and female.
   OWNER. Any person or persons, firm, association or corporation owning,
keeping or harboring a horse.
   RIDER. Any person being carried on the back of a horse.
(1964 Code, § 4-39)
§ 6-87 COMPLIANCE WITH ARTICLE; RESPONSIBILITY OF PARENT OR GUARDIAN.
   It is a misdemeanor for any person to do any act forbidden or fail to
perform any act required in the article. The parent of any child and the
guardian of any ward shall not authorize or knowingly permit any such child or
ward to violate any of the provisions of this article.
(1964 Code, § 4-45)
§ 6-88 REGISTRATION—REQUIRED.
   All horses kept, harbored or maintained by their owners inside the city or
using the city streets and rights-of-way, except as provided below, shall be
registered by their owners with the city clerk. The owner shall state at the
time application is made and upon printed forms provided for such purpose his
name, address and telephone number and the name, color and sex of each horse
owned by such person and where such horses are kept. The provisions of this
section shall not be intended to apply to horses who are brought into the city
for the sole purpose of participating in any horse show, rodeo or parade.
(1964 Code, § 4-40)
§ 6-89 SAME—FEE; NUMBER.
   Upon payment to the city clerk of one dollar ($1.00) for each horse
registered, the clerk shall issue a registration number for each horse.
Whenever any registered horse is led or ridden upon any street in the city, the
owner or rider shall have the registration number prominently displayed on both
sides of the horse.
(1964 Code, § 4-41)
§ 6-90 RULES GOVERNING RIDING.
   Every person riding a horse upon any of the designated public streets within
the city shall obey the following rules and regulations governing the riding of
horses:
   (A)   The rider shall be ten years of age or older. Children under ten may
ride when accompanied by an adult on another horse.
   (B)   Horses shall be ridden on the traveled portion only of designated
streets, whether paved or not, and as near the right hand side of the roadway
as practicable exercising due care when passing a parked vehicle.
   (C)   Persons riding horses upon a designated roadway shall ride in single
file.
   (D)   There shall be only one rider on each horse.
   (E)   No one shall ride a horse except between the hours designated as one-
half hour before sunrise and one-half hour after sunset.
   (F)   Horses shall be thoroughly broken and properly restrained and ridden
with due care. The riders of horses shall not unduly impede the movement of
motor vehicles and except when impracticable shall yield the right-of-way to
motor vehicles.
(1964 Code, § 4-44)
§ 6-91 ROUTES ESTABLISHED FOR RIDING OR LEADING HORSES.
   There is hereby established within the city the following routes for riding
or leading horses:
   (A)   Bellevue Boulevard, from its intersection with Camp Gifford Road to
the intersection with Lincoln Road.
   (B)   Bellevue Boulevard, from its intersection with Forest Drive to the
intersection of Bellevue Boulevard and Combs Road.
   (C)   Bellevue Boulevard, from its intersection with Harrington Road to the
intersection of Bellevue Boulevard and Combs Road.
   (D)   Combs Road, from the intersection of Bellevue Boulevard and Combs Road
to Reedmont Drive.
   (E)   Harrington Road, from the intersection of Marian Avenue to its
intersection with Bellevue Boulevard.
   (F)   Jewell Road and Harvel Drive, from the intersection of Jewell Road and
Betz Road East to the intersection of Harvel Drive and Lincoln Road.
   (G)   Lincoln Road, from the intersection of Harvel Drive and Lincoln Road
to the intersection of Lincoln Road and Marian Avenue.
   (H)   Marian Avenue, from the intersection of Lincoln Road to the
intersection of Marian Avenue and Harrington Road.
(1964 Code, § 4-43)
§ 6-92 RIDING, ETC., ON STREETS, SIDEWALKS, ETC., GENERALLY.
   No person shall ride, drive or lead any horse, and any vehicles drawn by
horses, over, upon or across any part of the street right-of-way including the
paved portion thereof and the sidewalk, sidewalk space and parkway, except over
and along the routes established in this article.
(1964 Code, § 4-42)
§§ 6-93—6-100 RESERVED.
ARTICLE V: COMMERCIAL ANIMAL ESTABLISHMENTS
Section
   
6-101   Permit—Required
   
6-102   Same—Regulations authorized
   
6-103   Same—Issuance
   
6-104   Same—Duration; renewal; time of application
   
6-105   Same—Transfer
   
6-106   Same—Fee
   
6-107   Same—Separate facilities; exemptions
   
6-108   License and permit issuance and revocation
   6-109—6-114   Reserved
§ 6-101 PERMIT—REQUIRED.
   No person shall operate a commercial animal establishment or animal shelter
without first obtaining a permit in compliance with this article.
(Ord. 2162, § 3, passed 3-23-1981)
§ 6-102 SAME—REGULATIONS AUTHORIZED.
   The licensing authority shall promulgate regulations for the issuance of
permits and shall include requirements for humane care of all animals and for
compliance with the provisions of this chapter and other applicable laws. The
licensing authority may amend such regulations from time to time as deemed
desirable for public health and welfare and for the protection of animals.
(Ord. 2162, § 3, passed 3-23-1981)
§ 6-103 SAME—ISSUANCE.
   Upon a showing by an applicant for a permit under this article that he is
willing and able to comply with the regulations promulgated by the licensing
authority, a permit shall be issued upon payment of the applicable fee.
(Ord. 2162, § 3, passed 3-23-1981)
§ 6-104 SAME—DURATION; RENEWAL; TIME OF APPLICATION.
   The permit period under this article shall begin with the fiscal year and
shall run for one year. Renewal applications for permits shall be made 30 days
prior to, and up to 60 days after, the start of the fiscal year. Applications
for a permit to establish a new commercial animal establishment under the
provisions of this article may be made at any time.
(Ord. 2162, § 3, passed 3-23-1981)
§ 6-105 SAME—TRANSFER.
   If there is a change in ownership of a commercial animal establishment, the
new owner may have the current permit transferred to his or her name upon
payment of a transfer fee as described in the Master Fee Schedule.
(Ord. 2162, § 3, passed 3-23-1981; Ord. 3496, § 7, passed 3-9-2009)
§ 6-106 SAME—FEE.
   Annual permits under this article shall be issued upon payment of the
applicable fee as described in the Master Fee Schedule.
(Ord. 2162, § 3, passed 3-23-1981; Ord. 3496, § 8, passed 3-9-2009)
§ 6-107 SAME—SEPARATE FACILITIES; EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   Every facility regulated by this article shall be considered a
separate enterprise and requires an individual permit.
   (B)   No fee may be required of any veterinary hospital, animal shelter or
government-operated zoological park.
(Ord. 2162, § 3, passed 3-23-1981)
§ 6-108 LICENSE AND PERMIT ISSUANCE AND REVOCATION.
   (A)   The licensing authority may revoke any permit or license if the person
holding the permit or license refuses or fails to comply with this chapter, the
regulations promulgated by the licensing authority or any law governing the
protection and keeping of animals.
   (B)   Any person whose permit or license is revoked shall, within ten days
thereafter, humanely dispose of all animals owned, kept or harbored; and no
part of the permit or license fee shall be refunded.
   (C)   It shall be a condition of the issuance of any permit or license that
the licensing authority shall be permitted to inspect all animals and the
premises where animals are kept at any time and shall, if permission for such
inspections is refused, revoke the permit or license of the refusing owner.
   (D)   If the applicant has withheld or falsified any information on the
application, the licensing authority shall refuse to issue a permit or license.
   (E)   No person who has been convicted of cruelty to animals shall be issued
a permit or license to operate a commercial animal establishment.
   (F)   Any person having been denied a license or permit may not reapply for
a period of 30 days. Each reapplication shall be accompanied by a fifteen-
dollar fee.
(Ord. 2162, § 4, passed 3-23-1981)
§§ 6-109—6-114 RESERVED.
ARTICLE VI: REGULATION OF BEES
Section
   
6-115   Permit—Required
   
6-116   Same—Application; fee
   
6-117   Same—Violation; revocation
Editor’s note:
   Nonamendatory Ord. 2514, §§ 1—3, adopted August 22, 1988, has been codified
herein as Art. VI, §§ 6-115—6-117, at the editor’s discretion.
Statutory reference:
   Nebraska Apiary Act, see Neb. RS 1943, §§ 81-2,165.01 et seq.
§ 6-115 PERMIT—REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to keep, control, harbor or maintain
within the city any bees, hives or boxes containing hives, except in
agriculturally zoned areas, without first obtaining a permit for that purpose
from the Department of Permits and Inspections. No single permit shall be
issued for more than one parcel upon which bees are to be maintained.
(Ord. 2514, § 1, passed 8-22-1988)
§ 6-116 SAME—APPLICATION; FEE.
   The application for each permit shall include the name of the individual
responsible for the keeping of bees; the current address of that individual,
provided that, if at any time during the life of the permit the individual
relocates, such information shall be transmitted to the city; the common
address of the parcel upon which the bees will be kept; the number of hives or
boxes containing hives that the applicant intends to maintain on that parcel;
and a nonrefundable fee as described in the Master Fee Schedule. Following
receipt of any application by the Department of Permits and Inspections, a
nontransferable, revocable permit shall be issued to the applicant which,
unless revoked, shall remain in effect until such time as the applicant
discontinues or alters (from his application) the beekeeping activity. Seasonal
adjustments for weather shall not be construed as discontinuation or alteration
of activity; provided that failure to actively engage in beekeeping activity on
the parcel for a period in excess of six calendar months, for whatever reason,
shall be so construed.
(Ord. 2514, § 2, passed 8-22-1988; Ord. 3496, § 9, passed 3-9-2009)
§ 6-117 SAME—VIOLATION; REVOCATION.
   In addition to such other sanctions as may be imposed by law, violation of
this section shall be cause for the revocation of any permit issued for
beekeeping. Upon complaint of any owner or resident of any property abutting
the parcel on which bees are kept, the department of permits and inspections
shall require an inspection of the parcel for which the application had been
made. If the inspection discloses violation of any provisions hereof, the
department of permits and inspections shall cause a notice to be issued to
correct the condition in the manner set out in this section. Such notice shall
be in writing and shall set forth the violation, and that such violation shall
be corrected within seven days, or the permit shall summarily be revoked.
Service of such notice shall be by certified mail or personal delivery.
   (A)   No hive shall be maintained on any parcel where any public outdoor
recreational area or public park lies within 100 feet of the exterior
boundaries of the parcel.
   (B)   Bees shall be kept in such a manner so as not to create a nuisance or
threat to health or otherwise interfere with the enjoyment of the property of
adjacent owners or residents. The following conditions shall exist as a
precondition to the issuance of any permit:
      (1)   A source of fresh water shall be maintained for bees at all times
near the hives and on the parcel on which bees are to be kept.
      (2)   Including the applicant’s own hives, no more than three hives or
boxes containing three hives shall be kept on any lot zoned RS120, RS84, RS72,
RD60, RG50, RG20, or RG8. In the event that the holder of the permit keeps bees
on any parcel in excess of one acre in area, no more than four hives or boxes
of four hives shall be maintained per one-quarter (1/4) acre.
      (3)   No hive shall be maintained within 25 feet of any dwelling or
building, except that of the applicant, or any street, road or public right-of-
way.
      (4)   No hive shall be maintained within 25 feet of the exterior boundary
of any abutting property, unless there is present a barrier of sufficient
height to deflect the flight of bees to a height of not less than six feet
between the exterior boundaries of the parcel on which the bees are being
maintained and the abutting property. This provision may be waived in writing
by the resident of any abutting property.
      (5)   The applicant shall be registered with the State of Nebraska -
Department of Agriculture pursuant to Neb. RS § 81-2,173 (1943).
      (6)   The foregoing conditions shall be continuously maintained by the
holder of any permit issued pursuant to this article.
(Ord. 4007, §§ 1, 2, passed 10-20-2020)
ARTICLE VII: REGULATION OF POT-BELLIED PIGS
Section
   
6-118   Number and size restrictions
   
6-119   Spaying; neutering
   
6-120   Running at large
   
6-121   Restraint
   
6-122   Pot-bellied pigs damaging property of others
   
6-123   Disturbance of the peace
   
6-124   Applicability of article
   
6-125   Exceptions
   
6-126   License required
   
6-127   Application
   
6-128   Date for obtaining license
   
6-129   Fees generally
   
6-130   Late charge
   
6-131   Issuance; tag
   
6-132   Separate license and tag required for each pot-bellied pig
   
6-133   Wearing of collar and tag or other identification
   
6-134   Records
   
6-135   Expiration
   
6-136   Misuse of tag
   
6-137   Removal of tag
   
6-138   Vaccination required
   
6-139   Blood tests required
   
6-140   Certificate of vaccination and blood testing
§ 6-118 NUMBER AND SIZE RESTRICTIONS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to own, keep, or harbor at any time more
than one pot-bellied pig per dwelling unit within the city limits or within the
two-mile extraterritorial zoning jurisdiction of the city. Further, it shall be
unlawful for any person to own, keep or harbor any pot-bellied pig reaching a
size greater than 100 pounds in weight or 22 inches in height within the city
limits or within the two-mile extraterritorial zoning jurisdiction of the city.
(Ord. 3686, § 1(6-118), passed 9-24-2012)
§ 6-119 SPAYING; NEUTERING.
   It shall be unlawful to own, keep or harbor a pot-bellied pig within the
city limits or within the two-mile extraterritorial zoning jurisdiction of the
city that is not spayed or neutered within 30 days after attaining the age of
three months.
(Ord. 3686, § 1(6-119), passed 9-24-2012)
§ 6-120 RUNNING AT LARGE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to allow or permit any pot-bellied pig
which is owned, kept or harbored by him/her to run or be at large in or upon
the private premises of others or upon the streets, highways and other public
places of the city or within the two-mile extraterritorial zoning jurisdiction
of the city.
(Ord. 3686, § 1(6-120), passed 9-24-2012)
§ 6-121 RESTRAINT.
   It shall be unlawful for the owner of any pot-bellied pig within the city or
within the two- mile extraterritorial zoning jurisdiction of the city to fail
to keep his/her pot-bellied pig securely restrained by a chain or otherwise
confined in or upon his/her premises in an enclosure sufficient to contain the
pot-bellied pig.
(Ord. 3686, § 1(6-121), passed 9-24-2012)
§ 6-122 POT-BELLIED PIGS DAMAGING PROPERTY OF OTHERS.
   It shall be unlawful for the owner of a pot-bellied pig to allow or permit
his/her pot-bellied pig to damage property of others or cause bodily injury. If
the owner is adjudged guilty of a violation of this section, the court may, in
addition to the penalty provided for the violation of this Code, order such
disposition or destruction of the offending pot-bellied pig as may seem
reasonable and proper.
(Ord. 3686, § 1(6-122), passed 9-24-2012)
§ 6-123 DISTURBANCE OF THE PEACE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person who owns, keeps, harbors, maintains, or
permits on any parcel of land or premises under his/her control any pot-bellied
pig which by loud, continued, or frequent oinking, squealing, or grunting shall
annoy or disturb the peace and comfort of the inhabitants of any neighborhood
or interfere with any person or persons in the reasonable and comfortable
enjoyment of life or property; provided, however, this section shall not apply
to the animal shelter, veterinarians, and medical laboratories.
(Ord. 3686, § 1(6-123), passed 9-24-2012)
§ 6-124 APPLICABILITY OF ARTICLE.
   The provisions of this article shall be applicable and controlling within
the corporate limits of the city and within the two-mile extraterritorial
zoning jurisdiction of the city, regardless of when a pot-bellied pig was
acquired by the owner or when it was brought into the city limits or the two-
mile extraterritorial zoning jurisdiction of the city.
(Ord. 3686, § 1(6-124), passed 9-24-2012)
§ 6-125 EXCEPTIONS.
   Notwithstanding any other provision herein, the provisions of this article
shall not be deemed to apply to, or in any way to interfere with, the ordinary
conduct and operation of veterinary clinics, biological laboratories or pet
shows, when conducted within the city or within the two-mile extraterritorial
zoning jurisdiction of the city.
(Ord. 3686, § 1(6-125), passed 9-24-2012)
§ 6-126 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to own, keep or harbor any pot-bellied
pig within the city limits or within the two-mile extraterritorial zoning
jurisdiction of the city unless such pot-bellied pig has been licensed by the
authority as required by the provisions of this article; provided, however,
that this section shall not apply to any pot-bellied pig which has not reached
the age of eight weeks.
(Ord. 3686, § 1(6-126), passed 9-24-2012)
§ 6-127 APPLICATION.
   (A)   Written application for a license required by the provisions of this
article shall be made to the authority, or its designee, and the applicant
shall:
      (1)   State the name and address of the owner of the pot-bellied pig;
      (2)   State the color, age and sex of the pot-bellied pig;
      (3)   Submit documentation signed by a licensed veterinarian indicating
that, upon reaching the age of four months, the pot-bellied pig has been
neutered or spayed; and
      (4)   Provide such other information as may identify the pot-bellied pig.
   (B)   The applicant shall certify to the information contained in such
application under penalty of law for the willful making of any untrue
statement.
(Ord. 3686, § 1(6-127), passed 9-24-2012)
§ 6-128 DATE FOR OBTAINING LICENSE.
   Licenses required by the provisions of this article shall be procured on or
before January 1 of each year, provided:
   (A)   If a pot-bellied pig is acquired by an owner after such date, such
license shall be acquired within 30 days after the date of acquisition of such
pot-bellied pig.
   (B)   If the owner becomes a resident of the city after January 1, he/she
shall acquire such license within 30 days after he/she establishes residency in
the city.
(Ord. 3686, § 1(6-128), passed 9-24-2012)
§ 6-129 FEES GENERALLY.
   The annual fee for a license required by the provisions of this article
shall be as listed in the Master Fee Schedule.
(Ord. 3686, § 1(6-129), passed 9-24-2012)
§ 6-130 LATE CHARGE.
   In the event an owner fails to acquire a license under the provisions of
this article within the time required, he/she shall pay a late charge as
provided for in the Master Fee Schedule in addition to the fees required by
this article.
(Ord. 3686, § 1(6-130), passed 9-24-2012)
§ 6-131 ISSUANCE; TAG.
   (A)   Upon payment of the required fee, the authority or its designee shall
issue a numbered receipt and tag to the owner for the pot-bellied pig licensed.
   (B)   Such license receipt shall contain the owner’s name and address and
such description of the pot-bellied pig as may be required for purposes of
identification, and the number of the tag issued therefor.
   (C)   Such tag shall be in such form and description as the authority or its
designee shall determine from time to time.
(Ord. 3686, § 1(6-131), passed 9-24-2012)
§ 6-132 SEPARATE LICENSE AND TAG REQUIRED FOR EACH POT-BELLIED PIG.
   A separate license and tag is required under the provisions of this article
for each pot-bellied pig owned, kept or harbored by any person.
(Ord. 3686, § 1(6-132), passed 9-24-2012)
§ 6-133 WEARING OF COLLAR AND TAG OR OTHER IDENTIFICATION.
   Upon receiving a tag under the provisions of this article, it shall be the
duty of the owner or other person keeping a pot-bellied pig to ensure that the
pot-bellied pig bears a permanent means of identification at all times such as
an implanted micro-chip or such tag attached to a durable collar or harness
worn at all times.
(Ord. 3686, § 1(6-133), passed 9-24-2012)
§ 6-134 RECORDS.
   The authority or its designee shall keep a record of the name and address of
each owner obtaining a license under the provisions of this article and the
number of the license and tag issued.
(Ord. 3686, § 1(6-134), passed 9-24-2012)
§ 6-135 EXPIRATION.
   Licenses issued under the provisions of this article shall be valid until
January 1 of the succeeding year.
(Ord. 3686, § 1(6-135), passed 9-24-2012)
§ 6-136 MISUSE OF TAG.
   No owner shall permit or allow his/her pot-bellied pig to wear any license
tag other than the one issued for such pot-bellied pig and for the period of
the license year hereinbefore mentioned.
(Ord. 3686, § 1(6-136), passed 9-24-2012)
§ 6-137 REMOVAL OF TAG.
   No person shall remove or cause to be removed the collar or tag from any
licensed pot-bellied pig without the consent of the owner, keeper, or harborer
thereof.
(Ord. 3686, § 1(6-137), passed 9-24-2012)
§ 6-138 VACCINATION REQUIRED.
   (A)   Every pot-bellied pig required to be licensed by this article shall be
vaccinated, by a veterinarian licensed to practice in the state and certified
to treat livestock by the state department of agriculture, for the following
diseases:
                          Erysipelas bacterin
Four to six weeks of age  Leptospira (five or six serotypes) bacterin
                          Atrophic rhinitis vaccine
Eight to ten weeks of age Repeat above schedule (unless second vaccine already
                          administered)
Biannually                Booster leptospira bacterin
                          Booster erysipelas bacterin
Annually                  Tetanus toxoid (if recommended by veterinarian)
                          Booster atrophic rhinitis vaccine
 
   (B)   Young pot-bellied pigs shall be vaccinated within 30 days after they
have reached two months of age. Unvaccinated pot-bellied pigs acquired or moved
into the state must be vaccinated within 30 days after purchase or arrival,
unless less than two months of age as specified above. Subject to the above,
every such pot-bellied pig shall be revaccinated following a period of not more
than 12 months since its last vaccination.
(Ord. 3686, § 1(6-138), passed 9-24-2012)
§ 6-139 BLOOD TESTS REQUIRED.
   Every pot-bellied pig required to be licensed by this article shall, no
later than the age of eight weeks, be blood tested to ensure that the animal is
not carrying pseudo rabies or brucellosis. Such testing shall be repeated
annually thereafter. In the event the animal tests positive for either disease,
the animal shall be held by the authority or its designee and treated until
cured, or if the disease is incurable, the animal shall be destroyed. The cost
of holding and, if necessary, destroying the animal shall be borne by the owner
of the animal.
(Ord. 3686, § 1(6-139), passed 9-24-2012)
§ 6-140 CERTIFICATE OF VACCINATION AND BLOOD TESTING.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of each veterinarian, at the time of vaccinating
or blood testing any pot- bellied pig, to complete a certificate of vaccination
and blood testing, which shall include but not be limited to the following
information:
      (1)   The owner’s name and address;
      (2)   An adequate description of the animal, including but not limited to
such items as the animal’s sex, age, name, and distinctive markings;
      (3)   The date of vaccination;
      (4)   The vaccination tag number;
      (5)   The type of vaccine administered;
      (6)   The manufacturer’s serial number of the vaccine used. Such
veterinarian shall issue a tag with the certificate of vaccination;
      (7)   The date of blood testing; and
      (8)   The results of the blood tests.
   (B)   The veterinarian shall make and provide a copy of each certificate
issued to the authority or its designee at the time of its issuance. In the
event blood tests reveal the presence of pseudo rabies, brucellosis, or other
disease, the veterinarian shall notify the authority or its designee
immediately.
(Ord. 3686, § 1(6-140), passed 9-24-2012)
CHAPTER 7: BICYCLES
   Article
      
I.   IN GENERAL
ARTICLE I: IN GENERAL
Section
   
7-1   Reserved
   
7-2   Removal, destruction, etc., of serial number
   
7-3   Brakes
   
7-4   Lighting equipment
   
7-5   Carrying packages
   
7-6   Single file
   
7-7   Passengers
   
7-8   Yielding right-of-way—Sidewalks
   
7-9   Same—Streets
   
7-10   Operation on sidewalks—Generally
   
7-11   Same—Prohibited in certain area
   
7-12   Riding on right-hand side of roadway near curb required
   
7-13   Clinging to vehicles
   
7-14   Parking
   7-15—7-25   Reserved
Statutory reference:
   Bicycles generally, see Neb. RS 1943, §§ 60-6,314 et seq.
   Local regulation of bicycles, see Neb. RS § 60-680(1)(h)
§ 7-1 RESERVED.
§ 7-2 REMOVAL, DESTRUCTION, ETC., OF SERIAL NUMBER.
   No person shall willfully or maliciously remove, destroy, mutilate or alter
the manufacturer’s serial frame number.
(1964 Code, § 5-15) (Ord. 4042, § 1, passed 7-20-2021)
§ 7-3 BRAKES.
   Any bicycle used on a highway shall be equipped with a brake which will
enable the operator to make the braked wheel skid on dry, level, clean
pavement.
(1964 Code, § 5-6)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 1943, § 60-6,318(2)
§ 7-4 LIGHTING EQUIPMENT.
   Any bicycle when in use at nighttime shall be equipped with a light on the
front which shall emit a white light visible from a distance of at least 500
feet to the front on a clear night and with a red reflector on the rear of a
type approved by the department or local authority which shall be visible on a
clear night from all distances between 100 feet and 600 feet to the rear when
directly in front of lawful lower beams of headlights on a motor vehicle. A
light emitting a red light visible from a distance of 500 feet to the rear may
be used in addition to such red reflector.
(1964 Code, § 5-6)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 1943, § 60-6,318(1)
§ 7-5 CARRYING PACKAGES.
   No person shall ride a bicycle and carry any package, bundle or article
which prevents the rider from keeping both hands on the handle bars.
(1964 Code, § 5-13)
§ 7-6 SINGLE FILE.
   Any person who rides a bicycle upon a roadway shall not ride more than
single file except on paths or parts of roadways set aside for the exclusive
use of bicycles.
(1964 Code, § 5-12) (Ord. 4006, §§ 1, 2, passed 10-6-2020)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 1943, § 60-6,317(3)
§ 7-7 PASSENGERS.
   It shall be unlawful for more than one person to ride a bicycle unless the
bicycle is constructed to carry the number of persons being conveyed.
(1964 Code, § 5-11)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 1943, § 60-6,315(4)
§ 7-8 YIELDING RIGHT-OF-WAY—SIDEWALKS.
   The operator of a bicycle emerging from an alley, driveway or building
shall, upon approaching a sidewalk or sidewalk area extending across any alley
or way, yield the right-of-way to all pedestrians approaching on the sidewalk
or sidewalk space.
(1964 Code, § 5-7)
§ 7-9 SAME—STREETS.
   Upon entering any street or roadway the bicycle operator shall yield the
right-of-way to all vehicles approaching on such street or roadway.
(1964 Code, § 5-7)
§ 7-10 OPERATION ON SIDEWALKS—GENERALLY.
   Any person operating a bicycle upon a sidewalk shall do so at his own risk
and shall yield the right-of-way to all pedestrians.
(1964 Code, § 5-7)
§ 7-11 SAME—PROHIBITED IN CERTAIN AREA.
   No person shall ride a bicycle on the sidewalks within the area, the outside
boundaries of which are described as Hancock Street on the east, Twenty-third
Avenue on the south, Wayne Street on the west and Twenty-first Avenue on the
north.
(1964 Code, § 5-8)
§ 7-12 RIDING ON RIGHT-HAND SIDE OF ROADWAY NEAR CURB REQUIRED.
   Every person operating a bicycle upon any street or public way shall ride as
near to the curb on the right-hand side of the roadway as practicable,
exercising due care when passing any vehicle.
(1964 Code, § 5-9)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 1943, § 60-6,317(1)
§ 7-13 CLINGING TO VEHICLES.
   Any person who rides upon any bicycle, coaster, roller skates, sled, skis,
or toy vehicle shall not attach such or himself to any vehicle upon a roadway.
(1964 Code, § 5-10)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 1943, § 60-6,316
§ 7-14 PARKING.
   No person shall park a bicycle upon a roadway, sidewalk or other public way
in such a position as to interfere with the safety or movement of vehicular
traffic or pedestrian traffic and when parked upon a sidewalk a bicycle shall
be parked within four feet of the curb.
(1964 Code, § 5-14)
§§ 7-15—7-25 RESERVED.
CHAPTER 8: BUILDINGS
   Article
      
I.   IN GENERAL
      
II.   BUILDING CODE
      
III.   UNSAFE BUILDINGS
      
IV.   DEMOLITION CONTRACTORS
      
V.   REGULATIONS FOR MOVING OF BUILDINGS
      
VI.   ALARM SYSTEMS
      
VII.   LICENSES
ARTICLE I: IN GENERAL
Section
   
8-1   Disposition of permit and license fees
   
8-2   Permits and Inspections Department established
   
8-3   Building official—Appointed
   
8-4   Same—Duties generally
   
8-5   Reserved
   8-6—8-15   Reserved
Statutory reference:
   Building Construction Act, see Neb. RS 1943, §§ 71-6401 et seq.
   Safety regulations for building construction, see Neb. RS 1943, § 16-234
§ 8-1 DISPOSITION OF PERMIT AND LICENSE FEES.
   All permit and license fees collected pursuant to this chapter shall be paid
into the city treasury for benefit of the general fund.
(1964 Code, § 7-5)
§ 8-2 PERMITS AND INSPECTIONS DEPARTMENT ESTABLISHED.
   The office of the Permits and Inspections Department is established.
(1964 Code, § 7-1) (Ord. 2191, § 1, passed 11-9-1981; Ord. 2356, § 1, passed 6-
10-1985)
§ 8-3 BUILDING OFFICIAL—APPOINTED.
   The building official shall be responsible for the administration of the
Permits and Inspections Department. The building official shall be appointed by
the city administrator. The building official shall designate an acting
building official to serve during the absence of the building official.
(Ord. 2356, § 8, passed 6-10-1984)
Editor’s note:
   Section 8 of Ord. 2356, adopted June 10, 1985, did not specifically amend
the Code.
    Inclusion herein as § 8-3 has been at the editor’s discretion.
§ 8-4 SAME—DUTIES GENERALLY.
   It shall be the duty of the building official to enforce all laws,
provisions of this Code and other city ordinances relating to the construction,
alteration, removal and demolition of buildings and structures.
(1964 Code, § 7-3) (Ord. 2356, § 2, passed 6-10-1985)
§ 8-5 RESERVED.
Editor’s note:
   Section 9 of Ord. 2356, adopted June 10, 1985, repealed § 8-5 which section
pertained  to the building inspector’s right of entry, and was derived from
Code 1964, § 7-4.
§§ 8-6—8-15 RESERVED.
ARTICLE II: BUILDING CODE
Section
   
8-16   State building code adopted
   
8-17   Building codes adopted
   
8-18   Amendments and changes to codes adopted in § 8-17
   
8-18.5   Amendments and changes to the Uniform Administrative Code, 1997
Edition
   
8-18.6   Amendments and changes to the International Residential Code, 2021
Edition
   
8-19   Building permits—Application; records
   
8-20   Same—Expiration
   
8-21   Identification sign
   
8-22   Fire limits
   
8-23   Permanent sidewalks
   
8-24   Driveways for residences
   
8-25   Required living area—Dwellings in city without basements
   
8-26   Same—Dwellings outside city without basements and connected to city
utilities
   
8-27   Same—Conformance prerequisite to building permit or connection to
utilities
   
8-28   Handrail specifications
   
8-29   Barbed wire and electric fences
   8-30—8-40   Reserved
Statutory reference:
   Building Construction Act, see Neb. RS 1943, §§ 71-6401 et seq.
§ 8-16 STATE BUILDING CODE ADOPTED.
   (A)   By this reference there is hereby created the State Building Code as
such code is identified by Neb. RS § 71-6403, Reissue of 2019 Cum. Supp.:
      (1)   The International Building Code (IBC), Chapter 13 of the 2018
Edition, and all but such chapter of the 2018 edition, published by the
International Code Council, except that (i) section 305.2.3 applies to a care
facility for twelve (12) or fewer persons;
      (2)   The International Residential Code (IRC), Chapter 11 of the 2018
Edition, and all but such chapter of the 2018 edition except section R313,
published by the International Code Council; and
      (3)   The International Existing Building Code, 2018 Edition, published
by the International Code Council.
   (B)   Notwithstanding any provision in section 8-16(A), in the event that
any provision in the State Building Code shall conflict with this chapter, any
other provision of the Bellevue City Code, or any other applicable ordinances
adopted by the City of Bellevue, the applicable provision of the Bellevue City
Code or ordinance shall prevail.
   (C)   The foregoing matters are made a part of the Bellevue City Code as
though fully set out herein; provided, however, that three (3) copies of each
such code shall be separately maintained on file in the office of the Permits
and Inspections Department and shall remain there for public use and
inspection.
(Ord. 3148, § 1, passed 3-26-2001; Ord. 3652, passed 11-28-2011; Ord. 4032, §
1, passed 5-4-2021)
§ 8-17 BUILDING CODES ADOPTED.
   (A)   The following codes are hereby adopted and shall be considered the
building codes for the city:
      (1)   The International Building Code, 2021 Edition, Chapters 2-29, 35,
inclusive;
      (2)   Appendix C, Group U-Agricultural Buildings; E, Supplemental
Accessibility Requirements; Appendix F, Rodent Proofing; Appendix G, Flood
Resistant Construction; Appendix I, Patio Covers and Appendix J, Grading, of
the International Building Code, 2021 Edition;
      (3)   The International Residential Code, 2021 Edition, Chapters 2-24
inclusive: and Chapter 44;
      (4)   Appendix AJ, Existing Buildings and Structures.
      (5)   Appendix AK, "Sound Transmission", of the International Residential
Code, 2021 Edition; and
      (6)   The International Energy Conservation Code, 2018 Edition.
   (B)   (1)   The following chapters are specifically excluded and shall not
be considered as part of the building code for the city:
      (2)   Appendix Chapters A, B, H, K, L, M, N and O of the International
Building Code, 2021 Edition.
   (C)   The 2021 International Residential Code shall apply to the
construction, alteration, enlargement, replacement or repair of detached one-
(1) and two- (2) family dwellings and their accessory structures, and any new
construction required as a result of moving a one- (1) or two- (2) family
dwelling. The 2012 International Building Code shall apply to the construction,
alteration, enlargement, replacement or repair of all other buildings and
structures, and any new construction required as a result of moving any other
building.
   (D)   Sections of these codes are modified, amended or deleted elsewhere in
this article. Three (3) copies of the International Building Code 2021 Edition,
the International Residential Code 2021 Edition, and the International Energy
Conservation Code 2018 Edition, are to be retained on file with the Permits and
Inspections Division and shall there remain for public use and inspection.
These codes shall be in effect within the limits of the city and its two-mile
zoning "jurisdiction".
(1964 Code, § 7-10) (Ord. 2135, § 1, passed 6-9-1980; Ord. 2356, § 3, passed 6-
10-1985; Ord. 2412, § 1, passed 4-14-1986; Ord. 2554, § 1, passed 6-26-1989;
Ord. 2646, § 1, passed 11-25-1991; Ord. 2864, § 1, passed 5-11-1992; Ord. 2739,
§ 1, passed 4-26-1993; Ord. 2905, § 1, passed 8-12-1996; Ord. 3077, § 1, passed
1-24-2000; Ord. 3148, § 2, passed 3-26-2001; Ord. 3332, § 1, passed 9-27-2004;
Ord. 3378, § 1, passed 11-14-2005; Ord. 3516, § 1, passed 5-11-2009; Ord. 3652,
§ 1, passed 11-28-2011; Ord. 3790, § 1, passed 12-8-2014; Ord. 4032, § 1,
passed 5-4-2021)
Statutory reference:
   Adoption of standard codes, see Neb. RS 1943, § 18-132
§ 8-18 AMENDMENTS AND CHANGES TO CODES ADOPTED IN § 8-17.
   (A)   The 2021 International Building Code is hereby amended, altered,
modified and changed in the following respects:
      (1)   Amend Section 202, Definitions, by adding the following
definitions:
      ELECTRICAL CODE: The Electrical Code for this jurisdiction shall be
Chapter 10 of the Bellevue City Code.
      FIRE CODE: The Fire Code for this jurisdiction shall be Chapter 12 of the
Bellevue City Code and all codes adopted therein.
      FUEL GAS CODE: The Fuel Gas Code for this jurisdiction shall be the
International Fuel Gas Code.
      ICC ELECTRICAL CODE: Wherever reference is made to the ICC Electrical
Code it shall mean "Electrical Code". See definition for "Electrical Code".
      INTERNATIONAL FIRE CODE: Whenever reference is made to the International
Fire Code it shall mean "Fire Code".
      INTERNATIONAL MECHANICAL CODE: Whenever reference is made to the
International Mechanical Code, it shall mean "Mechanical Code" See definition
for "Mechanical Code".
      INTERNATIONAL PLUMBING CODE: Wherever reference is made to the
International Plumbing Code it shall mean "Plumbing Code". See definition for
"Plumbing Code".
      MECHANICAL CODE: The Mechanical Code for this jurisdiction shall be
Article VII, Chapter 27 of the Bellevue City Code.
      PLUMBING CODE: The Plumbing Code for this jurisdiction shall be Article
IV, Chapter 27 of the Bellevue City Code.
      (2)   Amend Section (F) 903.3.1.2 NFPA 13R sprinkler systems, to read as
follows:
      Automatic sprinkler systems in Group R occupancies up to and including
four stories in height in buildings not exceeding 60 feet (18 288 mm) in height
above grade plane shall be permitted to be installed throughout in accordance
with NFPA 13R.
      The number of stories of Group R occupancies constructed in accordance
with Sections 510.2 and 510.4 shall be measured from the horizontal assembly
creating separate buildings.
      (3)   Section 1502.5, Rain water. Add a new section as follows:
      When roofs are sloped to drain over the edge, scuppers or gutters and
down spouts, adequately sized, pitched, and supported, shall be installed to
conduct rain water to ground level. Rain water shall be discharged at least
three (3) feet away from the building foundation in a direction parallel to the
adjoining property line when the discharge point is within twenty (20) feet of
the adjoining property line.
      Exception: Structures with no sub-grade spaces.
      (4)   Section 1807.1.4, Permanent Wood Foundation Systems. Delete this
section in its entirety.
      (5)   Section 1809.12, Timber footings. Delete this section in its
entirety.
      (6)   Section 1809.5, Frost protection. Delete this section and the
exceptions in their entirety and replace with:
      Except where erected on solid rock or otherwise protected from frost,
foundation walls, piers, and other permanent supports of buildings and
structures larger than seven hundred fifty (750) square feet in area or ten
(10) feet in height shall extend below the established frost line. The
established frost line shall be 42 inches below the exterior grade of the
structure.
      Exceptions:
      1.   The bottom surface of footings for unattached garages and accessory
structures of wood or metal not more than seven hundred fifty (750) square feet
in area shall not be less than one (1) foot below grade.
      2.   The bottom surface of foundations that bear on rock surfaces is not
required to be below the established frost line provided the rock does not have
seams or cracks or contain disintegrated material that could serve as
reservoirs for water which could be subject to freezing.
      (7)   Chapter 29, Plumbing Systems. Delete this chapter in its entirety
and change to read as follows:
      Plumbing systems shall be installed in accordance with Chapter 27 of the
Bellevue City Code.
   (B)   The 2018 International Energy Conservation Code is hereby amended,
altered, modified and changed in the following respects:
      (1)   Amend Section R303.3, Maintenance information, by deleting the
second and third sentences from this section.
      (2)   Amend Table R402.1.2 by changing climate zone 5 and Marine 4 -
Basement Wall R-value to read as follows:
      (3)   Section R402.4.1.2, Testing. Delete this section in its entirety.
      (4)   Amend Section R403.3.3, Duct Testing (mandatory), by adding
exception 3 to read as follows:
      Exception 3. A duct air-leakage test shall not be required for ducts that
are sprayed with closed cell foam.
      (5)   Amend Section R403.3.5, Building Cavities (mandatory), by adding an
exception as follows:
      Exception: Interior building cavities may be used as ducts or plenums for
return air when completely panned and sealed.
      (6)   Amend Section R403.5.1.1, Circulation systems, to read as follows:
      Heated water circulation systems shall be provided with a circulation
pump. The system return pipe shall be a dedicated return pipe or a cold-water
supply pipe. Gravity and thermosyphon circulation systems shall be prohibited.
Controls for circulation hot water system pumps shall start the pump based on
the identification of a demand for hot water within the occupancy. The controls
may automatically turn off the pump when the water in the circulation loop is
at the desired temperature and when there is no demand for hot water.
      (7)   Amend Section R403.6, Mechanical ventilation (mandatory), to read
as follows:
      When buildings and dwelling units are provided with mechanical
ventilation it shall meet the requirements of Section Ml505 of the
International Residential Code or with other approved means of ventilation.
Outdoor air intakes and exhausts shall have automatic or gravity dampers that
close when the ventilation system is not operating.
      (8)   Delete Section R403.8, Systems serving multiple dwelling units, in
its entirety.
(Ord. 2135, § 2, passed 6-9-1980; Ord. 2356, § 4, passed 6-10-1985; Ord. 2554,
§ 1, passed 6-29-1989; Ord. 2646, § 2, passed 11-25-1991; Ord. 2684, § 1,
passed 5-11-1992; Ord. 2707, § 1, passed 9-14-1992; Ord. 2708, § 1, passed 9-
14-1992; Ord. 2711, § 1, passed 9-28-1992; Ord. 2739, § 2, passed 4-26-1993;
Ord. 2763, § 1, passed 8-23-1993; Ord. 2905, §§ 1—3, passed 8-12-1996; Ord.
2921, §§ 1—5, passed 11-12-1996; Ord. 3077, § 2, passed 1-24-2000; Ord. 3148, §
3, passed 3-26-2001; Ord. 3332, § 1, passed 9-27-2004; Ord. 3359, § 1, passed
4-11-2005; Ord. 3378, § 2, passed 11-14-2005; Ord. 3516, § 2, passed 5-11-2009;
Ord. 3652, § 2, passed 11-28-2011; Ord. 3790, § 2, passed 12-8-2014; Ord. 4032,
§ 2, passed 5-4-2021; Ord. 4095, § 1, passed 5-3-2022)
§ 8-18.5 AMENDMENTS AND CHANGES TO THE UNIFORM ADMINISTRATIVE CODE, 1997
EDITION.
   (A)   The Uniform Administrative Code, 1997 Edition, is amended and changed
in the following respects:
      (1)   Amend Section 301.2.1(I) to provide as follows:
         One story detached accessory buildings used as tool and storage sheds,
playhouses, and similar uses, provided the building footprint does not exceed
one hundred twenty (120) square feet.
      (2)   Delete Section 301.2.1(2), Fences not over six feet (1,829 mm)
high, in its entirety.
      (3)   Amend Section 301.2.1(I 1) to provide as follows:
         Above ground swimming pools for one and two family dwellings, with a
diameter less than twenty (20) feet, or a water depth less than eighteen (18)
inches.
      (4)   Amend Section 304.2, Fees, to add the following:
         The fee for each permit shall be as set forth in Tables 3-A through 3-
H. Where a technical code has been adopted by the jurisdiction for which no fee
schedule is shown in this code, the fee required shall be in accordance with
the schedule established by the legislative body.
         The determination of value or valuation under any of the provisions of
these codes shall be made by the Building Official. For new construction, the
Building Valuation Data promulgated by the International Code Council shall be
utilized to establish cost per square foot modules for the occupancy
classifications established therein, and shall be updated by the jurisdiction
on June 1 and January 1 of each calendar year.
      (5)   Amend Section 304.3, Plan review fees, to provide as follows:
         When submittal documents are required by Section 302.2, a plan review
fee shall be paid at the time of submitting the submission documents for plan
review. Said plan review fee shall be 25 percent of the building permit fee as
show in Table 3-A. Exception: R-3 and U occupancies shall be exempt from plan
review fees.
      (6)   Amend Section 304.5.2, Fee, to provide as follows:
         Whenever work for which a permit is required by this code has
commenced without first obtaining a permit, an investigation fee two times the
normal fee will be collected if contractor or owner comes forward on their own.
An investigation fee of four times the normal fee will be collected if a stop
work order is issued by the Permits and Inspections Department.
      (7)   Amend Table 3-D(6), Plumbing permit fees, refer to the Master Fee
Schedule.
      (8)   Delete tables 3-E, 3-F, and 3-G in their entirety.
      (9)   Amend the Uniform Administrative Code to add permit fees for
roofing and siding, refer to the Master Fee Schedule:
         (a)   Commercial roofing permits see table 3-A.
         (b)   Commercial siding permits see table 3-A.
      (10)   Delete Section 204, Board of Appeals, Uniform Administrative Code,
1997 Edition, of Chapter 2, Organization and Enforcement, in its entirety and
substitute the following:
         Section 204. Board of appeals.
         (a)   Created. A board is hereby created in and for the City to be
known as the Building Board of Review.
         (b)   Composition. The Building Board of Review shall be composed of
five (5) members and one (1) alternate member, which shall be qualified by
experience and training to pass upon the technical matters pertaining to
building construction; one member shall be an architect, one member shall be a
master electrician, one member shall be a master plumber or sanitary or
mechanical engineer, one member shall be a recognized building contractor, and
one member shall be a general representative of the residents of the city.
         (c)   Appointment. The Mayor, with approval of the City Council, shall
appoint the members of the Building Board of Review.
         (d)   Term. The members of the Building Board of Review shall be
appointed for a term of five (5) years.
         (e)   Removal from office. Continued absences of any member of the
Building Board of Review from regular meetings of the Board, shall, at the
discretion of the Mayor, render such member liable to immediate removal as a
member of the Board.
         (f)   Filling Vacancies. Vacancies occurring in the membership of the
Building Board of Review during the term of an appointment shall be filled for
the unexpired term in the manner in which the original appointments are made.
         (g)   Rules and Regulations. The Building Board of Review may adopt
and enforce, in respect to its duties, such reasonable rules and regulations as
may be thought proper and necessary for the performance of its work.
         (h)   Quorum. Four (4) members of the Building Board of Review shall
constitute a quorum for the transaction of business.
         (i)   General Authority. The Building Board of Review shall have the
authority to review and, by the affirmative vote of a majority of the members
present at any public hearing, sustain, reverse, change, or modify any decision
of the Building Official of the Permits and Inspections Department of the City
relating to questions concerning methods of construction, use of processes and
devices, strength and character of construction, and such other questions of
like kind and character as may arise between the Building Official of the
Permits and Inspections Department and contractors, owners, or others engaged
in building and in the installation and construction of devices and apparatus.
         (j)   Review of Provision of Law. The Building Board of Review is
hereby authorized and empowered to review from time to time all provisions of
this code and city ordinances for which the responsibility of inspections and
enforcement is placed in and upon the Permits and Inspections Department of the
City, or which relate to the erection, alteration, construction, repair, or
demolition of buildings and or other structures and methods of building,
housing, electrical wiring, mechanical equipment, plumbing and gas fittings; to
conduct public hearings thereon; and to recommend to the City Council
modifications, revisions, changes and new proposals pertaining thereto for
their consideration and legislative action.
      (11)   Delete Section 204.1, Appeals Procedure, Uniform Administrative
Code, 1997 Edition, of Chapter 2, Organization and Enforcement, in its entirety
and substitute the following:
         Section 204.1, Appeals procedure.
         (a)   Manner of Filing. To determine the suitability of alternate
materials and methods of construction and to provide for reasonable
interpretations of this code, any person or persons may, after review with the
Building Official of the Permits and Inspections Department of the City, appeal
to the Building Board of Review by filing an appeal letter with the Permits and
Inspections Department. When the appeal is to object to a decision of the
Building Official of the Permits and Inspections Department of the City, such
written objections shall be filed within fifteen (15) days from said decision.
Said written objections shall set forth all grounds of objections and the
burden of establishing the decision as erroneous shall be upon the appellant.
         (b)   Fee. Every appeal filed under the provisions of this section,
shall be accompanied by a fee of one hundred dollars ($100), deposited with and
for the benefit of the City of Bellevue.
         (c)   Scheduling Notice of Hearing. Upon receipt of such appeal and
fee, the Permits and Inspections Department shall set a date for the hearing
thereon. The appellant, and other persons known to be interested in the case,
shall be notified by regular U.S. Mail, postage prepaid of the time, place and
date of the hearing.
         (d)   Conduct of Hearing. Upon the date fixed for the hearing of
appeal filed under the provisions of this division, the Building Board of
Review shall hear objections as presented by the appellant, evidence submitted
by the Building Official, and evidence from other persons interested in the
case.
         (e)   Decision of the Board. The Building Board of Review may affirm,
modify, or reverse the decision upon which an appeal was filed under the
provisions of this section and may approve or disapprove requests for
consideration of alternate materials and methods of construction. The Board may
also determine that the strict letter of code is impractical in a specific
individual case and may grant modifications under Section 105 and 106 of the
Uniform Administrative Code, 1997 Edition, in such cases.
      (12)   Amend Section 303.4, Expiration, by adding the following at the
end of such section:
         In the event a permit has expired by limitation and has not been
renewed by the permit holder or permittee in accordance with Section 303.4, the
building official shall have the authority to order the removal of partially
constructed structures and building materials.
      (13)   Amend Section 308.3, Temporary connections, to provide as follows:
         The Building Official may authorize the temporary connection of the
building service equipment to the source of energy, fuel or power for the
purpose of testing building service equipment, or for use under a temporary
certificate of occupancy, provided the General Contractor shall first (1st)
deposit with the City an initial pre-connection deposit as stated in the Master
Fee Schedule. Such deposit shall provide surety against the following
unauthorized occupancies of any or all structures related to the General
Contractor who provides the deposit: (i) a structure being occupied prior to
the issuance of a certificate of occupancy or (ii) in the case where a
temporary certificate of occupancy has been issued, a structure being occupied
beyond the conditions of such temporary certificate of occupancy. The deposit
shall be refunded to the General Contractor if requested in writing by the
General Contractor, provided that there have been no unauthorized occupancies.
In the event of an unauthorized occupancy, any initial or subsequent deposit
shall be forfeited to the City. If a General Contractor forfeits a deposit for
temporary building service connection on a first (1st) or second (2nd)
occasion, then such General Contractor shall have a right to reinstate such
temporary building service connection by depositing fees as stated in the
Master Fee Schedule. In the event a General Contractor forfeits a deposit on a
third (3rd) occasion, the General Contractor shall be required to pay a deposit
as stated in the Master Fee Schedule to reinstate such temporary building
service connection. In the event a General Contractor forfeits a deposit on
four (4) or more occasions, the Building Official may determine whether the
General Contractor may reinstate such temporary building service connection and
may set the amount of any deposit required for such General Contractor to
reinstate such temporary building service connection.
(Ord. 2135, § 2, passed 6-9-1980; Ord. 2356, § 4, passed 6-10-1985; Ord. 2554,
§ 1, passed 6-29-1989; Ord. 2646, § 2, passed 11-25-1991; Ord. 2684, § 1,
passed 5-11-1992; Ord. 2707, § 1, passed 9-14-1992; Ord. 2708, § 1, passed 9-
14-1992; Ord. 2711, § 1, passed 9-28-1992; Ord. 2739, § 2, passed 4-26-1993;
Ord. 2763, § 1, passed 8-23-1993; Ord. 2905, §§ 3, 4, passed 8-12-1996; Ord.
3077, § 3, passed 1-24-2000; Ord. 3093, § 1, passed 2-28-2000; Ord. 3148, § 4,
passed 3-26-2001; Ord. 3215, § 1, passed 6-10-2002; Ord. 3332, § 2, passed 9-
27-2004; Ord. 3333, § 1, passed 5-23-2005; Ord. 3376, § 1, passed 10-24-2005;
Ord. 3515, § 1, passed 5-11-2009; Ord. 3653, § 1, passed 11-28-2011)
§ 8-18.6 AMENDMENTS AND CHANGES TO THE INTERNATIONAL RESIDENTIAL CODE, 2021
EDITION.
   The International Residential Code, 2021 Edition, is amended and changed in
the following respects:
   (A)   Amend Section R202, Definitions, by adding the following definition:
   Sleeping Room. Any room in the house that is greater than seventy (70)
square feet, has a built-in closet space and typically could be used as a
bedroom. This does not include rooms used for cooking, eating, family living or
gathering and excludes bathrooms, toilet rooms, halls, storage, utility and
workshop space and all unconditioned space.
   (B)   Amend Table R301.2, Climatic and Geographic Design Criteria, by adding
the following:
 
Table R301.2 Climatic and Geographic Design Criteria
                    Subject to Damage From   Win
Grou  Wind  Seismic                          ter                          Mea n
nd    Speed Desig n                          Desi Flood Ice      Air      Ann
Sno w (mp   Categ   Weather Frost Term Decay gn   Haza  Barrier  Freezing ual
Load  h)    ory     ing     Line  ite        Tem  rds   Required Index    Temp.
                                             p.

25    115   A       Severe  42"   M-H  S-M   -3   1971  YES      1680     51.2
 
 
MANUAL J DESIGN CRITERIA
                             Indoor      Indoor        Outdoor
Elevati  Altitude Coincident winter      winter        Winter dry  Heating
on       Correcti Wet bulb   design      design dry    design      temperature
         on                  temperature - bulb        temperature difference
                             dry         temperature
1,033    N/A      77%                   70 F         1 F         69 F
                  Humidity
                  Indoor                 Indoor        Outdoor     Cooling
Latitude Daily    summer     Indoor      summer       summer      temperature
         range    design     summer      design        design      difference
                  humidity               temperature   temperature
41.1543          50%                   75 F         91 F        16F
623
 
   (C)   Amend Table R301.5, Minimum Uniformly Distributed Live Load, by
changing the number "30" (live load for sleeping rooms) and replacing it with
the number "40".
   (D)   Amend Section: R302.2, Townhouses, to read as follows:
   Each townhouse shall be considered a separate building and shall be
separated by a common two (2) hour fire-resistance-rated wall assembly tested
in accordance with ASTM E 119 or UL 263. Such walls shall not contain plumbing
or mechanical equipment, ducts or vents in the cavity of the common wall. The
wall shall be rated for fire exposure from both sides and shall extend to and
be tight against exterior walls and the underside of the roof sheathing.
Electrical, cable and telephone installations are permitted, but shall be
installed in raceways and metallic outlet boxes. Electrical installation shall
be installed in accordance with the adopted electrical code in Chapter 10 of
the Bellevue City Code. Penetrations of electrical boxes shall be in accordance
with Section R302.4.
   Exception: A common 1-hour fire-resistance-rated wall assembly tested in
accordance with ASTM E 119 or UL 263 is permitted for townhouses equipped with
an automatic sprinkler system installed in accordance with NFPA 13, provided
the common wall does not contain plumbing or mechanical equipment, ducts or
vents in the cavity of the common wall. The wall shall be rated for fire
exposure from both sides and shall extend to and be tight against exterior
walls and underside of the roof sheathing. Electrical installations shall be
installed in accordance with the adopted electrical code in Chapter 10 of the
Bellevue City Code. Penetrations of electrical outlet boxes shall be in
accordance with Section R302.4.
   (E)   Amend Section R302.3, Two family dwellings. Delete exception 1 in its
entirety.
   (F)   Amend Section R307.1, Space required, to provide as follows:
   Fixtures shall be spaced as per Chapter 27 of the Bellevue Plumbing Code.
   Delete Figure 307.1, Minimum fixture clearances, in its entirety.
   (G)   Delete Section R309.5, Fire sprinklers, in its entirety.
   (H)   Amend Section R310.1, Emergency escape and rescue opening required.
Delete exception 2 in its entirety.
   (I)   Amend Section R310.6, Dwelling additions. Delete exception 3 in its
entirety.
   (J)   Amend Section R310.7, Alterations or repairs of existing basements, to
read as follows:
   An emergency escape and rescue opening is required where existing basements
undergo alterations or repairs.
   Exception: New sleeping rooms created in an existing basement shall be
provided with emergency escape and rescue openings in accordance with Section
R310.1.
   (K)   Amend Section R311.3.1, Floor elevations at the required front door,
to read as follows:
   The landing or floor on the exterior side shall be not more than 7-3/4"
(196mm) below the top of the interior finished floor provided that the door
does not swing over the landing or floor.
   (L)   Amend Section R311.3.2, Floor elevations at other exterior doors, to
read as follows:
   Doors other than the required egress door shall be provided with landings or
floors not more than 7-3/4" (196mm) below the top of the finished floor.
   Exception: A top landing is not required where a stairway of not more than
three risers is located on the exterior side of the door, provided that the
door does not swing over the stairway.
   (M)   Amend Section R311.7.2, Headroom. Add the following as a second
paragraph:
   The Building Official shall have the authority to waive the requirements of
this section where pre-existing conditions will not allow the requirements to
be met.
   (N)   Amend Section: R311.7.8.2-4, Continuity. Add exception 3 to read as
follows:
   Exception 3. Handrails for stairways shall be permitted to have no more than
a 4" break due to wall offsets and other ornamental features.
   (O)   Amend Section R313.1, Townhouse automatic fire sprinkler systems, to
read as follows:
   An automatic residential fire sprinkler system is not required to be
installed in townhouses.
   (P)   Amend Section R313.1.1, Design and installation, to read as follows:
   Design and installation for non-required systems. When a non-required
automatic residential fire sprinkler system is intended to be installed within
a townhouse, the system shall be designed and installed in accordance with NFPA
13 NFPA 13D or NFPA 13R.
   (Q)   Amend Section R313.2, One- and two-family dwellings automatic fire
systems, to read as follows:
   An automatic residential fire sprinkler system is not required to be
installed in one-and two-family dwellings.
   (R)   Amend Section R313.2.1, Design and Installation, to read as follows:
   Design and installation of non-required systems. When an automatic
residential fire sprinkler system is intended to be installed, it shall be
designed and installed in accordance with NFPA 13, NFPA 13D or NFPA 13R.
   (S)   Amend Section R317.1, Location required. Change location 2 to read as
follows:
   All wood framing members, sills, or plates that rest on concrete or masonry
walls.
   (T)   Delete Section R317.1.1, Field treatment, in its entirety.
   (U)   Amend Section R318.1, Subterranean termite control methods, by
deleting method 5 in its entirety and renumbering 6 to 5.
   (V)   Delete Section R318.1.2, Field treatment, in its entirety.
   (W)   Delete Section R318.3, Barriers, in its entirety.
   (X)   Amend Section R326, Habitable attic, and subsections R326.1, R326.2
and R326.3 to read as follows:
   A habitable attic shall not be considered a story where complying with all
of the following requirements:
   1.   The occupiable floor area is not less than 70 square feet (6.5 m2), in
accordance with Section R304.
   2.   The occupiable floor area has a ceiling height in accordance with
Section R305.
   3.   The occupiable space is enclosed by the roof assembly above, knee walls
(if applicable) on the sides and the floor-ceiling assembly below.
   4.   The floor of the occupiable space shall not extend beyond the exterior
walls of the floor below.
   (Y)   Amend Section R403.1.4.1, Frost protection, to read as follows:
   Except where otherwise protected from frost, foundation walls, piers, and
other permanent supports of buildings and structures shall be protected from
frost by one or more of the following methods:
   1.   Extended below the frost line specified in Table R301.2
   2.   Erected on solid rock.
   Exceptions:
   1.   Protection of freestanding accessory structures with an area of 750
square feet or less, of light framed construction, with an eave height of ten
feet or less shall not be required.
   2.   Protection of freestanding accessory structures with and area of 400
square feet or less, of other than light framed construction, with an eave
height of ten feet or less shall not be required.
   Footings shall not bear on frozen soil unless the frozen condition is
permanent.
   General note:
      1.   Deck footings shall be twice the diameter of the supporting member.
   (Z)   Delete Section R403.3, Frost protection shallow footings, in its
entirety.
   (AA)   Delete Table R403.3 (1) in its entirety.
   (BB)   Delete Figures R403.3 (1), R403.3 (3), R403.3 (4) and R403.4.(1) in
their entirety.
   (CC)   Delete Sections R403.3.1, R403.3.1.1, R403.3.1.2, R403.3.2, R403.3.3,
R403.3.4 and R403.4.1 in their entirety.
   (DD)   Delete Section R404.1.8, Rubble stone masonry, in its entirety.
   (EE)   Delete Section R404.2, Wood foundation walls, and subsections
R404.2.1, R404.2.2, R404.2.3, R404.2.4, R404.2.5 and R404.2.6 in their
entirety.
   (FF)   Change Section R502.6.2 Joist Framing, to read as follows:
   Joist framed into the side of a wood girder shall be supported by approved
framing anchors.
   (GG)   Amend Section 507.3, Footings. Delete all exceptions and amend to
read as follows:
   Decks shall be supported on concrete footings or other approved structural
systems designed to accommodate all loads in accordance with Section R301 .Deck
footings shall extend below the frost line specified in Table R301.2 in
accordance with Section R403.1.4.1 and sized to carry the imposed loads from
the deck structure to the ground as shown in Table R507.3.1
   (HH)   Amend Section 507.3.1, Minimum size, to read as follows:
   The minimum size of concrete footings shall be in accordance with Table
R507.3.1, and allowable soil-bearing pressure of 1,500a pounds per square foot.
      a.   Where the building official determines that in-place soils with and
allowable bearing capacity of less than 1,500 psf are likely to be present at
the site, the allowable bearing capacity shall be determined by a soil
investigation.
   (II)   Delete Table R507.3.1 in its entirety and replace with new Table
R507.3.1 Minimum Footing Sizes for Decks.
 
TABLE R507.3.1 MINIMUM FOOTING SIZES FOR DECKS
Footing   Footing Diameter Allowed (1,500 psf soil-bearing pressure)
Depth
          8" diam   10" diam 12" diam 14" diam 16" diam   18" diam   20" diam
42"       <941 lbs. < 1340   <1805    <2334    <2930 lbs. <3591 lbs. <4316 lbs.
                    lbs.     lbs.     lbs.
48"       <1481     <2071    <2747    <3509    <4360lbs.  <5298 lbs. <6323 lbs.
          lbs.      lbs.     lbs.     lbs.
Post diam 4x4       4x4      6x6      6x6      Engineere  Engineere  Engineere
                                               d          d          d
 
   (JJ)   Amend Section R507.4, Deck posts, to read as follows:
   For single-level decks, wood post size shall be in accordance with Table
R507.3.1 and post height in accordance with Table R507.4
   (KK)   Delete Table R507.4 and replace with new Table R507.4
 
TABLE R507.4 DECK POST HEIGHT
Deck Post Size Maximum Height (feet-inches)
   4X4         6
   4X6         8
   6X6         14
   8X8         14
 
   (LL)   Amend Section R903.4, Roof drainage, to add existing paragraph as
follows:
   When roofs are sloped to drain over the edge, scuppers or gutters and down
spouts, adequately sized, pitched and supported, shall be installed to conduct
rain water to ground level. Rain water shall be discharged at least three (3)
feet away from the building foundation in a direction parallel to the adjoining
property line.
   Exception: Structures with no sub-grade spaces.
   (MM)   Delete Section R908.3.1, Roof recover, in its entirety.
   (NN)   Amend Section R908.3.1.1, Roof recover not allowed, to read as
follows:
   A roof recover shall not be permitted.
   (OO)   Add new Section R908.7, Roof maintenance - repair, to read as
follows:
   No roofing permit is required for any maintenance or repairs that are an
accumulative of one roofing square (100' sq) or less provided there is only one
layer of existing roof covering. Any reroofing exceeding one roofing square
(100' sq) requires a permit and the entire roof to be brought up to current
code.
   (PP)   Delete Chapter 11, Energy Efficiency, in its entirety and change to
read as follows:
   One- and Two-Family Dwellings shall be designed and constructed in
accordance with the 2018 International Energy Conservation Code as amended in
Chapter 8, section 8-18(B) of the Bellevue City Code.
   (QQ)   Delete Chapter 25 through Chapter 32 in their entirety and substitute
the same with the following:
   a.   The plumbing requirements shall conform to the provisions of Chapter 27
of the Bellevue City Code.
   b.   When installed; fire sprinkler systems shall be installed in accordance
with NFPA 13, NFPA 13D or NFPA 13R.
   (RR)   Delete Chapter 33 through Chapter 42 in their entirety and substitute
the same with the following:
   a.   The storm drainage requirements shall conform to the provisions of
Chapter 27 of the Bellevue City Code.
   b.   The electrical requirements shall conform to the provisions of Chapter
10 of the Bellevue City Code.
(Ord. 3334, § 1, passed 10-11-2004; Ord. 3377, § 1, passed 10-24-2005; Ord.
3518, § 1, passed 5-11-2009; Ord. 3654, § 1, passed 11-28-2011; Ord. 3791, § 1,
passed 12-8-2014; Ord. 4033, § 1, passed 5-4-2021)
§ 8-19 BUILDING PERMITS—APPLICATION; RECORDS.
   Application for building permits shall be made in the office of the Permits
and Inspections Department. A record of such applications shall be kept in the
permits and inspection division.
(1964 Code, § 7-12) (Ord. 2135, § 3, passed 6-9-1980; Ord. 2356, § 5, passed 6-
10-1985)
§ 8-20 SAME—EXPIRATION.
   (A)   Every permit issued by the building official under the provision of
this Code shall expire by limitation and become null and void if the builder or
work authorized by such permit is not commenced within 180 days from the issue
date of the permit, or if the building or work authorized by such permits is
suspended or abandoned at any time after work is commenced for a period of 180
days. Before work can be resumed, a new permit shall be obtained to do so, and
the fee therefor shall be one-half the amount required for a new permit for
such work, provided no changes have been made in the original plans and
specifications for such work; and provided further that such suspension or
abandonment has not exceeded six months.
   (B)   A permittee holding an unexpired permit may apply for a one time
extension provided he can show good and satisfactory reasons, and beyond his
control, that the work cannot be commenced within the 180-day period from the
issue date. No permit shall be extended more than one time. In order to renew
work on a permit after it has expired, the permittee shall pay a new full
permit fee.
(Ord. No. 2412, § 2, 4-14-1986)
Editor’s note:
   Section 2 of Ord. 2412, adopted April 14, 1986, did not specifically amend
the Code; hence, inclusion herein as § 8-20 was at the discretion of the
editor.
§ 8-21 IDENTIFICATION SIGN.
   All additions, alterations or repairs for which a permit is required shall
be provided with a construction address identification sign. Said sign shall be
of metal, wood, plastic or other approved rigid material with permanent numbers
and letters indicating the legal address assigned by the city. Letters and
numbers on said sign shall be of a size to be readily visible and legible from
the public street. Said sign shall remain and be maintained until permanent
letters or numbers identifying the premises are affixed to same.
(Ord. 2135, § 4, passed 6-9-1980)
§ 8-22 FIRE LIMITS.
   All property now or hereafter situated within the following zoning areas,
BNH, BG, BGH, and BGM, as more fully set forth in the zoning map and
regulations of the city as the same now exists and as hereafter amended, is
declared to be within the fire limits of the city.
(1964 Code, § 10-1) (Ord. 2050, § 1, passed 2-27-1978)
§ 8-23 PERMANENT SIDEWALKS.
   No building permit for the construction of a new building or for the
addition of square footage to an existing building shall be granted unless the
requirement of section 28-32, dealing with the construction of permanent
sidewalks, has been met.
(Ord. 2788, § 1, passed 1-10-1994)
§ 8-24 DRIVEWAYS FOR RESIDENCES.
   No building permit shall be granted by the city for the construction of a
residence therein unless an adequate driveway leading from the street to the
residence is provided and constructed as a part of the building plans. A
driveway shall provide a means of ingress and egress to the residence to be
constructed.
(1964 Code, § 7-6)
§ 8-25 REQUIRED LIVING AREA—DWELLINGS IN CITY WITHOUT BASEMENTS.
   All dwellings and residences that are constructed in the city and which
shall be constructed without basements shall be so proportioned as to have a
living area exclusive of unenclosed porches or garages of not less than 850
square feet per family.
(1964 Code, § 7-7)
§ 8-26 SAME—DWELLINGS OUTSIDE CITY WITHOUT BASEMENTS AND CONNECTED TO CITY
UTILITIES.
   All dwellings and residences that are constructed outside the city limits of
the city and that are to be constructed without basements and which are to be
connected to city water or sewer lines shall be so proportioned so as to have a
living area exclusive of unenclosed porches or garages of not less than 850
square feet per family.
(1964 Code, § 7-8)
§ 8-27 SAME—CONFORMANCE PREREQUISITE TO BUILDING PERMIT OR CONNECTION TO
UTILITIES.
   No building permit shall be issued nor connection be made to city water or
sewer lines for any proposed dwelling or residence which does not conform to
the minimum requirements of the preceding two sections.
(1964 Code, § 7-9)
§ 8-28 HANDRAIL SPECIFICATIONS.
   (A)   Handrails having a minimum height of 30 inches and a maximum height of
34 inches, measured vertically from the nosing of the treads shall be provided
on at least one side of the stairways of three or more risers and shall be
continuous the full length of the stairs and shall extend six inches beyond the
top and bottom riser. Ends shall be returned or shall terminate in newel posts
or safety terminals.
   (B)   Open sides of stairs with a total rise of more than 22-1/2 inches
above the floor or grade shall have guard rails.
   (C)   The handgrip portion of the handrails shall not be less than 1-1/
4 inches or more than two inches in cross-sectional dimension or the shape
shall provide an equivalent dripping surface. The handgrip portion of the
handrail shall have a smooth surface with no sharp corners.
   (D)   Handrails projecting from a wall shall have a space of not less than
1-1/2 inches between the wall and the handrail.
(Ord. 2412, § 3, passed 4-14-1986)
Editor’s note:
   Section 3 of Ord. 2412, adopted April 14, 1986, did not specifically amend
the Code; hence, inclusion herein as § 8-28 was at the discretion of the
editor.
§ 8-29 BARBED WIRE AND ELECTRIC FENCES.
   (A)   Barbed wire fences. It shall be unlawful for any person to erect or
cause to be erected or to maintain any barbed wire fence or any barbed wire
strung along or upon any fence as a barrier within the city limits and the
jurisdictional area of the city; provided that on fences surrounding
cemeteries, public playgrounds or other places used for public recreation or
amusement public institutions, public utilities, factories, storage yards, or
airports it shall be permissible to string not more than three strands of
barbed wire upon supports inclined at an angle not greater than 60 degrees with
the horizontal plane when such wires are strung so that they are suspended
above and within the property lines, and further, that all elements of said
fence shall be within a line drawn perpendicular upward from the property line,
and the bottom strand of such barbed wire is not less than six feet above the
surface of the ground measured from the outer face of such fence.
   (B)   Electric fences. It shall be unlawful for any person to erect or cause
to be erected or to maintain any fence, the wire or wires of which are
electrified at any location within the jurisdictional control of the city.
Provided, however, that in any area zoned agricultural electric fences may be
used to control the ranging of livestock.
(Ord. 2619, §§ 1, 2, passed 7-8-1991)
§§ 8-30—8-40 RESERVED.
ARTICLE III: UNSAFE BUILDINGS
Section
   
8-41   Definition
   
8-42   Declared public nuisances
   
8-43   Inspection; notice of violation
   
8-44   Condemnation—Generally
   
8-45   Same—Placard
   
8-46   Same—Certain buildings declared nuisances
   
8-47   Same—Report by building official; effect
   
8-48   Same—Duties of clerk as to hearing
   
8-49   Same—Manner of giving notice
   
8-50   Same—Conduct of hearing; order by council
   
8-51   Use of condemned building; duty of building official
   
8-52   Removal of building by city
   8-53—8-60   Reserved
§ 8-41 DEFINITION.
   All buildings or structures which have any of the following defects shall be
deemed DANGEROUS BUILDINGS:
   (A)   Those whose interior walls or other vertical structural members list,
lean or buckle to such an extent that a plumb line passing through the center
of gravity falls outside of the middle third of its base.
   (B)   Those which, exclusive of the foundation, show 33 percent or more of
damage or deterioration of the supporting member or members, or 50 percent of
damage or deterioration of the nonsupporting enclosing or outside walls or
covering.
   (C)   Those which have improperly distributed loads upon the floors or roofs
or in which the same are overloaded, or which have insufficient strength to be
reasonably safe for the purpose used.
   (D)   Those which have been damaged by fire, wind or other causes so as to
have become dangerous to life, safety, morals or the general health and welfare
of the occupants or the people of the city.
   (E)   Those which have become or are so dilapidated, decayed, unsafe,
insanitary or which so utterly fail to provide the amenities essential to
decent living that they are unfit for human habitation or are likely to cause
sickness or disease, so as to work injury to the health, morals, safety or
general welfare of those living therein.
   (F)   Those having light, air and sanitation facilities which are inadequate
to protect the health, morals, safety or general welfare of human beings who
live or may live therein.
   (G)   Those having inadequate facilities for egress in case of fire or panic
or those having insufficient stairways, elevators, fire escapes or other means
of communication.
   (H)   Those which have parts thereof which are so attached that they may
fall and injure members of the public or property.
   (I)   Those which because of their condition are unsafe, unsanitary or
dangerous to the health, morals, safety or general welfare of the people of
this city.
   (J)   Those buildings existing in violation of safety-related provisions of
the building code or other safety-related ordinances of this city, or any
provision of the fire prevention code of this city.
(1964 Code, § 7-13.1) (Ord. 3884, § 1, passed 10-9-2017)
§ 8-42 DECLARED PUBLIC NUISANCES.
   All “dangerous buildings” within the terms of the preceding section are
hereby declared to be public nuisances and shall be repaired, vacated or
demolished as provided in this article.
(1964 Code, § 7-13.2)
§ 8-43 INSPECTION; NOTICE OF VIOLATION.
   The building official shall:
   (A)   Inspect any building, wall or structure about which complaints are
filed by any person to the effect that a building, wall or structure is or may
be existing in violation of the City Code as pertained thereto.
   (B)   Inspect any building or structure within the jurisdictional area of
the city for the purpose of determining whether any conditions exist which
render such place a “dangerous building” within the terms of this article.
   (C)   If such complaints are found to be true, he shall issue written notice
of such violation to the owner, agent, lessee or occupant of such building, who
shall forthwith proceed to make such changes, alterations or repairs as will
properly remedy such violation. If such changes, alterations or repairs have
not been completed within the time set forth in such written notice, and no
extension of such time has been procured, the building inspector shall report
such violation to the city council, as provided in the following section.
(1964 Code, § 7-13.3)
§ 8-44 CONDEMNATION—GENERALLY.
   Any building or other structure or any appurtenance or apparatus in, upon or
about such building or other structure found either in whole or in part, to be
structurally unsafe or dangerous in case, or as the result of fire or panic, or
as the result of tornado, wind, lightning, deterioration or other cause, or
which is insufficient or unsafe for the purposes for which it is intended to be
used, shall be made safe and secure by the owner, agent, lessee or occupant of
such building within the time set forth in written notice from the building
official. Where immediate action is deemed necessary to protect life or limb,
the building official may cause the building or structure, appurtenance,
appliance or apparatus or any portion or part thereof to be taken down or
repaired without delay, and the cost in amount of certified bills of all
expenses incurred by the building official shall be collected in the manner
provided for special assessments.
(1964 Code, § 7-13.4)
§ 8-45 SAME—PLACARD.
   The building official or his deputy shall placard every building or
structure found to be unsafe or unfit for occupancy or use. Such placard shall
be placed on the exterior near the main entrance and shall set forth that such
building or structure is unsafe or unfit for occupancy and use.
(1964 Code, § 7-13.4)
§ 8-46 SAME—CERTAIN BUILDINGS DECLARED NUISANCES.
   Any building or structure which is unsafe or unfit for occupancy and use, or
any building or structure which is liable to fall or collapse from inherent
structural weakness, or as the result of fire, decay or otherwise, and which
the owner refused to repair in accordance with the provisions of this Code, or
any building or structure located within the jurisdictional area of the City
which has deteriorated from any cause to the extent of 50 percent of the
assessed value is hereby declared to be a public nuisance.
(1964 Code, § 7-13.4) (Ord. 3651, passed 11-28-2011; Ord. 3728, § 1, passed 6-
24-2013)
§ 8-47 SAME—REPORT BY BUILDING OFFICIAL; EFFECT.
   Whenever, in the opinion of the building official, any building is a public
nuisance, as defined in this article, and no change or alteration or repair is
made; it shall be his duty to file a written report, directed to the city
council, with the city clerk. Such report shall state the nature and character
of such building, its street number, the number and description of the lot or
tract of land upon which it is situated, the name of the owner, lessee,
occupant or mortgagee of record and to which cause the present condition is
attributable. After the report of the building official has been filed with the
city clerk as above provided, no building permit, for the building upon which
such report has been filed, may be issued, except with the consent and approval
of the city council.
(1964 Code, § 7-13.4)
§ 8-48 SAME—DUTIES OF CLERK AS TO HEARING.
   Upon receipt of the written report from the building inspector, the city
clerk shall set a hearing date and shall fix the time and place at which the
owner, lessee, occupant or mortgagee of record of such building may appear
before the city council and show cause why such buildings should not be
condemned as a nuisance. The city clerk shall immediately notify or cause to be
notified the owner, lessee, occupant or mortgagee of record of such building,
in writing, that such hearing has been set before the city council, stating
therein the date, time and place, and that the owner, lessee, occupant or
mortgagee of record may appear before the city council and show cause why the
city shall not condemn such building as a public nuisance.
(1964 Code, § 7-13.4)
§ 8-49 SAME—MANNER OF GIVING NOTICE.
   The notice described in the preceding section shall be given not less than
five days prior to the time of hearing; provided that whenever the owner,
lessee, occupant or mortgagee of record of such building is a nonresident of
the city or cannot be found therein, then the city clerk shall publish, in the
official newspaper of the city such notice for two consecutive publications,
the last publication to be at least one week prior to the date set for the
hearing. Service of such notice provided for herein shall be checked by the
city attorney as to legal sufficiency. If, for any reason, the service of
notice shall be determined to be insufficient, illegal or defective, then such
hearing shall be continued by the city clerk for a period not to exceed the
date of the third council meeting from the date of such determination, and the
city clerk shall promptly cause proper notice to be given to those not properly
notified. Notice of the date to which such hearing has been continued may be
given by mail to those already properly notified.
(1964 Code, § 7-13.4)
§ 8-50 SAME—CONDUCT OF HEARING; ORDER BY COUNCIL.
   Upon the date fixed for hearing and for which proper notice has been given
as provided for in this article, the city council shall hear all objections
made by the owner, lessee, occupant or mortgagee of record of the building in
question, as well as evidence submitted by the building official or other
persons interested. If, after consideration of all evidence produced, the city
council shall find that such building is a public nuisance, it shall, by
resolution, order and direct the owner to cause such building to be torn down
and removed, the resolution to be in the form prescribed by the city council.
(1964 Code, § 7-13.4)
§ 8-51 USE OF CONDEMNED BUILDING; DUTY OF BUILDING OFFICIAL.
   After a building or structure has been declared a public nuisance and
ordered torn down by the city council, it shall be unlawful for any person to
begin to use or occupy or to continue to use or occupy the same. The building
official or his deputy shall place upon such building or structure a placard
setting forth that such building or structure has been condemned and declared
unsafe for use and that occupancy of same is prohibited by resolution of the
city council.
(1964 Code, § 7-13.4) (Ord. 2356, § 6, passed 6-10-1985)
§ 8-52 REMOVAL OF BUILDING BY CITY.
   Should the owner refuse or neglect to promptly comply with an order of the
city council to tear down and remove a building or structure condemned as a
public nuisance, or place the premises in a safe condition, the building
official shall proceed with the tearing down and removal of such building or
structure, or the removal from such premises of the remaining debris, and he
shall place the premises in a safe condition. He shall dispose of and remove
from the premises all materials, rubbish and debris and leave the premises in a
safe condition. A statement of the cost of such work shall be transmitted to
the city council, which is authorized to levy the cost as a special assessment
against the land. Such special assessment shall be a lien on the real estate
and shall be collected in the manner provided for special assessments according
to state statutes.
(1964 Code, § 7-13.4) (Ord. 2356, § 7, passed 6-10-1985)
Statutory reference:
   Collection of costs of abatement of dangerous buildings, see Neb. RS 1943,
§§ 18-1722 et seq.
§§ 8-53—8-60 RESERVED.
ARTICLE IV: DEMOLITION CONTRACTORS
Section
   
8-61   Definitions
   
8-62   Permit—Required
   
8-63   Same—Application
   
8-64   Same—Fee
   
8-65   Same—Insurance policies
   
8-66   Same—Denial
   8-67—8-70   Reserved
Editor’s note:
   Nonamendatory Ord. 2535, §§ 1—7, adopted April 10, 1989, as amended by Ord.
2566, adopted September 11, 1989, has been codified herein by the editor as
Art. IV, §§ 8-61—8-67; §§ 8 and 9 of said ordinance, pertaining to separability
and effective date, respectively, have not been included.
Statutory reference:
   Contractor Registration Act, see Neb. RS 1943, §§ 48-2101 et seq.
§ 8-61 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this article, the following terms, phrases, words and
their derivations shall have the meaning given herein. When not inconsistent
with the context, words used in the present tense include the future, words in
the plural number include the singular number, and words in the singular number
include the plural number. The word shall is always mandatory and not merely
directory:
   CITY. The City of Bellevue, Nebraska.
   DEMOLITION CONTRACTOR. A person engaged in the business or offering services
of demolishing buildings and structures whereby such building or structure is
torn down or demolished by a wrecking ball, fire, explosion or other methods of
demolition. The term DEMOLITION CONTRACTOR shall not include a person who is
demolishing a residential structure or an accessory building to such
residential structure or any other smaller structure.
   PERSON. Any person, firm, partnership, association, corporation, company or
organization of any kind.
(Ord. 2535, § 1, passed 4-10-1989)
§ 8-62 PERMIT—REQUIRED.
   No demolition contractor shall engage in the activity within the city and
within an area two miles beyond and adjacent to the corporate boundaries
without first obtaining a permit as hereinafter provided from the Department of
Permits and Inspections.
(Ord. 2535, § 2, passed 4-10-1989)
§ 8-63 SAME—APPLICATION.
   Demolition permit fees for residential accessory structures not exceeding
1,200 square feet are listed in the Master Fee Schedule. Demolition permit for
one- and two-family dwellings shall be determined by the total cost of the
demolition contract, as calculated from table 3-A of the Uniform Administrative
Code, 1997 Edition. For demolition of nonresidential structures, the permit fee
shall be determined by 40 percent of the assess valuation of said structure as
provided by the county assessor’s office and calculated from table 3-A of the
Uniform Administrative Code, 1997 Edition.
(Ord. 2535, § 3, passed 4-10-1989; Ord. 2566, § 1, passed 9-11-1989; Ord. 3332,
§ 3, passed 9-27-2004; Ord. 3378, § 3, passed 11-14-2005; Ord. 3655, § 1,
passed 11-28-2011)
§ 8-64 SAME—FEE.
   For each permit issued, the Department of Permits and Inspections shall
collect a fee as described in the Master Fee Schedule.
(Ord. 2535, § 4, passed 4-10-1989; Ord. 3332, § 4, passed 9-27-2004; Ord. 3378,
§ 4, passed 11-14-2005; Ord. 3499, § 1, passed 3-9-2009)
§ 8-65 SAME—INSURANCE POLICIES.
   No permit shall be issued to an applicant hereunder until the applicant
shall furnish proof of liability insurance in the minimum amount of $50,000.00
coverage as to one person and $1,000,000.00 coverage as to an aggregate and
$50,000.00 as to property damage. In lieu of liability insurance, the applicant
may provide a bond in the amount of $1,000,000.00 with a licensed corporate
surety conditioned upon payment of all damages occasioned by the demolition
project.
(Ord. 2535, § 5, passed 4-10-1989)
§ 8-66 SAME—DENIAL.
   No permit shall be issued by the Department of Permits and Inspections, if
any of the following conditions exist:
   (A)   If the applicant’s proposed method of demolition is unsafe, and
persons or property would be unreasonably endangered by the demolition project.
   (B)   If the applicant does not propose a reasonable method for clearing the
debris and cleaning the area of the resulting debris.
   (C)   If any of the requirements for fees, bond or insurance or any other
requirement of this article shall lack compliance.
   (D)   If the applicant proposes an unreasonable amount of time to complete
the demolition project.
(Ord. 2535, § 7, passed 4-10-1989)
§§ 8-67—8-70 RESERVED.
ARTICLE V: REGULATIONS FOR MOVING OF BUILDINGS
Section
Division 1: Generally
   
8-71   Definitions
   
8-72   Permit—Required
   
8-73   Same—Application
   
8-74   Same—Deposit for expense to city
   
8-75   Same—General deposit
   
8-76   Same—Duties of building inspector
   
8-77   Duties of permittee
   
8-78   Enforcement
   8-79   Reserved
   8-80   Reserved
Division 2: House Mover’s License
   
8-81   Required
   
8-82   Application
   
8-83   Fee
   
8-84   Liability insurance—Required
   
8-85   Same—Termination
   
8-86   Issuance
   
8-87   Reserved
Editor’s note:
   Nonamendatory Ord. 2536, §§ 1 through 8, adopted April 10, 1989, has been
codified herein by the editor as Div. 1 of Art. V, §§ 8-71 through 8-78; §§ 9
through 11 of said ordinance, pertaining to separability, repealer and
effective date, respectively, have not been included.
   Nonamendatory Ord. 2539, §§ 1—7, adopted April 10, 1989, has been codified
herein by the editor as Div. 2 of Art. V, §§ 8-81—8-87; § 8 of said ordinance,
pertaining to effective date, has not been included.
DIVISION 1: GENERALLY
§ 8-71 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this article, the following terms, phrases, words and
their derivations shall have the meaning given herein. When not inconsistent
with the context, words used in the present tense include the future, words in
the plural number include the singular number, and words in the singular number
include the plural number. The word shall is always mandatory and not merely
directory:
   BUILDING. A structure designed, built or occupied as a shelter or roofed
enclosure for persons, animals or property and used for residential, business,
mercantile, storage, commercial, industrial, institutional, assembly,
educational or recreational purposes. A structure of the following dimensions
shall not fall within this definition: A structure having a ground floor area
of less than 120 square feet.
   BUILDING INSPECTOR. The building inspector of the city.
   CITY. The City of Bellevue, Nebraska, and the area within two miles beyond
and adjacent to the corporate boundaries.
   PERSON. Any person, firm, partnership, association, corporation, company or
organization of any kind.
(Ord. 2536, § 1, passed 4-10-1989)
§ 8-72 PERMIT—REQUIRED.
   No person shall move any building over, along or across any highway, street
or alley in the city without first obtaining a permit from the building
inspector.
(Ord. 2536, § 2, passed 4-10-1989)
§ 8-73 SAME—APPLICATION.
   A person seeking issuance of a permit hereunder shall file an application
for such permit with the building inspector:
   (A)   Form. The application shall be made in writing upon forms provided by
the building inspector and shall be filed in the office of the building
inspector.
   (B)   Contents. The application shall set forth:
      (1)   A description of the building proposed to be moved, giving the
street number, construction materials, dimensions, number of rooms, and
condition of exterior and interior;
      (2)   A legal description of the lot from which the building is to be
moved, giving the lot, block and tract number, if located in the city;
      (3)   A legal description of the lot to which it is proposed that such
building be removed, giving lot, block and tract number;
      (4)   The portion of the lot to be occupied by the building when moved
and shall include a plot plan;
      (5)   The highway, streets and alleys over, along or across which the
building is proposed to be moved;
      (6)   Proposed moving date and hours; and
      (7)   Any additional information which the building inspector shall find
necessary to make a fair determination of whether a permit should be issued.
   (C)   Accompanying papers; certificate of ownership or entitlement. The
applicant, if other than the owner, shall file with the application a written
statement or bill of sale signed by the owner or other sufficient evidence that
he is entitled to move the building.
   (D)   Fee. The application shall be accompanied by a permit fee as described
in the Master Fee Schedule.
(Ord. 2536, § 3, passed 4-10-1989; Ord. 3499, § 3, passed 3-9-2009)
§ 8-74 SAME—DEPOSIT FOR EXPENSE TO CITY.
   Upon receipt of an application, it shall be the duty of the building
inspector to procure from the department of public works an estimate of the
expense that will be incurred in removing and replacing any electric wires,
street lamps or pole lines belonging to the city or any other property of the
city, the removal and replacement of which will be required by reason of the
moving of the building through the city, together with the cost of materials
necessary to be used in making such removals and replacements. Prior to the
issuance of the permit, the building inspector shall require of the applicant a
deposit of a sum of money equal to twice the amount of the estimated expense.
(Ord. 2536, § 4, passed 4-10-1989)
§ 8-75 SAME—GENERAL DEPOSIT.
   An application hereunder shall be accompanied by a cash deposit in the sum
of $1,000.00 as an indemnity for any damage which the city may sustain by
reason of damage or injury to any highway, street or alley, sidewalk, fire
hydrant or other property of the city which may be caused by or be incidental
to the removal of any building over, along or across any street in the city and
to indemnify the city against any claim of damages to persons or private
property and to satisfy any claims by private individuals arising out of,
caused by or incidental to the moving of any building over, along or across any
street in the city.
   (A)   Bond in lieu of deposit. Any person filing an application hereunder
may, in lieu of the general cash deposit required above, file with the building
inspector a bond, approved as to form by the city attorney, executed by a
bonding or surety company authorized to do business in the State of Nebraska in
the amount of $5,000.00, conditioned upon the assurance that this article and
other applicable ordinances and laws will be complied with. Such bond shall run
to the city for the use and benefit of any person or persons intended to be
protected thereby and shall be conditioned on the payment of any damage to
public or private property and the payment for any damages or losses resulting
from any malfeasance, misfeasance or nonfeasance or negligence in connection
with any of the activities or conditions upon which the permit applied for is
granted.
   (B)   Insurance policy in lieu of deposit. Any person filing an application
hereunder may, in lieu of the general cash deposit required above, file with
the building inspector a liability insurance policy, issued by an insurance
company authorized to do business in the State of Nebraska and approved as to
form by the city attorney, in the same amount and providing the same protection
as would be required for a bond hereunder.
(Ord. 2536, § 5, passed 4-10-1989)
§ 8-76 SAME—DUTIES OF BUILDING INSPECTOR.
   (A)   Inspection. The building inspector shall inspect the building and the
applicant’s equipment to determine whether the standards for issuance of a
permit are met.
   (B)   Standards for issuance. The building inspector shall refuse to issue a
permit if he finds that:
      (1)   Any application requirement or any fee or deposit requirement has
not been complied with;
      (2)   The building is too large to move without endangering persons or
property in the city;
      (3)   The building is in such a state of deterioration or disrepair or is
otherwise so structurally unsafe that it could not be moved without endangering
persons and property in the city;
      (4)   The building is structurally unsafe or unfit for the purpose for
which moved if the removal location is in the city;
      (5)   The applicant’s equipment is unsafe and persons and property would
be endangered by its use;
      (6)   Zoning or other ordinances would be violated by the building in its
new location; or
      (7)   For any other reason, persons or property in the city would be
endangered by the moving of the building.
   (C)   Fees and deposits.
      (1)   Deposit. The building inspector shall deposit all fees and deposits
and all bonds or insurance policies with the city treasurer.
      (2)   Return upon nonissuance. Upon his refusal to issue a permit, the
building inspector shall return to the applicant all deposits, bonds and
insurance policies. Permit fees filed with the application shall not be
returned.
      (3)   Return upon allowance for expense. After the building has been
removed, the building inspector shall furnish the city administrator with a
written statement of all expenses incurred in removing and replacing all
property belonging to the city and of all material used in the making of the
removal and replacement, together with a statement of all damage caused to or
inflicted upon property belonging to the city. Provided, however, that if any
wires, poles, lamps or other property are not located in conformity with
governing ordinances, the permittee shall not be liable for the cost of
removing the same. The city administrator shall authorize the building
inspector to return to the applicant all deposits after the city treasurer
deducts the sum sufficient to pay for all of the costs and expenses and for all
damage done to property of the city by reason of the removal of the building.
Permit fees deposited with the application shall not be returned.
   (D)   Designated streets for removal. The building inspector shall procure
from the department of public works a list of designated streets over which the
building may be moved. The building inspector shall have the list approved by
the chief of police and shall reproduce the list upon the permit in writing. In
making their determinations, the department of public works and the chief of
police shall act to assure maximum safety to persons and property in the city
and to minimize congestion and traffic hazards on public streets.
(Ord. 2536, § 6, passed 4-10-1989)
§ 8-77 DUTIES OF PERMITTEE.
   Every permittee under this article shall:
   (A)   Use designated streets. Move a building only over streets designated
for such use in the written permit.
   (B)   Notify of revised moving time. Notify the building inspector in
writing of a desired change in moving date and hours as proposed in the
application.
   (C)   Notify of damage. Notify the building inspector in writing of any and
all damage done to property belonging to the city within 24 hours after the
damage or injury has occurred.
   (D)   Display lights. Cause red lights to be displayed during the nighttime
on every side of the building, while standing on a street, in such manner as to
warn the public of the obstruction, and shall at all times erect and maintain
barricades across the streets in such manner as to protect the public from
damage or injury by reason of the removal of the building.
   (E)   Street occupancy period. Remove the building from the city streets
after four days of such occupancy unless an extension is granted by the city
administrator.
   (F)   Comply with governing law. Comply with the building code, the fire
zone, the zoning ordinance and all other applicable ordinances and laws upon
relocating the building in the city.
   (G)   Pay expense of officer. In the event that it is deemed necessary by
the building inspector to require an on-duty traffic officer to accompany the
movement of the building, the expense shall be paid by the permittee.
   (H)   Clear old premises. Remove all rubbish and materials and fill all
excavations to existing grade at the original building site so that the
premises are left in a safe and sanitary condition.
   (I)   Remove service connection. See that the sewer line is plugged with a
concrete stopper, the water shut off and the meter returned to the city water
office. The permittee shall notify the gas and electric service companies to
remove their services.
   (J)   Situate building. The relocated building shall be placed upon a
permanent foundation within 30 days from the date the permit is issued and the
house completed for occupancy within the same time requirements as new
construction. An extension may be granted if weather or acts of God prevent
completion within the above time frame.
(Ord. 2536, § 7, passed 4-10-1989)
§ 8-78 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Enforcing officers. The building inspector, the police department and
the department of public works shall enforce and carry out the requirements of
this article.
   (B)   Permittee liable for expense above deposit. The permittee shall be
liable for any expense, damages or costs in excess of deposited amounts or
securities; and the city attorney shall prosecute an action against the
permittee in a court of competent jurisdiction for the recovery of such
excessive amounts.
   (C)   Original premises left unsafe. The city shall proceed to do the work
necessary to leave the original premises in a safe and sanitary condition where
the permittee does not comply with the requirements of this article, and the
cost thereof shall be charged against the general deposit.
(Ord. 2536, § 8, passed 4-10-1989)
§§ 8-79, 8-80 RESERVED.
DIVISION 2: HOUSE MOVER’S LICENSE
§ 8-81 REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in the business of a house
mover within the city or two move, raise, lower or to support by shoring up
upon temporary blocking, jacks or wedges any building or other structure within
the city without first qualifying for and obtaining a permit to do so for the
current year.
(Ord. 2539, § 1, passed 4-10-1989; Ord. 3655, § 3, passed 11-28-2011)
§ 8-82 APPLICATION.
   Before a house mover’s permit is issued to any applicant, such applicant
shall submit an application to the Permits and Inspections Department on such
form or forms as the Building Official of the division shall prescribe, type of
equipment and any other relevant data pertaining to the applicant’s ability to
be a house mover and to properly perform the work of a house mover.
(Ord. 2539, § 2, passed 4-10-1989; Ord. 3655, § 4, passed 11-28-2011)
§ 8-83 FEE.
   The fee for a permit shall be as described in the Master Fee Schedule.
(Ord. 2539, § 3, passed 4-10-1989; Ord. 3499, § 4, passed 3-9-2009; Ord. 3655,
§ 4, passed 11-28-2011)
§ 8-84 LIABILITY INSURANCE—REQUIRED.
   Before issuing a license, the applicant shall submit proof that the
applicant is covered by liability insurance in the minimum amount of $50,000.00
liability as to any one person and $100,000.00 liability as to any group of
persons in each incident and in the amount of not less than $25,000.00
liability as to property damage; provided that such insurance policy shall
fully protect the city and shall indemnify and save it harmless from any and
all suits, judgments, exactions, executions and liabilities as to personal
injuries or property damage in any way connected with or related to or growing
out of the conduct of the business of the assured as a house mover. A copy of
such insurance policy with all endorsements shall be filed with the city
through the Permits and Inspections Department.
(Ord. 2539, § 4, passed 4-10-1989)
§ 8-85 SAME—TERMINATION.
   Whenever any insurance policy required by the provisions of this division is
canceled or terminates or for any reason ceases to be in full force and effect,
the general license of the house mover shall terminate unless the house mover
shall forthwith furnish a new policy in compliance herewith. In such a
situation, the house mover shall surrender his license and shall cease and
terminate the conduct of his business until a new insurance policy is furnished
as required herein.
(Ord. 2539, § 5, passed 4-10-1989)
§ 8-86 ISSUANCE.
   Upon complying with the provisions of this division, a general license shall
be issued to the applicant therefor either as an individual or in the name of
the firm or corporation of which the applicant is a member, officer or manager.
(Ord. 2539, § 6, passed 4-10-1989)
§ 8-87 RESERVED.
ARTICLE VI: ALARM SYSTEMS
Section
   
8-88   Definitions
   
8-89   Alarm systems; compliance with article
   
8-90   Alarm system registration required
   
8-91   Registration application, fee; termination and renewal
   
8-92   Current information, term of registration and renewal
   
8-93   Maintenance of alarm systems
   
8-94   Required information for PSDCC notification
   
8-95   False alarm charges
   
8-96   Notices
   8-97—8-119   Reserved
§ 8-88 DEFINITIONS.
   As used in this article, unless the context otherwise requires:
   ALARM BUSINESS. Any person:
      (1)   Who installs alarm systems, other than a principal; or
      (2)   Who, pursuant to an agreement with a principal, communicates the
presence of an emergency by an alarm system sound or signal to the city public
safety department communications center (“PSDCC”).
   ALARM SYSTEM. Any device (other than a device installed upon premises
occupied by the city) to detect, deter, prevent, sound, or otherwise signal an
intrusion, other criminal activity, fire, rescue, or other emergency situation
(collectively “emergency”) which, when activated, employs the use of:
      (1)   An audible annunciator; or
      (2)   A visual signal or other means to alert the PSDCC of an emergency,
whether directly or indirectly.
   AUDIBLE ANNUNCIATOR. That part of an alarm system, which when activated,
sounds or signals an emergency by means of a bell, siren, buzzer or similar
sound-producing device which is audible from the protected premises.
   COORDINATOR. The Bellevue City Administrator or the individual or department
designated by the city administrator to perform such duties as are imposed by
this article.
   FALSE ALARM. Any sound or signal from an alarm system resulting in a
response by the police, fire and/or rescue department when an emergency does
not exist.
   PERSON. Include and be applied to a firm, partnership, association,
corporation, entity, organization or group, as well as to an individual.
   PRINCIPAL. The person, firm, partnership, association, corporation, company,
or organization whose premises are to be protected by an alarm system. If the
protected premises are leased, the principal shall be the person in possession
or control of the protected premises, unless more than one tenant is served by
a single alarm system, in which event, PRINCIPAL shall mean the owner or
landlord of the protected premises.
   PROTECTED PREMISES. The area to be covered by an alarm system.
(Ord. 2797, § 1, passed 7-11-1994; Ord. 3238, § 1, passed 12-9-2002)
§ 8-89 ALARM SYSTEMS; COMPLIANCE WITH ARTICLE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to install, use, or maintain an alarm
system in violation of any of the requirements of this article and any person
doing so shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be punished by a
fine of not less than $50.00 nor more than $100.00. Such fines shall be in
addition to any other cost that is imposed by the requirements of this article,
including, but not limited to, any required cost of application for an alarm
system and/or cost of reimbursement to the city for a false alarm.
(Ord. 2797, § 1, passed 7-11-1994; Ord. 3238, § 2, passed 12-9-2002)
§ 8-90 ALARM SYSTEM REGISTRATION REQUIRED.
   From and after the effective date of this article, any alarm system
installed on protected premises shall be registered with the coordinator as set
forth below.
   (A)   Existing alarm systems. No person shall use or operate any alarm
system on protected premises located within the corporate boundaries of the
city without a current valid alarm system registration therefor.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, with respect to any property, which has been or
may be in the future annexed by the city, persons have a period of 90 days from
the effective date of such annexation to comply with the requirements of this
article.
   (B)   New alarm systems. Any alarm business that installs an alarm system on
protected premises located within the corporate boundaries of the city shall
have ten days from the date of installation to register the alarm system as
required by this article. Renewals of alarm system registrations shall be made
by the principal in accordance with section 8-91.
(Ord. 2797, § 1, passed 7-11-1994; Ord. 3238, § 3, passed 12-9-2002)
§ 8-91 REGISTRATION APPLICATION, FEE; TERMINATION AND RENEWAL.
   (A)   Each application for an alarm system registration and/or renewal shall
be made by the alarm business or principal, as applicable, on a form prescribed
by the coordinator. At a minimum, the forms prescribed by the coordinator for
alarm system registration or renewal shall contain the following information:
      (1)   The name, address and telephone number of the principal.
      (2)   The use of the protected premises (e.g., home, office, variety
store, etc.) and the name of any business operating in the protected premises
by which the protected premises is known.
      (3)   The address of the protected premises. If the protected premises is
in a residential, commercial or industrial complex (e.g., office building,
apartment house, shopping center, etc.) the address shall include the name, if
any, by which the complex is commonly known.
      (4)   The names, address and telephone numbers, including home phone
numbers, of at least three natural persons and, if applicable, an alarm
business who have access to the protected premises and who may be notified in
the event the alarm system is activated.
      (5)   Certification by the principal that the principal’s immediate
family, tenants or employees (as appropriate under the circumstances) who have
access to the protected premises have been given training which include
procedures and practices to avoid false alarms and steps to follow in the event
the alarm system is accidentally activated.
   (B)   The alarm business or principal, as applicable, shall remit, together
with an alarm system registration and/or annual renewal application, a
registration fee to the coordinator, which shall accompany the registration
and/or renewal application. The registration fee shall be as described on the
Master Fee Schedule, and the late charge as described on the Master Fee
Schedule shall be assessed against any alarm business or principal that fails
to pay the registration fee in a timely manner. The coordinator shall not be
obligated to accept any alarm system registration application, or any renewal
thereof, if the principal has failed to pay any registration fees, any
corresponding late charges or any false alarm charges imposed on such principal
as described in section 8-95.
   (C)   Upon receipt of a registration or renewal application from an alarm
business or principal, as applicable, coordinator shall register such alarm
system installed on the protected premises. The coordinator shall register the
alarm system by issuing to the principal a registration form bearing the name
of the principal, the address of the protected premises, and an identification
number; and setting forth the expiration date of the registration. The
registration of any alarm system shall not obligate the city or the PSDCC to
respond or accord any priority to any emergency.
   (D)   The term of any registration shall automatically expire upon the
earliest of:
      (1)   12 calendar months from the date of issuance; or
      (2)   Whenever there is a change of the principal.
   (E)   Registration shall be renewed by the principal at least ten days prior
to the expiration of each term by registering with the coordinator in the same
manner as provided in subsection (A) of this section.
(Ord. 2797, § 1, passed 7-11-1994; Ord. 3238, § 4, passed 12-9-2002; Ord. 3499,
§ 5, passed 3-9-2009)
§ 8-92 CURRENT INFORMATION, TERM OF REGISTRATION AND RENEWAL.
   Within ten days following any change of the circumstances contained in the
registration on file, the principal shall supplant or amend all information
which was provided to the coordinator at the time of registration. No
additional fee shall be due unless the change has terminated the registration
as provided in section 8-91(D)(2).
(Ord. 2797, § 1, passed 7-11-1994; Ord. 3238, § 5, passed 12-9-2002)
§ 8-93 MAINTENANCE OF ALARM SYSTEMS.
   (A)   The principal shall, at all times, be responsible for the proper
maintenance and repair of the alarm system, including the repair or replacement
of any component or design feature.
   (B)   Each alarm system shall be maintained so that each audible annunciator
will automatically silence within 15 minutes after being activated, and will
not be reactivated unless a new emergency occurs.
   (C)   An alarm system incorporating an audible annunciator shall not be
tested between the hours of 8:00 p.m. of any day and 7:00 a.m. of the following
day.
(Ord. 2797, § 1, passed 7-11-1994; Ord. 3238, § 6, passed 12-9-2002)
§ 8-94 REQUIRED INFORMATION FOR PSDCC NOTIFICATION.
   Any alarm business communicating the presence of an emergency to the PSDCC
shall provide the following information:
   (A)   The name of the principal, the address of the protected premises, the
use of the protected premises (e.g., home, office, etc.) and the business name,
if any, by which the protected premises are known. Such information shall be
repeated a second time at the end of the message; and
   (B)   The name and telephone number of the principal, the principal’s
business or its agent having ready access to the protected premises; and
   (C)   The apparent nature and type of emergency indicated, e.g., burglary in
progress, robbery, fire, rescue or other emergency.
(Ord. 2797, § 1, passed 7-11-1994; Ord. 3238, § 7, passed 12-9-2002)
§ 8-95 FALSE ALARM CHARGES.
   (A)   As a condition of any alarm system registration issued under the
provisions of this article, the principal shall agree to pay, and where
applicable pay, to the city an amount to reimburse the city for its costs for
any false alarms generated by the principal’s alarm system, within 30 days of
the invoice by the city therefor, as described in the Master Fee Schedule. For
purposes of this section, a principal’s registration term shall mean the
registration period described in accordance with section 8-91. For purposes of
the above described reimbursement amount schedule, a false alarm shall not be
included if an activation of the alarm system was, as determined by the
coordinator, caused by extraordinary circumstances not reasonably subject to
control by the principal or the principal’s immediate family, tenants or
employees (as may be appropriate under the circumstances). There is a
presumption that a false alarm was reasonably subject to control by the
principal.
   (B)   In addition to the false alarm reimbursement amounts provided in
paragraph (A) of this section, the coordinator may revoke the registration of
any alarm system having over 15 false alarms within one year or whenever a
false alarm charge becomes delinquent. Written notice of the revocation of
registration shall be mailed to the principal. The principal shall cause the
alarm system to be removed from the protected premises within 15 days
thereafter, unless the principal has requested such revocation in accordance
with subsection (D) of this section.
   (C)   Any principal who has been assessed a false alarm charge may, within
ten days of mailing the invoice assessing such charge, in writing, request the
coordinator to review the assessment. Such request shall mean that the false
alarm charge shall not be due until ten days following a response by the
coordinator. Along with the request for review by the coordinator, the
principal may communicate factual information to support the assertion that the
false alarm charge should not be assessed. The burden of proving that an alarm
was not a false alarm shall be on the principal. The coordinator shall make a
determination in writing within ten days of such request.
   (D)   Any principal may appeal the coordinator’s decision regarding the:
      (1)   Withholding of certification required by section 8-91
      (2)   Revocation of registration; or
      (3)   Upholding a false alarm charge; by filing a written notice
requesting a review with the coordinator within 15 days after the notice of the
coordinator’s decision is mailed.
(Ord. 2797, § 1, passed 7-11-1994; Ord. 3238, § 8, passed 12-9-2002; Ord. 3499,
§ 6, passed 3-9-2009)
§ 8-96 NOTICES.
   (A)   Notice or billing from the city to any alarm system registration
holder shall be deemed to have been given or rendered on the date such notice
or invoice is deposited in the U.S. mail, first class postage, prepaid,
addressed to the registration holder at the address shown in the city’s
registration records. A certificate signed by the person who mailed the notice
or invoice shall be prima facie evidence of the facts stated therein with
respect to such notice or invoice.
   (B)   Notice to the city or payment under this article shall be effective
when received by the appropriate city office.
(Ord. 2797, § 1, passed 7-11-1994; Ord. 3238, § 9, passed 12-9-2002)
§§ 8-97—8-119 RESERVED.
ARTICLE VII: LICENSES
Section
Division 1: Generally
   8-120—8-130   Reserved
Division 2: Building Contractors
   
8-131   License required; examination
   
8-132   Application
   
8-133   Qualifications
   
8-134   Examination—Required
   
8-134.1   License reciprocity
   
8-134.2   Examination required
   
8-135   Same—Fee
   
8-136   Reserved
   
8-137   Same—Bond/certificate of insurance required, building contractor
license
   
8-138   Issuance—Term
   
8-139   Same—Denial
   
8-140   Reexamination after failure
   
8-141   Established place of business; display name on trucks
   
8-142   Retired building contractor’s license
   
8-143   Temporary license
   
8-144   Only licensed building contractors permitted to contract for building
construction
   8-145—8-150   Reserved
   
8-151   Expiration—Not assignable
   
8-152   Same—Renewal; fee
   
8-153   Revocation or suspension of license
   
8-154   Revocation of license—Upon court conviction
   
8-155   Same—Grounds generally
   
8-156   Same—Procedure of violation notification
   
8-157   Same—Notice; hearing
   
8-158   Same—Conduct and record of hearing
   
8-159   Same—Action of the building official; appeal
   
8-160   Special license for one job only
   
8-161   General contractor defined
   
8-162   Same—Work done by person in his own residence
   
8-163   Same—effect on firms or corporations
Statutory reference:
   Contractor Registration Act, see Neb. RS 1943, §§ 48-2101 et seq.
DIVISION 1: GENERALLY
§ 8-131 LICENSE REQUIRED; EXAMINATION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in the building construction
business as a building contractor, as defined herein, in the city or within the
two-mile jurisdiction of the city, without having first secured a license to do
so from the Permits and Inspections Department.
(Ord. 3516, § 3(8-131), passed 5-11-2009)
§ 8-132 APPLICATION.
   Each applicant for a license required by the preceding section shall make
application to the permits and inspection division on forms prepared and
furnished by such division and indication thereon which class of license the
application is made for.
   (A)   Examination. Contractor examinations shall be composed and given by
the independent testing authority approved by the building official.
   (B)   Building contractor classifications.
      (1)   Class A-general contractor unlimited. The scope of a general
contractor unlimited shall include the construction, repair, alteration,
remodeling, addition to, subtraction from, and improvement of any structure
including related improvement to real estate excluding electrical, mechanical,
plumbing and liquefied gas or natural gas work relating thereto. This
contractor is unlimited as to the height, area, and complexity of a building,
structure, or related real property improvements, and is authorized to perform
the work of all builder and specialty builder categories and classes listed
below.
      (2)   Class B-general contractor limited. The scope of work of a general
contractor limited shall include and be limited to the construction of
commercial buildings, single and multifamily dwellings, and accessory use
structures in connection therewith, all of which shall not exceed three stories
in height, and shall exclude the installation of electrical, mechanical,
plumbing, liquefied petroleum or natural gas work. This contractor is limited
as to the height, area, and complexity of a building, structure, or related
real property improvements as defined herein and is authorized to perform the
work of all builder and specialty builder categories and classes listed below.
      (3)   Class C-residential contractor unlimited. The scope of work of a
residential contractor unlimited shall be limited to the construction,
remodeling, repair or improvement of one, two or three family dwellings, and
accessory used structure in connection therewith and not exceeding three
stories or 35 feet in height. This contractor is limited as to height area, and
complexity of a building, electrical, mechanical, plumbing, liquefied petroleum
or natural gas work, and is authorized to perform the work of all builder
categories and classes listed below.
      (4)   Class D-residential/commercial limited. The scope of work of a
residential/commercial contractor limited shall be limited to the addition,
remodeling and alterations of one and two family dwellings, and accessory
structures in connection therewith, and not exceeding three stories and 35 feet
in height, including, not limited to rough framing, structural and non-
structural, trusses, decks, siding, roofing, sheathing and shall include the
construction, repair of commercial accessory structures, decks, siding, windows
and roofing. A residential/commercial contractor limited shall be excluded from
electrical, mechanical, plumbing, liquefied petroleum or natural gas work.
      (5)   Class E-roofing contractor unlimited. The scope of work of a
roofing contractor unlimited shall be limited to the installation, repair or
replacement of roof coverings. Work may include but shall not be limited to
roof and deck insulation, roof coating, painting and covering, including the
use of sheet metal products incidental to roofing work or other materials in
connection therewith or any combinations thereof and including the installation
of nonstructural, decking and siding, steep roof coverings and installation of
asphalt shingles, fiberglass, shingles, asphalt rolled roofing materials, clay
tile, concrete tile, slate, wood shake or shingle, and other prefabricated
shingle products.
(Ord. 3516, § 3(8-132), passed 5-11-2009; Ord. 3652, § 3(8-132), passed 11-28-
2011; Ord. 3721, § 1, passed 5-28-2013)
§ 8-133 QUALIFICATIONS.
   Each applicant shall provide to the Permits and Inspections Department
documentation and/or proof of continuous employment for not less than four
years under the class of license for which application is made.
(Ord. 3516, § 3(8-133), passed 5-11-2009)
§ 8-134 EXAMINATION—REQUIRED.
   Each applicant for a license required by this division shall appear before
the Permits and Inspections Department upon notice and submit to examination
and tests of his education and competency as may be required by such division.
A minimum passing score of 70 percent on said examination is required.
(Ord. 3516, § 3(8-134), passed 5-11-2009; Ord. 3585, § 1, passed 9-13-2010)
§ 8-134.1 LICENSE RECIPROCITY.
   An applicant holding a valid Contractor’s License from another jurisdiction,
which was based on the applicant’s passage of the same or similar examination
as that required by the City, shall be exempt from the examination required in
this article. In such event, if the applicant is otherwise qualified, a
Contractor’s License of the type corresponding to the examination that was
passed, shall be issued upon proof of examination and payment of the required
license fee as stated in the Master Fee Schedule.
(Ord. 3656, § 1, passed 11-28-2011)
§ 8-134.2 EXAMINATION REQUIRED.
   All contractors renewing his or her license by June 30, 2013 will provide
proof of examination to the satisfaction of the Building Official.
(Ord. 3656, § 2, passed 11-28-2011)
§ 8-135 SAME—FEE.
   Each applicant for a license, required by this division, shall pay an
examination fee as specified by the independent testing authority.
(Ord. 3516, § 3(8-135), passed 5-11-2009)
§ 8-136 RESERVED.
§ 8-137 SAME—BOND/CERTIFICATE OF INSURANCE REQUIRED, BUILDING CONTRACTOR
LICENSE.
   Prior to receiving a license under the preceding section, an applicant who
has successfully passed the building contractor examination or has complied
with the provisions outlined in section 8-134, shall furnish a certificate of
insurance which provides combined coverage of bodily injury and property damage
in a minimum amount of $300,000.00, and shall strictly comply with this code
and any other ordinances of the city relating to the construction, alteration,
or repair or any building system within the jurisdiction of the city.
(Ord. 3516, § 3(8-137), passed 5-11-2009; Ord. 3527, § 1, passed 6-8-2009; Ord.
3652, § 3(8-137), passed 11-28-2011; Ord. 3656, § 3, passed 11-28-2011)
§ 8-138 ISSUANCE—TERM.
   When an applicant for a license required by this division passes the
required examination to the satisfaction of the Permits and Inspections
Department, the building official shall notify the applicant of his or her
score within 15 days of the examination. After payment of a license fee as
stated in the Master Fee Schedule, the building official shall issue a license
which shall be effective and valid through June 30 of each calendar year. First
time issuance of such license issued between May 1 and June 30 shall be
extended to June 30 of the following year.
(Ord. 3516, § 3(8-138), passed 5-11-2009; Ord. 3585, § 2, passed 9-13-2010;
Ord. 3652, § 3(8-138), passed 11-28-2011; Ord. 3656, § 4, passed 11-28-2011)
§ 8-139 SAME—DENIAL.
   Any person who has been denied a license under the provisions of this
article may, within a period of ten days, appeal the decision of the building
official to the city council.
(Ord. 3516, § 3(8-139), passed 5-11-2009)
§ 8-140 REEXAMINATION AFTER FAILURE.
   When an applicant for a building contractor’s license has failed to pass the
examination based on the minimum acceptable score, the applicant may apply to
the Permits and Inspections Department for reexamination at any time.
(Ord. 3516, § 3(8-140), passed 5-11-2009; Ord. 3652, § 3(8-140), passed 11-28-
2011; Ord. 3656, § 5, passed 11-28-2011)
§ 8-141 ESTABLISHED PLACE OF BUSINESS; DISPLAY NAME ON TRUCKS.
   Every licensed building contractor must have an established place of
business. The building contractor’s registration shall be posted in a
conspicuous place in the place of business, provided the place of business
fronts on a public thoroughfare and has a separate entrance. The place of
business shall have signs posted identifying the building contractor or his or
her firm. This provision shall not prevent a building contractor from having
his place of business and dwelling combined, provided that such uses conform to
the city zoning ordinance requirements for home occupation. All vehicles
associated with the business or corporation in the conduct of the business
shall have the name of the building contractor, firm, or corporation and the
contractor’s license number, visibly displayed on every vehicle associated with
such, with letters not less than two inches in height on both sides of the
vehicles.
(Ord. 3516, § 3(8-141), passed 5-11-2009; Ord. 3652, § 3(8-141), passed 11-28-
2011)
§ 8-142 RETIRED BUILDING CONTRACTOR’S LICENSE.
   (A)   A licensed building contractor who wishes to fully retire from the
building trade may apply to the building official for a retired building
contractor’s license. Upon such application and payment of renewal fees
ordinarily applicable to a building contractor’s license, the building official
may grant such person a retired building contractor’s license. The holder of a
retired building contractor’s license shall not engage in any construction
activities for which a building contractor’s license is required under this
Code.
   (B)   The insurance requirements of section
8-137 shall not be required as prerequisites for the issuance, maintenance or
renewal of the retired building contractor’s license.
   (C)   The holder of a retired building contractor’s license may make
application to the building official for a reactivation of his or her status as
a building contractor. The building official may activate such license upon
compliance with all the following:
      (1)   Payment of the required fees applicable to the renewal of the
license.
      (2)   The filing of a current certificate of insurance under the
provisions of this article.
(Ord. 3516, § 3(8-142), passed 5-11-2009; Ord. 3652, § 3(8-142), passed 11-28-
2011)
§ 8-143 TEMPORARY LICENSE.
   In the case of the death of the holder of a valid building contractor’s
license, the building official may issue a temporary license to the company or
corporation who has in its employ an individual who meets the qualifications of
section
8-134 but has not successfully passed the required exam. Such license shall be
valid for a period of not more than six months and shall not be extended. Any
such temporary license shall be void if the company or corporation to which the
license is assigned fails to keep in its employ an individual with a valid
temporary license.
(Ord. 3516, § 3(8-143), passed 5-11-2009)
§ 8-144 ONLY LICENSED BUILDING CONTRACTORS PERMITTED TO CONTRACT FOR BUILDING
CONSTRUCTION.
   No one but licensed building contractors shall be allowed to contract and do
construction work in the city’s jurisdiction. At least one person of the firm
or corporation wishing to perform construction work in the city shall be a
licensed contractor.
(Ord. 3516, § 3(8-144), passed 5-11-2009; Ord. 3652, § 3(8-144), passed 11-28-
2011; Ord. 3721, passed 5-28-2013)
§§ 8-145—8-150 RESERVED.
§ 8-151 EXPIRATION—NOT ASSIGNABLE.
   Building contractor licenses under the provisions of this division shall be
effective and valid through June 30 of each calendar year and shall not be
assignable.
(Ord. 3516, § 3(8-151), passed 5-11-2009)
§ 8-152 SAME—RENEWAL; FEE.
   (A)   Before the expiration of any license issued pursuant to this division,
the holder may, upon payment of the renewal fee as specified in the master fees
schedule, make application to the Permits and Inspections Department for
renewal of his or her license. Failure to make application for renewal for a
license before the expiration date subjects the applicant to pay an additional
sum which is specified in the Master Fee Schedule.
   (B)   Effective the date of the ordinance from which this section is
derived, all contractors holding a current license as a class A, B, C, D or E
Contractor will have a three month grace period after the expiration date of
his or her license to pay required fees as stated in the Master Fee Schedule,
section
11-120 in order to renew his or her license. After the three month grace period
contractors will be required to pay a reinstatement fee, as stated in the
Master Fee Schedule. Failure to renew by the end of the grace period shall
cause such license to expire. If such license has expired, the building
official shall reinstate the license provided an application for reinstatement
is made by the contractor within one year of the expiration of the license, a
reinstatement fee as stated in the Master Fee Schedule is paid, there are no
revocation or suspension proceedings in progress against the license holder and
the contractor otherwise meets the requirements for the year of the
reinstatement. Except as provided herein, any license that has expired shall
not be renewed or reinstated and testing with a minimum passing score of 70
percent will be mandatory in order for the building official to issue a license
to do work within the city and its extra-territorial zoning jurisdiction.
(Ord. 3516, § 3(8-152), passed 5-11-2009; Ord. 3652, § 3(8-152), passed 11-28-
2011)
§ 8-153 REVOCATION OR SUSPENSION OF LICENSE.
   In addition to any other penalty imposed for a violation of this article,
the building official may, at any time, revoke or suspend the license of any
building contractor whom neglects to carry out the provisions of this article
or refuses to be governed by such provisions in the prosecution of his work.
(Ord. 3516, § 3(8-153), passed 5-11-2009)
§ 8-154 REVOCATION OF LICENSE—UPON COURT CONVICTION.
   The building official shall have the power to revoke, with just cause, any
license issued under this article. A license shall be revoked immediately by
the building official upon conviction of the holder thereof, in a court of
competent jurisdiction, for the violation of any laws of the state, this code
or any ordinances of the city, relative to the construction, addition, or
alternation in or to any building system. Additionally, the building official
shall revoke the license of a building contractor who has had a license revoked
by a jurisdiction that has reciprocity with the City of Bellevue Permits and
Inspections Department.
(Ord. 3516, § 3(8-154), passed 5-11-2009)
§ 8-155 SAME—GROUNDS GENERALLY.
   A license issued pursuant to this article shall be revoked by the building
official when he finds that the holder is guilty of one or more of the
following:
   (A)   Fraudulent use of his license;
   (B)   Incompetence in the exercise of the privilege of the license;
   (C)   Fraud or misrepresentation in securing the license or permits granted
pursuant to the building codes of the city;
   (D)   Refusal to perform his work to the requirements of the law; and/or
   (E)   Such other breaches of duty by the holder of the license as the
building official may find, which cause an unsafe or unsanitary condition,
contrary to the intent and purpose of this article.
(Ord. 3516, § 3(8-155), passed 5-11-2009)
§ 8-156 SAME—PROCEDURE OF VIOLATION NOTIFICATION.
   Except as stated in section 8-154, cases involving violations of the
provisions of this article or any other law or ordinance of the City of
Bellevue relating to building contractor licensing or permit requirements, the
following notification procedure shall be implemented by the building official
prior to actual revocation of a license.
   (A)   The first violation of this article shall cause the building official
to suspend the license for a period of one month, and notify the licensee again
by certified mail of the city procedures.
   (B)   The second violation of this article shall cause the building official
to suspend the license for a period of three months, and notify the licensee
again by certified mail of the city procedures.
   (C)   The third violation of this article shall cause the building official
to revoke the license for a period of not less than six months and not to
exceed one year.
   (D)   The fourth violation of this article shall cause the building official
to present his case file to the city council at the next regularly scheduled
meeting for permanent revocation.
(Ord. 3516, § 3(8-156), passed 5-11-2009)
§ 8-157 SAME—NOTICE; HEARING.
   In all cases involving revocation or suspension of a license under this
article, at least 15 days notice of the contemplated revocation or suspension
shall be served upon the licensee and such notice shall indicate the time and
place of the hearing, the general grounds of the contemplated action and shall
advise the holder of his right to appear at the hearing in person or by counsel
for the purpose of presenting his defense. In each case, the licensee shall not
be allowed to continue to perform the duties associated with the privilege of
the license until the termination of the proceedings. This provision shall be
waived only if a court of competent jurisdiction issues a temporary injunction
against the city in such proceedings.
(Ord. 3516, § 3(8-157), passed 5-11-2009)
§ 8-158 SAME—CONDUCT AND RECORD OF HEARING.
   The building official shall make a complete record of the case involving any
revocation or suspension of a license under this article and shall keep a
written record of the testimony produced at the hearing held pursuant to the
preceding section. He may request legal advice from the city attorney and adopt
such procedure for the decorum and the dispatch of business of such hearings as
he may regard advisable.
(Ord. 3516, § 3(8-158), passed 5-11-2009)
§ 8-159 SAME—ACTION OF THE BUILDING OFFICIAL; APPEAL.
   The decision of the building official at a hearing on the revocation or
suspension of a license under this article shall be final. No person whose
license has been revoked under the provisions of section
8-154 or permanent revocation under section 8-156(4) shall be granted a new
license. Any individual whose license has been revoked under section 8-156(3)
may have the ability to retest for said license upon the expiration of the time
frame of the revocation, and may be issued a license after successfully
completing the examination and paying all associated fees, and subsequently is
awarded a license from city council. The city council, within 30 days of filing
such notice, shall grant a hearing to the individual appealing. The revocation
or suspension of a license shall not entitle the holder to a refund of any part
of the fee which he or she may have paid.
(Ord. 3516, § 3(8-159), passed 5-11-2009)
§ 8-160 SPECIAL LICENSE FOR ONE JOB ONLY.
   Whenever the Building Official deems it advisable he or she may, at his or
her discretion, issue a special building contractor’s license to an individual
who is not otherwise licensed by the city to perform construction work, but who
can provide proof of competency as a licensed building contractor in another
city’s jurisdiction, or by providing current permits issued in the contractor’s
name from said city’s jurisdiction which do not have a building contractor
license requirement. The special license, so issued, shall allow the licensee
to perform building construction work in or on the building or property for
which it is issued and no other. The fee for such special license for Class A,
B, C, D and E are listed in the Master Fee Schedule. A certificate of insurance
which provides combined coverage for bodily injury and property damage in a
minimum amount of three hundred thousand dollars ($300,000) shall be provided
to the Permits and Inspections Division prior to the issuance of the special
license. Upon the completion of the work, for which a special license was
issued, such license shall expire and become null and void.
(Ord. 3516, § 3(8-160), passed 5-11-2009; Ord. 3585, § 3, passed 9-13-2010;
Ord. 3652, § 3(8-160), passed 11-28-2011; Ord. 3721, § 3, passed 5-28-2013)
§ 8-161 GENERAL CONTRACTOR DEFINED.
   For purposes of this article, a GENERAL CONTRACTOR is defined as any person
or entity that contracts with the owner or tenant of property to build,
construct, alter, repair, add to, subtract from, or otherwise improve any
building or structure upon the said property, within the city or its
jurisdictional area. The term also applies to landlords and property owners
performing work on property that they own but do not reside in. The term
GENERAL CONTRACTOR shall not include a tradesman licensed by the city who
performs work within his or her licensed trade, or any subcontractor performing
work under a contract with a licensed general contractor. The five classes of
general contractor licenses are as defined in Sec. 8-132 (b).
(Ord. 3516, § 3(8-161), passed 5-11-2009; Ord. 3734, § 1, passed 9-23-2013)
§ 8-162 SAME—WORK DONE BY PERSON IN HIS OWN RESIDENCE.
   (A)   No license required under this article shall be required of any
individual performing construction, additions, alterations, or repair of the
building system of the residence in which he or she owns and resides; provided
that such construction is performed in conformity with this code and any other
ordinances of the city. In all cases the rules and regulations of this article
shall be complied with and such individual shall notify the city of such work
proposed, request inspection thereof and pay a permit fee in accordance with
the uniform administrative code provisions. Furthermore, this section shall
only apply to those installations required for remodeling, additions and
repairs. No individual shall engage in any construction activity or new
construction without first having been issued a license to do such work.
   (B)   A property owner may construct or act as a Contractor for one new home
on vacant land owned by the property owner in a five-year period without having
to obtain the required contractor’s license. A homeowner/property owner may not
obtain permits in their name and/or use unlicensed contractors to perform the
work on their property.
(Ord. 3516, § 3(8-162), passed 5-11-2009; Ord. 3656, § 6, passed 11-28-2011)
§ 8-163 SAME—EFFECT ON FIRMS OR CORPORATIONS.
   A building contractor’s license issued to at least one executive officer or
designated full time employee may be applied to a company or corporation
pursuant to this division and shall authorize the company or corporation to
engage in such business or occupation during the period of time that the
licensee maintains his connections with the company or corporation. Such
officer or designated full time employee shall be liable to service of regular
process, and shall be responsible for such entity’s compliance with applicable
laws
(Ord. 3516, § 3(8-163), passed 5-11-2009; Ord. 3734, § 1, passed 9-23-2013)
CHAPTER 8.5: BUSINESS IMPROVEMENT DISTRICTS
   Article
      
I.   BUSINESS IMPROVEMENT DISTRICT NO. 1
      
II.   BUSINESS IMPROVEMENT DISTRICT NO. 2
ARTICLE I: BUSINESS IMPROVEMENT DISTRICT NO. 1
Section
   
8.5-1   Establishment
   
8.5-2   Boundaries
   
8.5-3   License and occupation tax levied on businesses, professions located
within district; rate; use
   
8.5-4   Determination, computation of tax; objections
   
8.5-5   Reserved
   
8.5-6   Collection, disposition of tax
   
8.5-7   Failure to pay tax; penalty
   8.5-8—8.5-20   Reserved
Editor’s note:
   Ord. 2175, §§ 3 through 14, enacted October 26, 1981, was not expressly
amendatory of the Code; hence, inclusion within ch. 8.5, as art. I, §§ 8.5-
1 through 8.5-7 was at the discretion of the editor.
Statutory reference:
   Business Improvement District Act, see Neb. RS 1943, §§ 19-4015 et seq.
§ 8.5-1 ESTABLISHMENT.
   The mayor and council find it necessary for the promotion and maintenance of
the welfare and general interests of the city, its trade, commerce and
inhabitants that the city establish the Bellevue Business Improvement District
and collect a license and occupation tax to develop the public facilities in
the district area. Thus, there is hereby created and established the Bellevue
Business Improvement District of the City.
(Ord. 2175, § 3, passed 10-26-1981)
Statutory reference:
   Authority to establish business improvement district, see Neb. RS 1943, §
19-4020
§ 8.5-2 BOUNDARIES.
   The boundaries of the district will include the following lots in section
26, T14N, R13E, of the City of Bellevue, Nebraska: Lot(s) 1—6 Block 105; Lot(s)
9—12 Block 105; Lot(s) 1—12 Block 127; Lot(s) 1—12 Block 128; Lot(s) 1—6 Block
129; Lot(s) 7—12 Block 175; Lot(s) 1—12 Block 176; Lot(s) 1A—6A Block 181; Lot
(s) 1—6 Block 181; Lot(s) 9—12 Block 181; Lot(s) 1—12 Block 197; Lot(s) 1—6
Block 198; and all public rights-of-way connecting these lots.
(Ord. 2175, § 4, passed 10-26-1981)
§ 8.5-3 LICENSE AND OCCUPATION TAX LEVIED ON BUSINESSES, PROFESSIONS LOCATED
WITHIN DISTRICT; RATE; USE.
   (A)   All businesses and professions located within the boundaries of the
district shall be subject to the provisions of the additional tax as provided
herein. The annual rate of the general license and occupation tax shall be
$25.00 for each such business and profession.
   (B)   The uses of this revenue derived from this section 8.5-3 shall be as
follows:
      (1)   Improvement of any public place or facility in the district area,
including landscaping and plantings;
      (2)   Construction or installation of lighting, benches or other seating
furniture and any useful or necessary public improvements;
      (3)   Leasing, acquiring, constructing, reconstructing, extending,
maintaining or repairing parking lots, including the power to install such
facilities in public areas, whether such areas are owned in fee or by easement,
in the district area;
      (4)   Creation and implementation of a plan for improving the general
architectural design of public areas in the district;
      (5)   The development of any public activities and promotion of public
events in the district area; and/or
      (6)   Any other project or undertaking for the betterment of the public
facilities in the district area, whether the project be capital or noncapital
in nature.
   (C)   The tax to be imposed shall be levied upon all businesses and
professions located within the district except for those of a political
subdivision or a non-profit corporation or association. No tax will be charged
to an occupant for residential use.
(Ord. 2175, §§ 5—8, passed 10-26-1981; Ord. 2195, §§ 1, 2, passed 2-22-1982;
Ord. 3420, § 1, passed 11-27-2006)
Statutory reference:
   Business improvement district occupation tax, see Neb. RS 1943, § 19-4031
§ 8.5-4 DETERMINATION, COMPUTATION OF TAX; OBJECTIONS.
   (A)   The city clerk-treasurer is authorized and directed with the advice
and recommendation of the Bellevue business improvement board, to determine and
compute the tax in accordance herewith.
   (B)   Objections to the determination of amount of additional tax may be
made in writing to the city clerk, specifying the basis of such objection. All
such objections shall be made within 20 days after the due date thereof, or
shall be deemed waived. All timely objections shall be submitted to the
Bellevue business improvement board for its consideration, review, and
recommendations. The mayor and council shall make the final determination on
all such objections, at any regular or special meeting, after notice thereof to
said objector.
(Ord. 2175, §§ 9, 10, passed 10-26-1981)
Statutory reference:
   Business improvement district occupation tax, see Neb. RS 1943, § 19-4031
§ 8.5-5 RESERVED.
§ 8.5-6 COLLECTION, DISPOSITION OF TAX.
   (A)   The license and occupation tax imposed by the preceding sections is an
annual tax and shall be due and payable on the 2nd of January, each year,
commencing January 2, 1982. Business or professional offices starting after
January 2 of the year shall pay a prorata tax for the balance of that tax year.
Upon payment thereof to the city clerk, the clerk shall give a receipt
therefor, properly dated and specifying the person paying, the name of the
business or profession on whose behalf the tax is being paid, the amount
thereof, and for what period the tax is paid. It is hereby made the duty of
every person, partnership, firm or corporation engaged in carrying on any
business or occupation within the limits of the district, as provided, on which
a license and occupation tax is levied by this chapter, to pay said tax at the
times provided for its payment herein.
   (B)   The license and occupation tax shall become delinquent March 1 of each
year and all delinquent taxes shall bear interest at the rate of 14 percent per
annum until paid.
   (C)   The city clerk-treasurer shall place all taxes collected hereunder in
a special fund, to be used exclusively for the purposes described herein.
(Ord. 2175, §§ 11, 12, passed 10-26-1981; Ord. 2246, § 1, passed 4-25-1983)
Statutory reference:
   Business improvement district occupation tax, see Neb. RS 1943, § 19-4031
§ 8.5-7 FAILURE TO PAY TAX; PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who shall refuse or neglect to pay the general license and
occupation tax levied by this chapter, or who transacts any such business or
engages in any such profession without having complied with the provisions of
this chapter shall be guilty of a violation of this Code; provided, that
whenever any of the businesses or occupations shall be conducted [by the agent
of a corporation] or nonresident, such agent shall be subject to arrest and
punishment under the provisions hereof, if his principal shall not have
complied with the provisions hereof.
   (B)   Failure to pay the annual general license and occupation tax is hereby
declared unlawful and conduct of business without such license shall be
unlawful. Upon conviction of such violation the persons shall be punished by a
fine not exceeding $100.00 according to law. Any person, partnership or
corporation whose duty it is made by this chapter to pay any license tax and
who shall fail to pay the same shall be liable to action for the recovery of
the amount of such license tax; provided, such remedy by action shall not be
deemed exclusive or concurrent with other remedies herein provided.
(Ord. 2175, §§ 13, 14, passed 10-26-1981)
Statutory reference:
   Business improvement district occupation tax, see Neb. RS 1943, § 19-4031
§§ 8.5-8—8.5-20 RESERVED.
ARTICLE II: BUSINESS IMPROVEMENT DISTRICT NO. 2
Section
   
8.5-21   Establishment
   
8.5-22   Boundaries
   
8.5-23   Imposition of special assessment
   
8.5-24   Use of revenue derived from imposition of special assessment
   
8.5-25   Determination and computation of assessment; objections
   
8.5-26   Collection, disposition of assessment
Editor’s note:
   Ord. 2399, §§ 3 through 12, enacted January 13, 1986, was not expressly,
amendatory of the Code; hence, inclusion herein as art. II, sections 8.5-21
through 8.5-26 was at the discretion of the editor.
§ 8.5-21 ESTABLISHMENT.
   The city council does find there were insufficient protests against
formation of the district under law. The mayor and council do determine it is
necessary to establish a business improvement district pursuant to the Business
Improvement District Act of 1979 as amended so as to develop, maintain, and
repair public facilities in the downtown area and to levy a special assessment
to provide for said maintenance and repair. Thus there is hereby created and
established the Bellevue Business District No. 2 of the City of Bellevue,
Nebraska.
(Ord. 2399, § 3, passed 1-13-1986)
Statutory reference:
   Authority to establish business improvement district, see Neb. RS 1943, §
19-4020
§ 8.5-22 BOUNDARIES.
   The boundaries of the district will include the following lots in section
36, Township 14N, Range 13E of the City of Bellevue: Lots 1—6 Block 127; Lots
11—12 Block 127; Lots 1—5 Block 128; S 86' Lot 6 Block 128; Lots 11—12 Block
128; Lots 1—7 Block 176; Lots 1—6 Block 181; Lots 1A—6A Block 181; Lots 1—6
Block 197; Lots 1—6 Block 198; and all public rights-of-way connecting these
lots.
(Ord. 2399, § 4, passed 1-13-1986)
§ 8.5-23 IMPOSITION OF SPECIAL ASSESSMENT.
   (A)   All property located within the boundaries of the district shall be
subject to the provisions of the special assessment as provided herein.
   (B)   The initial annual rate of the special assessment shall not exceed
$2.30 per front foot along Mission and Franklin Streets.
   (C)   The special assessment to be imposed shall be fair, equitable and
uniform as to class and shall be based primarily upon the front footage of the
real estate within the district.
(Ord. 2399, §§ 5, 6, 8, passed 1-13-1986)
Statutory reference:
   Business improvement district special assessment, see Neb. RS 1943, §§ 19-
4030, 19-4032 et seq.
§ 8.5-24 USE OF REVENUE DERIVED FROM IMPOSITION OF SPECIAL ASSESSMENT.
   The proposed uses of this additional revenue derived from the imposition of
the special assessment on property within the district are as follows:
   (A)   To fund the maintenance, repair, replacement, and reconstruction of
improvements constructed by the City of Bellevue pursuant to Paving District 2-
85, maintenance to include the following:
      (1)   Weed, fertilize, water, trim, prune, and replace, as necessary, all
trees and shrubbery within the area of improvement.
      (2)   The weekly emptying of trash receptacles and the clearing of debris
from around trees and shrubs; cleaning and clearing debris from around tree
grates.
      (3)   Monthly sweeping of all sidewalk and brick areas between storefront
and back of curbs.
      (4)   Cleaning, replacing and maintaining lights and lighting fixtures
within the area of improvement. This does not include the overhead lightpoles
maintained by Omaha Public Power District. This is the ornamental lighting
only.
      (5)   Cleaning, refinishing, reconstruction, and/or replacement of any
benches, tables, and trash receptacles in the area of improvement.
      (6)   Snow removal as required.
(Ord. 2399, § 7, passed 1-13-1986)
Statutory reference:
   Business improvement district special assessment, see Neb. RS 1943, §§ 19-
4030, 19-4032 et seq.
§ 8.5-25 DETERMINATION AND COMPUTATION OF ASSESSMENT; OBJECTIONS.
   (A)   The city clerk/treasurer is authorized and directed, with the advice
and recommendation of the Bellevue Improvement District No. 2 Board, to
determine and compute the assessment in accordance herewith.
   (B)   Objections to the determination of the amount of the assessment may be
made in writing to the city clerk, specifying the basis of such objection. All
such objections shall be made within 20 days after the due date thereof, or
shall be deemed waived. All timely objections shall be submitted to the
Bellevue Business Improvement District No. 2 Board for its consideration,
review and recommendations. The mayor and council shall make the final
determination on all such objections, at any regular or special meeting, after
notice thereof to said objector.
(Ord. 2399, §§ 9, 10, passed 1-13-1986)
Statutory reference:
   Business improvement district special assessment, see Neb. RS 1943, §§ 19-
4030, 19-4032 et seq.
§ 8.5-26 COLLECTION, DISPOSITION OF ASSESSMENT.
   (A)   All special assessments levied shall be liens on the property and
shall be certified for collection and collected in the same manner as special
assessments for improvements and street improvement districts of the city are
collected.
   (B)   The city clerk/treasurer shall place all assessments collected herein
under in a special fund, to be used exclusively for the purposes described
herein.
(Ord. 2399, §§ 11, 12, passed 1-13-1986)
Statutory reference:
   Business improvement district special assessment, see Neb. RS 1943, §§ 19-
4030, 19-4032 et seq.
CHAPTER 9: ELECTIONS
   Article
      
I.   IN GENERAL
      
II.   PRIMARY ELECTIONS
ARTICLE I: IN GENERAL
Section
   
9-1   Applicable law
   
9-2   Election date
   
9-3   Wards
   9-4—9-15   Reserved
Statutory reference:
   Election of officers generally, see Neb. RS 1943, §§ 16-302.01 et seq.
   Elections generally, see Neb. RS 1943, Ch. 32
§ 9-1 APPLICABLE LAW.
   The municipal elections in the city shall be held in accordance with the
provisions of the statutes of Nebraska.
(1964 Code, § 2-10.1)
§ 9-2 ELECTION DATE.
   The city shall hold its municipal election for the year 1976 and all
succeeding municipal elections thereafter on the same date as the statewide
general election for the state.
(1964 Code, § 2-10.1) (Ord. 4006, §§ 1, 2, passed 10-6-2020)
Statutory reference:
   General election date, see Neb. RS 1943, § 32-403
§ 9-3 WARDS.
   There shall exist within the city six wards for the election of members to
the city council, each ward to be represented by one member whose term shall
commence and expire as previously established by the city. Pursuant to Neb. RS
§ 32-553, the boundaries for each ward are hereby revised as set forth in this
chapter.
   (A)   Ward One.
      (1)   Ward 1 shall contain the part of the City of Bellevue beginning at
the intersection of Galvin Road and Harlan Drive, south and east along Galvin
Road to Lincoln Road, south along Lincoln Road to 24th Avenue, east along 24th
Avenue to Calhoun Street, south along Calhoun Street to Modification Road,
south and west along Modification Road to 29th Avenue, east along 29th Avenue
to the east Bellevue city limit, south along the east Bellevue city limit to
the south Bellevue city limit, west and north along the west Bellevue city
limit to Modification Road, north and east along Modification Road to Calhoun
Street, north along Calhoun Street to the south Bellevue city limit, west along
the south Bellevue city limit to Fort Crook Road, south along Fort Crook Road
to the east Bellevue city limit, south along the east Bellevue city limit to
5th Street, south along 5th Street to the south Bellevue city limit, west along
the south Bellevue city limit to US Highway 75, north along US Highway 75 to
the east Bellevue city limit, south along the east Bellevue city limit to the
south Bellevue city limit, west along the south Bellevue city limit to
Schneekloth Road, west along Schneekloth Road to 36th Street, north along 36th
Street to Blackhawk Drive, east along Blackhawk Drive to Lone Tree Road, east
along Lone Tree Road to Blackhawk Drive, east along Blackhawk Drive to 25th
Street, north along 25th Street to Capehart Road, east along Capehart Road to
the west Bellevue city limit, north along the west Bellevue city limit to Fort
Crook Road, north along Fort Crook Road to Harlan Drive, east along Harlan
Drive to the point of beginning; and
      (2)   The part of the City of Bellevue to the south of Offutt Air Force
Base and east of Fort Crook Road.
   (B)   Ward Two.
      (1)   Ward 2 shall contain the part of the City of Bellevue beginning at
the intersection of Galvin Road and Harlan Drive, south and east along Galvin
Road to Lincoln Road, south along Lincoln Road to 24th Avenue, east along 24th
Avenue to Calhoun Street, south along Calhoun Street to Modification Road,
south and west along Modification Road to 29th Avenue, east along 29th Avenue
to the east Bellevue city limit, north and east along the east Bellevue city
limit to Camp Gifford Road, south and west along Camp Gifford Road to Bellevue
Boulevard, south along Bellevue Boulevard to Lincoln Road, south along Lincoln
Road to Bellevue Boulevard, east along Bellevue Boulevard to Marian Avenue,
south and west along Marian Avenue to Lincoln Road, south along Lincoln Road to
Harvell Drive, west along Harvell Drive to Galvin Road, south along Galvin Road
to the point of beginning; and
      (2)   Excluding tax lot 2A2 36-14-13.
   (C)   Ward Three.
      (1)   Ward 3 shall contain the part of the City of Bellevue beginning at
the intersection of Hwy 370 and 48th Street, north along 48th Street to the
north Bellevue city limit, east along the north Bellevue city limit to 36th
Street, south along 36th Street to Capehart Road, east along Capehart Road to
25th Street, south along 25th Street to Blackhawk Drive, west along Blackhawk
Drive to Lone Tree Road, west along Lone Tree Road to Blackhawk Drive, west
along Blackhawk Drive to 36th Street, south along 36th Street to the south
Bellevue city limit, west along the south Bellevue city limit to the west
Bellevue city limit, north along the west Bellevue city limit to the north
Bellevue city limit, east along the north Bellevue city limit to the west
Bellevue city limit, north along the west Bellevue city limit to 36th Street to
Capehart Road, west along Capehart Road to the south Bellevue city limit, west
along the south Bellevue city limit to the west Bellevue city limit, north
along the west Bellevue city limit to the point of beginning; and
      (2)   Excluding S l/2 SW 1/4 4-13-13, tax lots 7B and 8 4-13-13, and tax
lots 1 and 2B2 9-13-13.
   (D)   Ward Four. Ward 4 shall contain the part of the City of Bellevue
beginning at the intersection of Harvell Drive and Lincoln Road, north along
Lincoln Road to Marian Avenue, east and north along Marian Avenue to Bellevue
Boulevard, west along Bellevue Boulevard to Lincoln Road, north along Lincoln
Road to Bellevue Boulevard, north and west along Bellevue Boulevard to Camp
Gifford Road, east and north along Camp Gifford Road to the east Bellevue city
limit, north along the east Bellevue city limit to Harrison Street, west along
Harrison Street to 25th Street, south along 25th Street to Cornhusker Road,
east along Cornhusker Road to Harvell Drive, east along Harvell Drive to point
of beginning.
   (E)   Ward Five. Ward 5 shall contain the part of the City of Bellevue
beginning at the west Bellevue city limits and Harrison Street, east along
Harrison Street to 25th Street, south along 25th Street to Childs Road, west
along Childs Road to 36th Street, south along 36th Street to Cornhusker Road,
west along Cornhusker Road to the south Bellevue city limit, north and west
along the south Bellevue city limit to the west Bellevue city limit, north
along the west Bellevue city limit to the point of beginning.
   (F)   Ward Six.
      (1)   Ward 6 shall contain the part of the City of Bellevue beginning at
the intersection of 36th Street and Cornhusker Road, north along 36th Street to
Childs Road, east along Childs Road to 25th Street, south along 25th Street to
Cornhusker Road, east along Cornhusker Road to Harvell Drive, east along
Harvell Drive to Galvin Road, south along Galvin Road to Harlan Drive, west
along Harlan Drive to the south Bellevue city limits, west along the south
Bellevue city limits to 25th Street, north along 25th Street to Cornhusker
Road, west along Cornhusker road to the south Bellevue city limits, west along
the south Bellevue city limits to the west Bellevue city limits, north along
the west Bellevue city limits to Cornhusker Road, east along Cornhusker Road to
the point of beginning; and
      (2)   The part of the City of Bellevue beginning at the north Bellevue
city limits and 36th Street, east along the north Bellevue city limit to the
east Bellevue city limit, south along the east Bellevue city limit to the south
Bellevue city limit, west along the south Bellevue city limit to 36th Street,
north along 36th Street to the point of beginning.
(1964 Code, § 2-10) (Ord. 2125, § 1, passed 3-24-1980; Ord. 2192, § 1, passed
12-7-1981; Ord. 2299, §§ 1, 2, passed 12-12-1983; Ord. 2649, § 1, passed 12-9-
1991; Ord. 2677, § 1, passed 5-4-1992; Ord. 2787, § 1, passed 11-8-1993; Ord.
3087, § 1, passed 2-14-2000; Ord. 3187, §§ 1—6, passed 11-26-2001; Ord. 3461, §
1, passed 4-14-2008; Ord. 3543, § 1, passed 11-23-2009; Ord. 3648, § 1, passed
11-14-2011; Ord. 3756, § 1, passed 2-24-2014; Ord. 3981, § 1, passed 12-3-2019;
Ord. 4066, § 1, passed 12-21-2021; Ord. 4111, § 1, passed 12-6-2022)
Editor’s note:
   An ordinance adopted to redistrict election wards must provide for districts
substantially equal in population, and the most recent federal census must be
used to ascertain population, regardless of other available information. 198
Neb. 19, 251 N.W.2d 662 (1977). When an area is annexed to a city, that area’s
population must be taken into account in a subsequent redistricting of election
wards, in addition to the population of the city as determined by the federal
census. Where block by block information is unavailable in the census, other
evidence may be used. Pelzer v. City of Bellevue, 200 Neb. 541, 264 N.W.2d 653
(1978).
Statutory reference:
   Requirement that city be divided into four or more wards, see Neb. RS 1943,
§ 16-104
§§ 9-4—9-15 RESERVED.
ARTICLE II: PRIMARY ELECTIONS
Section
   
9-16   Required for nomination of candidates for city offices; time and place
of building
   
9-17   Proceedings for election
   
9-18   Notice of election
   
9-19   Nomination of candidates
   
9-20   Winners
§ 9-16 REQUIRED FOR NOMINATION OF CANDIDATES FOR CITY OFFICES; TIME AND PLACE
OF BUILDING.
   There shall be a primary election held in the city to nominate candidates
for city officers to be voted on at the general municipal election. The primary
election shall be held at the regular polling places on the day of the
statewide primary election.
(1964 Code, § 2-37)
Statutory reference:
   State primary election, see Neb. RS 1943, § 32-404
§ 9-17 PROCEEDINGS FOR ELECTION.
   The proceedings for the primary election shall be in the same form as
provided in Neb. RS §§ 32-401 to 32-402.
(1964 Code, § 2-40) (Ord. 4008, §§ 1, 2, passed 10-20-2020)
§ 9-18 NOTICE OF ELECTION.
   Notice of the primary elections shall be given in the manner and time
provided in Neb. RS § 32-802.
(1964 Code, § 2-38) (Ord. 4008, §§ 1, 2, passed 10-20-2020)
Statutory reference:
   Notice of election, see Neb. RS 1943, § 32-802
§ 9-19 NOMINATION OF CANDIDATES.
   (A)   Prior to the filing of any nomination papers, there shall be paid to
the city treasurer for the use of the general fund of the city, by or on behalf
of each candidate, a filing fee equal to one percent of the annual salary such
candidate will receive if he or she is elected and qualifies for the office he
or she files for as a candidate.
   (B)   Candidates for public office may file by petition or statement of
candidacy at a municipal election, except that no nominating papers may be
filed until the treasurer’s receipt, showing payment of the filing fee, has
been presented to the officer with whom the nominating paper is to be filed.
   (C)   Any person desiring to become a candidate for public office of the
city by filing a statement of candidacy shall, no later than March 1 prior to
the date of the statewide primary election, or no later than February 15 prior
to the date of the statewide primary election if the candidate is the incumbent
of any elective office, file with the election commissioner a statement of such
candidacy in substantially the following form:
 
State of Nebraska,
Sarpy County,      ss.
 
 
I,                  , being first duly sworn, say that I reside at No.           Street in the City of Bellevue, County
of Sarpy, and State of Nebraska; that I am a citizen of the United States, and a qualified voter of such city; that I
am a candidate for election for the office of                         to be voted upon at the election to be held on
the                day of                     , 20        , and I hereby request that my name be printed upon the
official city ballot for election for such office. Subscribed and sworn to before me by the said
                                      this                  day of                                        ,
20                .
 
Signed                                                   
Notary Public
 
 
(1964 Code, § 2-39) (Ord. 3461, § 2, passed 4-14-2008)
Statutory reference:
   Filing and nomination procedures, see Neb. RS 1943, §§ 32-601 et seq.
§ 9-20 WINNERS.
   The two persons receiving the greatest number of votes cast at the primary
for the office such persons are seeking shall be considered as the candidates
for that office, and their names shall be placed on the official ballot at the
general municipal election.
(1964 Code, § 2-41)
CHAPTER 10: ELECTRICITY
   Article
      
I.   IN GENERAL
      
II.   ENFORCEMENT
      
III.   LICENSES
      
IV.   PERMITS AND INSPECTIONS
      
V.   NATIONAL ELECTRICAL CODE
ARTICLE I: IN GENERAL
Section
   
10-1   Bellevue Electrical Code
   
10-2   Validity
   
10-3   Penalty
   
10-4   Vehicle identification
   
10-5   Definitions
   10-6—10-14   Reserved
Editor’s note:
   Ord. 2868, § 1, adopted December 11, 1995, amended former Ch. 10, Arts.
I—IV, to read as herein set out. Former Ch. 10 pertained to similar subject
matter and derived from the Code of 1964 and the following ordinances:
Ord. No. Section Date
Ord. No. Section Date
2136     1       6- 9-1980
2165     1       5-11-1981
2314     1       4- 9-1984
2350     2—17  4- 8-1985
2450     1, 2    3- 9-1987
2584     1       4- 9-1990
2746     1       4-26-1993
 
Statutory reference:
   State Electrical Act, see Neb. RS 1943, §§ 81-2101 et seq.
§ 10-1 BELLEVUE ELECTRICAL CODE.
   The provisions of this chapter shall be known as the Bellevue Electrical
Code and shall relate to electrical wiring methods and systems, together with
regulations concerning the control, design, and construction of all electrical
installations within the jurisdiction of Bellevue.
(Ord. 2868, § 1, passed 12-11-1995)
§ 10-2 VALIDITY.
   If any section, subsection, sentence, clause, or phrase of this chapter is
for any reason held to be unconstitutional, such decision shall not affect the
validity of the remaining portions of this chapter.
(Ord. 2868, § 1, passed 12-11-1995)
§ 10-3 PENALTY.
   (A)   It shall be a Class III misdemeanor to knowingly and willfully commit,
order, instruct, or direct another to commit any of the following acts:
      (1)   To make a false statement in any request for inspection or in any
other required form or statement provided by the Permits and Inspections
Department;
      (2)   To fail to file a request for inspection when required;
      (3)   To interfere with or refuse entry to an inspector lawfully engaged
in the performance of his/her duties; or
      (4)   To fail or neglect to comply with any rule or regulation of this
chapter.
   (B)   Any person who violates any of the provisions of this chapter shall,
upon conviction, be guilty of a separate offense for every day on which such
violation shall continue.
(Ord. 2868, § 1, passed 12-11-1995)
§ 10-4 VEHICLE IDENTIFICATION.
   All motor vehicles utilized by licensed electricians in the pursuit of
installing or repairing electrical apparatus shall be clearly identified by
signs on both sides of the vehicle, in lettering not less than two inches in
height, listing the individual, firm, or corporate name and address under which
said business is conducted.
(Ord. 2868, § 1, passed 12-11-1995)
§ 10-5 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this chapter, the following words and phrases shall have
the meanings respectively ascribed to them by this section:
   APPLIANCE. Utilization equipment normally built in standardized sizes or
types that is installed or connected as a unit to perform one or more functions
such as clothes washers, air conditioners, heat pumps, furnaces, food mixing,
deep frying, etc.
   APPRENTICE ELECTRICIAN. A person, other than a licensee, who, as his/her
principal occupation, is engaged in learning and assisting in the installation,
alteration, and repair of electric apparatus as an employee of a licensed
electrician. He/she is not allowed to do work on or install electrical
apparatus without a licensed journeyman electrician or electrical contractor in
his/her presence. He/she shall be registered with the Nebraska State Electrical
Board.
   BELLEVUE BUILDING CODE. The code of rules adopted by the City of Bellevue
which regulates site preparation and construction, alteration, moving,
demolition, repair, use, and occupancy of buildings, structures, and building
service equipment within the jurisdiction of Bellevue.
   CHIEF BUILDING OFFICIAL. The individual responsible for the direct control
and operations of the Permits and Inspections Department.
   ELECTRICAL APPARATUS. All wires, wiring, materials, machinery, appliances,
equipment, and fixtures used or designed to be used in the utilization of
electricity when connected with a source of electromotive force for the purpose
of producing light, heat, or power, directly or indirectly.
   ELECTRICAL CONTRACTOR. A person who is qualified in skilled planning,
supervision, and practical installation of electrical apparatus and is licensed
by the state electrical board to contract for electrical apparatus
installations and install electrical apparatus.
   ELECTRICAL INSPECTOR. A person having the necessary qualifications, whose
duty it is to inspect electrical apparatus and assist in enforcing the Bellevue
electrical code, under the supervision of the chief building official in the
Permits and Inspections Department.
   ELECTRICIAN. A person licensed by the Nebraska State Electrical Board to
install or maintain electric apparatus. Master electricians, journeyman
electricians, and electrical contractors are ELECTRICIANS.
   FINAL INSPECTION. The inspection of electrical apparatus after completion of
electrical installation and any other building material covering has been
installed and completed.
   FIRE ALARM INSTALLER. A person who is licensed by the state electrical board
to install fire alarms and its associated equipment.
   FIRST INSPECTION (ROUGH IN INSPECTION). Inspection of electrical apparatus
prior to being covered with building material or concealed.
   INSTALL, INSTALLED OR INSTALLATION. The construction and placing in position
for service and use of any electric apparatus and the alteration, modification,
or repair of existing electric apparatus.
   JOURNEYMAN ELECTRICIAN. A person who is qualified in supervision and
practical installation of electrical apparatus and is licensed by the state
electrical board to install electrical apparatus under an electrical
contractor’s authority.
   JURISDICTION OF BELLEVUE. The area within the city limits of Bellevue and
within the two mile zoning jurisdiction shall be collectively referred to as
the “jurisdiction of Bellevue.”
   MASTER ELECTRICIAN. A person who is qualified in skilled planning and
supervision of the installation of electric apparatus and is licensed by the
state electrical board to contract for electrical apparatus installations.
   ROUTINE MAINTENANCE. The repair or replacement of existing electrical
apparatus and equipment of the same size and type for which no changes in
electrical wiring are made.
   UNIFORM ADMINISTRATIVE CODE. An administrative and enforcement code adopted
by the Bellevue Building Code.
(Ord. 2868, § 1, passed 12-11-1995)
§§ 10-6—10-14 RESERVED.
ARTICLE II: ENFORCEMENT
Section
   
10-15   Enforcement
   
10-16   Safety inspections
   
10-17   Repeated violations
   10-18—10-27   Reserved
§ 10-15 ENFORCEMENT.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the chief building official of the Permits
and Inspections Department, along with the electrical inspectors under his/her
direct supervision, are hereby authorized and directed to enforce the
provisions of this chapter and the provisions of the National Electrical Code
as adopted pursuant to article V of this chapter.
(Ord. 2868, § 1, passed 12-11-1995)
§ 10-16 SAFETY INSPECTIONS.
   The chief building official and his/her electrical inspectors are hereby
empowered to inspect all overhead, underground, interior, and exterior
conductors, apparatus, fixtures, equipment, and their support used for
conducting electric current for light, heat, or power.
(Ord. 2868, § 1, passed 12-11-1995)
§ 10-17 REPEATED VIOLATIONS.
   The chief building official shall notify the state electrical board in
writing of any Nebraska State licensed electrician or apprentice who refuses to
be governed by or repeatedly is in violation of the Bellevue Electrical Code.
(Ord. 2868, § 1, passed 12-11-1995)
§§ 10-18—10-27 RESERVED.
ARTICLE III: LICENSES
Section
   
10-28   Licensing
   
10-29   Contracting limited
   
10-30   Licensed electricians employed
   
10-31   Journeymen electrician employed
   
10-32   Apprentice electrician limitation
   
10-33   Reserved
   
10-34   Insurance
   
10-35   License not required and homeowner’s permit
   10-36—10-45   Reserved
§ 10-28 LICENSING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in the installation or repair
of wiring, apparatus, or equipment for electrical lighting, heating, power, or
other purposes in the jurisdiction of Bellevue unless such person holds a valid
electrical license issued by the Nebraska State Electrical Board or the City of
Bellevue. This is not intended to require small appliance repairmen to be
licensed electricians.
(Ord. 2868, § 1, passed 12-11-1995)
§ 10-29 CONTRACTING LIMITED.
   It shall be deemed unlawful:
   (A)   For any person to contract for, or accept money in return for,
installing or repairing electrical wiring or apparatus in the jurisdiction of
Bellevue unless they hold a valid license for electrical contracting issued by
the Nebraska State Electrical Board;
   (B)   For any licensed master or electrical contractor to allow another
person or company to use his/her electrical license if he or she is not partial
owner of such company or in the actual employ of such person or company;
   (C)   For a licensed electrical contractor to obtain a permit for a non-
licensed electrical contractor or journeyman electrician for the purpose of
circumventing this section of the Bellevue Electrical Code;
   (D)   For any electrical contractor or master electrician to allow more than
one company, firm, or business to use his/her license to do business except
when said contractor or master electrician is at least a partial owner of both
businesses or companies;
   (E)   To contract for electrical work without obtaining required permits.
(Ord. 2868, § 1, passed 12-11-1995)
§ 10-30 LICENSED ELECTRICIANS EMPLOYED.
   It shall be unlawful for any electrical contractor, master electrician, or
his/her firm or corporation to have any person other than a licensed
electrician to install or repair electrical wiring or apparatus, in the
jurisdiction of Bellevue. It shall be the duty of the chief building official
to prefer charges against such violator and cause the electrical contractor or
master electrician, who is bonded or listed as the license holder for the firm
or corporation, to be prosecuted. Nothing in this section shall prohibit the
employment of apprentices working in conjunction with and under the direct
supervision of a licensed electrician.
(Ord. 2868, § 1, passed 12-11-1995)
§ 10-31 JOURNEYMEN ELECTRICIAN EMPLOYED.
   It shall be unlawful for a licensed electrical journeyman to install or
repair electrical apparatus while not in the employ of a licensed electrical
contractor or licensed master electrician.
(Ord. 2868, § 1, passed 12-11-1995)
§ 10-32 APPRENTICE ELECTRICIAN LIMITATION.
   A licensed electrician shall be permitted to supervise no more than three
apprentice electricians, who shall be in the vicinity of, control of, and
responsibility of the supervising electrician.
(Ord. 2868, § 1, passed 12-11-1995)
§ 10-33 RESERVED.
§ 10-34 INSURANCE.
   All electrical contractors or master electricians who contract or do
electrical work in the jurisdiction of Bellevue shall be insured by a liability
insurance policy in the amount of $100,000.00 for each person, $300,000.00 for
each accident, and $100,000.00 for property damage. The insurance company shall
be licensed to do business in Nebraska. Proof of this policy shall be filed
with the Permits and Inspections Department before any electrical permits are
issued or electrical work done. Except when more than one master electrician or
electrical contractor is engaged in the ownership or operation of an electrical
contracting firm, only one license holder shall be required to maintain the
insurance for the firm.
(Ord. 2868, § 1, passed 12-11-1995)
§ 10-35 LICENSE NOT REQUIRED AND HOMEOWNER’S PERMIT.
   Nothing contained in this chapter shall be construed to:
   (A)   Require employees of municipal corporations, public power districts,
public power and irrigation districts, public utility corporations, railroads,
telephone or telegraph companies, or commercial or industrial manufacturing
companies performing manufacturing, installation, and repair work for such
employer to hold licenses while acting within the scope of their employment.
   (B)   Require any license under this chapter of any individual doing
installation or repair of the electrical systems of the residence in which he/
she lives and owns, provided such installation is done in conformity with this
code and any other ordinances of Bellevue. In all cases, the rules and
regulations of this chapter shall be complied with and such individual shall
notify the city of such work proposed, request inspection thereof and pay a
permit in accordance with the provisions of the Bellevue Electrical Code.
Furthermore, this section shall only apply to those installations required for
remodeling, additions, and repairs. No individual shall be allowed to perform
any electrical work on new construction without first having been issued a
license to do such work.
(Ord. 2868, § 1, passed 12-11-1995; Ord. 2904, §§ 2, 3, passed 8-12-1996)
§§ 10-36—10-45 RESERVED.
ARTICLE IV: PERMITS AND INSPECTIONS
Section
   
10-46   Permits and inspections
   10-47—10-56   Reserved
§ 10-46 PERMITS AND INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   Permits shall be required before installing electrical apparatus, and
inspections shall be performed as both are specified in the most recent edition
of the Uniform Administrative Code, as adopted in the Bellevue building code.
   (B)   Electrical permit fees shall be set in the electrical permit fee
schedule of the Uniform Administrative Code, as adopted in the Bellevue
building code.
(Ord. 2868, § 1, passed 12-11-1995)
§§ 10-47—10-56 RESERVED.
ARTICLE V: NATIONAL ELECTRICAL CODE
Section
   
10-57   Construction requirements generally
   
10-58   Amendments and changes to codes adopted in § 10-57
§ 10-57 CONSTRUCTION REQUIREMENTS GENERALLY.
   The National Electrical Code, 2023 Edition, including the amendments thereto
recommended by the National Fire Protection Association of Quincy, MA, being
the N.F.P.A. No. 70, 2023 Edition thereof, save and except that the minimum
standards set forth in the 2017 edition of the National Electric Code shall
apply for §§ 210.8(A), 210.8(A)(3), 210.8(A)(5), 230.67(A), 230.85 and such
portions as are hereafter deleted, modified, or amended, is hereby adopted by
reference and made a part of this division as though set out in full herein;
provided, that whenever any provision of the National Electrical Code shall
conflict with the provisions of the City Code or any other city ordinance, the
provision of the City Code or such city ordinance shall govern. Three copies of
the National Electrical Code, 2023 Edition, are on file in the office of the
Permits and Inspections Division and shall there remain for public use and
inspection.
(Ord. 2868, § 1, passed 12-11-1995; Ord. 2902, § 1, passed 8-12-1996; Ord.
2920, § 1, passed 11-12-1996; Ord. 3078, § 1, passed 1-24-2000; Ord. 3335, § 1,
passed 9-27-2004; Ord. 3379, passed 10-24-2005; Ord. 3519, § 1, passed 5-11-
2009; Ord. 3657, § 2, passed 11-28-2011; Ord. 3795, § 1, passed 12-8-2014; Ord.
3878, § 1, passed 8-14-2017; Ord. 4173, § 1, passed 12-17-2024)
Statutory reference:
   Adoption of standard codes, see Neb. RS 1943, § 18-132
   State electrical standards, see Neb. RS 1943, § 81-2104(5)
§ 10-58 AMENDMENTS AND CHANGES TO CODES ADOPTED IN § 10-57.
   (A)   The 2023 National Electric Code is hereby amended, altered, modified
and changed in the following respects:
      (1)   Amend NEC 210-52(C), General Provisions, to add the following:
         (4)   Countertop outlets shall be equally divided between all circuits
provided.
      (2)   Amend NEC 210-52(C), Island and Peninsular Countertops and Work
Surfaces, to add the following:
         An island counter space shall be defined as a flat counter space with
no elevation changes over the entire island surface. If a partial wall or back
splash is present, then that space shall be treated as kitchen countertop wall
space and the rules and regulations of Article 210.52 (C) (1) shall apply.
Receptable outlets, if installed to serve an island or peninsular countertop or
work surface, shall be installed in accordance with 210.52 (C) (3). If a
receptacle outlet is not provided to serve an island or peninsular countertop
or work surface, provisions shall be provided at the island or peninsula for
future addition of a receptacle outlet to serve the island or peninsular
countertop or work surface.
         (a)   Provisions is defined as a cable terminated in a junction box or
a raceway to an accessible space in the island or peninsula.
      (3)   Amend NEC 334.10(3), Uses Permitted, to provide as follows:
         Delete this section in its entirety.
      (4)   Amend NEC 334.12, Uses Not Permitted, General Provisions, to add
new #11 as follows:
         (11) In commercial or industrial buildings. Where any part of a
building or structure is commercial or industrial, the entire building or
structure shall be wired as    commercial or industrial regardless of the type
of occupancy.
         Exception: Where dwelling units are separated from the commercial or
industrial area by approved fire rated construction in accordance with the
International Building Code.
(Ord. 2868, § 1, passed 12-11-1995; Ord. 2902, § 2, passed 8-12-1996; Ord.
2920, § 2, passed 11-12-1996; Ord. 3078, § 2, passed 1-24-2000; Ord. 3335, § 2,
passed 9-27-2004; Ord. 3379, § 1, passed 10-24-2005; Ord. 3519, § 2, passed 5-
11-2009; Ord. 3657, § 3, passed 11-28-2011; Ord. 3795, § 2, passed 12-8-2014;
Ord. 3878, § 2, passed 8-14-2017; Ord. 4173, § 2, passed 12-17-2024)
CHAPTER 11: FINANCE
   Article
      
I.   IN GENERAL
      
II.   CITY FUNDS
      
III.   SALES AND USE TAX
      
IV.   NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTORS’ OCCUPATION TAX
      
V.   TELEPHONE COMPANIES’ OCCUPATION TAX
      
VI.   OCCUPATION TAX ON COIN-OPERATED MACHINES
      
VII.   HOTEL OPERATORS’ OCCUPATION TAX
      
VIII.   ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
      
IX.   MASTER FEE SCHEDULE
ARTICLE I: IN GENERAL
Section
   
11-1   Fiscal year
   
11-2   Annual all-purpose tax levy
   
11-3   Tobacco license—Required
   
11-4   Same—Administrative fee
   11-5—11-15   Reserved
Statutory reference:
   Fiscal management, revenue and finances generally, see Neb. RS 1943, §§ 16-
701 et seq.
   Revenue and taxation generally, see Neb. RS 1943, Ch. 77
§ 11-1 FISCAL YEAR.
   The fiscal year in the city shall commence on the first day of October in
each year insofar as revenue fiscal management and liability are concerned.
(1964 Code, § 9-1) (Ord. 3500, § 1, passed 3-9-2009)
Statutory reference:
   Fiscal year, see Neb. RS 1943, § 16-701
§ 11-2 ANNUAL ALL-PURPOSE TAX LEVY.
   The city shall make an all-purpose and exclusive annual levy upon the
assessed value of all the taxable property in the city, except intangible
property, for all municipal purposes. Such levy shall be in lieu of the
multiple levies authorized by the statutes of the state. Notwithstanding the
provisions of this section, otherwise authorized extraordinary levies to
service and pay bonded indebtedness of the city and to pay judgments rendered
against it may be made by the city in addition to such all-purpose levy.
(1964 Code, § 9-3)
Statutory reference:
   Annual all-purpose tax levy, see Neb. RS 1943, § 19-1309
§ 11-3 TOBACCO LICENSE—REQUIRED.
   The city clerk shall, in January of each year and at such other time when
requests shall be made, receive applications for licenses to sell cigars,
tobacco, cigarettes and cigarette materials from every person selling the same
within the city. The city clerk shall collect a license fee from each applicant
for such license in the amount described in the Master Fee Schedule, shall
issue a license to such person upon receipt of the payment of the annual fee
and shall pay over the monies arising therefrom to the treasurer of the school
district lying wholly or partially within the City. If an application for such
license is made after July 1 of any calendar year, the fee shall be one-half of
the fee provided in this section.
(1964 Code, § 9-2) (Ord. 3500, § 2, passed 3-9-2009)
§ 11-4 SAME—ADMINISTRATIVE FEE.
   (A)   There is hereby imposed an administrative fee for the processing and
issuing of tobacco licenses pursuant to Neb. RS § 28-1421 (1943), in the amount
as described in the Master Fee Schedule.
   (B)   The administrative fee under subsection (A) of this section shall be
deposited with the city clerk at the same time as the deposit is made for the
license fee, as required by Neb. RS § 28-1421 (1943).
   (C)   The administrative fee shall be credited to the general fund of the
city.
(Ord. 2488, § 2, passed 11-9-1987; Ord. 3500, § 3, passed 3-9-2009)
Editor’s note:
   Nonamendatory Ord. 2488, §§ 1—3, adopted November 9, 1987, has been codified
herein as § 11-4 at the editor’s discretion.
§§ 11-5—11-15 RESERVED.
ARTICLE II: CITY FUNDS
Section
   
11-16   Deposit—Designation of depositories; control of deposits
   
11-17   Same—Bond required
   
11-18   Same—Securities in lieu of bond
   
11-19   Same—Interest
   11-20—11-30   Reserved
Statutory reference:
   Funds generally, see Neb. RS 1943, §§ 19-1301 et seq.
§ 11-16 DEPOSIT—DESIGNATION OF DEPOSITORIES; CONTROL OF DEPOSITS.
   The funds of the city shall be kept deposited by the city treasurer in such
banks, within or without the city, as designated by resolution of the mayor and
city council; provided that the banks so designated shall at all times comply
with the provisions of this article. Such funds when so deposited shall be
subject at all times to the order, check or draft of the city treasurer.
(1964 Code, § 9-4)
Statutory reference:
   Deposit of city funds, see Neb. RS 1943, §§ 16-712 et seq.
§ 11-17 SAME—BOND REQUIRED.
   Before any money or credits of the city shall be deposited with any bank,
designated as set out in this article, the city treasurer shall require such
bank to give a surety bond or a personal bond with good and sufficient surety
conditioned for the safekeeping and payment of city deposits therein, the
accretions thereof and the additions thereto upon the order of the city
treasurer. Such bond shall run to the city and shall be approved by the mayor,
and shall be further conditioned that such depository shall, at the end of
every quarter, render to the city treasurer a statement in duplicate showing
the several daily balances, the amount of money of the city held by it during
the quarter, the amount of the accretion thereto and how credited; that such
deposits shall be paid when demanded by the city treasurer at any time; that
the city depository bank shall generally do and perform whatever may be
required by the provisions of this article and shall faithfully discharge the
trust reposed in such depository. No person in any way connected with any
depository bank as an officer or stockholder shall be accepted as surety on any
bond given by the bank of which he is an officer or stockholder.
(1964 Code, § 9-5)
§ 11-18 SAME—SECURITIES IN LIEU OF BOND.
   (A)   In lieu of the bond required by the preceding section, any bank making
application to become a depository may deposit as security with the city clerk:
      (1)   United States government bonds;
      (2)   United States government guaranteed bonds or notes;
      (3)   Bonds of any state or municipal subdivision which are fully
defeased as to principal and interest by any combination of bonds or notes
authorized in subdivision (A)(1), (A)(2) or (A)(7) of this section;
      (4)   Bonds of the state or of any state whose bonds are purchased by the
state investment officer of this state for investment of the permanent school
fund;
      (5)   Warrants of the state;
      (6)   County bonds, municipal bonds or school district bonds of any
county, city, village or school district in the state issued under the
direction of, and with the approval of, the auditor of public accounts;
      (7)   Bonds or notes of United States governmental agencies including
bonds and debentures issued either singly or collectively by any of the 12
federal land banks, the 12 intermediate credit banks or the 13 banks for
cooperatives under the supervision of the farm credit administration; or
      (8)   Warrants of the county or any city, village or school district in
the county.
   (B)   Provided that the penal sum of said bond or the sum of said pledge of
assets shall be of the value equal to or greater than the amount of the deposit
in excess of that portion of said deposit insured by the Federal Deposit
Insurance Corporation. The depository bank furnishing securities above
described shall have the right to substitute other approved securities herein
provided for in lieu of securities already pledged if it so desires at any
time.
(1964 Code, § 9-6)
Statutory reference:
   Securities in lieu of bond, see Neb. RS § 16-715
§ 11-19 SAME—INTEREST.
   Interest upon city deposits may be paid to the city at such rate upon daily
balances as may be agreed upon at the beginning of each fiscal year or at such
other time as the city depository has designated.
(1964 Code, § 9-7)
§§ 11-20—11-30 RESERVED.
ARTICLE III: SALES AND USE TAX
Section
   
11-31   Imposed, amount
   
11-32   Administration
   11-33—11-40   Reserved
§ 11-31 IMPOSED, AMOUNT.
   On and after the first day of April, 1987, pursuant to the provisions of
Neb. RS §§ 77-27,142 to 77-27,148 (1943), The Local Option Revenue Act, there
is hereby imposed a sales and use tax of 1.5 percent upon the same transactions
within the corporate limits of the city on which the state is authorized to
impose a tax pursuant to the provisions of the Nebraska Revenue Act of 1967, as
amended from time to time.
(1964 Code, § 9-13) (Ord. 2643, § 1, passed 11-12-1991)
§ 11-32 ADMINISTRATION.
   The administration of the sales and use tax imposed by this article, the
making of returns for the ascertainment, assessment and collection and for the
distribution of the taxes so imposed shall be as provided in Neb. RS §§ 77-
27,142 to 77-27,148 (1943).
(1964 Code, § 9-4)
§§ 11-33—11-40 RESERVED.
ARTICLE IV: NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTORS’ OCCUPATION TAX
Section
   
11-41   Levied
   
11-42   Exemption from tax levy
   
11-43   Due date
   
11-44   Disposition of revenues
   
11-45   Failure to pay; interest penalty on delinquent taxes
   11-46—11-60   Reserved
Editor’s note:
   Ord. 2245, enacted April 11, 1983, was not expressly amendatory of this
Code; therefore, inclusion of §§ 1 through 5 as Art. IV, §§ 11-41 through 11-
45, was at the editor’s discretion.
Statutory reference:
   Occupation tax authorized, see Neb. RS 1943, § 16-205
§ 11-41 LEVIED.
   There is hereby levied an occupation tax upon all persons, firms or
corporations distributing natural gas and selling the same to the inhabitants
of the city. The amount of such occupation tax shall be as described in the
Master Fee Schedule.
(Ord. 2245, § 1, passed 4-11-1983; Ord. 3500, § 4, passed 3-9-2009)
§ 11-42 EXEMPTION FROM TAX LEVY.
   This occupation tax shall not be levied upon any metropolitan utilities
district distributing or selling gas within the city limits, which district is
presently paying a sum pursuant to Neb. RS § 14-2139.
(Ord. 4006, §§ 1, 2, passed 10-6-2020)
§ 11-43 DUE DATE.
   Such occupation tax shall be due and payable on the first day of January of
each year, based upon the gross revenues of the previous year. Provided,
however, that the business or occupation paying the tax may agree with the city
to make the payments during the year in monthly, quarterly or semiannual
installments.
(Ord. 2245, § 3, passed 4-11-1983)
§ 11-44 DISPOSITION OF REVENUES.
   Such revenues raised by such occupation tax shall be credited to the general
fund of the city.
(Ord. 2245, § 4, passed 4-11-1983)
§ 11-45 FAILURE TO PAY; INTEREST PENALTY ON DELINQUENT TAXES.
   If any person, company or corporation fails or neglects to pay the
occupation tax as provided herein on the day it becomes due and payable, the
city shall then proceed by civil suit to collect the amount due. All delinquent
taxes shall bear interest at the rate of one percent per month until paid.
(Ord. 2245, § 5, passed 4-11-1983)
§§ 11-46—11-60 RESERVED.
ARTICLE V: TELEPHONE COMPANIES’ OCCUPATION TAX
Section
   
11-61   Purpose
   
11-62   Levied
   
11-63   Amount
   
11-64   Payment
   
11-65   Statement to be filed
   
11-66   Inspection of books and records
   
11-67   Failure to file required statement
   
11-68   Interest on deferred payments
   
11-69   Failure to pay
   
11-70   Disposition of revenues
   11-71—11-80   Reserved
Statutory reference:
   Occupation tax authorized, see Neb. RS 1943, § 16-205
§ 11-61 PURPOSE.
   The provisions of this article are enacted solely as a revenue measure of
the city.
(Ord. 2642, § 1, passed 11-12-1991)
§ 11-62 LEVIED.
   An occupation tax is hereby levied and imposed on every person who engages
in the business of maintaining and operating a telephone plant and system for
revenue in the City of Bellevue.
(Ord. 2642, § 2, passed 11-12-1991)
§ 11-63 AMOUNT.
   The amount of the occupation tax levied and imposed on telephone companies
providing the sales of communication services within the corporate limits to
the city, which are subject to the sales and use tax imposed by section
11-31 of the Bellevue City Code, shall be as described in the Master Fee
Schedule.
(Ord. 2642, § 3, passed 11-12-1991; Ord. 3500, § 6, passed 3-9-2009)
§ 11-64 PAYMENT.
   The payment of the occupation tax levied and imposed by the provisions of
this article shall be made in quarterly payments using the calendar quarter
year as a basis for determining the due date. Each quarterly payment shall be
due 30 days following the termination of each calendar quarter year.
(Ord. 2642, § 4, passed 11-12-1991)
§ 11-65 STATEMENT TO BE FILED.
   Every person, firm, or company coming within the provisions of this article
shall, on or before the thirtieth day of the month immediately following the
termination of each calendar quarter year, file with the city clerk a statement
of the gross receipts of said person, firm, or company for the preceding three
calendar months. Said statement shall be duly verified as true and correct and
sworn to by the manager or managing officer of such person, firm, or company.
(Ord. 2642, § 5, passed 11-12-1991)
§ 11-66 INSPECTION OF BOOKS AND RECORDS.
   The city shall have the right at any and all times during business hours to
inspect, through the comptroller or some other officer appointed by the city
council, the books and records of any person coming under the provisions of
this article for the purpose of ascertaining the correctness of the required
statement.
(Ord. 2642, § 6, passed 11-12-1991)
§ 11-67 FAILURE TO FILE REQUIRED STATEMENT.
   In the event any person, firm, or company coming under the provisions of
this article shall refuse, fail, or neglect to furnish or file the required
statement at the time or times specified, the occupation tax for the preceding
three calendar months shall be and is hereby fixed and determined to be the sum
and amount of $10,000.00 a month. Such sum and amount shall be paid at the time
as hereinbefore provided for the payment of the percentage of gross receipts,
and said sums shall draw interest at the rate of one percent per month after
due and payable, and in addition thereto, a penalty of five percent for the
failure to pay within six months.
(Ord. 2642, § 7, passed 11-12-1991)
§ 11-68 INTEREST ON DEFERRED PAYMENTS.
   All deferred payments due under this article shall draw interest at the rate
of one percent per month, and after payment has been in default for six months,
a penalty of five percent shall be added thereto to the interest charge and
shall be paid by any such person, firm, or company so in default.
(Ord. 2642, § 8, passed 11-12-1991)
§ 11-69 FAILURE TO PAY.
   In case any person shall fail to make payment of the occupation tax as
required by this article, the city shall have the right and may sue any such
person, firm or company in any court of competent jurisdiction against such
person, firm or company for the amount so due, together with interest and
penalties, and may have execution thereon.
(Ord. 2642, § 9, passed 11-12-1991)
§ 11-70 DISPOSITION OF REVENUES.
   The occupation taxes paid under the provisions of this article shall be
credited to the general fund of the city.
(Ord. 2642, § 10, passed 11-12-1991)
§§ 11-71—11-80 RESERVED.
ARTICLE VI: OCCUPATION TAX ON COIN-OPERATED MACHINES
Section
   
11-81   Definitions
   
11-82   Revenue measure
   
11-83   Gambling devices not permitted
   
11-84   Occupation tax
   
11-85   Distributor—Permit, application
   
11-86   Same—No permit issued
   
11-87   Same—Application
   
11-88   Same—Fee
   
11-89   Same—Issuance restricted
   
11-90   Same—Transfer, expiration
   
11-91   Same—Suspension, revocation, appeal
   
11-92   Same—Penalty
   
11-93   Occupation tax—Amount, when due, duration
   
11-94   Same—Delinquency; interest
   
11-95   Collection by civil action
   
11-96   Machines—Identification
   
11-97   Same—Statement of ownership
   
11-98   Stickers—Issuance; display
   
11-99   Same—Replacement
   
11-100   Same—Mutilation, etc.
   
11-101   Same—Transfer
   
11-102   Seizure of untaxed machines
   
11-103   Seizure and destruction of machine
   
11-104   Administrative enforcement
   
11-105   Unlawful operation
   
11-106   Revocation of license
   
11-107   Penalty
   
11-108   Repeal of conflicting ordinances
   
11-109   Separability of provisions
   
11-110   Nonprofit organizations
   
11-111   Exemptions
   11-112—11-120   Reserved
Editor’s note:
   Ord. 2648, §§ 1 through 31, adopted December 9, 1991, which purportedly
amended Ord. 2638, has been set out herein as §§ 11-81 through 11-111 at the
discretion of the editor.
Statutory reference:
   Occupation tax authorized, see Neb. RS 1943, § 16-205
§ 11-81 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this article, the following terms shall have the
meanings respectively ascribed to them by this section:
   AUTOMATIC MUSICAL DEVICE. Any music vending machine, contrivance or device
which, upon the insertion of a coin, currency, slug, token, plate, disc, or key
into any slot, crevice or other opening, or by the payment of any price,
operates or may be operated, for the emission of songs, music or similar
amusement.
   BULK VENDING MACHINE. A vending machine containing unsorted merchandise
which, upon insertion of a coin, currency, or substitute object, dispenses the
merchandise in approximately equal portions at random and without selection by
the customer. Such vending machine is a simple mechanical device which
dispenses unsorted merchandise including gum, candy, toys, novelties or similar
merchandise.
   DISTRIBUTOR. Any person, as principal or agent, who sells, leases or
delivers possession or custody of a machine or device coming under the
provisions of this article for consideration to the operator thereof.
   ELECTRONIC VIDEO AMUSEMENT DEVICE. A machine, that incorporates the use of a
video tube or screen, which upon the insertion of a coin, currency or
substitute object, operates or may be operated or used for a game, contest, or
amusement of any description, such as, by way of example, but not by way of
limitation, “Pac-Man,” “Asteroids,” “Space Invaders,” and “Destroyer,”
excluding, however, automatic musical devices, mechanical amusement devices and
any machine which is so constructed mechanically or electronically that its
operation violates the laws of the state and/or the provisions of this Code or
city ordinances.
   MECHANICAL AMUSEMENT DEVICE. Any machine which, upon the insertion of a
coin, currency, slug, token, plate or disc, operates or may be operated or used
for a game, contest, or amusement of any description, whether or not
registering a score; such as, by way of example, but not by way of limitation,
pinball, bowling, radio-ray rifle, baseball, football, racing and boxing games;
excluding however, automatic musical devices, electronic video amusement
devices and any machine which is so constructed mechanically that its operation
violates the laws of the state and/or the provisions of this Code or city
ordinances.
   MERCHANDISE VENDING MACHINE. Any machine which, upon the insertion of a
coin, currency, slug, plate or disc, operates or may be operated to dispense
products, goods, chattels, food, snack items or services therefrom, except
those designed and used for the sale of tobacco products; postage stamps; those
operated or capable of being operated by the insertion of pennies only; devices
for making change; mechanical amusement devices; electronic video amusement
devices; automatic musical devices and coin-operated clothes washing machines
and coin-operated clothes drying machines.
   OPERATOR. Any person except an owner-operator who operates, owns or is the
lessee of a place of business where any machine or device coming under the
provisions of this article is physically located, or who either directly or
indirectly controls or manages or owns any such machine or device.
   OWNER-OPERATOR. Any person who owns and places such a device into operation
at his place of business and does not distribute, sell, lease or deliver
possession or custody of such a device to other persons.
   TAXABLE YEAR. January 1 to December 31 of a calendar year.
   TOBACCO PRODUCTS. Cigarettes, cigars or any other packaged tobacco product.
   TOBACCO PRODUCTS VENDING MACHINE. Any automatic vending machine used for the
sale of tobacco products and controlled by the insertion of a coin, coins or
currency.
(Ord. 2648, § 1, passed 12-9-1991; Ord. 2682, § 1, passed 5-11-1992)
§ 11-82 REVENUE MEASURE.
   The provisions of this article are enacted solely as a revenue measure of
the city and not a licensing or regulatory measure.
(Ord. 2648, § 2, passed 12-9-1991)
§ 11-83 GAMBLING DEVICES NOT PERMITTED.
   Nothing in this article shall in any way be construed to authorize, license
or permit any gambling devices whatsoever, or any mechanism that has been
judicially determined to be a gambling device, or in any way contrary to law,
or that may be contrary to any future laws of the State of Nebraska.
(Ord. 2648, § 3, passed 12-9-1991)
§ 11-84 OCCUPATION TAX.
   (A)   An occupation tax is hereby levied and imposed on every person selling
any goods, wares or merchandise from, or operating or maintaining, any machine
or device coming under the provisions of this article, even though such
occupation be incidental to another business. Every such operator within the
city shall pay the tax in the amount and manner specified in section
11-93 of this article. Every such owner-operator shall pay the tax in the
amount and manner specified in section
11-93 of this article, even though the owner-operator is domiciled outside the
city.
   (B)   An occupation tax is hereby levied and imposed upon the business of
distributing any of the machines or devices coming under the provisions of this
article for profit or gain within the city. Every distributor shall pay the tax
in the amount and manner specified in this article, even though the distributor
is domiciled outside the city.
(Ord. 2648, § 4, passed 12-9-1991)
§ 11-85 DISTRIBUTOR—PERMIT, APPLICATION.
   No person shall act as a distributor of tobacco products vending machines,
automatic musical devices, mechanical and/or electronic video amusement devices
and merchandise vending machines within the City of Bellevue without first
obtaining a permit from the city clerk. Such permits may be issued by the city
clerk upon application by the distributor and the payment of the correct fee
for the specific type of permit to be obtained or renewed. For purposes of this
article, the definitions of section
11-81 of this article shall be applicable.
(Ord. 2648, § 5, passed 12-9-1991)
§ 11-86 SAME—NO PERMIT ISSUED.
   No permit shall be issued:
   (A)   If the applicant is not a resident of this state or has not filed an
appointment with the secretary of state as agent for the service of summons.
   (B)   If the distributor is not of good character and reputation in the
community in which he resides.
   (C)   If the distributor has been convicted of or has pleaded guilty to a
felony under the laws of this state, any other state, or of the United States.
   (D)   If the distributor has been convicted of or has pleaded guilty to
being the proprietor of a gambling house, or of any other crime or misdemeanor
opposed to decency and morality.
   (E)   If the applicant is a corporation whose majority stockholders could
not obtain a permit, then such corporation shall likewise not be issued a
permit.
   (F)   If the applicant is under 21 years of age or not a citizen of the
United States.
(Ord. 2648, § 6, passed 12-9-1991)
§ 11-87 SAME—APPLICATION.
   Any distributor desiring a permit required by the provisions of this article
shall make application therefor to the city clerk, which application shall
contain:
   (A)   Name and address of the applicant, age, date and place of birth.
   (B)   The location of his office or business.
   (C)   The number of machines or devices to be distributed within the limits
of the City of Bellevue.
   (D)   A list indicating the type of machine, whether it is mechanical or
electronic video amusement, tobacco vending, automatic musical, or merchandise
vending, and the address of each machine, provided that if any machine is
located in a building or facility with more than a single floor or place of
business, the list shall specify where in such building or facility the machine
is located. The list shall be regularly supplemented on a semiannual basis to
reflect any additional machines, deletions or changes in the locations of any
machine.
(Ord. 2648, § 7, passed 12-9-1991)
§ 11-88 SAME—FEE.
   The fee for a permit required by the provisions of this article shall be as
provided for in section
11-93 of this article.
(Ord. 2648, § 8, passed 12-9-1991)
§ 11-89 SAME—ISSUANCE RESTRICTED.
   No permit shall be issued under the provisions of this article to any firm
or corporation or any other person as agent or manager for another person.
(Ord. 2648, § 9, passed 12-9-1991)
§ 11-90 SAME—TRANSFER, EXPIRATION.
   No permit issued under the provisions of this article shall be transferable
by sale, assignment or in any other manner. Every permit issued under the
provisions of this article shall expire on the first day of January following
the date of issuance thereof, unless revoked prior thereto.
(Ord. 2648, § 10, passed 12-9-1991)
§ 11-91 SAME—SUSPENSION, REVOCATION, APPEAL.
   Any permit issued under the provisions of this article may be suspended or
revoked by the police department for the violation by the permittee of any
applicable provision of this Code, state law, or city ordinance, rule or
regulation. Any person aggrieved by the issuance, denial or cancellation of any
permit issued under the provisions of this Code may appeal therefrom to the
city council.
(Ord. 2648, § 11, passed 12-9-1991)
§ 11-92 SAME—PENALTY.
   Penalty for violation of any provisions in this article shall be as provided
in section
11-107 of this article.
(Ord. 2648, § 12, passed 12-9-1991)
§ 11-93 OCCUPATION TAX—AMOUNT, WHEN DUE, DURATION.
   Every person coming under the provisions of this article shall pay the
appropriate tax as described in the Master Fee Schedule. The tax levied and
imposed by this article shall be due and payable on or before January 1 of each
taxable year on each machine in service on that date. Such tax shall be due and
payable on any machine placed in service subsequent to such date on the date
the machine is placed into service. The tax levied and imposed by this article
shall permit the operation of the machine or device for which paid until
December 31 of the year of payment.
(Ord. 2648, § 13, passed 12-9-1991; Ord. 3500, § 7, passed 3-9-2009)
§ 11-94 SAME—DELINQUENCY; INTEREST.
   The occupation tax, levied and imposed by this article, shall become
delinquent immediately after it is due as herein provided. Any delinquent tax
shall draw interest at the rate of one percent per month or portion thereof and
after the tax has been delinquent for six months a penalty of five percent of
the tax shall also be due.
(Ord. 2648, § 14, passed 12-9-1991)
§ 11-95 COLLECTION BY CIVIL ACTION.
   In case any person shall fail to make payment of the occupation tax as
provided in this article and at the time or times hereinbefore specified, the
city shall have the right and may sue any such person or persons in any court
of competent jurisdiction for the amount of the occupation tax due and payable
under the terms and provisions of this article, and may recover a judgment
against such person or persons for the amount so due, together with interest
and penalties.
(Ord. 2648, § 15, passed 12-9-1991)
§ 11-96 MACHINES—IDENTIFICATION.
   Any person coming under the provisions of this article shall plainly
designate upon any and all machines or devices in his possession the name of
the owner of such machine or device.
(Ord. 2648, § 16, passed 12-9-1991)
§ 11-97 SAME—STATEMENT OF OWNERSHIP.
   The owner shall on or before January 1 of each year file in the office of
the city clerk a statement showing the number of machines or devices coming
under this article in use by any person within the city. The owner-operator of
any automatic musical device, electronic video and/or mechanical amusement
device, merchandise vending machine and tobacco products vending machine shall
also provide a list indicating each location of such devices in use within the
city; if any such machine or device is located within any building or facility
with more than a single floor or place of business, the list shall indicate
where in such building or facility the device is located; provided further that
the list shall be regularly supplemented on a semiannual basis to indicate any
additions, deletions or changes in location of any device. Prior to the placing
in service of any additional devices, statements shall be executed and filed in
the manner provided for such original statement and payment shall be made
contemporaneously therewith of the additional occupation tax.
(Ord. 2648, § 17, passed 12-9-1991)
§ 11-98 STICKERS—ISSUANCE; DISPLAY.
   The city clerk shall issue stickers equal to the number of machines or
devices for which the occupation tax levied and imposed by the provisions of
this article have been paid. Each sticker issued under the provisions of this
article shall be permanently affixed to each machine or device placed in
service. The sticker will be located on the face of the machine or on the top
right-hand forward corner at the discretion of the machine owner. The sticker
may be posted on a plaque located on a wall next to the machine.
(Ord. 2648, § 18, passed 12-9-1991)
§ 11-99 SAME—REPLACEMENT.
   If a sticker issued under the provisions of this article has been lost,
stolen or destroyed, the operator may sign an affidavit to be filed with the
Permits and Inspections Department, which department may authorize the issuance
of a new sticker as replacement.
(Ord. 2648, § 19, passed 12-9-1991)
§ 11-100 SAME—MUTILATION, ETC.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, except the owner of the machine or
device to mutilate, destroy or remove the sticker required by this article from
any such machine.
(Ord. 2648, § 20, passed 12-9-1991)
§ 11-101 SAME—TRANSFER.
   A sticker issued under the provisions of this article may be transferable
from machine to machine or from location to location.
(Ord. 2648, § 21, passed 12-9-1991)
§ 11-102 SEIZURE OF UNTAXED MACHINES.
   (A)   In addition to such other penalties as may be provided by law, if at
any time any machine or device is in use or operation without a proper sticker
as provided by this article, said machine or device shall be sealed in a manner
sufficient to temporarily prevent operation of the machine or device. No seal
shall be broken except pursuant to the authority of the Permits and Inspections
Department. A fee of $30.00 shall be imposed upon removal of any seal to cover
the costs of sealing and its removal. No machine or device which has been
sealed shall be relocated or otherwise removed from its location by any person.
   (B)   In the event any machine or device has been sealed pursuant to this
section, the Permits and Inspections Department shall notify the operator and
that person identified pursuant to section 11-96, if known to the city, that
the machine has been sealed. Notice shall indicate that unless the applicable
occupation tax has been paid and the sticker affixed within seven days after
receipt of notice, the machine or device shall be subject to seizure and
subsequent public sale.
   (C)   Unless the applicable occupation tax has been paid and the sticker
affixed within seven days after receipt of notice, the machine or device shall
be seized, taken into custody, and removed by the Bellevue Police Department
upon the direction of the Permits and Inspections Department to be disposed of
at public auction. No such property shall be offered for sale, or sold, unless
and until it shall have remained unclaimed and uncalled for by the owner or
their agent for a period of six months after the date of seizure. Provided,
further, that the owner, or his agent, of any machine or device which has been
seized may redeem such machine by paying the occupation tax due thereon, and an
additional fee of $100.00 to cover the costs of removal and storage of said
machine or device, plus the appropriate interest and penalties, shall be levied
for each machine or device. The chief of the Bellevue Police Department shall
designate a place to which such property shall be removed and stored. Upon
proof of payment of all appropriate taxes, fees and levies and full compliance
with the provisions of this article, such machines or devices shall be returned
to the owner or his agent.
(Ord. 2648, § 22, passed 12-9-1991)
§ 11-103 SEIZURE AND DESTRUCTION OF MACHINE.
   If the chief of police shall have a reason to believe any mechanical or
electronic amusement device is used as a gambling device, such machine may be
seized by the police and impounded and if upon trial of the exhibitor for
allowing it to be used as a gambling device said exhibitor is found guilty,
such machine shall be destroyed by the police department.
(Ord. 2648, § 23, passed 12-9-1991)
§ 11-104 ADMINISTRATIVE ENFORCEMENT.
   The Permits and Inspections Department shall be charged with the function
and responsibility of administering this article. Such function and
responsibility shall include, but not be limited to any appropriate
inspections, administrative enforcement, the issuance of appropriate notices
concerning delinquent taxes for all devices and machines covered by this
article, providing direction to the police division required by sections 11-102
and 11-103 of this article, and such other acts as may be appropriate. Nothing
herein shall be construed to usurp or relieve any responsibility of any other
city agency.
(Ord. 2648, § 24, passed 12-9-1991)
§ 11-105 UNLAWFUL OPERATION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate or permit the operation of
any machine or device unless the occupation tax has been paid for said machine
or device and a sticker displayed thereon in accordance with the provisions of
this article. Violation of any provisions of this article shall be punishable
as provided in sections 11-102 to 11-106 of this article.
(Ord. 2648, § 25, passed 12-9-1991)
§ 11-106 REVOCATION OF LICENSE.
   Every permit issued under this article is subject to the right, which is
hereby expressly reserved, to revoke the same should the licensee, directly or
indirectly, permit the operation of any tobacco products vending machine,
automatic musical device, mechanical amusement device or electronic video
device contrary to the provisions of this article, the ordinances of the City
of Bellevue, or the laws of the State of Nebraska. Said permit may be revoked
by the city council after written notice to the licensee, which notice shall
specify the ordinance or law violations with which the licensee is charged, if
after a hearing the licensee is found to be guilty of such violations. Ten
days’ notice of the hearing shall be given the licensee. At such hearing the
licensee and his attorney may present and submit evidence of witnesses in his
defense.
(Ord. 2648, § 26, passed 12-9-1991)
§ 11-107 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm, corporation violating any of the provisions of this
article, in addition to the revocation of his or its license, shall be liable
to a fine or penalty of not less than $25.00 nor more than $500.00 for each
offense.
(Ord. 2648, § 27, passed 12-9-1991)
§ 11-108 REPEAL OF CONFLICTING ORDINANCES.
   All existing ordinances of the City of Bellevue are hereby repealed insofar
as they may be inconsistent with the provisions of this article.
(Ord. 2648, § 28, passed 12-9-1991)
§ 11-109 SEPARABILITY OF PROVISIONS.
   It is the intention of the city council that each separate provision of this
article shall be deemed independent of all other provisions herein, and it is
further the intention of the city council that if any provision of this article
be declared invalid, all other provisions thereof shall remain valid and
enforceable.
(Ord. 2648, § 29, passed 12-9-1991)
§ 11-110 NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS.
   (A)   Any distributor placing an automatic musical device, tobacco products
vending machine, mechanical amusement device, or electronic video amusement
device in any nonprofit organization, will be required to comply with the
provisions of this article.
   (B)   Any nonprofit organization which is the operator or owner-operator of
an automatic musical device, tobacco products vending machine, mechanical
amusement device, or electronic video amusement device, is exempt from the
provisions of this article.
(Ord. 2648, § 30, passed 12-9-1991)
§ 11-111 EXEMPTIONS.
   Bulk vending machines, as defined in section
11-81 are exempt from the provisions of this article.
(Ord. 2648, § 31, passed 12-9-1991)
§§ 11-112—11-120 RESERVED.
ARTICLE VII: HOTEL OPERATORS’ OCCUPATION TAX
Section
   
11-121   Hotel accommodations
   
11-122   Hotel defined
   
11-123   Occupied room; defined; exceptions
   
11-124   Collection
   
11-125   Records
   
11-126   Due date
   
11-127   Disposition of revenues
   11-128—11-140   Reserved
Statutory reference:
   Occupation tax authorized, see Neb. RS 1943, § 16-205
§ 11-121 HOTEL ACCOMMODATIONS.
   Each person engaged in the business of operating a hotel in the city shall
pay an occupation tax in the amount of five and one-half percent (5-1/2%) of
the basic rental rates charged per occupied room per night.
(Ord. 3478, § 1(11-121), passed 8-11-2008; Ord. 3829, § 1, passed 12-14-2015)
§ 11-122 HOTEL DEFINED.
   HOTEL means any facility in which the public may, for a consideration,
obtain sleeping accommodations in any space ordinarily used for accommodations.
The term HOTEL includes hotels, motels, tourist hotels, campgrounds, courts,
lodginghouses, inns and nonprofit hotels; but the term HOTEL shall not be
defined so as to include hospitals, sanitariums, nursing homes, chronic care
centers, or dormitories or facilities operated by an educational institution
and regularly used to house students.
(Ord. 3478, § 1(11-122), passed 8-11-2008)
§ 11-123 OCCUPIED ROOM; DEFINED; EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   OCCUPIED ROOM means any space ordinarily used for sleeping
accommodations and for which any occupant has, for consideration, obtained the
use or possession, or the right to use or possess, for a period not to exceed
30 contiguous days. The term OCCUPIED ROOM includes camping space, trailer
space or recreational vehicle space. The term OCCUPIED ROOM does not include a
function room such as a ballroom, banquet room, reception room, or meeting
room, provided it is not used as temporary sleeping accommodations.
   (B)   The term OCCUPIED ROOM shall not mean, and no tax imposed by this
article shall be measured by or collected for:
      (1)   Complimentary or other sleeping accommodations for which no
consideration is charged;
      (2)   Sleeping accommodations for which the consideration is paid by a
person not subject to the sales and use tax imposed by the Nebraska Revenue Act
of 1967, as it is amended from time to time; or
      (3)   Sleeping accommodations leased by an employer for use by its
employees when a specific room is the subject of the lease, the lease extends
for more than 30 consecutive days, and consideration is actually paid for use
during at least 30 consecutive days.
(Ord. 3478, § 1(11-123), passed 8-11-2008)
§ 11-124 COLLECTION.
   The tax imposed by this article shall be collected by the hotel operator
from the occupant for each room to which the tax applies. The tax may be shown
as an add-on to the charge for occupancy of the rooms and shall be collectible
at the time the lodging is furnished, regardless of when the charge for the
occupancy is paid. The operator shall remain responsible for payment of all
taxes imposed whether or not the taxes are actually collected from the guests.
(Ord. 3478, § 1(11-124), passed 8-11-2008)
§ 11-125 RECORDS.
   It shall be unlawful for any hotel operator subject to this article to fail
to maintain or fail to make available to the city upon 72 hours’ notice,
written records accurately and completely evidencing the number of rooms
occupied, the dates the rooms are occupied, the amount of occupation tax due or
paid under this article, and such other information as is required by the
director of finance. Such records shall be maintained for a period of three
years after the occupation tax is due.
(Ord. 3478, § 1(11-125), passed 8-11-2008)
§ 11-126 DUE DATE.
   Notwithstanding any contrary provision of this chapter, the tax imposed by
this article shall be due and payable on the first day of each calendar month
next succeeding the month during which the room was occupied. All taxes not
paid by the 25th day of the month in which they are due and payable shall be
deemed to be delinquent. The operator shall be assessed a penalty of ten
percent on all delinquent amounts as well as interest of one percent per month
or fraction thereof from the first of the month in which such tax becomes due
and payable until the date of payment.
(Ord. 3478, § 1(11-126), passed 8-11-2008)
§ 11-127 DISPOSITION OF REVENUES.
   The occupation tax imposed by this article shall be credited to the general
fund of the city.
(Ord. 3478, § 1(11-127), passed 8-11-2008)
§§ 11-128—11-140 RESERVED.
ARTICLE VIII: ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
Section
   
11-141   Economic Development Program—Overview
   
11-142   Same—Economic Development Strategy
   
11-143   Same—Establishment and appropriation of funds
   
11-144   Same—Source of funds; duration of program; years for collection of
funds; total amount of funds to be collected
   11-145—11-149   Reserved
§ 11-141 ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM—OVERVIEW.
   (A)   Nebraska’s voters enacted a constitutional amendment in November 1990
granting cities and villages the power to use local sources of revenue for
economic or industrial projects and programs. In 1991, the Unicameral
implemented this amendment with the passage of Legislative Bill 840, the Local
Option Municipal Economic Development Act.
   (B)   The Local Option Municipal Economic Development Act is based on the
premise that communities should use their tax dollars in ways that best meet
local needs. While ongoing planning processes in many towns have identified
development, job creation and increased economic opportunity as their highest
priority for the future, a variety of constitutional and legislative
prohibitions kept them from investing local public funds in development
programs. The removal of these limitations gives municipalities greater
latitude in determining and acting upon local needs.
   (C)   As communities have witnessed population declines and the loss of
younger people, they have thought about their futures and the types of actions
and investments needed to reverse these past trends. At the same time, smaller
towns and cities are beginning to realize a period of significant opportunity.
In a period of uncertainty, complexity and growing concern about the problems
and quality of urban life, including cost and relative safety, the advantages
offered by the smaller communities have become uniquely attractive.
Concurrently, the revolution in information and communication technology as
well as goods distribution has reduced the necessity of businesses locating in
large metropolitan areas. As a result, it is increasingly possible to operate a
significant business in growth areas outside of major urban areas.
(Ord. 3800, § 1, passed 12-8-2014; Ord. 4113, § 1, passed 12-20-2022)
§ 11-142 SAME—ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT STRATEGY.
   In November of 2014, Bellevue voters approved the establishment of an
Economic Development Program as outlined in this Article. In November of 2022,
Bellevue voters voted to amend certain provisions of the Economic Development
Program as outlined in this Article. The goals of the Bellevue, Nebraska,
Economic Development Program support the development of new jobs, attract a
variety of new businesses, broaden the tax base, generate employment
opportunities, attract new capital investment, expand the labor market and the
retention of existing jobs for the citizens of Bellevue by promoting
development within the corporate limits of the City of Bellevue and its extra-
territorial jurisdiction (ETJ).The success of the Program will be measured by
the number of jobs created and retained as well as income improvement for the
length of the Program. The goals will be achieved, in part, by constructing
infrastructure improvements (or providing grants for others to construct such
improvements), establishing a loan fund for use by qualified businesses, and
generally promoting development within the City of Bellevue or its ETJ. The
Program will be implemented and monitored in accordance with the State of
Nebraska's Local Option Municipal Economic Development Act.
(Ord. 3800, § 1, passed 12-8-2014; Ord. 4113, § 1, passed 12-20-2022)
§ 11-143 SAME—ESTABLISHMENT AND APPROPRIATION OF FUNDS.
   The City of Bellevue shall establish an Economic Development Program
described herein by appropriating annually from local sources of revenue an
estimated $375,000 per one-half year and $750,000 per year in fiscal years
2015-2016 (one-half (1/2) fiscal year), 2016-2017, 2017-2018, 2018-2019, 2019-
2020, 2020-2021, 2021-2022, 2022-2023, 2023-2024, 2024-2025, 2025-2026, 2026-
2027, 2027-2028, 2028-2029, 2029-2030, 2030-2031, 2031-2032, 2032-2033, 2033-
2034, 2034-2035 and 2035-2036 (one-half (1/2) fiscal year) for purposes of
promoting economic development within the corporate limits of the City of
Bellevue and its ETJ. Additional funds from other non-City sources will be
sought beyond those derived from local sources of revenue.
(Ord. 3800, § 1, passed 12-8-2014; Ord. 4113, § 1, passed 12-20-2022)
§ 11-144 SAME—SOURCE OF FUNDS; DURATION OF PROGRAM; YEARS FOR COLLECTION OF
FUNDS; TOTAL AMOUNT OF FUNDS TO BE COLLECTED.
   (A)   The source of funds shall be (i) any existing City Sales and Use Tax,
Lodging Tax, Occupancy Tax and Real Estate Tax as designated by the City
Council, and (ii) any future increases of City Sales and Use Tax, Lodging Tax,
Occupancy Tax and Real Estate Tax as may be approved by the voters; and any
bonding as may be deemed necessary.
   (B)   The length of time that the Program shall be in existence will be
twenty-five (25) years beginning May 1, 2015. Miscellaneous revenues and funds,
including but not limited to repayment of loans, return on investments, fees
for activities such as loan guarantees, and sales proceeds from properties, may
continue to be used for activities contained within this Economic Development
Program during the life of this program.
   (C)   Collection of funds for the Program shall be on all taxable sales
beginning on May 1, 2015 and shall end on April 30, 2035 (twenty years).
   (D)   The total amount to be collected is estimated to be $750,000 per year
in fiscal years 2015-2016 (one-half (1/2) fiscal year), 2016-2017, 2017-2018,
2018-2019, 2019-2020, 2020-2021, 2021-2022, 2022-2023, 2023-2024, 2024-2025,
2025-2026, 2026-2027, 2027-2028, 2028-2029, 2029-2030, 2030-2031, 2031-2032,
2032-2033, 2033-2034, 2034-2035 and 2035-2036 (one-half fiscal year), with the
revenue being allocated to the Economic Development Program as outlined herein.
The one-half fiscal years shall be only one-half of the estimate to be
collected.
(Ord. 3800, § 1, passed 12-8-2014; Ord. 4113, § 1, passed 12-20-2022)
§§ 11-145—11-149 RESERVED.
ARTICLE IX: MASTER FEE SCHEDULE
Section
   
11-150   Fees
Editor’s note:
   Ord. 3487 enacted October 10, 2008, creating a new section was not specific
in placement was included herein as a new article in this chapter at the
discretion of the editor.
§ 11-150 FEES.
   (A)   The city council may, by adopting a resolution by majority vote of the
elected members of the city council, fix the appropriate fees and taxes for
goods and services provided by the city, which fees and taxes will be paid for
by the users of, or applicants for, said goods and services, and shall be known
as the Master Fee Schedule. Any ordinance establishing a fee without reference
to the Master Fee Schedule shall control over the Master Fee Schedule. The city
council may add or delete fees and taxes by appropriate resolution from time to
time as it sees fit.
   (B)   The city finance director shall review annually the fees collected
pursuant to the Master Fee Schedule, and present a report to the city council
at its first meeting in the month of February, which shall include an update of
the revenues collected over the preceding year, as well as a review of the
comparability of such fees with other cities in the Omaha metropolitan area to
determine whether any increase or decrease in fees is warranted based on said
report.
(Ord. 3487, § 1, passed 11-10-2008)
CHAPTER 12: FIRE PREVENTION AND PROTECTION
   Article
      
I.   IN GENERAL
      
II.   FIRE DEPARTMENT
      
III.   FIRE PREVENTION CODE
      
IV.   FIREWORKS
      
V.   FILLING STATIONS
      
VI.   FIRE LANES
      
VII.   OPEN BURNING
ARTICLE I: IN GENERAL
Section
   
12-1   Interference, etc., with fire apparatus
   
12-2   Fire hydrants; generally
   12-3—12-15   Reserved
Statutory reference:
   Power to establish fire department, fire regulations, see Neb. RS 1943, §
16-222
§ 12-1 INTERFERENCE, ETC., WITH FIRE APPARATUS.
   No person other than the first chief and members of the fire department
shall at any time molest, handle or interfere with any of the fire apparatus
belonging to the city.
(1964 Code, § 10-4)
§ 12-2 FIRE HYDRANTS; GENERALLY.
   (A)   No building shall be erected within the city limits and within the
extra-territorial zoning jurisdiction of the city, unless it shall be protected
by sufficient approved type fire hydrants in accordance with Section 507 Fire
Protection Water Supplies and Appendix B Fire Flow Required for Buildings of
the 2021 International Fire Code.
   (B)   Where compliance with this section requires the installation of
private hydrants, such hydrants will be installed at the expense of the
property owner requiring such hydrants. These hydrants shall be served by a
minimum of a 6-inch main and shall be certified, inspected, flow tested, and
maintained by the Metropolitan Utilities District.
   (C)   All fire hydrant systems shall meet the approval of the fire
department as to installation and location. Plans and specifications shall be
submitted to the fire department for review and approval prior to construction.
   (D)   Building construction or storage areas shall not be started prior to
the hydrant system being placed in service.
(1964 Code, § 10-5. 1) (Ord. 2146, § 1, passed 9-22-1980; Ord. 3471, § 1,
passed 7-14-2008; Ord. 3658, § 1, passed 11-28-2011; Ord. 3792, § 1, passed 12-
8-2014; Ord. 4031, § 1, passed 5-4-2021)
§§ 12-3—12-15 RESERVED.
ARTICLE II: FIRE DEPARTMENT
Section
   
12-16   Composition
   
12-17   Selection, appointment and removal of fire chief
   
12-18   Expenditures
   
12-19   Duties of chief during and after fires
   
12-20   Fire companies—Testing hose
   
12-21   Same—Drills
   
12-22   Rescue services—Fees
   
12-23   Definitions
   
12-24   Collection
   12-25—12-35   Reserved
Statutory reference:
   Authority to establish a fire department, see Neb. RS 1943, § 16-222
§ 12-16 COMPOSITION.
   The fire department shall consist of the fire chief as established in
section
12-17 of this Code, and shall be supported by all volunteer fire companies that
are organized according to the law in the city and such paid personnel as
determined to be necessary by the city.
(1964 Code, § 10-15) (Ord. 3472, § 1, passed 7-28-2008)
§ 12-17 SELECTION, APPOINTMENT AND REMOVAL OF FIRE CHIEF.
   (A)   Not later than January 5, 2009, the mayor, with the approval of a
majority of the elected members of the city council, shall appoint a full-time
paid fire chief with the appropriate training, credentials, and experience and
for whom fire fighting or emergency medical first response is a fulltime
career. The fire chief shall have the immediate superintendence of the fire
prevention, fire suppression, and emergency medical first response services,
and the facilities, equipment and personnel, including, but not limited to, the
appointment of such assistant chiefs, officers and district chiefs, related to
such services of the city. The salary of the fire chief shall be fixed by
ordinance.
   (B)   In the absence of the fire chief, the city administrator, or his or
her designee, shall appoint an acting fire chief. The fire chief may be
suspended or removed only in accordance with the Nebraska Civil Service Act and
the rules promulgated by the City of Bellevue Civil Service Commission pursuant
to said Act.
   (C)   The fire chief shall promulgate, implement and enforce rules governing
the actions and conduct of paid personnel and volunteer members of the
department so as to be in conformity with the personnel policies of the city.
In addition to such other duties as may be required by the fire chief pursuant
to this section of the code, he or she shall keep and maintain full and
complete records of fire department data and activities, including but not
limited to:
      (1)   The number of active volunteers in active volunteer service
providing emergency response services to the city including their ages;
      (2)   The amount and type of training received by each volunteer during
the course of his or her time of service as an active volunteer;
      (3)   The number of new volunteers recruited during such period, as
described in subsection (D) of this section, and the number of volunteers who
cease to be active volunteers during that period;
      (4)   The basic information regarding each volunteer specified in Neb. RS
§ 35-1309.01;
      (5)   The number and nature of calls or requests for emergency services,
the response time for each call, to be calculated from the time of receipt of
the dispatch to the time of arrival of the first fire or rescue emergency
response vehicle at the site of the request, the number of volunteers
responding to each call, and the time each call was received; and
      (6)   Any additional information specified by the city council to be
gathered or collected by the fire chief or as the fire chief may recommend.
   (D)   The fire chief shall collate and analyze the information gathered
pursuant to subsection (C) of this section and shall, no less than once in any
12-month period on a date specified by the city council, provide a report to
the city council at a regular council meeting on the prior year’s experience
regarding the volunteer department and shall make such recommendations as he or
she deems appropriate.
(1964 Code, § 10-16) (Ord. 3472, § 2, passed 7-28-2008)
§ 12-18 EXPENDITURES.
   No obligations, except in emergencies and with regard to minor expenditures,
shall be incurred on behalf of the fire department unless authorized by the
mayor and city council.
(1964 Code, § 10-18)
§ 12-19 DUTIES OF CHIEF DURING AND AFTER FIRES.
   It shall be the duty of the chief of the fire department, or the assistant
chiefs or the foreman of any fire company lawfully acting in his stead, in all
cases of fire, to take and have control of all members of the fire department
and of all proper means for the extinguishment of fires, the protection of
property, the preservation of order at and in the vicinity of fires and to
secure the observance of this Code and all ordinances and regulations
respecting fires. After the engines and other apparatus for its extinguishment
have been withdrawn from any fire, he shall have charge of the premises and
shall cause a strict watch to be kept about the same for a period of 24 hours
or until the fire shall have been entirely extinguished.
(1964 Code, § 10-17)
§ 12-20 FIRE COMPANIES—TESTING HOSE.
   All fire companies of the city shall pressure-test their fire hose annually.
(1964 Code, § 10-5) (Ord. 2006, § 1, passed 2-28-1977)
§ 12-21 SAME—DRILLS.
   The fire companies of the city shall hold fire drills at such times as such
companies shall by their own rules fix.
(1964 Code, § 10-5) (Ord. 2006, § 1, passed 2-28-1977)
§ 12-22 RESCUE SERVICES—FEES.
   Fire and Rescue Squad fees shall be as described in the Master Fee Schedule.
(Ord. 3460, § 1, passed 4-14-2008; Ord. 3501, § 1, passed 3-9-2009)
§ 12-23 DEFINITIONS.
   BLS. When medically necessary, the provision of BLS services as defined in
the National EMS Education and Practice Blueprint for the EMT Basic, including
the establishment of the peripheral intravenous (IV) line.
   BLS EMERGENCY. When medically necessary, the provision of BLS services, as
specified above, in the context of an emergency response. An emergency response
is one that, at the time the ambulance supplier is called, is provided after
the sudden onset of a medical condition manifesting itself by acute symptoms of
sufficient severity such that the absence of immediate medical attention could
reasonably be expected to result in placing the beneficiary’s health in serious
jeopardy; in impairment to bodily functions; or in serious dysfunction to any
bodily organ or part.
   ALS. When medically necessary, the provision of an assessment by an advanced
life support (ALS) provider or supplier or the provision of one or more ALS
interventions. An ALS PROVIDER/SUPPLIER is defined as a provider trained to the
level of the EMT-Intermediate or Paramedic as defined in the National EMS
Education and Practice Blueprint. An ALS INTERVENTION is defined as procedure
beyond the scope of an EMT — Basic.
   ALS 1. When medically necessary, the provision of ALS 1 services, as
specified above, in the context of an emergency response. An emergency response
is one that, at the time the ambulance supplier is called, is provided after
the sudden onset of a medical condition manifesting itself by acute symptoms of
attention could reasonably be expected to result in placing the beneficiary’s
health in serious jeopardy; in impairment to bodily functions; or in serious
dysfunction to any bodily organ or part.
   ALS 2. When medically necessary, the administration of three or more
different medications* or the provision of at least one of the following ALS
procedures:
      (1)   Manual defibrillation/cardioversion;
      (2)   Chest decompression;
      (3)   Endotracheal intubation;
      (4)   Surgical airway;
      (5)   Central venous line;
      (6)   Intraaosseous line;
      (7)   Cardiac pacing;
      (8)   Note— Three or more medications is further defined as three
different medications or the same medication administered three times.
   SCT. When medically necessary, for a critically injured or ill beneficiary,
a level of inter-facility service provided beyond the scope of the paramedic as
defined in the National EMS Education and Practice Blueprint. This is necessary
when a beneficiary’s condition required ongoing care that must be provided by
one or more health professionals in an appropriate specialty area, e.g.
nursing, medicine respiratory care, cardiovascular care, or a paramedic with
additional training.
   MILEAGE. Mileage shall be defined as those miles that are accrued during the
actual transport of the beneficiary only.
(Ord. 3460, § 2, passed 4-14-2008)
§ 12-24 COLLECTION.
   All charges for the fees prescribed under this article shall be submitted
for collection to the city treasurer by the fire department. The City of
Bellevue shall bill for said charges, and the charges shall be payable solely
to the City of Bellevue and to no other entity.
(Ord. 3460, § 3, passed 4-14-2008)
§§ 12-25—12-35 RESERVED.
ARTICLE III: FIRE PREVENTION CODE
Section
   
12-36   Adoption of International Fire Code
   
12-36.1   Amendments and changes to code adopted in § 12-36; adoption of
International Fire Code
   
12-37   Duties of the department of fire prevention
   
12-38   Definitions
   
12-39   Modifications
   
12-40   Appeals from action of fire chief
   
12-41   New materials, processes or occupancies which may require permits
   
12-42   Establishment of limits referred to in International Fire Code
   
12-43   Penalties
   12-44—12-56   Reserved
§ 12-36 ADOPTION OF INTERNATIONAL FIRE CODE.
   There is hereby adopted by the city of Bellevue, Nebraska, for the purpose
of prescribing regulations governing conditions hazardous to life and property
from fire or explosion, that certain code known as the 2021 International Fire
Code, being particular the edition in use the year of which shall correspond
with the same year of the building code being currently used by the City of
Bellevue, including appendices, of which code not less than three (3) copies
have been and are now filed in the office of the Fire Marshal, and the same is
hereby adopted and incorporated as fully set out at length herein; provided
that whenever any provision shall conflict with the provisions of the City
Code, or any other City ordinance, the provision of the City Code or other such
ordinance shall govern.
(1964 Code, § 10-6) (Ord. 2137, § 1, passed 6-9-1980; Ord. 2401, § 1, passed 1-
27-1986; Ord. 2742, § 1, passed 4-12-1993; Ord. 2914, § 1, passed 9-23-1996;
Ord. 3079, § 1, passed 1-24-2000; Ord. 3471, § 2, passed 7-14-2008; Ord. 3658,
§ 2, passed 11-28-2011; Ord. 3792, § 1, passed 12-8-2014; Ord. 4031, § 2,
passed 5-4-2021)
Statutory reference:
   Adoption of standard codes, see Neb. RS 1943, § 18-132
§ 12-36.1 AMENDMENTS AND CHANGES TO CODE ADOPTED IN § 12-36; ADOPTION OF
INTERNATIONAL FIRE CODE.
   (A)   The International Fire Code, 2021 Edition, is amended and changed in
the following respects:
      (1)   Amend Section 308.1.4, Open flame cooking devices, by deleting
exception 2 and by changing exception 3 to read as follows:
      Exceptions:
      2.   LP-gas cooking devices having LP-gas container with a water capacity
not greater than 20 pounds.
      (2)   Amend Section 503.2.1, Dimensions. Change "20 feet" to "24 feet".
      (3)   Delete Section 503.2.7, Grade, and substitute the following
language: "The grade of the fire apparatus access road shall be a maximum of
10%".
      (4)   Delete Section 507.5.3 (1) and substitute the following language:
"Private fire hydrants (all types) shall be certified, inspected, flow tested,
and maintained by the Metropolitan Utilities District".
      (5)   Section 609.1, General. Insert "and NFPA 96".
      (6)   Section 903.2.8, Group R. Add exception to read as follows.
      Exception: Sprinkler systems are not required in R-3 one- and two-family
dwellings, or townhouses that are separated into separate buildings by a common
two (2) hour fire-resistance-rated wall assembly tested in accordance with ASTM
E 119 or UL 263. Such walls shall not contain plumbing or mechanical equipment,
ducts or vents in the cavity of the common wall. The wall shall be rated for
fire exposure from both sides and shall extend to and be tight against exterior
walls and the underside of the roof sheathing. Electrical, cable and telephone
installations are permitted, but shall be installed in accordance with the
adopted electrical code in Chapter 10 of the Bellevue City Code. Penetrations
of electrical boxes shall be in accordance with Section R302.4 2012 IRC.
      (7)   Amend Section 903.3.1.2 NFPA 13R sprinkler systems, to read as
follows:
      Automatic sprinkler systems in Group R occupancies up to and including
four stories in height in buildings not exceeding 60 feet (18 288 mm) in height
above grade plane shall be permitted to be installed throughout in accordance
with NFPA 13R.
      The number of stories of Group R occupancies constructed in accordance
with Sections 510.2 and 510.4 of the International Building Code shall be
measured from the horizontal assembly creating separate buildings.
      (8)   Amend Section 3405.1, Individual piles. Add new first sentence,
"These regulations shall apply to outdoor storage of tires where fifty (50) or
more tires are stored". Change "5,000 square feet (464.5 M2)" to "2,500 square
feet (232.3 M2)" and change "50,000 cubic feet (1416 M3)" to "25,000 cubic feet
(707.92 M3)". Add, "A maximum of two tire piles may be established on a single
site".
      (9)   Delete Section 3405.6.
      (10)   Add Section 3405.8, Bond, add as a new section to read as follows:
      Bond. As a condition of the issuance or continuation of any permit
authorizing the outdoor storage of tires, the applicant or permittee shall file
with the city clerk a bond in favor of the city, with good and sufficient
surety, in the amount of $20,000. This bond shall be conditioned that the
applicant or permittee, as principal, shall faithfully perform all of the
requirements imposed upon the outdoor tire storage operation by federal, state,
and local law; and shall perform such cleanup, moving or removal of tires as is
required by federal, state or local law. This section shall apply immediately
to all applications or renewal requests submitted after the effective date of
this Section.
      Holders of permits as of the effective date of this Section shall file
the required bond within 90 days of the effective date of this Section.
      Once every two (2) years after the effective date of this Section, the
city shall inspect all sites licensed under this Section. If such an inspection
finds that the fair and reasonable cost to lawfully remove and dispose of all
tires stored on the site exceeds $20,000, then the amount of the required bond
for that site shall be immediately increased to equal that cost. In such case,
the license holder shall be so notified, and shall provide the required bond
within thirty (30) days. Nothing in this Section shall be construed to permit
the storage of a volume of tires in excess of that which is otherwise allowed
by law.
      (11)   Amend Section 3407.1, Where required, to read as follows:
      Where required. A firmly anchored fence or other approved method of
security that controls unauthorized access to the storage yard shall surround
the storage yard.
      (12)   Amend Section 3407.2, Construction. Change "6 feet (1829 mm) high"
to "10 feet (2048 mm high)".
      (13)   Amend Section 3504.2.1, When required. Change "30 minutes" to "2
hours" and change "extend" to "modify".
      (14)   Amend Section 5601.1.3, Fireworks. Delete Exceptions 1 and 2 and
renumber 3 and 4.
      (15)   Amend Appendix D, Fire Apparatus Access Roads. Change all 20 feet
widths to 24 feet widths.
   (B)   The following Reference Standards for this Fire Code are amended as
follows:
      (1)   Change "ICCEC- 21 ICC Electrical Code" to "Electrical Code: The
electrical code for this jurisdiction shall be as adopted by Chapter 10 of the
Bellevue Municipal Code and all codes adopted therein".
      (2)   Change "IBC- 21 International Building Code" to "Building Code: The
building code for the jurisdiction shall be as adopted by Chapter 8 of the
Bellevue Municipal Code and all codes adopted therein".
      (3)   Delete "IEBC- 21 International Existing Building Code".
      (4)   Change "IFGC- 21 International Fuel Gas Code" to "Fuel Gas Code:
The fuel gas code for this jurisdiction shall be as adopted in Chapter 27 to
the Bellevue Municipal Code".
      (5)   Change "IMC- 21 International Mechanical Code" to "Mechanical Code:
The mechanical code for this jurisdiction shall be as adopted by Chapter 27 of
the Bellevue Municipal Code".
      (6)   Change "IPC- 21 International Plumbing Code" to "Plumbing Code: The
plumbing code for this jurisdiction shall be as adopted by Chapter 27 of the
Bellevue Municipal Code".
      (7)   Change "IRC- 21 International Residential Code" to "International
Residential Code: The International Residential Code shall be as adopted by
Chapter 8 of the Bellevue Municipal Code".
      (8)   Delete "IUWIC-21 International Urban-Wildlife Interface Code".
(Ord. 3471, § 3, passed 7-14-2008; Ord. 3658, § 3, passed 11-28-2011; Ord.
3792, § 1, passed 12-8-2014; Ord. 4031, § 3, passed 5-4-2021; Ord. 4096, § 1,
passed 5-3-2022)
§ 12-37 DUTIES OF THE DEPARTMENT OF FIRE PREVENTION.
   (A)   The International Fire Code shall be enforced by the department of
fire prevention in the fire department of the city, which shall be operated by
the fire code official under the supervision of the chief of the fire
department.
   (B)   The fire code official in charge of the department of fire prevention
shall be appointed by the chief of the fire department on the basis of
examination to determine his or her qualifications.
   (C)   The fire chief may detail such members of the fire department as
inspectors as shall from time to time be necessary.
   (D)   The fire chief may recommend to the mayor and council the employment
of technical inspectors as shall from time to time be necessary.
(Ord. 2137, § 2, passed 6-9-1980; Ord. 2401, § 2, passed 1-27-1986; Ord. 3471,
§ 4, passed 7-14-2008; Ord. 3658, § 4, passed 11-28-2011)
§ 12-38 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of the International Fire Code adopted by this article, the
following words and phrases shall have the meanings respectively ascribed to
them by this section:
   DEPARTMENT OF FIRE PREVENTION. The fire prevention department of the
jurisdiction.
   FIRE CODE OFFICIAL. The fire chief or other designated authority charged
with the administration and enforcement of the code, or a duly authorized
representative.
   FIRE CHIEF. The chief officer of the department serving the jurisdiction, or
a duly authorized representative.
   JURISDICTION. he area within the boundaries of the City of Bellevue,
Nebraska.
   MUNICIPALITY. The City of Bellevue, Nebraska.
(1964 Code, § 10-7) (Ord. 2137, § 3, passed 6-9-1980; Ord. 2401, § 3, passed 1-
27-1986; Ord. 3471, § 5, passed 7-14-2008; Ord. 3621, § 1, passed 6-27-2011;
Ord. 3658, § 5, passed 11-28-2011)
§ 12-39 MODIFICATIONS.
   The fire chief shall have the authority to grant modifications of the
International Fire Code adopted by this article, in individual cases, upon
application in writing by the owner or lessee, or his duly authorized agent,
when there are practical difficulties in the way of carrying out the strict
letter of the code; provided, that in granting such modification the spirit of
the code shall be observed, public safety secured and substantial justice done.
The particulars of such modification, when granted or allowed, and the decision
of the fire chief thereon shall be entered upon the records of the fire
department, and a signed copy shall be furnished the applicant.
(1964 Code, § 10-8) (Ord. 2137, § 4, passed 6-9-1980; Ord. 2401, § 4, passed 1-
27-1986; Ord. 3471, § 6, passed 7-14-2008; Ord. 3658, § 6, passed 11-28-2011)
§ 12-40 APPEALS FROM ACTION OF FIRE CHIEF.
   Whenever the fire code official shall disapprove an application or refuse to
grant a permit applied for, or when it is claimed that the provisions of the
International Fire Code adopted by this article do not apply or that the true
intent and meaning of the provisions of the International Fire Code adopted by
this article have been misconstrued or wrongly interpreted, the applicant may
appeal from the decision of the fire chief to the city council within 30 days
from the date of the decision appealed.
(1964 Code, § 10-9) (Ord. 2137, § 5, passed 6-9-1980; Ord. 2401, § 5, passed 1-
27-1986; Ord. 3471, § 7, passed 7-14-2008; Ord. 3658, § 7, passed 11-28-2011)
§ 12-41 NEW MATERIALS, PROCESSES OR OCCUPANCIES WHICH MAY REQUIRE PERMITS.
   The fire code official shall determine and specify, after giving affected
persons an opportunity to be heard, any new materials, processes or occupancies
which shall require permits, in addition to those now enumerated in the
International Fire Code adopted by this article. The fire code official of the
fire department shall post such list in a conspicuous place in this office, and
distribute copies thereof to interested persons.
(1964 Code, § 10-10) (Ord. 2137, § 6, passed 6-9-1980; Ord. 2401, § 6, passed
1-27-1986; Ord. 3471, § 8, passed 7-14-2008; Ord. 3658, § 8, passed 11-28-2011)
§ 12-42 ESTABLISHMENT OF LIMITS REFERRED TO IN INTERNATIONAL FIRE CODE.
   That the geographical limits referred to in certain sections of the
International Fire Code are hereby established as follows:
   (A)   Section 3404.2.9.6.1 (geographical limits). Geographic limits in which
the storage of Class I and Class II liquids in above-ground tanks outside of
buildings is prohibited:
      (1)   There shall be no storage of Class I liquids in vessels defined as
tanks (60 gallons or more), or Class II liquids in amounts of 600 gallons or
more, unless a flammable or combustible liquid fire district is established,
which requires filing an application with the chief of the fire prevention
bureau. Proximity to heavily populated and congested commercial areas will be
considered with each application for a district.
      (2)   There shall be no storage of flammable or combustible liquids in
above-ground tanks without an adequate water supply as required in Section 508.
      (3)   There shall be no storage of flammable or combustible liquids in
above-ground tanks without proper fire department access as required in Section
503.
      (4)   There shall be no storage of Class I, II, or IIIA flammable or
combustible liquids in above-ground tanks unless the tanks are listed and
labeled as protected above-ground tanks.
   (B)   Section 3408.2 (geographical limits in which the storage of liquefied
petroleum gas is restricted for the purpose of heavily populated or congested
areas). These limits are established as within the boundaries of the City of
Bellevue.
   (C)   Section 3204.3.1.1 (geographical limits in which the storage of
flammable cryogenic fluids in stationary containers is prohibited). These
limits are established as within the boundaries of the City of Bellevue.
   (D)   Section 3301.1.3.1 (geographical limits in which the possession,
manufacture, sale, use, and handling of explosives are prohibited). These
limits are established as within the boundaries of the City of Bellevue except
as allowed in Section 3308 Fireworks Display.
(1964 Code, § 10-11) (Ord. 2137, § 7, passed 6-9-1980; Ord. 2401, § 7, passed
1-27-1986; Ord. 2746, § 2, passed 4-12-1993; Ord. 2914, § 2, passed 9-23-1996;
Ord. 3471, § 9, passed 7-14-2008; Ord. 3658, § 9, passed 11-28-2011)
§ 12-43 PENALTIES.
   (A)   Any person who shall violate any of the provisions of this code hereby
adopted or fail to comply therewith, or who shall violate or fail to comply
with any order made thereunder, or who shall build in violation of any detailed
statement or specification or plans submitted and approved thereunder, or any
certificate or permit issued thereunder, and from which no appeal has been
taken or who shall fail to comply with such an order as affixed or modified by
the city council or by a court of competent jurisdiction, within such violation
and noncompliance respectively, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, punishable by
a fine of not less than $10.00 nor more than $500.00 or by imprisonment for not
more than six months or by both such a fine and imprisonment. The imposition of
one penalty for any violation shall not excuse the violation or permit it to
continue; and all such persons shall be required to correct or remedy such
violations or defects within a reasonable time; and when not otherwise
specified, each ten days that prohibited conditions are maintained shall
constitute a separate offense.
   (B)   The application of the above penalty shall not be held to prevent the
enforced removal of prohibited conditions.
(Ord. 2137, § 8, passed 6-9-1980; Ord. 2401, § 8, passed 1-27-1986; Ord. 3471,
§ 10, passed 7-14-2008; Ord. 3658, § 10, passed 11-28-2011)
§§ 12-44—12-56 RESERVED.
ARTICLE IV: FIREWORKS
Section
Division 1: Generally
   
12-57   Definitions
   
12-58   Exception
   
12-59   Fireworks restricted
   
12-60   Sale, distribution, storage and discharge of fireworks restricted;
definitions
   
12-61   Location and make-up of fireworks retail outlets
   
12-62   Proximity to certain businesses and hazards
   
12-63   Permit for special fireworks
   
12-64   Fire extinguisher
   
12-65   Electrical service
   12-66—12-75   Reserved
Division 2: License
   
12-76   Limited issuance of retail fireworks licenses
   
12-77   City clerk to issue retail licenses; application for license
   
12-78   Reserved
   
12-79   Bond
   
12-80   Licensing of distributors and jobbers; fees and taxes; revocation of
license
   
12-81   Inspection required; duty of licensee
   
12-82   Display of retail license
   
12-83   Duration
   
12-84   Age of sellers and purchasers
   
12-85   Statement of profits and expenses
   
12-86   Violations
   12-87—12-100   Reserved
Statutory reference:
   Authority to regulate the discharge of fireworks, see Neb. RS 1943, § 16-227
   Fireworks, see Neb. RS 1943, §§ 28-1241 et seq.
DIVISION 1: GENERALLY
§ 12-57 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   For the purposes of this article, the words CONSUMER FIREWORKS shall
mean only sparklers, Vesuvius fountains, spray fountains, torches, color fire
cones, star and comet-type color aerial shells without explosive charge for the
purpose of making noise, lady fingers not to exceed seven-eights (7/8) of an
inch in length or one-eighth (1/8) inch in diameter, total pyrotechnic
composition not to exceed one-half (1/2) grain in each weight, color wheels,
and any other fireworks approved under the provisions of Neb. RS § 28-1241, as
may be amended.
   (B)   The term FLYING LANTERNS shall mean any device that requires a flame
which produces heated air trapped in a balloon-type covering allowing the
device to float in the air. FLYING LANTERNS shall not include hot-air balloons
used for transporting persons.
(1964 Code, § 10-12) (Ord. 4006, §§ 1, 2, passed 10-6-2020; Ord. 4030, § 1,
passed 5-4-2021; Ord. 4050, § 1, passed 9-21-2021)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 1943, § 28-1241(5)
§ 12-58 EXCEPTION.
   The provisions of this article shall not apply to the discharge of any
fireworks for purposes or under the auspices of any governmental subdivision.
(1964 Code, § 10-13) (Ord. 2092, § 2, passed 4-9-1979; Ord. 2102, § 1, passed
7-9-1979; Ord. 4030, § 1, passed 5-4-2021; Ord. 4050, § 1, passed 9-21-2021)
§ 12-59 FIREWORKS RESTRICTED.
   No person shall possess, sell, offer for sale, bring into the city or
discharge any flying lanterns or pyrotechnics, commonly known as fireworks,
other than consumer fireworks, as defined by section 12-57. No person shall
discharge any flying lanterns or fireworks within an area less than 100 feet
from any structure used for the exhibition or sale of fireworks.
(1964 Code, § 10-13) (Ord. 2092, § 2, passed 4-9-1979; Ord. 2102, § 1, passed
7-9-1979; Ord. 2874, § 1, passed 3-11-1996; Ord. 3823, § 2, passed 11-9-2015;
Ord. 4030, § 1, passed 5-4-2021; Ord. 4050, § 1, passed 9-21-2021)
§ 12-60 SALE, DISTRIBUTION, STORAGE AND DISCHARGE OF FIREWORKS RESTRICTED;
DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   No person shall sell, hold for sale, offer for sale, or distribute or
deliver fireworks in the city as a distributor, jobber or retailer (as such
terms are defined by the laws of the state, as amended from time to time)
unless licensed by the city for such purposes; provided that such licensee
shall at all times comply with sections
12-60 through 12-100 and with any applicable laws, regulations and rules of the
state, as amended from time to time.
   (B)   (1)   No fireworks may be sold at retail in this city except, daily,
from 8:00 a.m. until 10:00 p.m., June 25 through July 3, and from 8:00 a.m.
until 12:00 midnight on July 4. Unless first expressly approved by the city
council, it shall be unlawful for any person to discharge any other
pyrotechnics or pyrotechnic devices in this city other than fireworks. Unless
first expressly approved by the city council, it shall be unlawful to discharge
fireworks in this city except between:
         (a)   8:00 a.m. to 10:00 p.m. on any day from June 25 through July 3;
         (b)   8:00 a.m. to 12:00 midnight on July 4; and
         (c)   9:00 p.m. on December 31 to 12:30 a.m. on January 1.
      (2)   All retail fireworks sales sites shall prominently display a sign
listing the days and hours for legal discharge of fireworks in the City of
Bellevue and that any debris caused by the discharge of fireworks in the city
must be disposed of by the user. Nothing in this article shall be construed to
permit the discharge or other use of any fireworks or any other pyrotechnics or
pyrotechnic devices in violation of any other law of this city or the State of
Nebraska.
   (C)   No person other than distributors or jobbers or retailers licensed by
the city shall store fireworks for retail sale, distribution or delivery in
this city. No such storage shall be permitted except between the hours of 8:00
a.m. on June 23 through 12:00 noon on July 7. Such storage shall be allowed
only on sites approved for the retail sale of fireworks pursuant to the
provisions of section 12-77 in facilities complying with all applicable
provisions of law.
   (D)   Unless the context shall otherwise require, whenever used in sections
12-60 through 12-100, the term:
      (1)   COMMUNITY BETTERMENT shall mean a purpose which generally betters
or enhances the community of the City of Bellevue, including:
         (a)   The acquisition, improvement and maintenance of parks and
recreational facilities, public equipment and other items for community use;
         (b)   The recruitment and attraction of new businesses and jobs to the
City of Bellevue;
         (c)   Athletic programs which serve the city or neighborhoods or other
areas of the community;
         (d)   Scholarships and youth programs; and
         (e)   Other acquisitions, services or programs which generally benefit
the city and its residents.
      (2)   FIREWORKS shall mean and include only those fireworks that are
permitted for sale by a retailer under the laws of the state, as amended from
time to time.
      (3)   FLYING LANTERNS shall mean any device that requires a flame which
produces heated air trapped in a balloon-type covering allowing the device to
float in the air. FLYING LANTERNS shall not include hot-air balloons used for
transporting persons.
   (E)   Notwithstanding any other provisions in this section, the possession,
use, discharge, retail sale, offer for retail sale, or explosion of flying
lanterns in this city is prohibited.
(1964 Code, § 10-13) (Ord. 2092, § 2, passed 4-9-1979; Ord. 2102, § 1, passed
7-9-1979; Ord. 3307, § 1(12-60), passed 3-8-2004; Ord. 3360, § 1, passed 5-9-
2005; Ord. 3808, § 1, passed 5-11-2015; Ord. 3823, § 3, passed 11-9-2015; Ord.
4030, § 1, passed 5-4-2021; Ord. 4050, § 1, passed 9-21-2021)
§ 12-61 LOCATION AND MAKE-UP OF FIREWORKS RETAIL OUTLETS.
   (A)   No fireworks shall be sold or exhibited except from a sales outlet
meeting the requirements of this code. All such sales outlets and all
facilities used to store fireworks shall be located and set back at least:
      (1)   25 feet from the nearest right-of-way line of any public right-of-
way;
      (2)   100 feet from any residential structure; and
      (3)   50 feet from any other structure.
   (B)   Sale outlets may consist only of the following types of temporary
building structure; provided, however, no such structure shall be located
within 20 feet of any facility used to store fireworks:
      (1)   A temporary structure that either has a booth or stand that allows
patrons to view and purchase fireworks from the outside of such structure or
that allows patrons to enter such structure to view and purchase fireworks;
      (2)   A temporary structure that consists of an area enclosed by a tent.
   (C)   All sales outlets enclosing any area intended to be used by patrons in
connection with the sale of fireworks shall have a minimum of three (3) doors
for patrons, each at least three (3) feet in width and located as remotely as
practical from any other door or entryway. Each door shall be able to be opened
in the direction of egress. All sales outlets enclosing any other area to be
used by any person other than a patron shall have a minimum of one door at
least three (3) feet in width that is able to be opened in the direction of
egress.
   (D)   The floor area enclosed by any sales outlet shall be earthen, steel,
asphalt or concrete, in all instances free of any vegetation in excess of three
(3) inches in height and all flammable or combustible materials.
(1964 Code, § 10-14) (Ord. 2092, § 3, passed 4-7-1979; Ord. 2744, § 1, passed
4-26-1993; Ord. 2874, § 1, passed 3-11-1996; Ord. 3307, § 1(12-61), passed 3-8-
2004; Ord. 4030, § 1, passed 5-4-2021; Ord. 4050, § 1, passed 9-21-2021)
§ 12-62 PROXIMITY TO CERTAIN BUSINESSES AND HAZARDS.
   (A)   No sales outlet and no facility used to store fireworks shall be
located within: 100 feet from:
      (1)   Any facility or structure used for the sale, above ground storage
or dispensing of any liquefied petroleum gases or any other combustible fuel,
including diesel fuel, gasoline or propane; or
      (2)   Any container used in connection with any liquefied petroleum
gases; provided, further, that no organization holding a retail license for
sales of fireworks shall permit any motor vehicle to park within 15 feet of the
exterior of any fireworks sales outlet or facility used to store fireworks.
Such distance shall be measured from the closest point where such motor vehicle
may be situated or any hazard or material may be located or is dispensed,
vented, or stored above ground.
   (B)   No vegetation (in excess of three (3) inches in height), flammable or
combustible materials shall be allowed within ten (10) feet from the exterior
of any sales outlet or any facility used to store fireworks.
(Ord. 2092, § 3, passed 4-9-1979; Ord. 3307, § 1(12-62), passed 3-8-2004; Ord.
4030, § 1, passed 5-4-2021; Ord. 4050, § 1, passed 9-21-2021)
§ 12-63 PERMIT FOR SPECIAL FIREWORKS.
   No person shall conduct a public exhibition or display of fireworks without
first procuring a display permit from the Nebraska State Fire Marshal and the
city clerk. All applicants for a City of Bellevue permit shall make application
to the city clerk and present the city clerk with a copy of their permit issued
by the Nebraska State Fire Marshal. The city clerk shall present the
application for city council approval and if approved the city clerk shall
issue the permit.
(Ord. 4050, § 1, passed 9-21-2021)
§ 12-64 FIRE EXTINGUISHER.
   At least one (1) multipurpose fire extinguisher shall be furnished and
maintained with a current annual inspection tag in all areas used for the sale
and storage of fireworks. The extinguisher shall have a rating of at least 4-
A for Class A fires. Two (2) stored pressure water extinguishers with a
capacity of at least 2-1/2 gallons each may be substituted for multipurpose
extinguishers. The travel distance to any extinguisher required by this section
shall not exceed 25 feet. At least one (1) person shall be present at the sales
outlet during all business hours who has been trained, and is able, to operate
the fire extinguishing equipment. Such person shall be required to demonstrate
such ability whenever requested by the fire department.
(1964 Code, § 10-14) (Ord. 2000, passed 1-24-1977; Ord. 2092, § 3, passed 4-9-
1979; Ord. 3307, § 1(12-64), passed 3-8-2004; Ord. 4030, § 1, passed 5-4-2021;
Ord. 4050, § 1, passed 9-21-2021)
§ 12-65 ELECTRICAL SERVICE.
   (A)   Any electrical service used in any sales outlet shall comply with all
provisions of the National Electrical Code, as then currently adopted by the
city.
   (B)   Any extension cord used in, for or to any sales outlet or fireworks
storage facility shall be designated as "heavy-duty" and shall have conductors
of at least 14AWG and shall be protected from vehicle and pedestrian traffic at
all times.
   (C)   No electrical cord shall be used in, for or to any sales outlet or
fireworks storage facility in a manner that would increase the potential for
fire or electric shock.
   (D)   Any portable generator used to supply power to any sales outlet or
fireworks storage facility shall be placed at least ten feet from the sales
outlet and storage facility.
   (E)   Generators and/or fuel supplies shall not be stored in any sales
outlet or any fireworks storage facility.
(Ord. 2744, § 3, passed 4-26-1993; Ord. 3307, § 1(12-65), passed 3-8-2004; Ord.
4030, § 1, passed 5-4-2021; Ord. 4050, § 1, passed 9-21-2021)
§§ 12-66—12-75 RESERVED.
DIVISION 2: LICENSE
§ 12-76 LIMITED ISSUANCE OF RETAIL FIREWORKS LICENSES.
   The City of Bellevue finds that there has been a proliferation of outlets
for the sale of fireworks within the city and that such proliferation has
placed an unacceptable burden on the fire marshal, the Bellevue Police
Department, and other city departments in regulating the businesses. In
addition, an increased use of fireworks within the city limits and surrounding
areas has caused additional safety concerns. Therefore, licenses for the retail
sale of fireworks may be issued to no more than 25 not-for-profit charitable,
community or civic benevolent organizations which operate on a not-for-profit
and benevolent basis within the city and meet the criteria set forth in this
code.
(1964 Code, § 10-14) (Ord. 2092, § 3, passed 4-9-1979; Ord. 3307, § 2(12-76),
passed 3-8-2004; Ord. 4030, § 1, passed 5-4-2021; Ord. 4050, § 1, passed 9-21-
2021)
§ 12-77 CITY CLERK TO ISSUE RETAIL LICENSES; APPLICATION FOR LICENSE.
   (A)   The city clerk shall issue a single license to permit the sale of
fireworks at retail to those duly organized and existing not-for-profit and
benevolent organizations or associations meeting the criteria set forth in
section
12-77(C) whose application has been approved for such purposes by the city
administrator. No person issued a retailer's license shall be authorized to
purchase, sell, store, hold for sale, offer for sale, or accept delivery of any
fireworks other than fireworks sold or distributed by a jobber or distributor
that has been licensed by the city for such purposes.
   (B)   No application of any organization shall be approved by the city
administrator and no license to sell fireworks as a retailer shall be issued
except to an organization that:
      (1)   Is a duly organized not-for-profit and benevolent organization or
association that has been operating or doing business on a not-for-profit and
benevolent basis within the city for at least one (1) year prior to April 1 of
the year in which the application required by this section is submitted and has
actually conducted or engaged in community betterment activity during such
period;
      (2)   Has been licensed by the State of Nebraska as a retailer; and
      (3)   Has made application for such license required by section
12-77(E).
   (C)   Notwithstanding any other provision of this code, no organization
shall be eligible to receive a city retailer's license for the license year
following any license year during which the organization:
      (1)   Failed to satisfactorily evidence the payment of all sales taxes
applicable to the sales of fireworks by the organization for such license year
or otherwise failed to comply with sections
12-64,
12-65,
12-85; or
      (2)   Had a city retailer's license revoked by the city. Thereafter, an
organization that was ineligible to receive a city retailer's license by
application of section
12-77(C)(1) shall remain ineligible until such organization has paid the
applicable sales tax for the deficient license year and has otherwise
satisfactorily complied with sections
12-64,
12-65,
12-85 for non-compliant license year to the extent possible.
   (D)   Application for a retailer's license shall be made to the city clerk
between April 1 and April 30 of each year; provided that in the event such date
shall fall on a weekend or a day that is a holiday recognized by the city, such
application shall be submitted no later than the close of business on the first
business day of the city following such date. The city clerk shall promptly
forward each application to the city administrator. No application shall be
accepted unless the full application and supporting documentation is completed
and submitted to the city clerk at the time of submission. Applications shall
only be supplemented if allowed by the city administrator and only for good
cause shown. Examples of good cause shall include, but not be limited to,
information that is an applicant is waiting on from the State Fire Marshal,
bond approval, or other state requirement that may be delayed. The application
and any supplemental information shall be maintained in the office of the city
clerk.
   (E)   Application shall be made on a form provided by the city clerk for
such purposes and shall include the following:
      (1)   The identity, address and telephone number of a contact person for
the organization, together with a copy of the retailer's license issued by the
state to the organization.
      (2)   To the extent that the organization is required by law to register
its existence or make some other filing in order to be authorized to lawfully
operate or to conduct business in the State of Nebraska and/or the city, a
certified copy from such appropriate governmental body or agency showing that
at the time of the application the organization is existing, validly organized,
in good standing and certified to do business or operate in the State of
Nebraska; provided, however, that to the extent the organization is not so
required (e.g., lodges, social, civic, fraternal and beneficial entities
authorized under Neb. RS § 21-608), the organization shall include such
information as may be necessary or appropriate to evidence to the city that it
is validly organized, in good standing and able to do business in the city;
      (3)   Documentation evidencing that the organization is currently
operating as a not-for-profit and benevolent organization or association within
the city and otherwise meet the eligibility requirements set forth in section
12-77(B)(1);
      (4)   A verified statement identifying (by name and state license number)
all distributors or jobbers with whom such organization will do business as a
retailer during the year of application if the license is issued, with
appropriate documentation from the distributor or jobber supporting such
statement;
      (5)   Documentation evidencing the organization's due payment of all
sales taxes applicable to the sales of fireworks by the organization in the
preceding year;
      (6)   A verified statement that, as a condition of the license, the
organization:
         (a)   Agrees to purchase fireworks only from those distributors or
jobbers that are identified in the statement submitted pursuant to section
12-77(E)(4) to whom a license for such purposes has been issued by the city;
         (b)   Agrees to comply with and abide by all provisions of this code,
including any directive from the city in respect to this code or to the laws,
rules or regulations of the state;
         (c)   Agrees to sell fireworks only from a single sales outlet meeting
the requirement of this code at the approved location identified in its
application by address or other suitable area description;
         (d)   Understands that any such license issued to the organization is
personal to the organization and the organization agrees that it will not
assign or transfer or attempt to assign or transfer the license in any manner;
and
         (e)   Understands and agrees that the city is authorized and entitled,
in its discretion, to revoke or suspend the organization's city retail license
(and upon demand the organization shall immediately surrender its license to
the city and cease selling any fireworks) upon the occurrence of any act, error
or omission of the organization (including any of its members, officers,
directors or agents) that results in:
            1.   A violation of any of the agreements or understandings set
forth in this section
12-77(E)(6);
            2.   A violation of the laws, rules or regulation of the state
pertaining to the sale or storing of fireworks that may, or does, result in the
revocation or suspension of its state retailers license; or
            3.   A violation of sections
12-60 through 12-100 that constitutes an immediate threat, in the opinion of
the fire inspector, to public health, safety or welfare;
      (7)   A verified statement that the organization understands that, in
addition to the eligibility criteria otherwise set forth in this code, as a
condition of being permitted to apply for a license, the organization shall:
         (a)   Have made the timely payment of all applicable sales and other
taxes resulting from the retail sale of fireworks, including any related
reporting obligations, under any similar license issued by the city in the
preceding year; and
         (b)   Have made a timely and true and correct filing of any statement
required by section
12-85;
      (8)   Any other information request on such form as may be appropriate in
order that the city
may ascertain that the organization shall have complied with any applicable
provisions of this code.
   (F)   In any year, if more than 25 duly completed applications from eligible
organizations are received by the city clerk and have been approved by the city
administrator, then the city clerk shall issue licenses from among such
approved organizations as follows:
      (1)   Those organizations that were issued a similar license by the city
in the immediately preceding license year shall be issued a license;
      (2)   In the event that after expiration of the appeal time as outlined
in section (G) below for all organizations whose applications were not approved
by the city administrator (other than by application of sections
12-77(B) or
12-77(C)), there are less than 25 organizations that have been issued a license
by application of section
12-77(F)(1), and there remain organizations whose applications were approved by
the city administrator, the city clerk shall issue licenses to a number of
approved organizations equal to a number that when added to the total of
licenses issued for that year pursuant to section
12-77(F)(1) does not exceed 25 provided that the organization who received a
license in the preceding year and whose appeal has been successful shall be
accorded the same priority as if approved by the city administrator. The
organization to be issued a license pursuant to section
12-77(F)(2) shall be determined by lot in a manner the city administrator finds
to be appropriate.
   (G)   The city administrator shall approve or deny all the applications of
all organizations by no later than the second Monday in May in the year of the
application. Any denial shall be made in writing personally delivered or sent
by regular mail addressed to the person designated in the application
specifying the reasons for the denial. Any denial may be appealed to the city
council by written notice made to the city administrator within ten (10)
calendar days of the date of the denial; provided, however, no appeal shall be
permitted because denial was the result of the application of sections
12-77(B) or
12-77(C) and no appeal shall be allowed to any organization denied a license by
the application of section
12-77(F)(2). The city administrator shall schedule a hearing before the city
council at the next available and regularly scheduled city council meeting that
is at least five (5) business days after receipt of such notice of appeal.
   (H)   Whenever an organization has been approved by the city administrator
or by a successful appeal to the city council, no license shall be issued.
      (1)   Unless the organization shall first:
         (a)   Pay the city a license fee in the amount stated in the Master
Fee Schedule in cash or by check representing then good funds;
         (b)   Furnish the bond required by section
12-79;
         (c)   File a copy of its state retail license with the city clerk; and
      (2)   The inspection contemplated by section
12-81 has been successfully completed.
(1964 Code, § 10-14) (Ord. 2092, § 3, passed 4-9-1979; Ord. 2498, § 1, passed
2-22-1988; Ord. 2537, § 1, passed 2-27-1989; Ord. 2874, § 1, passed 3-11-1996;
Ord. 3102, § 1, passed 3-27-2000; Ord. 3307, § 2(12-77), passed 3-8-2004; Ord.
3360, § 2, passed 5-9-2005; Ord. 3513, § 2, passed 3-9-2009; Ord. 4030, § 1,
passed 5-4-2021; Ord. 4050, § 1, passed 9-21-2021)
§ 12-78 RESERVED.
§ 12-79 BOND.
   (A)   No license may be issued to an organization for the retail sale of
fireworks, unless the organization shall first furnish to the city a cash bond
in the amount of $1,000.00.
   (B)   Such bond shall be conditioned so that:
      (1)   The organization shall abide by any laws and regulations pertaining
to the sale of fireworks, including all applicable provisions of sections
12-60 through 12-100; and
      (2)   That the organization shall thoroughly clean the location
identified in its application where fireworks are to be stored or sold and
remove any outlet, stand, booth or other facility and all debris from such
location by 12:00 noon on July 7 of each year, unless July 7 falls on a
weekend, then clean-up shall be completed by 12:00 noon on the following
Monday.
   (C)   The bond shall be forfeited to the city in its entirety whenever the
license issued to the organization is revoked by the city for any reason
contemplated by section
12-77(E)(6) or whenever the organization shall not comply with the condition
set forth in section
12-79(B)(2).
(1964 Code, § 10-14) (Ord. 2092, § 3, passed 4-9-1979; Ord. 2498, § 2, passed
2-22-1988; Ord. 2874, § 1, passed 3-11-1996; Ord. 3307, § 2(12-79), passed 3-8-
2004; Ord. 4030, § 1, passed 5-4-2021; Ord. 4050, § 1, passed 9-21-2021)
§ 12-80 LICENSING OF DISTRIBUTORS AND JOBBERS; FEES AND TAXES; REVOCATION OF
LICENSE.
   (A)   No person shall sell, hold for sale, offer for sale, or distribute or
deliver fireworks in the city as a distributor or jobber unless such person is
licensed as a distributor or jobber by the State of Nebraska and the city. No
person shall be licensed as a distributor or jobber by the city unless such
person shall register its state license with the city on a form provided by the
city clerk for such purposes on or before April 1 in the calendar year in which
such activity is to be conducted and shall first pay the license fee imposed by
section
12-80(D); provided however the registration shall not be permitted to any
distributor or jobber (including any affiliate, subsidiary or other
organization that is, directly or indirectly, owned, operated or controlled by
any such distributor or jobber or by any person or individual owning, operating
or controlling such distributor or jobber) if a jobber's or distributor's
license previously issued by the city has been revoked.
   (B)   In the event such date shall fall on a weekend or a day that is a
holiday recognized by the city, registration shall be made by no later than the
close of business on the first business day of the city following such date.
   (C)   A city jobber's or distributor's license shall be valid only for the
calendar year during which the state license is issued and the registration is
made.
   (D)   Registration shall be made on a form provided by the city clerk for
such purposes and shall include:
      (1)   Identification of the license number and the pertinent nature of
the license issued by the state, and
      (2)   All other information requested by the city as may be appropriate
in order that the city may ascertain that such distributor or jobber is in
compliance with the applicable provisions of this code; provided that such
information shall be considered the confidential proprietary information of the
organization and of the applicant/distributor/jobber and not subject to
disclosure to the extent permitted by law. Such registration shall be
accompanied by payment, by certified check, of a license fee in the amount
stated in the Master Fee Schedule.
   (E)   Nothing in this section
12-80 shall be construed to permit any distributor or jobber to engage in the
sale of fireworks at retail unless such distributor or jobber has been licensed
for such sales in accordance with the provisions of section
12-77.
   (F)   All information submitted by any distributor or jobber pursuant to
this section
12-80 shall be maintained and made available in the city clerk's office.
   (G)   Any license issued pursuant to this section
12-80 shall not be construed to allow such distributor or jobber to sell,
purchase or distribute any fireworks except to those distributors, jobbers and
retailers licensed by the city for such activities.
   (H)   Each distributor's or jobber's license issued by the city shall be
subject to immediate revocation or suspension by the city whenever the
distributor or jobber shall sell, purchase or distribute fireworks to or from
any retailer, jobber or distributor that is not appropriately licensed by the
city at the time of the purchase, sale or distribution.
(1964 Code, § 10-14) (Ord. 2092, § 3, passed 4-9-1979; Ord. 2346, § 2, passed
3-11-1985; Ord. 2498, § 3, passed 2-22-1988; Ord. 3307, § 2(12-80), passed 3-8-
2004; Ord. 3501, § 2, passed 3-9-2009; Ord. 4030, § 1, passed 5-4-2021; Ord.
4050, § 1, passed 9-21-2021)
§ 12-81 INSPECTION REQUIRED; DUTY OF LICENSEE.
   (A)   No retail license may be issued to an organization whose application
has been approved for the retail sale of fireworks, unless an inspection
conducted by the fire inspector and any other appropriate inspector of the city
of its sales outlet and storage facilities has determined the organization's
conformity to and compliance with the code, including any land use regulations.
   (B)   The organization shall request the city in writing addressed to the
city clerk no later than 4:00 p.m. on June 23 of the appropriate calendar year
to make such inspection. The city shall attempt to conduct such inspection
within 24 hours after the request has been made. The inspector(s) shall advise
the city clerk at such time as the inspection has determined that such
organization is in compliance with the requirements of the code.
   (C)   Nothing in this shall preclude the city from subsequently revoking,
suspending or demanding the surrender of the organization's retail license.
(1964 Code, § 10-14.1) (Ord. 2346, § 3, passed 3-11-1985; Ord. 2874, § 1,
passed 3-11-1996; Ord. 3307, § 2(12-81), passed 3-8-2004; Ord. 4030, § 1,
passed 5-4-2021; Ord. 4050, § 1, passed 9-21-2021)
§ 12-82 DISPLAY OF RETAIL LICENSE.
   Any retail license issued by the city shall be prominently displayed at all
times at the sales outlet.
(1964 Code, § 10-14.2) (Ord. 2498, § 4, passed 2-22-1988; Ord. 3307, § 2(12-
82), passed 3-8-2004; Ord. 4030, § 1, passed 5-4-2021; Ord. 4050, § 1, passed
9-21-2021)
§ 12-83 DURATION.
   Any retail license issued by the city shall be valid only for the calendar
year in which issued.
(1964 Code, § 10-14) (Ord. 2092, § 3, passed 4-9-1979; Ord. 3307, § 2(12-83),
passed 3-8-2004; Ord. 4030, § 1, passed 5-4-2021; Ord. 4050, § 1, passed 9-21-
2021)
§ 12-84 AGE OF SELLERS AND PURCHASERS.
   (A)   Any person actually selling or offering for sale any fireworks in the
city shall be at least 14 years of age, and no licensee shall allow or permit
any person to sell or offer to sell any fireworks who is not 14 years of age,
provided however that someone over the age of 16 shall be present at all times.
   (B)   No person actually selling or offering for sale any fireworks in the
city shall sell or offer to sell fireworks to any person who is under 16 years
of age, and no licensee shall allow or permit any person to sell or offer to
sell any fireworks to any person who is under 16 years of age.
(Ord. 2092, § 3, passed 4-9-1979; Ord. 2498, § 5, passed 2-22-1988; Ord. 3307,
§ 2(12-84), passed 3-8-2004; Ord. 4030, § 1, passed 5-4-2021; Ord. 4050, § 1,
passed 9-21-2021)
§ 12-85 STATEMENT OF PROFITS AND EXPENSES.
   (A)   Each organization that has received a retail license pursuant to
section
12-77 shall file with the city clerk on or before September 30, a detailed
verified statement providing the following information:
      (1)   The total dollar amount paid by all patrons for fireworks at the
sales outlet during the license period, including, separately stated, the
amount of sales tax collected by the organization and to be paid in connection
with such sales, including the manner and means of calculating the same; and
      (2)   Such other information as the city shall consider appropriate.
   (B)   Such statement shall be filed on a form that the city clerk has
prepared for such purposes.
   (C)   The form shall be maintained and made available in the office of the
city clerk.
(1964 Code, § 10-14) (Ord. 2092, § 3, passed 4-9-1979; Ord. 3307, § 2(12-85),
passed 3-8-2004; Ord. 4030, § 1, passed 5-4-2021; Ord. 4050, § 1, passed 9-21-
2021)
§ 12-86 VIOLATIONS.
   Any person or any licensee who violates any of the provisions of sections
12-59,
12-60,
12-61,
12-64,
12-82 or
12-84 shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor in addition to any fine or
penalty for such violation as may otherwise be provided in sections
12-60 through 12-100.
(1964 Code, § 10-14) (Ord. 2092, § 3, passed 4-9-1979; Ord. 3307, § 2(12-86),
passed 3-8-2004; Ord. 4030, § 1, passed 5-4-2021; Ord. 4050, § 1, passed 9-21-
2021)
§§ 12-87—12-100 RESERVED.
ARTICLE V: FILLING STATIONS
Section
Division 1: Generally
   12-101—12-127   Reserved
Division 2: Reserved
   12-128—12-145   Reserved
Division 3: Reserved
   12-146—12-155   Reserved
Editor’s note:
   Ord. 2482, § 1, adopted September 14, 1987, repealed Div. 2, § 12-12 through
12-134, and Div. 3, §§ 12-146 through 12-153, pertaining to permits and
attendants for gasoline filling and service stations; such divisions derived
from Code 1964, §§ 8-1 through 8-5; and Ord. 2017, §§ 8-1 through 8-5, adopted
July 11, 1977.
ARTICLE VI: FIRE LANES
Section
   
12-166   Penalties
   
12-167   Required
   
12-168   Dimensions; grade
   
12-169   Private property; parking
   
12-170   Signs
   
12-171   Application of article
§ 12-166 PENALTIES.
   Any and all persons who violate any of the provisions of this article or
fail to comply therewith or who shall violate or fail to comply with any order
or regulations made hereunder shall severally for each and every such violation
and noncompliance, respectively, be fined not less than $25.00 nor more than
$100.00 or shall be imprisoned not more than 90 days. The imposition of one
penalty of any violation of this article shall not excuse the violation or
permit it to continue; and all such persons shall be required to correct or
remedy such violation or defects within a reasonable time; and when not
otherwise specified, each 24 hours that prohibited conditions are maintained
shall constitute a separate offense. The application of the above penalty shall
not be held to prevent the enforced removal of prohibited conditions.
(Ord. 2147, § 6, passed 9-22-1980; Ord. 3471, § 11, passed 7-14-2008; Ord.
3658, § 11, passed 11-28-2011)
§ 12-167 REQUIRED.
   (A)   Where required. Fire apparatus access roads shall be provided and
maintained in accordance with sections 503.1.1 through 503.1.3 and Annex D of
the fire code.
   (B)   Buildings and facilities. Approved fire apparatus access roads shall
be provided for every facility, building or portion of a building hereafter
constructed or moved into or within the jurisdiction. The fire apparatus access
road shall extend to within 150 feet of all portions of the facility and all
portions of the exterior walls of the first floor of the building as measured
by an approved route around the exterior of the building or facility.
   Exception. The fire code official is authorized to increase the dimension of
the 150 feet where:
      (1)   The building is equipped throughout with an approved automatic
sprinkler system installed in accordance with the fire code.
      (2)   Fire apparatus access roads cannot be installed because of location
on property, topography, waterways, nonnegotiable grades or similar conditions,
and an approved means of fire protection is provided.
      (3)   There are not more than two Group R-3 or Group U occupancies.
   (C)   Additional access. The fire official is authorized to require more
than one fire apparatus access road based on the potential for impairment of a
single road by vehicle congestions, condition of terrain, climatic conditions
or other factors that could limit access.
(Ord. 2147, § 1, passed 9-22-1980; Ord. 3471, § 12, passed 7-14-2008; Ord.
3658, § 12, passed 11-28-2011)
§ 12-168 DIMENSIONS; GRADE.
   Where a fire lane specified in this article is required to provide access,
there shall be maintained a fire lane of at least 24 feet in width and a
maximum grade of ten percent with the road edge closest to the building at
least ten feet from the building. All fire lanes shall have a curve radius of
not less than 45 feet and a minimum of 13 feet six inches of vertical
clearance. Any dead-end road more than 300 feet long shall be provided with a
turnaround at the closed end at least 90 feet in diameter.
(Ord. 2147, § 2, passed 9-22-1980)
§ 12-169 PRIVATE PROPERTY; PARKING.
   The designation and maintenance of fire lanes on private property shall be
accomplished as specified by the chief. It shall be unlawful for any person to
park motor vehicles on or obstruct any fire lane.
(Ord. 2147, § 3, passed 9-22-1980)
§ 12-170 SIGNS.
   All signs shall meet the requirements of the 2021 International Fire Code,
Appendix D. If there is a curb along the fire lane, the curb shall be painted
red.
(Ord. 2147, § 4, passed 9-22-1980; Ord. 3471, § 13, passed 7-14-2008; Ord.
3658, § 13, passed 11-28-2011; Ord. 3792, § 4, passed 12-8-2014; Ord. 4031, §
4, passed 5-4-2021)
§ 12-171 APPLICATION OF ARTICLE.
   The provisions of this article shall apply to existing conditions as well as
to conditions that arise after the adoption hereof, except that conditions
legally in existence at the time of the adoption of this article and not in
strict compliance herewith, shall be permitted to continue only if, in the
opinion of the authority having jurisdiction, they do not constitute a distinct
hazard to life or property.
(Ord. 2147, § 5, passed 9-22-1980)
ARTICLE VII: OPEN BURNING
Section
   
12-172   Definitions.
   
12-173   Open fires; when permitted
   
12-174   Open fire permit; application
   
12-175   Fees
   
12-176   Outdoor fireplaces; when permitted
   12-177—12-178   Reserved
Statutory reference:
   Open burning, see Neb. RS 1943, §§ 81-520.01 et seq.
§ 12-172 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of section
12-172 to section 12-179, the following definitions shall apply:
   RECREATIONAL FIRE. As defined in section 302.4.2 of the 2021 International
Fire Code and shall be permitted only at designated campground areas of Haworth
Park, unless a permit is obtained pursuant to section
12-174.
   OUTDOOR FIREPLACE. Outdoor fireplaces shall include fire pits, portable fire
pits, and chimeneas. These residential outdoor fireplaces use wood as a fuel
and are used for containing recreational fires located at a private residence
for the purpose of outdoor cooking and personal enjoyment. The term “outdoor
fireplaces” does not include barbeque grills that use propane or charcoal as a
fuel and are used primarily for outdoor cooking.
   PORTABLE FIRE PITS. Commercially designed devices intended to confine and
control outdoor wood fires.
   CHIMENEAS. Outdoor patio fireplaces, usually made from clay, intended to
confine and control outdoor wood fires.
   FIRE PITS. Devices usually constructed of steel, concrete and/or stone, and
constructed above ground with a heavy steel screen cover.
(Ord. 3141, passed 3-12-2001; Ord. 3546, § 1, passed 12-14-2009; Ord. 4069, §
1, passed 2-1-2022)
§ 12-173 OPEN FIRES; WHEN PERMITTED.
   The fire chief shall have the authority to waive the open burning ban
established by Neb. RS § 81-520.01, and may waive any similar provisions in the
Nebraska State Fire Marshall regulations or in the 2009 International Fire
Code, as amended, for an area within the Bellevue zoning jurisdiction. The fire
chief may issue an open burning permit pursuant to section
12-174 of this Code. All open burning within the Bellevue zoning jurisdiction
shall be regulated by the provisions of the 2009 International Fire Code
adopted in Article III of this Chapter 12, as amended, solely for the purpose
of controlling the method, structure, size, location, attendance and
extinguishment of any such open burning, unless a contrary provision is recited
herein.
(Ord. 3141, passed 3-12-2001; Ord. 3546, § 2, passed 12-14-2009; Ord. 3621, §
2, passed 6-27-2011; Ord. 3736, § 1, passed 9-23-2013)
§ 12-174 OPEN FIRE PERMIT; APPLICATION.
   Application for an open burning permit shall be submitted to the office of
the fire chief on forms approved by the fire chief. The application shall
include all information required in any section of this article and as
requested by the fire chief and each applicant shall comply with reasonable
requests by the fire chief or his or her designee to supply additional or
updated information. Information concerning application for an open burning
permit under this article shall be maintained and made available in the office
of the fire chief and the fire chief is authorized to develop forms for open
burning permit applications.
(Ord. 3141, passed 3-12-2001; Ord. 3546, § 3, passed 12-14-2009)
§ 12-175 FEES.
   The fire chief shall charge a fee as described in the Master Fee Schedule
for an open burning permit required by this article. This fee shall be remitted
to the city for inclusion in the general funds allocated to the fire
department.
(Ord. 3141, passed 3-12-2001; Ord. 3501, § 3, passed 3-9-2009; Ord. 3546, § 4,
passed 12-14-2009)
§ 12-176 OUTDOOR FIREPLACES; WHEN PERMITTED.
   All outdoor fireplaces shall meet the following requirements:
   (1)   Clearances. A minimum 15 feet clearance shall be maintained between
the outdoor fireplace and combustible structure or materials such as walls,
roofs, fences, decks, woodpiles, and other combustible material.
   (2)   Construction. Outdoor fireplaces shall be constructed of concrete or
approved non- combustible materials. The fire fuel area and openings shall be
completely enclosed by a steel screening (spark guard) or an approved non-
combustible screening material with openings no greater than one-half inch
square. Vent stacks, chimneys, and chimeneas shall have a steel screen cover
made of heavy wire mesh or other non-combustible material with openings no
larger than one-half inch square. Not permitted are barrels, half-barrels,
drums or similar constructed devices.
   (3)   Size. The fuel area for an outdoor fireplace shall not be larger than
three feet in diameter and a height of more than two feet.
   (4)   Location. Outdoor fireplaces shall be placed on a stable, non-
combustible surface such as a concrete pad and only at grade level. Outdoor
fireplaces shall not be located on combustible balconies or decks and shall not
be located under any combustible balcony or any overhanging portion of a
structure.
   (5)   Type of materials being burnt. Materials allowed by this section shall
be limited to untreated wood or approved fireplace starter logs. Petroleum
products, rubbish, grass, leaves, cardboard, plastics, rubber or any material
that may flow out of the containment or cause excessive heat, smoke, or
offensive smell shall not be permitted.
   (6)   Amount of materials being burnt. Users must:
      (a)   Limit the amount of material being burnt to ensure the flames are
confined inside the fuel area of the outdoor fireplace and the flames do not
extend above the pit or into the chimney; and
      (b)   Follow the manufacturer’s recommendation on the maximum amount of
fuel to be used at one time with spark guard in place.
   (7)   Supervision. Outdoor fireplaces shall be under constant supervision by
at least one responsible person of age 18 or older from the ignition of the
fire until the fire is completely extinguished, and embers are cooled so as to
prohibit the fire from rekindling.
   (8)   Provisions for protection. A garden hose connected to a water supply
or other approved fire extinguishing equipment shall be readily available for
use.
   (9)   Maintenance. The owner is responsible to ensure proper maintenance and
care is accomplished in accordance with manufacturer’s instructions. At the
minimum, the outdoor fireplace will be checked regularly for the appearance of
cracks and other physical deterioration or loose parts.
   (10)   Discontinuance. Smoke from any outdoor fireplace shall not create a
nuisance for neighboring property owners. The fire shall be extinguished
immediately upon the complaint of the neighboring property owner of any smoke
nuisance. The fire chief or an authorized representative has the authority to
require outdoor fireplace use to be immediately discontinued if such use is
determined to constitute a hazardous or nuisance condition to occupants of
surrounding property.
   (11)   Permit.
      (a)   A permit is required by a licensed contractor to install gas lines
for any outdoor fireplace that will be connected to a permanent gas line. No
license shall be required of any individual doing installation or repair of the
gas line of the residence in which he/she owns and lives, provided such
installation is done in conformity with this code and any other ordinances of
the city. For any outdoor fireplace that will be connected to a permanent gas
line, a site plan showing the location of the outdoor fireplace on the property
and a detailed drawing of the construction of the outdoor fireplace shall be
submitted to the Permits and Inspections Department of the city for review by
said department or its designee. A permit will be issued based on approved
plans.
      (b)   For a permanent fire pit not including the installation of a gas
line, a site plan showing the location of the fire pit on the property and a
detailed drawing of the construction of the fire pit shall be submitted to the
Permits and Inspections Department of the city for review by said department or
its designee. A permit will be issued on approved plans.
      (c)   A permit is not required for portable fire pits or chimeneas,
provided they are commercially designed and have been approved by an
independent testing laboratory.
(Ord. 4069, § 2, passed 2-1-2022)
§§ 12-177—12-178 RESERVED.
§ 12-179 PENALTIES.
   Any person who shall violate any of the provisions of this article hereby
adopted or fail to comply therewith, or who shall violate or fail to comply
with any order made thereunder, or who shall violate any provisions of the 2006
International Fire Code, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, punishable by a fine
of not less than $100.00 nor more than $500.00 or by imprisonment for not more
than six months or by both such fine and imprisonment. The imposition of one
penalty for any violation shall not excuse the violation or permit it to
continue; and all such persons shall be required to correct or remedy such
violations or defects within a reasonable time; and when otherwise specified,
each day that prohibited conditions are maintained shall constitute a separate
offense. In addition to the aforementioned penalties, the fire chief, in his or
her sole discretion, may suspend a person’s burning privileges for up to one
year for any violation of this article.
(Ord. 3141, passed 3-12-2001; Ord. 3546, § 8, passed 12-14-2009)
CHAPTER 13: GARBAGE AND REFUSE
   Article
      
I.   IN GENERAL
      
II.   COLLECTION GENERALLY
      
III.   PERMIT FOR COLLECTION BUSINESS
ARTICLE I: IN GENERAL
Section
   
13-1   Definitions
   
13-2   Burning of garbage and refuse
   
13-3   Disposal of building rubbish
   
13-4   Deposit of waste, etc.—Prohibited
   
13-5   Same—Duty of business owners, occupants
   13-6—13-20   Reserved
Statutory reference:
   Garbage disposal, see Neb. RS 1943, §§ 18-1752 et seq., 19-2101 et seq.
   Integrated Solid Waste Management Act, see Neb. RS 1943, §§ 13-2001 et seq.
   Littering of public and private property, see Neb. RS § 28-523
   Nebraska Litter Reduction and Recycling Act, see Neb. RS 1943, §§ 81-1534 et
seq.
§ 13-1 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this chapter, unless otherwise specified, the following
words and phrases shall have the meanings respectively ascribed to them by this
section:
   BUILDING RUBBISH. Rubbish from construction, remodeling and repair
operations on houses, commercial buildings and other structures, including but
not limited to excavated earth, stones, brick, plaster, lumber, concrete and
waste parts occasioned by installations and repairs.
   GARBAGE. The organic waste and residue of animal, fruit or vegetable matter
arising from or attending the household preparation of meats, fish, fowl,
fruits and vegetables, including the organic waste of animal, fruit or
vegetable matter attending the preparation of food from any home, hotel,
hospital, church, restaurant and commercial establishment.
   REFUSE. Garbage and rubbish except sewage, dirt and manure, from all public
and private establishments and residences.
   RUBBISH. All nonputrescible wastes such as paper, tin cans, bottles, glass
containers, rags, paper sacks, boxes, packing materials and all refuse from
dwellings and all business, commercial and industrial establishments, except
sewage, dirt, manure, wastepaper and other salvage materials which might affect
the public health and safety, but which actually have a value to the owner or
producer thereof and which will not affect the public health and safety when
handled and transported over the streets or alleys of the city in accordance
with regulations contained in this chapter.
(1964 Code, § 11-1)
§ 13-2 BURNING OF GARBAGE AND REFUSE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to burn garbage or animal matter in the
city in violation of state law.
(1964 Code, § 11-7)
Statutory reference:
   Open burning, see Neb. RS 1943, §§ 81-520.01 et seq.
§ 13-3 DISPOSAL OF BUILDING RUBBISH.
   Building rubbish shall be collected, removed and disposed of by the
contractor or builder, or in the event of his failure by the owner of the
property.
(1964 Code, § 11-8)
§ 13-4 DEPOSIT OF WASTE, ETC.—PROHIBITED.
   No person shall throw, drop or deposit, or cause to be thrown, dropped or
deposited, on any premises or vacant property in the city any waste, including
but not limited to garbage, ashes, rubbish, building rubbish, dead animals,
putrescible matter, the spillage of excavated dirt, tree limbs, leaves and
grass clippings and anything injurious to health; provided, that the
prohibition contained in this section shall not apply to the deposit of wastes
not injurious to health on a public site where permission to make such deposit
is granted by the board of health of the city nor to the filling in or grading
of property with earth, mud, ashes and similar materials. No person shall
throw, drop or deposit, or cause to be thrown, dropped or deposited, on any
street, avenue, alley, highway, footway, sidewalk, park or other public place
or space in the city any waste, including but not limited to garbage, rubbish,
ashes, building rubbish, dead animals, putrescible matter and anything
injurious to health; provided, that building rubbish and material used for
building, construction, repair, remodeling and excavating operations may be
deposited in the places set out in this section in accordance with this Code or
other applicable ordinances.
(1964 Code, § 11-9)
§ 13-5 SAME—DUTY OF BUSINESS OWNERS, OCCUPANTS.
   (A)   Generally. The owner or occupant of any store or other place of
business situated within the city shall exercise reasonable diligence at all
times to keep his premises clean of wastepaper, wrapping paper, paper napkins,
cartons, package containers, and other used or waste materials thrown or left
on said premises by its customers, and to take reasonable measures to prevent
same drifting or blowing to adjoining premises.
   (B)   Receptacles. Receptacles of sufficient size and number shall be placed
on the premises accessible to the customers of such business where the above
referred to articles of waste may be disposed of.
   (C)   Signs. Each and every business establishment shall place upon its
premises in a conspicuous place or places in close proximity to the receptacle
or receptacles above referred to, a sign or signs which shall, in essence,
convey to its customers a request that they use such receptacles for the
disposal of waste material.
§§ 13-6—13-20 RESERVED.
ARTICLE II: COLLECTION GENERALLY
Section
Division 1: Generally
   
13-21   Definitions
   
13-22   Exclusive right of city; contractors
   
13-23   Requirements for vehicles used for collection
   13-24—13-30   Reserved
Division 2: Containers
   
13-31   Required; use generally
   
13-32   Specifications and size
   
13-33   Maintenance
   
13-34   Protection of contents
   
13-35   Location
   
13-36   Preparation of material
   
13-37   Separation of deposits not required
   13-38—13-45   Reserved
Division 3: Rates and Charges
   
13-46   Generally
   
13-47   Established
   
13-48   Billing and payment; delinquent bills
   13-49—13-60   Reserved
DIVISION 1: GENERALLY
§ 13-21 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this article, the following words and phrases shall have
the meanings respectively ascribed to them by this section:
   GARBAGE. The organic waste and residue of animal, fruit or vegetable matter
arising from or attending the household preparation of meats, fish, fowl,
fruits and vegetables.
   RUBBISH. All nonputrescible wastes such as paper, tin cans, bottles, glass
containers, rags, paper sacks, boxes, packing materials and all refuse from
dwellings.
(1964 Code, § 11-25)
§ 13-22 EXCLUSIVE RIGHT OF CITY; CONTRACTORS.
   The city, in order to more effectually promote and protect the public health
and public welfare, hereby reserves unto itself the exclusive right to collect
garbage from residences in the city, and the city council shall, at such times
and for such period as in its judgment is to the best interests of the city,
contract with any person for the collection of garbage, thereby contracting
with it or them, as independent contractors, for such collection, fixing the
sums of money or percentages to be paid to the garbage collector for such
collection and the term of such contract or contracts.
(1964 Code, § 11-26)
§ 13-23 REQUIREMENTS FOR VEHICLES USED FOR COLLECTION.
   Any vehicular equipment used for the transporting of garbage, trash, refuse
or rubbish over the streets, avenues or alleys in the city shall have attached
thereto a metal body of the totally enclosed watertight sanitary refuse
collection type. The floor of such body shall be of such pitch and shall so
meet the sides and front so as to prevent the leakage and dripping of liquids.
The body shall be maintained clean and odor free.
(1964 Code, § 11-6)
§§ 13-24—13-30 RESERVED.
DIVISION 2: CONTAINERS
§ 13-31 REQUIRED; USE GENERALLY.
   It shall be the duty of all persons in possession, charge or control of any
dwelling, apartment, trailer or place of business within the city to keep or
cause to be kept on the premises a suitable container or containers for the
deposit therein of refuse and to deposit or cause to be deposited therein all
refuse that may accumulate or be found in or at such dwelling, apartment,
trailer or place of business and not otherwise lawfully disposed of as by use
of a garbage disposal.
(1964 Code, § 11-2)
§ 13-32 SPECIFICATIONS AND SIZE.
   The container required for the deposit of refuse shall be of substantial
construction and not less than ten nor more than 35 gallons’ capacity, except
as otherwise permitted or provided by the city.
(1964 Code, § 11-3) (Ord. 3745, § 1, passed 11-12-2013)
§ 13-33 MAINTENANCE.
   Every container required by this division shall be maintained in as sanitary
condition as possible in view of the use to which it is put.
(1964 Code, § 11-3)
§ 13-34 PROTECTION OF CONTENTS.
   Containers required by this division shall be kept closed tightly except
during the collection or deposit of garbage, trash or refuse. The contents of
all receptacles shall be so protected that the wind cannot blow out and scatter
same over the streets, alleys and premises of the city.
(1964 Code, § 11-3)
§ 13-35 LOCATION.
   On collection day, containers must be within five (5) feet of the alleyway
or the front curb for street pickup. The containers must be accessible to the
collector for pickup. Refuse receptacles shall be removed from any sidewalk,
street, alley or public place in the city, by the end of the collection day,
except where specifically permitted by regulations.
(1964 Code, § 11-4) (Ord. 3745, § 2, passed 11-12-2013)
§ 13-36 PREPARATION OF MATERIAL.
   Garbage shall be thoroughly drained, wrapped and deposited promptly in
refuse containers. The garbage shall be wrapped in paper before depositing the
same in containers.
(1964 Code, § 11-5)
§ 13-37 SEPARATION OF DEPOSITS NOT REQUIRED.
   Rubbish may be placed in the same container with garbage.
(1964 Code, § 11-5)
§§ 13-38—13-45 RESERVED.
DIVISION 3: RATES AND CHARGES
§ 13-46 GENERALLY.
   Each and every tenant, occupant or property owner occupying a dwelling
house, residence, trailer house or living unit from which garbage or rubbish
accumulates shall be charged for the services of collection, removal and
disposal of such garbage and rubbish at the rates provided for in this
division.
(1964 Code, § 11-32)
§ 13-47 ESTABLISHED.
   The rates for garbage or rubbish collection in the city shall be as
determined by the city council.
(1964 Code, §§ 11-33—11-35) (Ord. 2045, passed 11-14-1977; Ord. 2131, §§ 1—7,
passed 4-28-1980)
§ 13-48 BILLING AND PAYMENT; DELINQUENT BILLS.
   All fees, rates and charges as provided in this division shall be payable to
the city of Bellevue and shall be added to the monthly bill for water usage and
collected in conjunction with the water bill as provided by Metropolitan
Utilities District (MUD). In those garbage collection districts where MUD does
not provide water usage, the billing shall also be done monthly by the city of
Bellevue. When not paid, all fees shall become delinquent fifteen days after
the billing date, at which time and in which event the city may sue in the
civil courts for the collection of such fee.
(1964 Code, § 11-36) (Ord. 3745, § 3, passed 11-12-2013)
§§ 13-49—13-60 RESERVED.
ARTICLE III: PERMIT FOR COLLECTION BUSINESS
Section
   
13-61   Required
   
13-62   Application; notice to administrator
   
13-63   Schedule of rates to be filed
   
13-64   Fee
   
13-65   Prerequisites to issuance
   
13-66   Issuance
   
13-67   Term
   
13-68   Reserved
   
13-69   Revocation
   13-70—13-80   Reserved
§ 13-61 REQUIRED.
   No person shall engage in the business of collecting, hauling, or
transporting refuse, garbage, trash or rubbish in the city, without first
obtaining a permit from the city council, to engage in such business.
(1964 Code, § 11-11)
§ 13-62 APPLICATION; NOTICE TO ADMINISTRATOR.
   Application for permits to engage in the business of collecting, hauling and
transporting garbage, refuse, rubbish and trash shall be filed with the city
clerk, together with the necessary requirements as provided in this article.
The city clerk shall immediately notify the city administrator for the purpose
of inspection of the applicant’s equipment.
(1964 Code, § 11-12)
§ 13-63 SCHEDULE OF RATES TO BE FILED.
   All applicants for permits to be issued under this article shall file with
the city clerk a schedule of rates proposed to be charged for such service.
(1964 Code, § 11-13)
§ 13-64 FEE.
   There is hereby levied a license fee for hauling vehicles as described in
the Master Fee Schedule for each vehicle for which a permit is issued pursuant
to this article. Such license shall be paid after the hauling vehicle passes a
truck inspection and filing the application with the city clerk. Should no
permit be issued on such application, the license fee shall be refunded to the
applicant.
(1964 Code, § 11-14) (Ord. 3502, passed 3-9-2009; Ord. 3745, § 4, passed 11-12-
2013)
§ 13-65 PREREQUISITES TO ISSUANCE.
   (A)   Compliance with chapter. All provisions and regulations of this
chapter shall be complied with before a permit to engage in the business of
collecting, hauling or transporting refuse, garbage, trash or rubbish shall be
issued.
   (B)   Dump site. All persons applying for permits to engage in the business
of collecting, hauling and transporting refuse, garbage, trash and rubbish
shall agree to dispose of such refuse in a sanitary landfill dump site to be
designated by the city.
   (C)   Inspection. Before any person shall engage in the business of
collecting, hauling or transporting refuse, garbage, trash or rubbish, he shall
submit the equipment proposed to be used to inspection by the city
administrator.
(1964 Code, § 11-15)
§ 13-66 ISSUANCE.
   Upon approval by the city administrator of the applicant’s equipment, and no
permit shall be issued without such approval, the city council shall examine
the application submitted pursuant to this article, and if all the requirements
provided by this article are satisfactory, shall issue such permit.
(1964 Code, § 11-16)
§ 13-67 TERM.
   Any permit issued pursuant to this article shall be in force from the date
of issuance until the following December 31.
(1964 Code, § 11-17)
§ 13-68 RESERVED.
Editor’s note:
   Ord. 3015, §§ 1, 2, adopted April 26, 1999, repealed former § 13-68 in its
entirety which pertained to the use of unpaved alleys for garbage and trash
collection and derived from the Code of 1964, § 11-18.
§ 13-69 REVOCATION.
   If any time after the issuance of a permit pursuant to this article, the
city administrator shall determine that the permittee can no longer fulfill the
requirements of this article or is violating the same or is hauling garbage,
trash, refuse or rubbish in such a manner as to constitute a menace to health,
such permit shall be revoked.
(1964 Code, § 11-19)
§§ 13-70—13-80 RESERVED.
CHAPTER 14: HEALTH AND SANITATION
Section
   
14-1   Board of health—Established; composition; purpose
   
14-2   Same—Meetings
   
14-3   Same—Quorum; powers and duties
   
14-4   Appointment, qualifications and term of city physician
   
14-5   Fill
   
14-6   Reserved
   
14-7   Connection to sewer
   
14-8   Authority of mayor within two miles of city
   
14-9   Service of health ordinances on violators
   
14-10   Adoption of state health department rules and regulations
   
14-11   Pandemic sick leave
Statutory reference:
   Authority to establish health department, see Neb. RS 1943, § 16-238
   Local health departments, see Neb. RS 1943, §§ 71-1626 et seq.
   Sanitary regulations of city, see Neb. RS 1943, § 16-240
§ 14-1 BOARD OF HEALTH—ESTABLISHED; COMPOSITION; PURPOSE.
   For the purpose of promoting and preserving the health of the city and the
inhabitants thereof, and enforcing such rules and regulations relative thereto
as may be enacted or adopted, there is established a board of health,
consisting of the mayor, who shall be chairman, a physician, who shall be
medical adviser, the chief of police, who shall be secretary and quarantine
officer, the president of the council and one other member; appointed by the
mayor and council.
(1964 Code, § 12-1)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 1943, § 16-238
§ 14-2 SAME—MEETINGS.
   The mayor shall call a meeting of the board of health whenever, in his
opinion, the public safety demands, to prevent the spread of infectious or
contagious diseases, and to take such action as may be necessary for the health
and sanitation of the city.
(1964 Code, § 12-2)
§ 14-3 SAME—QUORUM; POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   A majority of the board of health shall constitute a quorum and shall
enact rules and regulations, having the force and effect of law, to safeguard
the health of the people of the city, and prevent nuisances and unsanitary
conditions, enforce the same, and provide fines and punishments for the
violation thereof. The board of health shall have general supervision over the
health of the city and is authorized to established quarantine limits within
the city.
   (B)   The board of health shall have the power to designate health nuisances
and to recommend to the city council that it authorize and institute proper
proceedings for the abatement of the same. Such recommendations of the board of
health for additional ordinances and for proceedings to abate health nuisances
shall include all matters of health and sanitation of the city, including the
removal of dead animals, the sanitary condition of the streets, alleys, vacant
grounds, stockyards, cattle and hog pens, wells, cisterns, privies, water
closets, cesspools and stables and all places not specified where filth,
nuisances and offensive matter is kept or is liable to or does accumulate.
   (C)   The board of health shall have the power, when authorized by
ordinance, to take appropriate action to suppress nuisances and to enforce all
laws of the state and this Code and all other ordinances of the city relating
to the same or to matters of health and sanitation in the city.
(1964 Code, § 12-3)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 1943, § 16-238
§ 14-4 APPOINTMENT, QUALIFICATIONS AND TERM OF CITY PHYSICIAN.
   The mayor, with the consent of the city council, shall appoint a city
physician, who shall be a resident practicing physician of the city and who
shall hold such office during the pleasure of the mayor who appointed him.
(1964 Code, § 12-4)
§ 14-5 FILL.
   The mayor and city council shall designate, by order, motion or resolution,
the dumping grounds within the city or its extra-territorial jurisdiction, upon
which shall be dumped the contents of all vaults, privies and cesspools, and
all manure, garbage, offal, ashes, cinders, other loose material, or beneficial
fill, as that term is defined by Nebraska Administrative Code Title 132, and it
shall be unlawful for any person to dump such contents on any other place
within the city or its extra-territorial jurisdiction except by written
contract approved by the city council and signed by the mayor.
(1964 Code, § 12-5) (Ord. 3634, passed 9-26-2011)
§ 14-6 RESERVED.
§ 14-7 CONNECTION TO SEWER.
   All dwellings or buildings used for human habitation within the limits of
the city shall be connected with a public or private sewer and have sufficient
and adequate modern plumbing facilities installed therein. Any such dwelling or
building not so connected nor having modern plumbing facilities shall be deemed
a public nuisance; provided, however, that if any dwelling or building used for
human habitation does not adjoin a street or alley in which there is a sewer,
then an adequate septic tank must be properly installed, according to
specifications designated by the city engineer.
(1964 Code, § 12-9)
§ 14-8 AUTHORITY OF MAYOR WITHIN TWO MILES OF CITY.
   The mayor is invested with jurisdiction over all places within two miles of
the city for the enforcement of health and quarantine provisions of this Code
and other city ordinances and regulations of the city.
(1964 Code, § 12-10)
§ 14-9 SERVICE OF HEALTH ORDINANCES ON VIOLATORS.
   The board of health shall serve a copy of any health ordinance of the city
upon any person who is violating the same or who is residing within any
quarantined district.
(1964 Code, § 12-11)
§ 14-10 ADOPTION OF STATE HEALTH DEPARTMENT RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   The current rules and regulations of the department of health of the state,
as revised, adopted and promulgated in pamphlet form, are in the hands of the
city clerk, and such rules and regulations, together with any alterations or
amendments thereto, are incorporated herein by reference, insofar as the same
are applicable to cities of the first class, the same as though copied at full
length in this chapter.
(1964 Code, § 12-12)
§ 14-11 PANDEMIC SICK LEAVE.
   The city administrator, as chief executive officer of the city, is
responsible for the proper administration of pandemic sick leave. In the
unforeseen event of a pandemic, the city administrator shall adopt and
implement a pandemic sick leave policy that governs the standard operating
procedures, practices and guidelines for all employees, including part-time
employees, to benefit from pandemic sick leave.
(Ord. 3992, § 1, passed 3-17-2020)
Statutory reference:
   Mayor; legislative recommendations; jurisdiction, see Neb. RS, § 16-314
   City council; ordinances; style; publication; emergency ordinances, see Neb.
RS, § 16-405
CHAPTER 15: HOUSING
   Article
      
I.   IN GENERAL
      
II.   ENFORCEMENT
      
III.   MINIMUM STANDARDS
      
IV.   MAINTENANCE STANDARDS
      
V.   ROOMING HOUSES, HOTELS, ETC.
      
VI.   FAIR HOUSING
ARTICLE I: IN GENERAL
Section
   
15-1   Definitions
   
15-2   Adoption of rules
   
15-3   Violation of rules
   
15-4   State housing laws
   
15-5   Other codes and ordinances
   
15-6   Nuisances
   
15-7   Nursing homes
   
15-8   False information
   15-9—15-20   Reserved
§ 15-1 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this chapter, the following words and phrases shall have
the meanings respectively ascribed to them by this section:
   APPROVED. Approved or set forth by statute of the state or by ordinance of
the city, or in accordance with regulations established by the Permits and
Inspections Department.
   BASEMENT. A portion of a building located partly underground but having more
than half its clear floor-to-ceiling height above the average grade of the
adjoining ground.
   BATH. A bathtub or shower stall.
   BEDROOM. A habitable room within a dwelling unit which is used, or intended
to be used, primarily for the purpose of sleeping, but shall not include any
kitchen, dining room or living room in which cots, roll-away beds or davenports
may be used for sleeping purposes.
   BLOCK. A portion of the city, whether occupied by buildings or not, which is
enclosed by and bounded by adjoining streets having official street name
designations.
   CELLAR. A portion of a building located partly or wholly underground, and
having half or more than half of its clear floor-to-ceiling height below the
average grade of the adjoining ground.
   COMMUNAL. Used or shared by, or intended to be used or shared by, the
occupants of two or more rooming units or two or more dwelling units.
   DINING ROOM. A habitable room used or intended to be used for the purpose of
eating but not for the cooking or the preparation of meals.
   DWELLING. Any building or structure, except temporary housing, which is
wholly or partly used or intended to be used for living or sleeping by human
occupants.
   DWELLING UNIT. Any habitable room or group of adjoining habitable rooms
located within a dwelling and forming a single unit with facilities which are
used or intended to be used for living, sleeping, cooking and eating meals.
   EXIT. A continuous and unobstructed means of egress from a building or
dwelling contained therein to a public way and shall include intervening
doorways, corridors, ramps, stairways, fire escapes, courts and yards.
   EXTERMINATION. The control and elimination of insects, rodents or other
pests by eliminating their harborage places; by removing or making inaccessible
materials that may serve as their food; by poisoning, spraying, fumigating,
trapping; or any other pest elimination methods approved by the director of
Permits and Inspections.
   FAMILY. One adult occupant plus one or more persons who are legally related
to such occupant as husband or wife, son or daughter, mother or father, mother-
in-law or father-in-law, grandfather or grandmother, sister or bother.
   GARBAGE. The animal and vegetable waste resulting from the handling,
preparation, cooking, marketing or processing of food, or the nonconsumed waste
resulting from animals or humans consuming food.
   HABITABLE FLOOR AREA. That calculated floor area of any part of a room in
which the vertical measurement from the floor to the ceiling of the room is at
least five feet or more.
   HABITABLE ROOM. A room or enclosed floor space used or intended to be used
for living, sleeping, cooking or eating purposes, excluding bathrooms, basement
recreation rooms, toilet rooms, laundries, pantries, foyers, communicating
corridors, closets, storage spaces and stairways.
   HOTEL. Any dwelling wherein sleeping accommodations are offered for pay to
transients, in five or more rooms. It does not include rooming houses but shall
include motel or cabin courts.
   HOTEL UNIT. Any room or group of rooms forming a single habitable unit used
or intended to be used for living and sleeping in a hotel, motel or cabin
court, but not for cooking of meals.
   INFESTATION. The presence of any insects, rodents or other pests within a
dwelling or on the dwelling premises.
   KITCHEN. A habitable room used or intended to be used for the cooking of
food or the preparation of meals.
   LIGHT HOUSEKEEPING UNIT. A single room in which cooking, sleeping and
general living accommodations are contained therein.
   LIVING ROOM. A habitable room within a dwelling unit which is used, or
intended to be used, primarily for general living purposes but not for sleeping
or cooking.
   MULTIPLE DWELLING. Any dwelling containing more than two families or more
than two dwelling units.
   NONDWELLING STRUCTURE. Any structure, except a dwelling, used or intended to
be used for the shelter or enclosure of any person, animal or property of any
kind.
   NURSING HOME. A dwelling within which shelter, meals and nursing care are
supplied to two or more patients who are not members of the family of the
operator or supervisor of the dwelling. This shall not include hospitals.
   NURSING UNIT. Any room or group of rooms forming a single habitable unit
used or intended to be used for sleeping by patients, or the provision of
bedside nursing care to patients, within a nursing home.
   OCCUPANCY. The act or acts of living, sleeping or cooking in, or having
actual possession of, a dwelling, dwelling unit, rooming unit, hotel unit or
nursing unit.
   OCCUPANT. Any person over one year of age, including an owner or operator,
living, sleeping or cooking in or having actual possession of a dwelling,
dwelling unit, rooming unit, hotel unit or nursing unit.
   OPERATOR. Any person who has charge, care or control of a building, or part
thereof, in which dwelling units, rooming units, hotel units or nursing units
are let.
   OWNER. Any person who, alone or jointly or severally with others:
      (1)   Shall have legal title or equitable title to any dwelling, dwelling
unit, rooming units, hotel units or nursing units; or
      (2)   Shall have charge, care or control of any dwelling, dwelling unit,
rooming unit, hotel unit or nursing unit as executor, executrix, administrator,
administratrix, trustee or guardian of the estate of the owner.
   PART OF DWELLING, ETC. Whenever the words “dwelling,” “dwelling unit,”
“rooming house,” “rooming unit,” “nursing home,” “nursing unit,” “hotel” or
“premises” are used in this chapter, they shall be construed as though they
were followed by the words “or any part thereof.”
   PATIENT. A person suffering from infirmities of old age or an illness, or
physical disability which requires supervised aid and care or medication.
   PERMITS AND INSPECTIONS DEPARTMENT. The legally designated authority of the
city, or an authorized representative.
   PLUMBING. All of the following facilities and equipment: gas pipes, gas-
burning equipment, water pipes, garbage disposal units, waste pipes, water
closets, toilets, sinks, installed dishwashers, lavatories, baths, installed
clothes washing machines, catchbasins, drains, vents, hot water heaters and any
other similar fixtures, together with all connections to water, sewer or gas
lines.
   PREMISES. A platted lot or part thereof or unplatted lot or parcel of land
or plot of land, either occupied or unoccupied by any dwelling or nondwelling
structure.
   PROPOSED REHABILITATION AREA. A rehabilitation area within which the Permits
and Inspections Department intends to undertake systematic rehabilitation and
so reports to the city council.
   PUBLIC HALL. A hall, corridor or passageway not within the exclusive control
of one family.
   REHABILITATION AREA. An area defined, within the city, by the Permits and
Inspections Department consisting of at least one block but not more than 20
adjoining blocks, within which systematic rehabilitation is, in the opinion of
the Permits and Inspections Department necessary to promote and protect the
public health and welfare.
   ROOMER. An occupant of a rooming house who is not a member of the family of
the operator of that rooming house, and shall also mean an occupant of a
dwelling unit who is not a member of the family occupying the dwelling unit.
   ROOMING HOUSE. Any dwelling, or that part of any dwelling, containing one or
more rooming units, in which space is let by the owner or operator to three or
more roomers.
   ROOMING HOUSE TYPE I. A rooming house in which space is let to more than two
but fewer than nine roomers.
   ROOMING HOUSE TYPE II. A rooming house in which space is let to nine or more
roomers.
   ROOMING UNIT. Any room or group of rooms forming a single habitable unit in
a rooming house used or intended to be used for living and sleeping, but not
for cooking or eating of meals.
   RUBBISH. Combustible and noncombustible waste materials, except garbage; and
the term shall include and not be limited to the residue from the burning of
wood, coal, coke and other combustible material, paper, rags, cartons, boxes,
wood, excelsior, rubber, leather, tree branches, yard trimmings, tin cans,
automobile chassis and bodies, inoperable machines, metals, mineral matter,
glass, crockery and dust.
   SECOND-CLASS DWELLING. Any multiple dwelling which contains three or more
second class dwelling units.
   SECOND-CLASS DWELLING TYPE I. A second class dwelling which contains more
than two but fewer than five second class dwelling units.
   SECOND-CLASS DWELLING TYPE II. A second class dwelling which contains five
or more second class dwelling units.
   SECOND-CLASS DWELLING UNIT. A dwelling unit that does not have a toilet and
bath available for exclusive use by the occupants thereof.
   STAIR HALL. A public hall or private hall which includes the stairs, stair
landings and those portions of the building through which it is necessary to
pass in going between the lowest entrance floor and the roof.
   SUPERVISOR. A person, either the operator of a nursing home or one assigned
by the operator of the nursing home, who is directly responsible for the daily
operation of, the supervisor of employees in and the care of patients in a
nursing home.
   SUPPLIED. Paid for, furnished or provided by, or under the control of, the
owner or operator.
   SYSTEMATIC REHABILITATION. The inspection of all dwellings and dwelling
units within a rehabilitation area for the purpose of finding all violations of
this chapter and the elimination of all such violations in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter.
   TEMPORARY HOUSING. Any tent, trailer or other structure used for human
shelter which is designed to be transportable and which is not attached to the
ground, or to another structure, or to any utilities system on the same
premises for more than 30 consecutive days.
   TOILET. A water closet, with a bowl and trap made in one piece, which is of
such shape and form and which holds a sufficient quantity of water so that no
fecal matter will collect on the surface of the bowl and which is equipped with
flushing rims which permit the bowl to be properly flushed and scoured when
water is discharged through the flushing rims.
(1964 Code, § 12A-1)
§ 15-2 ADOPTION OF RULES.
   The Permits and Inspections Department is hereby authorized and empowered to
make and adopt written rules and regulations necessary for the proper
enforcement of the provisions of this chapter.
(1964 Code, § 12A-5)
§ 15-3 VIOLATION OF RULES.
   No person shall violate any provision of any rule or regulation adopted by
the Permits and Inspections Department pursuant to authority granted by this
chapter.
(1964 Code, § 12A-16)
§ 15-4 STATE HOUSING LAWS.
   The provisions of this chapter shall not abrogate the responsibility of any
person to comply with any provisions of state law.
(1964 Code, § 12A-14)
§ 15-5 OTHER CODES AND ORDINANCES.
   The provisions of this chapter shall not abrogate the responsibility of any
person to comply with any provisions of the state building and fire prevention
codes, and the plumbing, electrical, building, fire prevention and zoning codes
and ordinances of the city.
(1964 Code, § 12A-13)
§ 15-6 NUISANCES.
   Nothing in this chapter shall be construed or interpreted to in any way
impair or limit the authority of the city to define and declare nuisances or of
the Permits and Inspections Department, the chief of police or other city
officials to cause the removal or abatement of nuisances by summary proceedings
or other appropriate proceedings.
(1964 Code, § 12A-12)
§ 15-7 NURSING HOMES.
   (A)   Fitness of operator and supervisor. The operator and the supervisor of
nursing homes shall furnish to the Permits and Inspections Department such
information relating to education, experience, qualifications, character,
financial status and any other information he may require to determine the
fitness of the operator to properly operate, and the supervisor to properly
supervise a nursing home. The Permits and Inspections Department may deny a
permit to operate a nursing home if he believes the operator is unfit to
properly operate, or the supervisor is unfit to properly supervise such a home.
   (B)   Nursing unit in cellar or basement prohibited. No nursing unit shall
be located in any cellar or basement space.
   (C)   Compliance with state standards. Every nursing home shall comply with
rules and regulations setting minimum standards for nursing homes established
by the state.
(1964 Code, § 12A-9)
§ 15-8 FALSE INFORMATION.
   No person shall give any intentional false information, or oath in
connection with matters pertaining to this chapter or in any forms, affidavits
or hearings in connection therewith.
(1964 Code, § 12A-15)
§§ 15-9—15-20 RESERVED.
ARTICLE II: ENFORCEMENT
Section
   
15-21   Inspection of dwellings, dwelling units, etc.—By Permits and
Inspections Department
   
15-22   Same—Access by owner, operator or agent
   
15-23   Notices; hearing—Service
   
15-24   Same—Petition for hearing; opportunity to be heard; order if no
petition
   
15-25   Same—Actions on hearing
   
15-26   Same—Records of hearings; appeals to court
   
15-27   Issuance of order when emergency exists
   
15-28   Unfit dwellings—Generally
   
15-29   Same—Placarding
   
15-30   Same—Notice to owner
   
15-31   Same—Appeal of notice
   
15-32   Same—Condemnation
   
15-33   Same—Vacation
   
15-34   Same—Removal of placard
   
15-35   Same—Rents uncollectible
   
15-36   Same—Service by public utilities
   
15-37   Board of housing appeals
   15-38—15-48   Reserved
§ 15-21 INSPECTION OF DWELLINGS, DWELLING UNITS, ETC.—BY PERMITS AND
INSPECTIONS DEPARTMENT.
   The Permits and Inspections Department is hereby authorized and directed to
enter and make such inspections as are necessary to determine the condition of
dwellings, dwelling units, rooming units, nursing units, hotel units and
premises located within the city, in order that they may perform his duty of
safeguarding the health, safety and welfare of the occupants of all dwellings
and of the general public. For the purpose of making such inspections the
officer is hereby authorized to enter, examine and survey at all reasonable
time all dwellings, dwelling units, rooming units and premises. The owner or
occupant of every dwelling, dwelling unit and rooming unit, or the person in
charge thereof, shall give the Permits and Inspections Department free access
to such dwelling, dwelling unit or rooming unit and its premises, at all
reasonable times for the purpose of such inspection, examination and the
survey.
(1964 Code, § 12A-2)
§ 15-22 SAME—ACCESS BY OWNER, OPERATOR OR AGENT.
   Every occupant of a dwelling, dwelling unit, rooming unit, nursing unit or
hotel unit shall give the owner or operator thereof, or their agents or
employees, access to any part of such dwelling, dwelling unit, rooming unit,
nursing unit, hotel unit or its premises, at all reasonable times for the
purpose of inspecting or effecting such maintenance, making such repairs or
making such alterations as are necessary to effect compliance with the
provisions of this chapter or with any lawful rule or regulation adopted or any
lawful notice or order issued pursuant to the provisions of this chapter.
(1964 Code, § 12A-2)
§ 15-23 NOTICES; HEARING—SERVICE.
   (A)   Whenever the Permits and Inspections Department determines that there
has been a violation, or that there are reasonable grounds to believe that
there has been a violation, of any provision of this chapter or of any rule or
regulation adopted pursuant thereto, he shall give notice of such violation or
alleged violation to the person or persons responsible therefor. Such notice
shall:
      (1)   Be put in writing;
      (2)   Include a description of the real estate sufficient for
identification;
      (3)   Include a statement of the reason or reasons why it is being
issued; and
      (4)   Allow a reasonable time for the performance of any act it requires.
      (5)   Be served upon the owner or the operator, or the occupant, as the
case may require; provided, that such notice shall be deemed to be properly
served upon such owner, or upon such operator, or upon such occupant, if a copy
thereof is delivered to him personally, or if not found by leaving a copy
thereof at his usual place of abode, in the presence of someone of the family
not less than the age of 14 years who shall be informed of the contents
thereof, or by sending a copy thereof by registered or certified mail with
return receipt requested to his last known address, or if the registered letter
with the copy is returned with a receipt showing it has not been delivered to
him, by posting a copy thereof in a conspicuous place in or about the dwelling
affected by the notice.
   (B)   Such notice may contain an outline of remedial action which, if taken,
will effect compliance with the provision of this chapter and with rules and
regulations adopted pursuant thereto.
(1964 Code, § 12A-3)
§ 15-24 SAME—PETITION FOR HEARING; OPPORTUNITY TO BE HEARD; ORDER IF NO
PETITION.
   Any person affected by any notice which has been issued in connection with
the enforcement of any provision of this chapter, or of any rule or regulation
adopted pursuant thereto, may request and shall be granted a hearing on the
matter before the Permits and Inspections Department; provided, that such
person shall file in the office of the Permits and Inspections Department a
written petition requesting such hearing and setting forth a statement of the
grounds therefor within ten days after the day the notice was served. Within
ten days of receipt of such petition the Permits and Inspections Department
shall set a time and place for such hearing and shall give the petitioner
written notice thereof. At such hearing the petitioner shall be given an
opportunity to be heard and to show cause why such notice should be modified or
withdrawn. The hearing before the Permits and Inspections Department shall be
commenced not later than 30 days after the date on which the petition was
filed; provided, that upon written application of the petitioner to the Permits
and Inspections Department, he may postpone the date of the hearing for a
reasonable time beyond such 30-day period, if in his judgment the petitioner
has submitted a good and sufficient reason for such postponement. Any notice
served pursuant to the preceding section will automatically become an order if
a written petition for a hearing is not filed in the office of the Permits and
Inspections Department within ten days after such notice is served. Any permit
which has been suspended by a notice shall be deemed to be automatically
revoked if a petition for hearing is not filed in the office of the Permits and
Inspections Department within ten days after such notice is served. The Permits
and Inspections Department shall have the power to administer oaths and
affirmations in connection with the conducting of any hearing held in
accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
(1964 Code, § 12A-3)
§ 15-25 SAME—ACTIONS ON HEARING.
   After such hearing the Permits and Inspections Department shall sustain,
modify or withdraw the notice, depending upon his finding as to whether the
provisions of this chapter and of the rules and regulations adopted pursuant
thereto have been complied with. The Permits and Inspections Department may
also modify any notice so as to authorize a variance from the provisions of
this chapter when, because of a special condition, a literal enforcement of the
provisions of this chapter will result in practical difficulty or unnecessary
hardship; provided, that the spirit of this chapter will be observed, public
health and welfare secured and substantial justice done. If the Permits and
Inspections Department sustains or modifies such notice, it shall be deemed to
be an order, and the owner, operator or occupant, as the case may require,
shall comply with all provisions of such order within a reasonable period of
time, as determined by the division or file an appeal with the board of housing
appeals within five days as provided on forms furnished by the Permits and
Inspections Department. After hearing in the case of any notice suspending any
permit required by this chapter, when such notice has been sustained by the
Permits and Inspections Department, the permit shall be deemed to have been
revoked unless appeal action is filed.
(1964 Code, § 12A-3)
§ 15-26 SAME—RECORDS OF HEARINGS; APPEALS TO COURT.
   The proceedings at a hearing, including the findings and decision of the
Permits and Inspections Department, shall be summarized, reduced to writing and
entered as a matter of public record in the office of the Permits and
Inspections Department. Such record shall also include a copy of every notice
or order issued in connection with the matter. A copy of the written decision
of the Permits and Inspections Department shall then be served, in the manner
prescribed under paragraph (5) of subsection (A) of section
15-23 on the persons who filed the petition for hearing. Any person or persons,
jointly or severally, aggrieved by the decision of the Permits and Inspections
Department, or any taxpayer, or any officer, department, board or bureau of the
city, may seek relief therefrom in any court of competent jurisdiction as
provided by the laws of this state.
(1964 Code, § 12A-3)
§ 15-27 ISSUANCE OF ORDER WHEN EMERGENCY EXISTS.
   Whenever the Permits and Inspections Department finds that an emergency
exists which requires immediate action to protect the public health, it may,
without notice or hearing, issue an order reciting the existence of such an
emergency and requiring that such action be taken as it deems necessary to meet
the emergency. Notwithstanding the other provisions of this chapter, such order
shall be effective immediately. Any person to whom such order is directed shall
comply therewith immediately, but upon petition to the Permits and Inspections
Department shall be afforded a hearing in the manner prescribed in section 15-
23. After such hearing, depending upon the findings of the Permits and
Inspections Department as to whether the provisions of this chapter and the
rules and regulations adopted pursuant thereto have been complied with, the
Permits and Inspections Department shall continue such order in effect, or
modify it, or revoke it.
(1964 Code, § 12A-4)
§ 15-28 UNFIT DWELLINGS—GENERALLY.
   The designation of dwellings or dwelling units as unfit for human habitation
and the procedure for the placarding and condemnation of such unfit dwellings
or dwelling units shall be carried out in compliance with the requirements in
this article.
(1964 Code, § 12A-10)
§ 15-29 SAME—PLACARDING.
   (A)   Whenever the Permits and Inspections Department shall determine that a
dwelling or dwelling unit is unfit for human habitation, he shall placard the
dwelling or dwelling unit as unfit for human habitation and notify the owner of
his findings as provided in section 15-23. Any dwelling or dwelling unit which
the Permits and Inspections Department shall find to have any of the following
defects shall be placarded as unfit for human habitation:
      (1)   One which is so damaged, decayed, dilapidated, unsanitary,
difficult to heat, unsafe or vermin infested that it creates a hazard to the
health or welfare of the occupants or of the public;
      (2)   One which lacks illumination, ventilation or sanitary facilities
adequate to protect the health or welfare of the occupants or of the public; or
      (3)   One which, because of its general condition or location is
unsanitary or otherwise dangerous to the health or welfare of the occupants or
of the public.
   (B)   Any dwelling or dwelling unit may be placarded as unfit for human
habitation by the Permits and Inspections Department if the owner or occupant
fails to comply with any order based on the provisions of this chapter or any
rules or regulations adopted pursuant thereto; provided, that such dwelling or
dwelling unit is, in the opinion of the Permits and Inspections Department,
unfit for human habitation by reason of such failure to comply.
(1964 Code, § 12A-10)
§ 15-30 SAME—NOTICE TO OWNER.
   (A)   When a dwelling or dwelling unit has been placarded as unfit for human
habitation and the owner or agent thereof has failed to comply with the notices
and orders of the Permits and Inspections Department pertaining thereto, as
provided by section 15-23, or has not availed himself of the appeal procedures
as provided in section
15-23 or has filed an appeal and has been denied relief from or modification of
the requirements to comply with this chapter, the Permits and Inspections
Department shall at the expiration of the allotted time for compliance and
appeal serve notice of intent to condemn.
   (B)   Such notice shall:
      (1)   Be put in writing;
      (2)   Include a description of the real estate sufficient for
identification;
      (3)   Include a statement of the reason or reasons why it is being
issued;
      (4)   Include a description of the repairs and improvements required to
bring the placarded dwelling or dwelling unit into compliance with the
provisions of this chapter and any rules or regulations adopted pursuant
thereto;
      (5)   Include an explanation of the owner’s right to seek modification or
withdrawal of the notice by petition to the Permits and Inspections Department
in accordance with the provisions of section 15-23; and
      (6)   Be served upon the owner or agent; provided, that such notice shall
be deemed to be properly served upon such owner or agent if a copy thereof is
delivered to him personally or if not found by leaving a copy thereof at his
usual place of abode, in the presence of someone of the family of suitable age
of not less than 14 years of age who shall be informed of the contents thereof
or by sending a copy thereof by registered or certified mail with return
receipt requested to his last known address, or, if the registered or certified
letter with the copy is returned with a receipt showing it has not been
delivered to him, by posting a copy thereof in a conspicuous place in or about
the dwelling affected by the notice.
(1964 Code, § 12A-10)
§ 15-31 SAME—APPEAL OF NOTICE.
   Any owner affected by any notice relating to the condemnation of a dwelling
or dwelling unit which has been placarded as unfit for human habitation may
request and shall be granted a hearing on the matter before the Permits and
Inspections Department under the procedure set forth in section 15-23.
(1964 Code, § 12A-10)
§ 15-32 SAME—CONDEMNATION.
   When the notice of intent to condemn which is required in the provisions of
this article has been served as provided therein, the Permits and Inspections
Department shall after ten days or at the expiration of the allotted time for
hearings and appeals from the hearings, as provided in section 15-23, cause to
be submitted to the city council his report in writing giving a complete
description of the lot or parcel of land on which the same is situated,
together with his recommendation respecting the repair, removal or destruction
thereof and the probable costs thereof for condemnation proceedings as provided
by either the municipal code of the city, or the applicable statutes of the
state.
(1964 Code, § 12A-10)
§ 15-33 SAME—VACATION.
   Any dwelling or dwelling unit which has been placarded as unfit for human
habitation by the Permits and Inspections Department shall be vacated within a
reasonable length of time as required by the division. No owner or operator
shall let to any person for human habitation and no person shall occupy any
dwelling or dwelling unit which has been placarded by the Permits and
Inspections Department after the date on which the division has required the
affected dwelling or dwelling unit to be vacated.
(1964 Code, § 12A-10)
§ 15-34 SAME—REMOVAL OF PLACARD.
   (A)   No dwelling or dwelling unit which has been placarded as unfit for
human habitation shall again be used for human habitation until written
approval is secured from, and such placard is removed by, the Permits and
Inspections Department. The Permits and Inspections Department shall remove
such placard whenever the defect or defects upon which the placarding action
was based has been eliminated or when the dwelling or dwelling unit has been
condemned and demolition or removal is undertaken.
   (B)   No person shall deface or remove the placard from any dwelling or
dwelling unit which has been placarded by the Permits and Inspections
Department as unfit for human habitation except as provided in this section.
(1964 Code, § 12A-10)
§ 15-35 SAME—RENTS UNCOLLECTIBLE.
   The tenants of any building which has been placarded as unsafe or unfit for
human habitation shall not be held liable and no rent shall be recoverable by
the owner or lessee for any period following the date that the placard
declaring the premises unsafe or unfit for human habitation was affixed
thereto.
(1964 Code, § 12A-10)
§ 15-36 SAME—SERVICE BY PUBLIC UTILITIES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any public utilities corporation or company
to furnish gas or electrical service to any dwelling or dwelling unit which has
been placarded by the Permits and Inspections Department as unsafe or unfit for
human habitation except as provided herein.
   (B)   The Permits and Inspections Department shall notify the public utility
company or corporation in writing of his action in placarding the dwelling or
dwelling unit and shall specify the date at which time the utility service
shall be discontinued. The utility service shall not be restored to a placarded
dwelling or dwelling unit until notice in writing is received from the Permits
and Inspections Department authorizing the restoration of such service by the
utility company or corporation providing that the Permits and Inspections
Department may authorize restoration of service to be used in connection with
renovation, repair or remodeling of the dwelling or dwelling units to comply
with the provisions of this chapter.
(1964 Code, § 12A-10)
§ 15-37 BOARD OF HOUSING APPEALS.
   (A)   There is hereby created the board of housing appeals which shall
consist of five voting members who shall be appointed by the city council,
which shall designate one of the five members as chairman. The members shall
receive no compensation from the city. Each of the five members shall be a
qualified elector of the city and shall neither hold nor be a candidate for any
other public office or position. One representative shall be appointed from the
financial profession, one representative shall be appointed from the building
and trade industry, one representative shall be appointed from the legal
profession, one representative shall be appointed from the field of social
services and one representative shall be appointed at large. Members of the
board shall serve for terms of two years. Vacancies in an unexpired term shall
be filled by the council by appointment for the remainder of the term.
   (B)   Three members of the board shall constitute a quorum and the board
shall act by a majority vote. The chairman shall have the same voting rights as
the other four members.
   (C)   The chief building official, head of the fire prevention bureau and
the Permits and Inspections Department shall be named and appointed by the city
council as ex officio members of the board, but the three members shall not
have voting rights.
   (D)   The board shall have the power and shall be required to hear and
decide appeals where it is alleged there has been an error in any order or
decision arrived at by the Permits and Inspections Department in the
enforcement of this chapter.
   (E)   The board shall have the power to adopt rules and regulations for the
conducting of its hearings to issue subpoenas and subpoenas duces tecum to
witnesses when reasonably necessary to obtain pertinent evidence and any member
of the board shall have authority to administer oaths.
   (F)   The board of appeals upon receipt of a petition for hearing on the
form furnished by the Permits and Inspections Department shall set a time and
place for such hearing and shall give the petitioner written notice thereof.
Such hearing shall be commenced not later than 15 days after the date on which
the petition was filed.
(1964 Code, § 12A-11)
§§ 15-38—15-48 RESERVED.
ARTICLE III: MINIMUM STANDARDS
Section
   
15-49   Basic equipment and facilities
   
15-50   Light, ventilation and heating—Generally
   
15-51   Same—Required window area
   
15-52   Same—Ventilation
   
15-53   Same—Bathrooms; toilet rooms
   
15-54   Same—Electric outlets
   
15-55   Same—Heating facilities
   
15-56   Same—Lighting of public halls and stairways
   
15-57   Same—Screens required generally
   
15-58   Same—Screens for basement or cellar windows
   
15-59   Same—Supplied heating to dwellings or parts thereof
   
15-60   Space, use and location—Generally
   
15-61   Same—Dwelling unit to be occupied by one family
   
15-62   Same—Minimum ceiling height
   
15-63   Same—Minimum floor area for dwelling unit
   
15-64   Same—Minimum floor area for occupancy by more than one occupant
   
15-65   Same—Maximum occupancy for one room dwelling unit
   
15-66   Same—Maximum occupancy for dwelling units of two or more rooms
   
15-67   Same—Arrangement of sleeping, bath and toilet rooms
   
15-68   Same—Cellar space not habitable
   
15-69   Same—Basement space may be habitable
   
15-70   Same—Occupants to have access to sanitary facilities
   15-71—15-81   Reserved
§ 15-49 BASIC EQUIPMENT AND FACILITIES.
   No person shall occupy as owner-occupant or let to another for occupancy any
dwelling, or dwelling unit, for the purpose of living, sleeping, cooking and
eating of meals therein which does not comply with the following requirements:
   (A)   Kitchen sink. Every dwelling unit shall contain an approved kitchen
sink with running water.
   (B)   Toilet—Required. Every dwelling unit, except as otherwise permitted
under the following subsection shall contain a toilet.
   (C)   Same—Sharing. The occupants of not more than two second class dwelling
units may share a toilet providing the total number of occupants in the two
dwelling units sharing a single toilet does not exceed eight.
   (D)   Bath. Every dwelling unit created after the effective date of this
chapter shall contain a bath. Every dwelling unit now in use on the effective
date of this chapter shall:
      (1)   Contain a bath; or
      (2)   Have a bath which is available to be used by not more than eight
occupants of not more than two dwelling units.
   (E)   Privacy in a room containing toilet and bath. Every toilet and every
bath shall be contained within a room or within separate rooms which afford
privacy to a person within the room or rooms.
   (F)   Location of communal toilets and baths. Every communal toilet and
bath, required to be provided in accordance with the provisions of this
section, shall be located within a room or rooms accessible to the occupants of
each dwelling unit sharing such facilities without going through a dwelling
unit of another occupant and without going outside of the dwelling, and such
room or rooms shall be located on the same floor of the dwelling as, or on the
floor immediately above or immediately below, the dwelling units whose
occupants share the use of such facilities.
   (G)   Hot and cold water lines to bath. Every bath required under the
provisions of this section shall be properly connected with both hot and cold
water lines.
   (H)   Bath water heating facilities. Every dwelling required to have a bath
under the provisions of this section shall have supplied water-heating
facilities which are properly installed, are maintained in reasonably good
working conditions, are properly connected with the hot water lines required
under the provisions of this section and are capable of heating water to such a
temperature as to permit an adequate amount of water to be drawn for every bath
at a temperature of not less than 100 degrees Fahrenheit. Such supplied water-
heating facilities shall be capable of meeting the requirements of this section
when the dwelling or dwelling unit heating facilities required under the
provisions of the following section are not in operation.
   (I)   Connection of sanitary facilities. Every kitchen sink, toilet,
lavatory basin and bath shall be maintained in a reasonably good working
condition and be properly connected to an approved water and sewer system.
   (J)   Rubbish storage or disposal. All dwellings and every multiple dwelling
unit located on premises where two or more dwelling units share the same
premises shall be supplied with adequate rubbish storage facilities whose type
and location are approved.
   (K)   Garbage storage or disposal. All dwellings and every multiple dwelling
unit located on premises where two or more dwelling units share the same
premises shall be supplied with adequate garbage disposal facilities or garbage
storage containers whose type and locations are approved.
   (L)   Exits. Every exit from every building shall comply with the following
requirements:
      (1)   It shall be kept in a reasonably good state of repair.
      (2)   It shall be unobstructed at all times.
      (3)   All exit stairways of four or more risers shall have at least one
handrail and all stairways which are five feet or more in width, or which are
open on both sides, shall have a handrail on each side.
      (4)   Every dwelling unit shall have two independent ways of egress.
      (5)   All handrails shall be not less than 30 inches vertically above the
nose of the stair treads and not less than 36 inches above stairway platform.
      (6)   Every approved dwelling unit above the second floor shall have an
approved fire escape available to all occupants.
(1964 Code, § 12A-17)
§ 15-50 LIGHT, VENTILATION AND HEATING—GENERALLY.
   No person shall occupy as owner-occupant or let to another for occupancy any
dwelling or dwelling unit, for the purpose of living therein, which does not
comply with the requirements provided in this article.
(1964 Code, § 12A-18)
§ 15-51 SAME—REQUIRED WINDOW AREA.
   Every habitable room shall have at least one window facing directly to the
public street or alley or open air space of at least eight feet in width. The
minimum total window area, measured between stops, for every habitable room
shall be one-eighth of the floor area but in no event less than eight square
feet of such room. Whenever the only window in a room is skylight-type window
in the top of such room, the total window area of such skylight shall equal at
least 15 percent of the total floor area of such room. Skylight-type windows
existing on the effective date of the total floor area, shall be increased to
15 percent, but no skylight-type window shall be installed in lieu of a window
where a skylight has not previously existed.
(1964 Code, § 12A-18)
§ 15-52 SAME—VENTILATION.
   Every habitable room shall have at least one window or skylight which can
easily be opened, or such other device as will adequately ventilate the room.
The total of openable window area in every habitable room shall be equal to at
least 50 percent of the minimum window area size or minimum skylight-type
window size, as required in the preceding section except where there is
supplied some other device affording adequate ventilation.
(1964 Code, § 12A-18)
§ 15-53 SAME—BATHROOMS; TOILET ROOMS.
   Every bathroom, toilet room and other similar rooms shall have a window area
of not less than three square feet. Every bathroom and toilet room shall comply
with the light and ventilation requirements for habitable rooms contained in
the preceding section, except that no window shall be required in adequately
ventilated bathrooms and toilet rooms equipped with an adequate ventilation
system which will completely change the air every seven minutes and which is
kept in continuous operation when occupied.
(1964 Code, § 12A-18)
§ 15-54 SAME—ELECTRIC OUTLETS.
   Where there is suitable electric service available from supply lines which
are not more than 300 feet away from a dwelling, including all existing
dwellings now supplied with electrical service, every kitchen, living room,
rooming unit, hotel unit and nursing unit within such dwelling shall contain at
least two separate and remote floor or wall-type electric convenience outlets
or one such convenience outlet and one supplied ceiling or wall type electric
light fixture and convenience outlet; and every bedroom, dining room, toilet
room, bathroom, laundry room, furnace room and public hall shall contain at
least one supplied ceiling-type or wall-type electric light fixture; provided,
that in lieu of one supplied ceiling-type or wall-type electric light fixture a
bedroom and dining room may each contain at least two separate and remote floor
or wall-type electric convenience outlets. Every such outlet and fixture shall
be properly installed, shall be maintained in reasonably good working condition
and shall be connected to the source of electric power in a proper manner and
in conformance with the electrical code of the city.
(1964 Code, § 12A-18)
§ 15-55 SAME—HEATING FACILITIES.
   (A)   Whenever a dwelling unit has supplied heating facilities, and
facilities should be properly installed, be maintained in reasonably good
working condition and be capable of adequately heating all habitable rooms,
bathrooms and toilet rooms contained therein, or intended for use by the
occupants thereof, to a temperature of at least 70 degrees Fahrenheit, at a
distance of three feet above floor level, when the outdoor temperature is at or
above ten degrees below zero Fahrenheit. Whenever a dwelling unit does not have
supplied heating facilities, it shall contain a sufficient number of chimney
outlets to permit the occupant, through the use of space heaters furnished by
the occupant, to adequately heat all habitable rooms, bathrooms, toilet rooms
contained therein, or intended for use by the occupants thereof, to a
temperature of at least 70 degrees Fahrenheit at a distance three feet above
floor level, when the outdoor temperature is at or above ten degrees below zero
Fahrenheit. Every supplied central heating system shall comply with all of the
following requirements:
      (1)   The central heating unit shall be safe and in reasonably good
operating condition.
      (2)   Every heat duct, steam pipe and hot water pipe shall be free of
leaks and shall function so that an adequate amount of heat is delivered where
intended.
      (3)   Every seal between any of the sections of a hot air furnace shall
be airtight so noxious gases and fumes will not escape into the heat ducts.
   (B)   Every supplied space heater shall comply with all of the following
requirements:
      (1)   No space heater burning solid, liquid or gaseous fuels shall be of
a portable type.
      (2)   Every space heater burning solid, liquid or gaseous fuels shall be
properly vented to a chimney or duct leading to outdoor space and be so
installed as to provide proper draft.
      (3)   Every fuel burning space heater shall have a fire resistant panel
between it and the floor or floor covering.
      (4)   Every space heater located within two feet of a wall shall be
equipped with the insulation sufficient to prevent overheating of the wall
during periods of maximum operation.
      (5)   Every space heater smoke pipe shall be equipped with approved type
thimbles or guards properly constructed of nonflammable material, at the point
where the pipe goes through any wall, ceiling or partition.
(1964 Code, § 12A-18)
§ 15-56 SAME—LIGHTING OF PUBLIC HALLS AND STAIRWAYS.
   Every public hall and public stairway in every dwelling containing four or
more dwelling units shall be adequately lighted to provide at least two foot
candles of illumination on all parts thereof at all times by means of properly
located electric light fixtures; provided, that such electrical lighting may be
omitted from sunrise to sunset where there are windows or skylights opening
directly to the outside and where the total window or skylight area is at least
one-tenth of the combined horizontal area of the floor and stairway of each
such public hallway and where such windows or skylights provide adequate
natural light to all parts of each such public hallway. Every public hall and
stairway in dwellings containing two or three dwelling units shall be supplied
with convenient light switches controlling an adequate lighting system that
will provide at least two foot candles of illumination on all parts thereof
which may be turned on when needed, instead of full-time lighting.
(1964 Code, § 12A-18)
§ 15-57 SAME—SCREENS REQUIRED GENERALLY.
   During that portion of each year when the Permits and Inspections Department
deems it necessary for protection against flies, mosquitoes and other insects,
every door opening directly from a dwelling unit, room unit, hotel unit or
nursing home unit, to outdoor space shall be supplied with a screen covering at
least 33 percent of the floor area and be equipped with a self-closing device;
and every window or other opening to outdoor space used or intended to be used
for ventilation shall likewise be supplied with screens covering at least 33
percent of the window area. All such screens shall have a wire mesh of not less
than number 16 and shall be properly maintained and repaired to prevent the
entrance of flies, mosquitoes and other insects.
(1964 Code, § 12A-18)
§ 15-58 SAME—SCREENS FOR BASEMENT OR CELLAR WINDOWS.
   Every dwelling having two or more basement or cellar windows which are
openable shall have a screen on each of the two windows which screen shall
cover the entire window. Where there is only one openable basement window, it
shall be similarly screened. Such screens shall have a wire mesh of not less
than number 16.
(1964 Code, § 12A-18)
§ 15-59 SAME—SUPPLIED HEATING TO DWELLINGS OR PARTS THEREOF.
   Every owner or operator of any dwelling who rents, leases or lets for human
habitation any dwelling unit contained within such dwelling on terms, either
expressed or implied, to supply or furnish heat to the occupants thereof, shall
maintain therein a minimum temperature of 70 degrees Fahrenheit, between the
hours of 6:30 in the morning and 10:00 in the evening of each day whenever the
outdoor temperature shall fall below 50 degrees Fahrenheit during the aforesaid
hours and not less than 60 degrees Fahrenheit, between the hours of 10:00 p.m.
and 6:30 a.m. Whenever a dwelling is heated by means of a furnace, boiler or
other heating apparatus under the control of the owner or operator of the
dwelling, such owner or operator, in the absence of a written contract or
agreement to the contrary, shall be deemed to have contracted, undertaken or
bound himself to furnish heat in accordance with the provisions of this section
to every dwelling unit which contains radiators, furnace heat duct outlets or
other heating apparatus outlets, and to every communal bathroom and communal
toilet room located within such dwelling.
(1964 Code, § 12A-18)
§ 15-60 SPACE, USE AND LOCATION—GENERALLY.
   No person shall occupy or let to another for occupancy any dwelling or
dwelling unit, for the purpose of living therein, which does not comply with
the requirements provided in this article.
(1964 Code, § 12A-19)
§ 15-61 SAME—DWELLING UNIT TO BE OCCUPIED BY ONE FAMILY.
   No dwelling unit shall be occupied by more than one family plus two
occupants who are not members of the family.
(1964 Code, § 12A-19)
§ 15-62 SAME—MINIMUM CEILING HEIGHT.
   No habitable room in a dwelling shall have a ceiling height of less than
that provided by the statutes of the state or the rules and regulations of
enforcement procedures adopted thereto, which shall be in conformance with the
standards established in the Uniform Building Code; but in no instance shall
any habitable room have a ceiling height of less than seven feet six inches. At
least one-half of the floor area of every habitable room located above the
first floor shall have a ceiling height of seven feet six inches and the floor
area of that part of any room where the ceiling height is less than five feet
shall not be considered as part of the floor area in computing the total floor
area of the room for the purpose of determining the maximum permissible
occupancy thereof.
(1964 Code, § 12A-19)
§ 15-63 SAME—MINIMUM FLOOR AREA FOR DWELLING UNIT.
   (A)   Every dwelling unit not used for light housekeeping and consisting of
only one habitable room shall contain at least 120 square feet of habitable
room floor area.
   (B)   Every dwelling unit used for light housekeeping and consisting of only
one habitable room shall contain at least 150 square feet of habitable floor
area.
(1964 Code, § 12A-19)
§ 15-64 SAME—MINIMUM FLOOR AREA FOR OCCUPANCY BY MORE THAN ONE OCCUPANT.
   No dwelling unit containing less than 180 square feet of habitable room
floor area shall be occupied by more than one occupant; provided, that if a
dwelling unit consisting of only one habitable room has a closet with a minimum
ceiling height of six feet, contained within the dwelling unit and connected
thereto with a doorway or other similar opening, the actual floor area of the
closet, up to and including a maximum of 20 square feet shall be included in
computing the habitable room floor area of the dwelling unit.
(1964 Code, § 12A-19)
§ 15-65 SAME—MAXIMUM OCCUPANCY FOR ONE ROOM DWELLING UNIT.
   No dwelling unit consisting of only one habitable room shall be occupied by
more than two occupants.
(1964 Code, § 12A-19)
§ 15-66 SAME—MAXIMUM OCCUPANCY FOR DWELLING UNITS OF TWO OR MORE ROOMS.
   No dwelling unit consisting of two or more rooms shall be occupied by more
occupants than the total number which is calculated on the following basis:
 
Type of Room                                                         Subtotal
Kitchen                                                              0
Each room containing less than 80 square feet of floor area          0
Each habitable room containing at least 80 but less than 100 square  1
feet of floor area
Each habitable room containing 100 or more square feet of floor area 2
 
(Code 1964, § 12A-19)
§ 15-67 SAME—ARRANGEMENT OF SLEEPING, BATH AND TOILET ROOMS.
   No dwelling or dwelling unit containing two or more sleeping rooms shall
have such room arrangements that access to a bathroom or toilet room intended
by use by occupants of more than one sleeping room can be had only by going
through another sleeping room; nor shall room arrangements be such that access
to sleeping room can be had only by going through another sleeping room or a
bathroom or toilet room.
(1964 Code, § 12A-19)
§ 15-68 SAME—CELLAR SPACE NOT HABITABLE.
   No cellar space shall be used as a habitable room or dwelling unit.
(1964 Code, § 12A-19)
§ 15-69 SAME—BASEMENT SPACE MAY BE HABITABLE.
   No basement space shall be used as a habitable room or dwelling unit unless:
   (A)   The floor and walls are of waterproof and dampproof construction.
   (B)   The total of window area in each room is equal to at least the minimum
window area sizes as required in the section on required window area.
   (C)   Such required minimum window area is located entirely above the grade
of the ground adjoining such window area.
   (D)   The total of openable window area in each room is equal to at least
the minimum as required under the section on adequate ventilation required,
except where there is supplied some other approved device affording adequate
ventilation.
   (E)   Such basement dwelling or rooming unit shall be entirely sealed off
from the central heating plant with a one hour fire separation.
   (F)   Such basement dwelling or rooming unit provides two means of exit,
with at least one outside doorway.
   (G)   Such basement dwelling or rooming unit has a ceiling height of at
least seven feet.
(1964 Code, § 12A-19)
§ 15-70 SAME—OCCUPANTS TO HAVE ACCESS TO SANITARY FACILITIES.
   Every occupant of every dwelling shall have unrestricted access to a toilet,
to a bath, to a kitchen sink or lavatory basin located within that dwelling.
(1964 Code, § 12A-19)
§§ 15-71—15-81 RESERVED.
ARTICLE IV: MAINTENANCE STANDARDS
Section
   
15-82   Nondwelling structures—Generally
   
15-83   Same—Exterior wood surfaces
   
15-84   Fences
   
15-85   Grading and drainage of premises
   
15-86   Retaining walls, sidewalks, etc.
   
15-87   Maintenance of premises
   
15-88   Articles dangerous to life or health
   
15-89   Storage of dangerous articles
   
15-90   Openings where paint or oil are stored
   
15-91   Water supply; illegal use of wells
   
15-92   Unsafe wells
   
15-93   Connection to water main
   
15-94   Abandoned wells and cisterns
   
15-95   Animals
   
15-96   Dwellings moved, remodeled or altered
   
15-97   Dwelling unit owner—Generally
   
15-98   Foundations; exterior walls; roofs
   
15-99   Interior walls; floors; ceilings
   
15-100   Rainwater drainage from roof
   
15-101   Windows; exterior doors; basement hatchways
   
15-102   Exterior wood surfaces
   
15-103   Stairways; porches
   
15-104   Supplied plumbing fixtures
   
15-105   Chimneys and supplied smoke pipes
   
15-106   Bathroom and toilet room floors
   
15-107   Functioning of supplied facilities
   
15-108   Discontinuance of required services, etc.
   
15-109   Pest extermination
   
15-110   Cleanliness of public areas
   
15-111   Vacant dwelling units
   
15-112   Dwelling unit occupant—Cleanliness
   
15-113   Same—Disposal of rubbish
   
15-114   Same—Rubbish storage facilities
   
15-115   Same—Disposal of garbage
   
15-116   Same—Garbage disposal or storage facilities
   
15-117   Same—Hanging of screens, storm doors, etc.
   
15-118   Same—Extermination of pests
   
15-119   Same—Plumbing fixtures
   
15-120   Same—Heating facilities
   
15-121   Reserved
   
15-122   Destruction, mutilation and defacing of property
   15-123—15-135   Reserved
§ 15-82 NONDWELLING STRUCTURES—GENERALLY.
   (A)   No owner shall permit any nondwelling structure or fence to exist on
any premises which does not comply with the requirements provided in this
article.
   (B)   Every foundation, exterior wall, roof, window, exterior door, basement
hatchway and every other entranceway of every nondwelling structure shall be so
maintained as to prevent the structure from becoming a harborage for rodents,
vermin and insects and shall be kept in a reasonably good state of maintenance
and repair.
§ 15-83 SAME—EXTERIOR WOOD SURFACES.
   All exterior wood surfaces of all nondwelling structures shall be properly
protected from the elements and against decay by paint or other approved
protective coating applied in a workmanlike manner.
(Code 1964, § 12A-6)
§ 15-84 FENCES.
   Every fence shall be kept in a reasonably good state of maintenance and
repair or shall be removed.
(Code 1964, § 12A-6)
§ 15-85 GRADING AND DRAINAGE OF PREMISES.
   All premises shall be graded and maintained so no stagnant water will
accumulate or stand on the premises or within any building or structure located
on the premises.
(Code 1964, § 12A-6)
§ 15-86 RETAINING WALLS, SIDEWALKS, ETC.
   All retaining walls shall be maintained in a reasonably good state of
repair, and all sidewalks and patios shall be maintained in a reasonably good
state of repair free from obstructions, holes and uneven joints and free from
ice and snow during the winter months.
(Code 1964, § 12A-6)
§ 15-87 MAINTENANCE OF PREMISES.
   All areas and parts of the premises upon which any dwelling or dwelling
units are located and all areas adjacent thereto and a part of the premises
shall be maintained and kept in a reasonable and proper manner. This shall
include the cutting of grass and weeds; removal of dead trees and brush;
removal of abandoned and junked automobiles, automobile bodies, chassis and
parts, the removal of inoperable machines and appliances; lumber piles and
building materials not being used in actual construction; tin cans, broken
glass, broken furniture, boxes, crates and other debris, rubbish, junk and
garbage.
(Code 1964, § 12A-6)
§ 15-88 ARTICLES DANGEROUS TO LIFE OR HEALTH.
   No dwelling nor any part thereof, nor of the lot upon which it is situated,
shall be used as a place of storage, keeping or handling of any article
dangerous or detrimental to life or health; nor of any combustible article
except under such conditions as may be prescribed by the chief of the fire
prevention bureau, or the proper official, under authority of a written permit
issued by him.
(Code 1964, § 12A-6)
§ 15-89 STORAGE OF DANGEROUS ARTICLES.
   No person shall use any portion of any multiple dwelling, rooming house,
hotel or nursing home as a place of storage for any article or material that is
combustible or highly inflammable, dangerous or detrimental to health, or which
is so placed that it may impede egress.
(Code 1964, § 12A-6)
§ 15-90 OPENINGS WHERE PAINT OR OIL ARE STORED.
   There shall be no transom, window or door opening into a public hall from
any part of a multiple dwelling, hotel or nursing home where paint, fuel oil or
drugs are stored or kept for the purpose of sale or otherwise.
(Code 1964, § 12A-6)
§ 15-91 WATER SUPPLY; ILLEGAL USE OF WELLS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to maintain or use any well for the
purpose of drawing therefrom water intended for domestic purposes without first
having said well tested and inspected and obtaining and receiving from the
Permits and Inspections Department a permit therefor or to use any well after
notice from the Permits and Inspections Department to abandon, close or fill
the well.
(Code 1964, § 12A-6)
§ 15-92 UNSAFE WELLS.
   Every owner of a dwelling upon which premises any well, the water of which
is used for domestic purposes, has become polluted or unsafe for human
consumption, may be required by the Permits and Inspections Department to
reconstruct and sterilize the well or to close and fill it within a reasonable
time.
(Code 1964, § 12A-6)
§ 15-93 CONNECTION TO WATER MAIN.
   Every owner of a dwelling situated on property which abuts any street or
alley in which a water main is laid shall cause the water service system of his
dwelling to be connected to such main.
(Code 1964, § 12A-6)
§ 15-94 ABANDONED WELLS AND CISTERNS.
   Every owner of a dwelling which contains an abandoned well or cistern on the
premises shall upon notice from the Permits and Inspections Department close
and fill them in a proper manner. This shall not apply to wells and cisterns
which are sealed in a proper manner so that entrance thereto can be had only
through the use of proper tools.
(Code 1964, § 12A-6)
§ 15-95 ANIMALS.
   No animal shall be kept in any dwelling or part thereof. Nor shall any
animal be kept in any lot thereof or premises of a dwelling except household
pets without first obtaining a permit from the Permits and Inspections
Department, except as provided by city ordinances.
(Code 1964, § 12A-6)
§ 15-96 DWELLINGS MOVED, REMODELED OR ALTERED.
   If any dwelling after the enactment of this chapter is moved from one lot to
another or from its site of original location upon the same lot, or remodeled
or altered, it shall thereupon be made to conform to all provisions of this
chapter relative to and pursuant to dwellings hereafter erected, moved,
remodeled or altered; and no dwelling shall be moved from one lot to another
site or location unless the Permits and Inspections Department shall certify
that such dwelling is safe and sanitary. For the purpose of this provision
REMODELED or ALTERED shall mean any structural change in the building or
dwelling.
(Code 1964, § 12A-6)
§ 15-97 DWELLING UNIT OWNER—GENERALLY.
   No person shall occupy as owner-occupant, or let to another for occupancy
any dwelling unit, or portion thereof, for the purpose of living therein, which
does not comply with the requirements provided in this article.
(Code 1964, § 12A-7)
§ 15-98 FOUNDATIONS; EXTERIOR WALLS; ROOFS.
   Every foundation, exterior wall and roof shall be reasonably weathertight,
rodentproof and insectproof and shall be kept in a reasonably good state of
maintenance and repair.
(Code 1964, § 12A-7)
§ 15-99 INTERIOR WALLS; FLOORS; CEILINGS.
   Every interior partition, wall, floor and ceiling shall be capable of
affording privacy, shall be kept in a reasonably good state of repair and shall
be maintained so as to be kept in a clean and sanitary condition.
(Code 1964, § 12A-7)
§ 15-100 RAINWATER DRAINAGE FROM ROOF.
   All rainwater shall be so drained and conveyed from every roof so as not to
cause dampness in the walls, ceilings or floors of any habitable room, or any
bathroom or toilet room therein.
(Code 1964, § 12A-7)
§ 15-101 WINDOWS; EXTERIOR DOORS; BASEMENT HATCHWAYS.
   Every front entrance, rear entrance and basement entrance door shall be not
less than two feet and four inches in width and not less than six feet and six
inches in height. Every window, exterior door and basement hatchway shall be
reasonably weathertight and rodentproof; and shall be kept in a reasonably good
working condition and a reasonably good state of maintenance and repair.
(Code 1964, § 12A-7)
§ 15-102 EXTERIOR WOOD SURFACES.
   All exterior wood surfaces shall be reasonably protected from the elements
and against decay, by paint or other approved protective coating applied in a
workmanlike fashion.
(Code 1964, § 12A-7)
§ 15-103 STAIRWAYS; PORCHES.
   Every inside and outside stairway, every porch and every appurtenance
thereto shall be so constructed as to be reasonably safe to use and capable of
supporting the load that normal use may cause to be placed thereon; and shall
be kept in sound condition and in a reasonably good state of maintenance and
repair.
(Code 1964, § 12A-7)
§ 15-104 SUPPLIED PLUMBING FIXTURES.
   Every supplied plumbing fixture and water and waste pipe shall be properly
installed in accordance with the plumbing code of the city, and maintained in
safe, sanitary working condition free from leaks, defects and obstructions.
(Code 1964, § 12A-7)
§ 15-105 CHIMNEYS AND SUPPLIED SMOKE PIPES.
   Every chimney and every supplied smoke pipe shall be adequately supported,
reasonably clean and maintained in a reasonably good state of repair.
(Code 1964, § 12A-7)
§ 15-106 BATHROOM AND TOILET ROOM FLOORS.
   Every toilet room floor surface and bathroom floor surface shall be
maintained so as to be reasonably impervious to water and so as to permit such
floor to be kept in a clean and sanitary condition.
(Code 1964, § 12A-7)
§ 15-107 FUNCTIONING OF SUPPLIED FACILITIES.
   Every supplied facility, piece of equipment or utility which is required
under this chapter shall be so constructed or installed that it will function
properly and shall be maintained in reasonably good working condition.
(Code 1964, § 12A-7)
§ 15-108 DISCONTINUANCE OF REQUIRED SERVICES, ETC.
   No owner or operator shall cause any service, facility, equipment or utility
which is required to be supplied under the provisions of this chapter to be
removed from, or shut off from, or discontinued for any occupied dwelling or
dwelling unit, hotel unit or nursing home unit let or occupied by him, except
for such temporary interruption as may be necessary while actual repairs,
replacements or alterations are in the process of being made.
(Code 1964, § 12A-7)
§ 15-109 PEST EXTERMINATION.
   Every owner of a dwelling containing two or more dwelling units shall be
responsible for the extermination of insects, rodents or other pests on the
premises. Whenever infestation exists in two or more of the dwelling units in
any dwelling, or in the shared or public parts of any dwelling containing two
or more dwelling units, extermination thereof shall be the responsibility of
the owner.
(Code 1964, § 12A-7)
§ 15-110 CLEANLINESS OF PUBLIC AREAS.
   Every owner of a dwelling containing three or more dwelling units shall be
responsible for maintaining in a reasonably clean and sanitary condition all
communal, shared or public areas of the dwelling and premises thereof which are
used or shared by the occupants of three or more dwelling units.
(Code 1964, § 12A-7)
§ 15-111 VACANT DWELLING UNITS.
   No owner shall occupy or rent to any other person for occupancy or allow any
other person to occupy any vacant dwelling unit unless it is reasonably clean,
sanitary and complies with all applicable provisions of this chapter and all
rules and regulations adopted pursuant thereto.
(Code 1964, § 12A-7)
§ 15-112 DWELLING UNIT OCCUPANT—CLEANLINESS.
   Every occupant of a dwelling or dwelling unit shall keep and maintain in a
clean and sanitary condition that part of the dwelling, dwelling unit and
premises thereof which he occupies or controls.
(Code 1964, § 12A-8)
§ 15-113 SAME—DISPOSAL OF RUBBISH.
   Every occupant of a dwelling or dwelling unit shall dispose of all his
rubbish in a clean and sanitary manner.
(Code 1964, § 12A-8)
§ 15-114 SAME—RUBBISH STORAGE FACILITIES.
   Every occupant of a dwelling containing one dwelling unit and every occupant
of a dwelling containing two dwelling units, except as provided in the section
on garbage storage and disposal facilities, shall furnish adequate rubbish
storage facilities whose type and location are approved.
(Code 1964, § 12A-8)
§ 15-115 SAME—DISPOSAL OF GARBAGE.
   Every occupant of a dwelling or dwelling unit shall dispose of all his
garbage and any other organic waste which might provide food for rodents, in a
clean and sanitary manner, by placing it in the garbage disposal facilities or
garbage storage containers required by the section on garbage disposal or
storage facilities following.
(Code 1964, § 12A-8)
§ 15-116 SAME—GARBAGE DISPOSAL OR STORAGE FACILITIES.
   Every occupant of a dwelling containing one dwelling unit and every occupant
of a dwelling containing two dwelling units, except as provided in section 15-
49, shall furnish adequate garbage disposal facilities or garbage storage
containers whose type and location are approved.
(Code 1964, § 12A-8)
§ 15-117 SAME—HANGING OF SCREENS, STORM DOORS, ETC.
   Every occupant of a dwelling or dwelling unit shall be responsible for
hanging all screens and double or storm doors and windows whenever the same are
required under the provisions of this chapter or of any rule or regulation
adopted pursuant thereto except where the owner has agreed to supply such
service.
(Code 1964, § 12A-8)
§ 15-118 SAME—EXTERMINATION OF PESTS.
   Every occupant of a dwelling containing a single dwelling unit shall be
responsible for the extermination of any insects, rodents or other pests
therein or on the premises; and every occupant of a dwelling unit in a dwelling
containing more than one dwelling unit shall be responsible for such
extermination within the unit occupied by him whenever his dwelling unit is the
only one infested. Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this section,
whenever infestation is caused by failure of the owner to maintain a dwelling
in a reasonably ratproof or reasonably insectproof condition, extermination
shall be the responsibility of the owner.
(Code 1964, § 12A-8)
§ 15-119 SAME—PLUMBING FIXTURES.
   (A)   Every occupant of a dwelling unit shall keep all supplied plumbing
fixtures therein in a clean and sanitary condition and shall be responsible for
the exercise of reasonable care in the proper use and operation thereof.
   (B)   Every plumbing fixture furnished by the occupant or owner shall be
properly installed and shall be maintained in reasonably good working
condition, in a clean and sanitary state, and free from defects, leaks or
obstruction.
(Code 1964, § 12A-8)
§ 15-120 SAME—HEATING FACILITIES.
   (A)   Every occupant of a dwelling unit shall be responsible for the
exercise of reasonable care, proper use and proper operation of heating
facilities.
   (B)   Every space heater furnished by the occupant shall be properly
installed, shall be maintained in reasonably good working condition and shall
comply with all of the following requirements:
      (1)   No space heater burning solid, liquid or gaseous fuels shall be of
a portable type.
      (2)   Every space heater burning solid, liquid or gaseous fuels shall be
properly vented to a chimney or duct leading to outdoor space.
      (3)   Every fuel-burning space heater shall have a fire resistant panel
beneath it.
      (4)   Every space heater located within two feet of a wall should be
equipped with insulation sufficient to prevent overheating of the wall during
periods of maximum operation.
      (5)   Every space heater smoke pipe shall be equipped with guards
properly constructed of nonflammable material, at the point where the pipe goes
through a wall, ceiling or partition.
(Code 1964, § 12A-8)
§ 15-121 RESERVED.
§ 15-122 DESTRUCTION, MUTILATION AND DEFACING OF PROPERTY.
   No person shall willfully or wantonly damage, mutilate or deface any part of
residential real estate, supplied fixtures and equipment and supplied
furnishings or any other property of another.
(Code 1964, § 12A-8)
§§ 15-123—15-135 RESERVED.
ARTICLE V: ROOMING HOUSES, HOTELS, ETC.
Section
Division 1: Generally
   
15-136   Contents of occupancy record card
   
15-137   Posting of permit and occupancy record card
   
15-138   Operator to control occupancy
   
15-139   Applicability of building, zoning, etc., codes and ordinances
   
15-140   Applicability of other provisions of this chapter
   
15-141   Health and safety regulations—Toilets and lavatory basins
   
15-142   Same—Baths
   
15-143   Same—Location of sanitary facilities
   
15-144   Same—Minimum floor area
   
15-145   Same—Maximum occupancy
   
15-146   Same—Identification
   
15-147   Same—Residence of children
   
15-148   Same—Preparation or eating of meals
   
15-149   Same—Posting of no cooking signs
   
15-150   Same—Bed linens and towels
   
15-151   Same—Shades, drapes, etc.
   
15-152   Same—Sanitary maintenance
   
15-153   Same—Rubbish storage
   
15-154   Same—Garbage disposal or storage
   
15-155   Same—Hanging screens, storm doors, etc.
   
15-156   Same—Extermination of pests
   
15-157   Same—Exits
   
15-158   Same—Reporting of communicable disease
   
15-159   Registration of guests
   
15-160   Applicability of other sections to second class dwellings
   15-161—15-170   Reserved
Division 2: Permit
   
15-171   Required
   
15-172   Same—Application
   
15-173   Inspection of premises
   
15-174   Issuance; fees; term; issuance of occupancy record cards
   
15-175   Hearing when denied
   
15-176   Transfer
   
15-177   Suspension and revocation
   15-178—15-190   Reserved
DIVISION 1: GENERALLY
§ 15-136 CONTENTS OF OCCUPANCY RECORD CARD.
   Every occupancy record card shall list the maximum number of persons that
may reside in the total of all rooming units, second class dwelling units,
hotel units and nursing home units located in the dwelling or portions thereof
for which the rooming house, second class dwelling, hotel or nursing home
permit is issued. The occupancy record card shall also list the maximum number
of persons which may occupy each individual rooming unit, second class dwelling
unit, hotel unit or nursing unit located in the dwelling or portions thereof
for which the rooming house, second class dwelling unit, hotel unit or nursing
unit located in the dwelling or portions thereof for which the rooming house,
second class dwelling, hotel or nursing home permit issued. Whenever the
operator is required to file a certificate of occupancy in accordance with the
provisions of section 15-172, all of the rooming units, second class dwelling
units, hotel units and nursing home units listed on the occupancy record card
shall be located in such portions of the dwelling as are permitted to be
occupied under the provisions of the certificate of occupancy.
(Code 1964, § 12A-27)
§ 15-137 POSTING OF PERMIT AND OCCUPANCY RECORD CARD.
   Every rooming house, second class dwelling, hotel or nursing home permit
issued by the Permits and Inspections Department shall be conspicuously posted
by the operator in a public corridor or hallway or other public portion of the
premises for which it is issued and shall remain so posted at all times. Every
occupancy record card shall be so posted by the operator in a place where such
cards are readily accessible for examination by the Permits and Inspections
Department.
(Code 1964, § 12A-28)
§ 15-138 OPERATOR TO CONTROL OCCUPANCY.
   No operator shall at any time allow a large number of persons to occupy the
total of all rooming units, second class dwelling units, hotel units or nursing
home units located within a rooming house, second class dwelling, hotel or
nursing home than the maximum number of persons listed on the permit and the
occupancy record card. No operator shall at any time allow a larger number of
persons to occupy any individual rooming unit, second class dwelling unit,
hotel unit or nursing home unit than the maximum number of persons listed on
the occupancy record card for each such rooming unit, second class dwelling
unit, hotel unit or nursing home unit. No operator shall at any time permit any
person to occupy any rooming unit, second class dwelling unit, hotel unit or
nursing home unit which is not listed on the occupancy record card.
(Code 1964, § 12A-29)
§ 15-139 APPLICABILITY OF BUILDING, ZONING, ETC., CODES AND ORDINANCES.
   The issuance of any permit and occupancy record card to any rooming house,
second class dwelling, hotel or nursing home shall not in any way signify or
imply that the rooming house, second class dwelling, hotel or nursing home
conforms with the state building code or the building and zoning ordinances of
the city. It shall be the duty of the chief building official to enforce the
provisions of such building and zoning codes and ordinances. The issuance of a
rooming house, second class dwelling, hotel or nursing home permit shall not
relieve the owner or operator thereof of the responsibility of compliance with
such building and zoning codes and ordinances and shall not relieve the chief
building official of the responsibility for enforcement of such building and
zoning codes and ordinances.
(Code 1964, § 12A-30)
§ 15-140 APPLICABILITY OF OTHER PROVISIONS OF THIS CHAPTER.
   No person shall operate a rooming house, second class dwelling, hotel or
nursing home unless all of the requirements of sections 15-50—15-70 and 15-
97—15-111 are complied with; provided, that for the purpose of interpreting the
requirements of the designated sections applicable in the enforcement of this
subsection, the words “multiple dwelling” or “dwelling” shall be interpreted to
mean “rooming house,” “second class dwelling,” “hotel” or “nursing home” and
the words “dwelling unit” or “dwelling units” shall be interpreted to mean
“rooming unit,” “second class dwelling,” “hotel” or “nursing home unit or
units.” Every dwelling unit located with a rooming house, second class
dwelling, hotel or nursing home shall comply with all of the requirements for
dwelling units as established in accordance with the provisions of this
chapter.
(Code 1964, § 12A-31)
§ 15-141 HEALTH AND SAFETY REGULATIONS—TOILETS AND LAVATORY BASINS.
   At least one toilet and one lavatory basin, properly connected to an
approved water and sewer system and in good working condition shall be supplied
for each eight persons or fraction thereof residing within a rooming house,
second class dwelling, hotel or nursing home including members of the
operator’s family wherever they share the use of said facilities; provided,
that in a rooming house, second class dwelling, hotel or nursing home where
rooms are let only to males, flush urinals may be substituted for not more than
one-half the required number of toilets.
(Code 1964, § 12A-32)
§ 15-142 SAME—BATHS.
   At least one bath, properly connected to an approved water and sewer system
and in good working condition shall be supplied for each eight persons or
fraction thereof residing within a rooming house, second class dwelling, hotel
or nursing home including members of the operator’s family whenever they share
the use of such facilities.
(Code 1964, § 12A-32)
§ 15-143 SAME—LOCATION OF SANITARY FACILITIES.
   Every toilet, lavatory basin and bath shall be located within a room or
rooms which afford privacy to a person within such room or rooms. All such
facilities shall be so located within the rooming house, second class dwelling,
hotel or nursing home as to be accessible to the occupants of each rooming unit
sharing such facilities without going outside of the dwelling, hotel or nursing
home and without going through a rooming unit, a dwelling unit, hotel unit or
nursing home unit of another occupant.
(Code 1964, § 12A-32)
§ 15-144 SAME—MINIMUM FLOOR AREA.
   Every room occupied for sleeping purposes by one person shall contain at
least 80 square feet of floor space, and every room occupied for sleeping
purposes by more than one person shall contain at least 50 square feet of floor
space for each occupant thereof.
(Code 1964, § 12A-32)
§ 15-145 SAME—MAXIMUM OCCUPANCY.
   No rooming, second class dwelling, hotel or nursing home unit consisting of
only one habitable room shall be occupied by more than four occupants; provided
that a hotel unit or nursing home unit may be occupied by more than four
occupants if it complies with the provisions of this chapter.
(Code 1964, § 12A-32)
§ 15-146 SAME—IDENTIFICATION.
   Every rooming unit, second class dwelling unit, hotel unit and every other
dwelling unit in every rooming house, second class dwelling or hotel shall be
numbered or lettered in a plain and conspicuous manner, the number or letter to
be placed on the outside of the door to such rooming unit, second class
dwelling unit, hotel unit or other dwelling unit. No two doors shall bear the
same number or letter.
(Code 1964, § 12A-32)
§ 15-147 SAME—RESIDENCE OF CHILDREN.
   No child under 16 years of age shall live or sleep in a rooming house unless
he resides in a dwelling unit contained therein or is accompanied by a parent
or a guardian. No child under 16 years of age shall live or sleep in a hotel
for a period of more than 30 days in any calendar year unless he resides in a
dwelling unit contained therein.
(Code 1964, § 12A-32)
§ 15-148 SAME—PREPARATION OR EATING OF MEALS.
   No occupant of a rooming house shall prepare or eat meals in a rooming house
unless such meals are prepared or eaten in a dwelling unit contained therein.
No occupant of a hotel shall prepare meals in a hotel unless such meals are
prepared in a dwelling unit contained therein; provided that occupants of a
hotel who are employed in a public restaurant located within the hotel may live
and sleep in rooms located within the hotel. Meals prepared in a public
restaurant may be served to and eaten by the occupant of a hotel unit, provided
the dishes and tableware are returned to the restaurant kitchen for washing and
the garbage of such restaurant is disposed of in an approved manner.
(Code 1964, § 12A-32)
§ 15-149 SAME—POSTING OF NO COOKING SIGNS.
   The operator shall post in every rooming unit or hotel unit a sign on which
shall be written or printed in letters not less than three-eighths of one inch
in height the following words: “No Cooking Permitted in This Room” and such
sign shall remain so posted at all times.
(Code 1964, § 12A-32)
§ 15-150 SAME—BED LINENS AND TOWELS.
   The operator of every rooming house, second class dwelling, hotel or nursing
home shall change supplied bed linen and towels therein at least once each
week, and prior to the letting of any room to any occupant. The operator shall
be responsible for the maintenance of all supplied bedding in a reasonably
clean and sanitary manner.
(Code 1964, § 12A-32)
§ 15-151 SAME—SHADES, DRAPES, ETC.
   Every window of every room used for sleeping shall be supplied with shades,
draw drapes or other devices or materials which, when properly used, will
afford privacy to the occupant of the room.
(Code 1964, § 12A-32)
§ 15-152 SAME—SANITARY MAINTENANCE.
   The operator of every rooming house, second class dwelling, hotel or nursing
home shall be responsible for the sanitary maintenance of all walls, floors and
ceilings and for maintenance of a sanitary condition in every other part of the
rooming house, hotel or nursing home, and he shall be further responsible for
the sanitary maintenance of the entire premises where the entire structure or
building within which the rooming house, hotel or nursing home is contained or
is leased or occupied by the operator.
(Code 1964, § 12A-32)
§ 15-153 SAME—RUBBISH STORAGE.
   Adequate rubbish storage containers whose type and location are approved
shall be supplied by the rooming house, second class dwelling, hotel or nursing
home operator. The operator shall be responsible for the disposal of all
rubbish in a clean and sanitary manner by placing it in the required
containers.
(Code 1964, § 12A-32)
§ 15-154 SAME—GARBAGE DISPOSAL OR STORAGE.
   Adequate garbage disposal facilities or garbage storage containers whose
type and location are approved shall be supplied by the rooming house, second
class dwelling, hotel or nursing home operator. The operator shall be
responsible for the disposal of all garbage in a clean and sanitary manner
through the use of approved mechanical equipment or by placing it in the
required manner.
(Code 1964, § 12A-32)
§ 15-155 SAME—HANGING SCREENS, STORM DOORS, ETC.
   The operator of a rooming house, second class dwelling, hotel or nursing
home shall be responsible for hanging all screens and double or storm doors and
windows whenever the same are required under the provisions of this chapter or
of any rule or regulation adopted pursuant hereto.
(Code 1964, § 12A-32)
§ 15-156 SAME—EXTERMINATION OF PESTS.
   The operator of a rooming house, second class dwelling, hotel or nursing
home shall be responsible for the extermination of any insects, rodents or
pests therein; and he shall be further responsible for such extermination on
the entire premises where the entire structure or building within which the
rooming house, second class dwelling, hotel or nursing home is contained or is
leased or occupied by the operator. Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of
this section, when overinfestation of any premises is caused by failure of the
owner to maintain the dwelling within which the rooming house, second class
dwelling, hotel or nursing home is contained in a ratproof or reasonably
inspectproof condition, extermination shall be the responsibility of the owner.
(Code 1964, § 12A-32)
§ 15-157 SAME—EXITS.
   All exits from rooming houses, second class dwellings, hotels and nursing
homes shall comply with the requirements of subsection (K) of section 15-49,
and with the requirements of the special codes and ordinances pertaining
thereto in the state and local building ordinances and codes, state and local
fire rules and regulations and state rules and regulations governing nursing
homes.
(Code 1964, § 12A-32)
§ 15-158 SAME—REPORTING OF COMMUNICABLE DISEASE.
   It shall be the duty of the operator of a rooming house, second class
dwelling, hotel or nursing home to report to the Permits and Inspections
Department within 24 hours the name of any person living in the rooming house,
second class dwelling, hotel or nursing home who is suffering from any
communicable disease, and such report shall be made whenever there is reason to
believe or suspect that any person in such rooming house, second class
dwelling, hotel or nursing home may be afflicted with any communicable disease.
(Code 1964, § 12A-32)
§ 15-159 REGISTRATION OF GUESTS.
   (A)   Keeping of register. Every person to whom a rooming house, second
class dwelling or hotel permit has been issued shall at all times keep a
standard hotel register within the rooming house, second class dwelling or
hotel in which shall be inscribed the names of all occupants renting or
occupying rooming units, second class dwelling units and hotel units. The
register shall be signed by the person renting a rooming unit, second class
dwelling unit or hotel unit. After the name or names of persons renting or
occupying any rooming unit, second class dwelling unit or hotel unit, the
operator or his agent shall write the number of the room or rooms which each
person is to occupy, together with the date and hour when such room or rooms
are rented, all of which shall be done before such person is permitted to
occupy such room or rooms. The register shall be at all times open to
inspection by the Permits and Inspections Department and any peace officer or
fireman of the city.
   (B)   Entry of true name in register. No person shall write or cause to be
written in any rooming house, second class dwelling or hotel register any other
or different name than the true name of such person or the name by which such
person is generally known.
   (C)   Assignment of rooms. No rooming house, second class dwelling or hotel
operator, or his agent, shall assign any rooming unit to two persons of the
opposite sex unless such persons shall be registered as husband and wife or be
members of the same family.
(Code 1964, § 12A-33)
§ 15-160 APPLICABILITY OF OTHER SECTIONS TO SECOND CLASS DWELLINGS.
   No person shall operate a second class dwelling and no person shall occupy
any second class dwelling unit in a second class dwelling unless all of the
requirements of sections 15-97—15-122 and article III of this chapter are
complied with.
(Code 1964, § 12A-34)
§§ 15-161—15-170 RESERVED.
DIVISION 2: PERMIT
§ 15-171 REQUIRED.
   No person shall operate a rooming house, second class dwelling, hotel or
nursing home unless he holds a valid rooming house, second class dwelling,
hotel or nursing home permit issued by the Permits and Inspections Department
in the name of the operator and for the specific structure within which the
rooming house, second class dwelling, hotel or nursing home is contained.
(Code 1964, § 12A-20)
§ 15-172 SAME—APPLICATION.
   The operator shall file, in duplicate, an application for a rooming house,
second class dwelling, hotel or nursing home permit in the office of the
Permits and Inspections Department on application forms prepared by the
division. The operator shall file with the permit application a certificate of
occupancy, issued by the inspector of buildings.
(Code 1964, § 12A-21)
§ 15-173 INSPECTION OF PREMISES.
   The Permits and Inspections Department shall, whenever an application for
rooming house, second class dwelling, hotel or nursing home permit is filed,
inspect the rooming house, second class dwelling, hotel or nursing home within
30 days of such filing. Within 72 hours after the operator files an application
for permit, the Permits and Inspections Department shall transmit to the chief
building official a duplicate copy of the application for his approval. No
permit shall be issued to any operator which would authorize occupancy of the
rooming house, second class dwelling, hotel or nursing home by a larger number
of persons than is permitted under the provisions of applicable zoning laws.
(Code 1964, § 12A-22)
§ 15-174 ISSUANCE; FEES; TERM; ISSUANCE OF OCCUPANCY RECORD CARDS.
   (A)   When all applicable provisions of this chapter and of any rules and
regulations adopted pursuant thereto have been complied with by the operator,
the Permits and Inspections Department shall issue a rooming house, second
class dwelling, hotel or nursing home permit and an occupancy record card upon
the submission of a receipt from the city treasurer’s office showing a payment
of fee according to the following schedule.
   (B)   Before the Permits and Inspections Department shall issue any permit
under the provisions of this section there shall be paid to the city treasurer,
a fee as follows:
Second class dwelling containing 3 second class dwelling units          $5
Second class dwelling containing 4 to 10 second class dwelling units    $10
Second class dwelling containing 10 or more second class dwelling units $25
Rooming house containing 3 rooming units                                $5
Rooming house containing 4 to 10 rooming units                          $10
Rooming house containing 10 or more rooming units                       $25
Hotel containing 5 to 10 hotel units                                    $10
Hotel containing 10 or more hotel units                                 $25
Nursing home                                                            $25
 
   (C)   These units shall include units used by the owner or manager. All
rooming house, second class dwelling, hotel and nursing home permits so issued
shall expire at the end of one year following its date of issue, unless sooner
suspended or revoked as hereinafter provided. The permit shall list the maximum
number of persons that may reside in the total of all rooming units, second
class dwelling units, hotel units and nursing home units located in the
dwelling or portions thereof for which the rooming house, second class
dwelling, hotel or nursing home permit is issued.
(Code 1964, § 12A-23)
§ 15-175 HEARING WHEN DENIED.
   Any person whose application for a permit to operate a rooming house, second
class dwelling, hotel or nursing home has been denied may request and shall be
granted a hearing on the matter before the Permits and Inspections Department
under the procedure provided by section 15-23.
(Code 1964, § 12A-24)
§ 15-176 TRANSFER.
   No permit issued under the provisions of this article shall be transferable
and every operator shall notify the Permits and Inspections Department in
writing within 24 hours after having relinquished proprietorship or having
sold, transferred, given away or otherwise disposed of such interest or control
of any rooming house, second class dwelling, hotel or nursing home and shall
file in writing with the Permits and Inspections Department the name and
address of the operator to whom proprietorship has been relinquished by sale,
gift, or other method of transferal or disposition.
(Code 1964, § 12A-25)
§ 15-177 SUSPENSION AND REVOCATION.
   (A)   Whenever upon inspection of any rooming house, second class dwelling,
hotel or nursing home the Permits and Inspections Department finds that
conditions or practices exist which are in violation of any provisions of this
chapter or of any rule or regulation adopted pursuant thereto, the Permits and
Inspections Department shall give notice in writing to the operator of such
rooming house, second class dwelling, hotel or nursing home that unless such
conditions or practices are corrected within a reasonable period, to be
determined by the Permits and Inspections Department, the operator’s rooming
house, second class dwelling, hotel or nursing home permit will be suspended.
At the end of such period the Permits and Inspections Department shall
reinspect such rooming house, second class dwelling, hotel or nursing home and
if he finds that such conditions or practices have not been corrected, he shall
suspend the permit and give notice in writing to the operator that the latter’s
permit has been suspended.
   (B)   If the operator has been convicted of leasing or letting any dwelling,
room or other premises for the purpose of prostitution or lewdness, which
dwelling, room or other premises is required to have a permit under this
section, the chief of police shall notify the Permits and Inspections
Department in writing of such conviction, and the inspector shall then suspend
the permit and give notice in writing to the operator that the latter’s permit
has been suspended.
   (C)   Any person whose permit to operate a rooming house, second class
dwelling, hotel or nursing home has been suspended, or who has received notice
from the Permits and Inspections Department that his permit is to be suspended
unless existing conditions or practices at his rooming house, second class
dwelling, hotel or nursing home are corrected, may request and shall be granted
a hearing on the matter before the Permits and Inspections Department under the
procedure provided in section 15-23; provided, that if no petition for such is
filed within ten days following the day on which such permit was suspended,
such permit shall be deemed to have been automatically revoked. Upon receipt of
notice of permit revocation, the operator shall cease operation of such rooming
house, second class dwelling, hotel or nursing home and after the elapse of a
reasonable period of time, to be determined by the Permits and Inspections
Department, no person except the owner, operator or member of his family shall
occupy for sleeping or living purposes any dwelling unit or rooming unit
therein. If any operator’s rooming house, second class dwelling unit, hotel or
nursing home permit has been revoked because he has been convicted of letting
any dwelling, room or other premises for prostitution or lewdness the permits
and Inspections Department shall not subsequently issue a permit to the
operator for the operation of any dwelling for which a permit is required in
accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
(Code 1964, § 12A-26)
§§ 15-178—15-190 RESERVED.
ARTICLE VI: FAIR HOUSING
Section
Division 1: Generally
   
15-191   Definitions
   
15-192   Policy
   
15-193   Exceptions
   
15-194   Unlawful acts—Sale or rental
   
15-195   Same—Financing
   
15-196   Same—Brokers
   15-197—15-210   Reserved
Division 2: Fair Housing Commission
   
15-211   Established; composition; terms; chairman
   
15-212   Quorum; effect of vacancy
   
15-213   Compensation; removal
   
15-214   Powers and duties generally
   
15-215   Investigation of complaint
   
15-216   Duties of complainant, etc., generally
   
15-217   Burden of proof
   
15-218   Sources of evidence
   
15-219   Subpoenas
   
15-220   Violations
Statutory reference:
   Local fair housing ordinances, see Neb. RS 1943, § 18-1724
   Nebraska Fair Housing Act, see Neb. RS §§ 20-301 et seq.
DIVISION 1: GENERALLY
§ 15-191 DEFINITIONS.
   As used in this article, unless the context otherwise requires:
   COMMISSION. The Bellevue Fair Housing Commission.
   DISCRIMINATORY HOUSING PRACTICE. An act that is unlawful under this article.
   DWELLING. Any building, structure or portion thereof which is occupied as,
or designated or intended for occupancy as, a residence for one or more
families, and any vacant land which is offered for sale or lease for the
construction or location thereon of any such building, structure or portion
thereof.
   FAMILY. A single individual.
   PERSON. One or more individuals, corporations, partnerships, associations,
labor organizations, legal representatives, mutual companies, joint stock
companies, trusts, unincorporated organizations, trustees, trustees in
bankruptcy, receivers and fiduciaries.
   RESTRICTIVE COVENANT. Any specification limiting the transfer, rental or
lease of any housing because of race, creed, color, national origin or
ancestry.
   TO RENT. To lease, to sublease, to let and otherwise to grant for
consideration the right to occupy the premises not owned by the occupant.
(Ord. 2123, § 2, passed 3-10-1980)
§ 15-192 POLICY.
   It is the policy of the city that there shall be no discrimination in the
acquisition, ownership, possession or enjoyment of housing throughout the city
in accordance with article I, section 25 of the Constitution of the state.
(Ord. 2123, § 1, passed 3-10-1980; Ord. 3738, § 1, passed 10-14-2013)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see RS 1943, § 20-302
§ 15-193 EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   Nothing in this article shall prohibit a religious organization,
association or society, or any nonprofit institution or organization operated,
supervised or controlled by, or in conjunction with a religious organization,
association or society, from limiting the sale, rental or occupancy of a
dwelling which it owns or operates for other than commercial purposes to
persons of the same religion or from giving preferences to such persons unless
membership in such religion is restricted on account of race, color or national
origin. Nor shall anything in this article prohibit a private club not in fact
open to the public, which as an incident to its primary purpose or purposes
provides lodgings which it owns or operates for other than commercial purposes,
from limiting the rental or occupancy of such lodging to its members or from
giving preference to its members.
   (B)   Nothing in this article shall prohibit or limit the right of any
person or his authorized representative to refuse to rent a room or rooms in
his own home for any reason, or for no reason, or to change his tenants in his
own home as often as he may desire; provided, that this exception shall not
apply to any person who makes available for rental or occupancy more than four
sleeping rooms to a person or family within his own home.
(Ord. 2123, § 6, passed 3-10-1980)
§ 15-194 UNLAWFUL ACTS—SALE OR RENTAL.
Except as exempted by the preceding section of this article, it shall be
unlawful for any person to:
   (A)   Refuse to sell or rent after the making of a bona fide offer, or to
refuse to negotiate for the sale or rental of, or otherwise make unavailable or
deny, or to refuse to show, or to refuse to receive and transmit an offer for a
dwelling to any person because of race, color, religion, national origin,
familial status, disability or sex;
   (B)   Discriminate against any person in the terms, conditions or privileges
of sale or rental of a dwelling, or in the provision of services or facilities
in connection therewith, because of race, color, religion, national origin,
familial status, disability or sex;
   (C)   Make, print or publish, or cause to be made, printed or published any
notice, statement or advertisement, with respect to the sale or rental of a
dwelling that indicates any preference, limitation or discrimination based on
race, color, religion, national origin, disability, familial status, or sex or
an intention to make any such preference, limitation or discrimination;
   (D)   Represent to any person because of race, color, religion, national
origin, familial status, disability or sex that any dwelling is not available
for inspection, sale or rental when such dwelling is in fact so available;
   (E)   Cause to be made any written or oral inquiry or record concerning the
race, color, religion or national origin of a person seeking to purchase, rent
or lease any housing;
   (F)   Include in any transfer, sale, rental or lease of housing any
restrictive covenants, or to honor or exercise or attempt to honor or exercise
any restrictive covenants pertaining to housing;
   (G)   Discharge or demote an employee or agent or discriminate in the
compensation of such employee or agent because of such employee’s or agent’s
compliance with the provisions of this article;
   (H)   Induce or attempt to induce, for profit, any person to sell or rent
any dwelling by representations regarding the entry or prospective entry into
the neighborhood of a person or persons of a particular race, color, religion,
national origin, familial status, disability or sex.
(Ord. 4009, §§ 1, 2, passed 10-20-2020)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 1943, § 20-318
§ 15-195 SAME—FINANCING.
   It shall be unlawful for any bank, building and loan association, insurance
company or other corporation, association, firm or enterprise whose business
consists in whole or in part in the marking of commercial real estate loans, to
deny a loan or other financial assistance to a person applying therefore for
the purpose of purchasing, constructing, improving, repairing or maintaining a
dwelling, or to discriminate against him in the fixing of the amount, interest
rate, duration or other terms or conditions of such loan or other financial
assistance, because of race, color, religion, sex, familial status, disability,
or national origin of such person or of any person associated with him in
connection with such loan or other financial assistance or the purposes of such
loan or other financial assistance, or of the present or prospective owners,
lessees, tenants or occupants of the dwellings in relation to which such loan
or other financial assistance is to be made or given; provided, that nothing
contained in this section shall impair the scope or effectiveness of the
exceptions contained in section 15-193.
(Ord. 2123, § 4, passed 3-10-1980; Ord. 3738, § 3, passed 10-14-2013)
§ 15-196 SAME—BROKERS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to deny any person access to or
membership or participation in any multiple listing service, real estate
brokers organization or other service, organization or facility relating to the
business of selling or renting dwellings, or to participate or discriminate
against him in the terms or conditions of such access, membership or
participation, on account of race, color, religion, sex, familial status,
disability, or national origin.
(Ord. 2123, § 5, passed 3-10-1980; Ord. 3738, § 4, passed 10-14-2013)
§§ 15-197—15-210 RESERVED.
DIVISION 2: FAIR HOUSING COMMISSION
§ 15-211 ESTABLISHED; COMPOSITION; TERMS; CHAIRMAN.
   There is hereby established the Bellevue Fair Housing Commission (the
“commission”), to consist of five members to be appointed by the mayor. Terms
of members shall be three years. As the terms of the members expire, the mayor
shall appoint or reappoint the members of the commission for a term of three
years to succeed the members whose terms expire. The commission shall elect one
member to serve as chairman.
(Ord. 2123, § 7, passed 3-10-1980)
§ 15-212 QUORUM; EFFECT OF VACANCY.
   Three members of the commission shall constitute a quorum for the purpose of
conducting the business thereof. A vacancy in the commission shall not impair
the right of the remaining members to exercise all the powers of the
commission.
(Ord. 2123, § 7, passed 3-10-1980)
§ 15-213 COMPENSATION; REMOVAL.
   Members of the commission shall receive no compensation for their services
but shall be reimbursed for their expenses actually and necessarily incurred in
the performance of their duties. Any member of the commission may be removed by
the mayor for inefficiency, neglect of duty, misconduct or malfeasance in
office, after being given a written statement of the charges and an opportunity
to be heard thereon.
(Ord. 2123, § 7, passed 3-10-1980)
§ 15-214 POWERS AND DUTIES GENERALLY.
   The commission shall have the following powers and duties:
   (A)   To receive, investigate and pass upon charges of a discriminatory
housing practice; and
   (B)   To hold hearings relative to the investigation of discriminatory
housing practices.
(Ord. 2123, § 8, passed 3-10-1980)
§ 15-215 INVESTIGATION OF COMPLAINT.
   Within 30 days after receiving a complaint, the commission shall investigate
the complaint and, at its next regularly scheduled meeting, determine whether
probable cause exists to credit the allegations of the complaint. If the
commission determines probable cause does exist, it shall proceed to try to
eliminate or correct the alleged discriminatory housing practice by informal
methods of conference, conciliation and persuasion. Nothing said or done in the
course of such informal endeavors may be made public or used as evidence in a
subsequent proceeding, without the written consent of all persons concerned.
(Ord. 2123, § 9, passed 3-10-1980)
§ 15-216 DUTIES OF COMPLAINANT, ETC., GENERALLY.
   A complaint shall be filed within 180 days after the alleged discriminatory
housing practice occurred or the same shall be waived. The complaint shall
state the facts upon which the allegations of the discriminatory housing
practice are based. Complaints may be reasonably and fairly amended at any
time. Both complaints and answers shall be verified under oath.
(Ord. 2123, § 9, passed 3-10-1980)
§ 15-217 BURDEN OF PROOF.
   In any proceeding brought pursuant to this article, the burden of proof
shall be on the complainant.
§ 15-218 SOURCES OF EVIDENCE.
   In conducting an investigation the commission shall have access at all
reasonable times to premises, records, documents, individuals and other
evidence or possible sources of evidence and may examine, record any copy such
materials and take and record the testimony or statements of such persons as
are reasonably necessary for the furtherance of the investigation; provided,
that such evidence shall not be made public. The commission may issue subpoenas
to compel access to or the production of such materials or for the appearance
of such persons, and may issue interrogatories to the parties, to the same
extent and subject to the same limitations as would apply if the subpoenas or
interrogatories were issued or served in aid of a civil action in the district
court. The commission also may administer oaths.
(Ord. 2123, § 9, passed 3-10-1980)
§ 15-219 SUBPOENAS.
   Upon written application to the commission, a complainant or respondent
shall be entitled to the issuance of a reasonable number of subpoenas by and in
the name of the commission to the same extent and subject to the same
limitations as subpoenas issued by the commission itself. Subpoenas issued at
the request of a complainant or respondent shall show on their face the name
and address of such party and shall state that they were issued at his request.
(Ord. 2123, § 9, passed 3-10-1980)
§ 15-220 VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   Upon certification by the Fair Housing Commission that there has been
an affirmative finding of probable cause of discriminatory practices, the Fair
Housing Officer may:
      (1)   Request the Corporation Counsel to file an action against the
accused party in a court of competent jurisdiction, seeking the imposition of
the following penalties:
         (a)   A fine not exceeding One Thousand Five Hundred Dollars ($1,500)
for each offense with each act of discrimination being considered a separate
offense;
         (b)   Revocation or suspension of any license of permit issued by the
City of Bellevue, necessary to the operation of the housing accommodation(s) in
question and any other equitable relief necessary to effect the purposes of
this article;
         (c)   All costs, expenses, and disbursements incurred by the City of
Bellevue in effecting compliance with this article; and/or
         (d)   Such other relief directed by a court of appropriate
jurisdiction
      (2)   Request a qualified fair housing enforcement agency to commence a
civil action or proceeding for injunctive relief, damages, and other
appropriate relief in law or equity against a person who violates this article.
In any such action or proceeding, the court, in its discretion may allow the
party commencing such action or proceeding, if such party prevails, a
reasonable attorney’s fee as part of the costs.
   (B)   The aggrieved party may commence a civil action or proceeding for
injunctive relief, damages, and other appropriate relief in law or equity
against a person who violates this article. In any such action or proceeding,
the court in its discretion, may allow for the party commencing such action or
proceeding, if such party prevails, a reasonable attorney’s fee as part of the
costs.
(Ord. 2123, § 9, passed 3-10-1980; Ord. 3738, § 5, passed 10-14-2013)
CHAPTER 16: LIBRARY
   Article
      
I.   IN GENERAL
      
II.   LIBRARY ADVISORY BOARD
ARTICLE I: IN GENERAL
Section
   
16-1   Definition
   
16-2   Established
   
16-3   Use generally
   
16-4   Funds generally
   
16-5   Misuse, mistreatment of library property
   
16-6   Penalty for violation of regulations
   
16-7   Donation of money or property to library
   16-8—16-20   Reserved
Statutory reference:
   Authority to establish, maintain public libraries, see Neb. RS 1943, § 16-
251
   Municipal libraries generally, see Neb. RS 1943, §§ 51-201 et seq.
§ 16-1 DEFINITION.
   Whenever in this chapter there shall be used the words PUBLIC LIBRARY, the
same shall be held to mean the Bellevue Public Library.
(1964 Code, § 13-1) (Ord. 2011, § 1, passed 4-25-1977)
§ 16-2 ESTABLISHED.
   There is hereby established in the city a public library, which shall be
forever kept and maintained by the city and shall be known as the Bellevue
Public Library.
(1964 Code, § 13-1) (Ord. 2011, § 1, passed 4-25-1977)
§ 16-3 USE GENERALLY.
   The public library shall be forever free to the use of the inhabitants of
the city, subject to the provisions of this chapter.
(1964 Code, § 13-2) (Ord. 2011, § 2, passed 4-25-1977)
§ 16-4 FUNDS GENERALLY.
   The city treasurer shall have custody of all tax monies collected, all
penalties collected, and funds in any other way acquired for the erection,
maintenance, or support of the public library. All such money received by the
public library shall be paid monthly to the city treasurer. Funds shall be kept
for the use of the public library separate and apart from the other funds of
the city, in a fund to be known as the public library fund, and shall not be
used or disbursed for any other purpose or in any other manner.
(1964 Code, §§ 13-11, 13-12) (Ord. 2011, § 7, passed 4-25-1977)
Statutory reference:
   Library funds generally, see Neb. RS 1943, § 51-209
§ 16-5 MISUSE, MISTREATMENT OF LIBRARY PROPERTY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to take or retain possession of, or to
remove from the public library building, in violation of any bylaw or
regulation adopted by the city council for the protection and government of the
public library, or to willfully and maliciously write upon, deface, injure, or
destroy any book, periodical, record, film or other property owned by or in the
custody of the public library. No person shall unlawfully take or retain
possession of, remove from the public library building, write upon, deface,
injure, or destroy any book, periodical, record, film or other property owned
by or in the custody of the public library.
(1964 Code, § 13-14) (Ord. 2011, § 9, passed 4-25-1977)
§ 16-6 PENALTY FOR VIOLATION OF REGULATIONS.
   Penalties imposed or accruing under any bylaw or regulation adopted by the
city council may be recovered in a civil action before any court having
jurisdiction. Such action shall be instituted in the name of the city. This
remedy shall be cumulative of that provided in section 16-5.
(Ord. 2011, § 8, passed 4-25-1977)
§ 16-7 DONATION OF MONEY OR PROPERTY TO LIBRARY.
   Any person may make any donation of money, lands or property for the benefit
of the public library, and the title to the property donated may be made to and
shall vest in the city for the public library, and such property shall
thereupon be exempt from taxation.
(1964 Code, § 13-10)
Statutory reference:
   Donations to public library, see Neb. RS 1943, § 51-215
§§ 16-8—16-20 RESERVED.
ARTICLE II: LIBRARY ADVISORY BOARD
Section
   
16-21   Established
   
16-22   Scope of authority
   
16-23   Composition
   
16-24   Appointment
   
16-25   Compensation
   
16-26   Bylaws, regulations
   
16-27   Term
   
16-28   Filling vacancies
§ 16-21 ESTABLISHED.
   There is hereby established a library advisory board in and for the city.
(1964 Code, § 13-3) (Ord. 2011, § 3, passed 4-25-1977)
§ 16-22 SCOPE OF AUTHORITY.
   The library advisory board shall recommend to the city council in regard to
the operation, maintenance, and development of the public library.
(1964 Code, § 13-6) (Ord. 2011, § 6, passed 4-25-1977)
§ 16-23 COMPOSITION.
   The library advisory board shall have nine members. The members of the board
shall be chosen from citizens at large of the city; provided, that neither the
mayor nor any member of the city council shall be appointed as a member of the
board.
(1964 Code, § 13-3) (Ord. 2011, § 9, passed 4-25-1977; Ord. 3016, §§ 1, 3,
passed 4-26-1999)
§ 16-24 APPOINTMENT.
   The mayor shall submit names to the city council for appointment to the
library advisory board at least 30 days prior to the expiration of any term of
a member of the library advisory board. All appointments shall require
concurrence of not less than one-half (1/2) of the elected members of the city
council. Nothing in article II of this chapter 16 shall preclude any member of
the library advisory board from being reappointed.
(1964 Code, § 13-4) (Ord. 2011, § 4, passed 4-25-1977; Ord. 3016, §§ 1, 3,
passed 4-26-1999)
§ 16-25 COMPENSATION.
   No member of the library advisory board shall receive any pay or
compensation for services as a member of the board.
(1964 Code, § 13-4) (Ord. 2011, § 4, passed 4-25-1977)
§ 16-26 BYLAWS, REGULATIONS.
   The library advisory board shall recommend to the city council bylaws and
regulations, or changes in bylaws and regulations, for the protection and
government of the public library. The city council, before adopting any
proposed bylaw and regulation for the protection and government of the public
library which shall not have originated with and been recommended by the
library advisory board shall refer such proposed bylaw or regulation to the
library advisory board for its recommendations; and such bylaws and regulations
shall not be adopted sooner than 60 days after a copy thereof shall have been
delivered to the library advisory board.
(1964 Code, § 13-7) (Ord. 2011, § 6, passed 4-25-1977)
§ 16-27 TERM.
   Each member of the library advisory board shall serve for a term of five
years from the first day of July following appointment.
(1964 Code, § 13-4) (Ord. 2011, § 4, passed 4-25-1977)
§ 16-28 FILLING VACANCIES.
   Appointment to fill any vacancies in the membership of the library advisory
board, including any vacancy relating to an increase in the aggregate
membership of the library advisory board, shall be made in the same manner as
provided for in section
16-24 within 60 days following the occurrence of a vacancy. No appointments
shall extend beyond the unexpired term of such vacancy.
(1964 Code, § 13-4) (Ord. 2011, § 4, passed 4-25-1977; Ord. 3016, §§ 1, 3,
passed 4-26-1999)
CHAPTER 17: MOBILE HOMES
   Article
      
I.   IN GENERAL
      
II.   MOBILE HOME PARKS
ARTICLE I: IN GENERAL
Section
   
17-1   Definitions
   
17-2   Adoption of regulations for enforcement of chapter
   
17-3   Violations of chapter; notice and hearing; decision of administrator;
emergency action
   17-4—17-20   Reserved
Statutory reference:
   Uniform Standard Code for Manufactured Homes and Recreational Vehicles, see
Neb. RS 1943, §§ 71-4601 et seq.
§ 17-1 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this chapter, the following words and phrases shall have
the meanings respectively ascribed to them by this section:
   BOARD OF HEALTH. The legally designated health authority as provided by the
general ordinances of the city.
   DEPENDENT MOBILE HOME. A mobile home which does not have a flush toilet and
a bath or shower.
   HEALTH OFFICER. The legally authorized representative of the board of health
of the city. Powers granted to the HEALTH OFFICER in this chapter shall be
considered as delegated powers from the board of health, and such powers shall
also vest in the board of health.
   INDEPENDENT MOBILE HOME. A mobile home which has a flush toilet and a bath
or shower.
   MOBILE HOME. Any vehicle or similar portable structure designed for use as a
conveyance upon highways having no foundation other than wheels or removable
jacks and so designed or constructed as to permit occupancy for dwelling or
sleeping purposes.
   MOBILE HOME PARK. Any plot of ground upon which two or more mobile homes,
occupied for dwelling or sleeping purposes, are located.
   MOBILE HOME SPACE. A plot of ground within a mobile home park designated for
the accommodation of one mobile home.
   PERMIT. A written permit issued by the city administrator permitting the
mobile home park to operate under this chapter and regulations promulgated
thereunder.
   SERVICE BUILDING. A building housing toilet and bathing facilities for men
and women with laundry facilities and such other facilities as may be required
by this chapter.
(1964 Code, § 13A-1)
§ 17-2 ADOPTION OF REGULATIONS FOR ENFORCEMENT OF CHAPTER.
   The board of health is hereby authorized to make and, after public hearing,
to adopt such written regulations as may be necessary for the proper
enforcement of the provisions of this chapter. Such regulations shall have the
same force and effect as the provisions of this chapter, and the penalty for
violation of the provisions thereof shall be the same as the penalty for the
violation of the provisions of this chapter.
(1964 Code, § 13A-9)
§ 17-3 VIOLATIONS OF CHAPTER; NOTICE AND HEARING; DECISION OF ADMINISTRATOR;
EMERGENCY ACTION.
   (A)   Whenever the city administrator determines that there are reasonable
grounds to believe that there has been a violation of any provisions of this
chapter or of any regulation adopted pursuant thereto, he shall give notice of
such alleged violation to the person to whom the permit was issued as
hereinafter provided.
   (B)   Such notice shall:
      (1)   Be in writing;
      (2)   Include a statement of the reasons for its issuance;
      (3)   Allow a reasonable time for the performance of any act it requires;
      (4)   Be served upon the owner or his agent as the case may require;
provided, that such notice or order shall be deemed to have been properly
served upon such owner or agent when a copy thereof has been sent by registered
mail to his last-known address or when he has been served with such notice by
any other method authorized or required by the laws of this state; and
      (5)   Contain an outline of remedial action which, if taken, will effect
compliance with the provisions of this chapter and with regulations adopted
pursuant thereto.
   (C)   Any person affected by any notice which has been issued in connection
with the enforcement of any provision of this chapter or of any regulation
adopted pursuant thereto may request and shall be granted a hearing on the
matter before the city administrator; provided, that such person shall file in
the office of the city administrator a written petition requesting such hearing
and setting forth a brief statement of the grounds therefor within ten days
after the day the notice was served. The filing of the request for a hearing
shall operate as a stay of the notice and of the suspension except in the case
of an order issued under this section. Upon receipt of such petition, the city
administrator shall set a time and place for such hearing and shall give the
petitioner written notice thereof. At such hearing, the petitioner shall be
given an opportunity to be heard and to show why such notice should be modified
or withdrawn. The hearing shall be commenced not later than ten days after the
day on which the petition was filed; provided, that upon application of a
petitioner the city administrator may postpone the date of the hearing for a
reasonable time beyond such ten-day period when, in his judgment, the petition
has submitted good and sufficient reasons for such postponement.
   (D)   After such hearing, the city administrator shall make findings as to
compliance with the provisions of this chapter and regulations issued
thereunder and shall issue an order in writing sustaining, modifying or
withdrawing the notice which shall be served as provided in this section. Upon
failure to comply with any order sustaining or modifying a notice, the permit
of the mobile home park affected by the order shall be revoked.
   (E)   The proceedings at such a hearing, including the findings and decision
of the city administrator, together with a copy of every notice and order
related thereto, shall be entered as a matter of public record in the office of
the city administrator, but the transcript of the proceeding need not be
transcribed unless judicial review of the decision is sought as provided by
this section. Any person aggrieved by the decision of the city administrator
may seek relief therefrom in any court of competent jurisdiction, as provided
by the laws of this state.
   (F)   Whenever the city administrator finds that an emergency exists which
requires immediate action to protect the public health, he may, without notice
or hearing, issue an order reciting the existence of such an emergency and
requiring that such action be taken as he may deem necessary to meet the
emergency including the suspension of the permit. Notwithstanding any other
provisions of this chapter, such order shall be effective immediately. Any
person to whom such an order is directed shall comply therewith immediately
but, upon petition to the city administrator, shall be afforded a hearing as
soon as possible. The provisions of this section shall be applicable to such
hearing and the order issued thereafter.
(1964 Code, § 13A-30)
§§ 17-4—17-20 RESERVED.
ARTICLE II: MOBILE HOME PARKS
Section
Division 1: Generally
   
17-21   Location; size
   
17-22   Mobile home spaces generally; placement of mobile home on spaces
   
17-23   Location of mobile homes
   
17-24   Access roads to mobile home spaces
   
17-25   Areas for parking motor vehicles
   
17-26   Outdoor clothes-drying facilities
   
17-27   Service buildings
   
17-28   Water supply
   
17-29   Sewage disposal
   
17-30   Garbage and refuse disposal
   
17-31   Insect and rodent control
   
17-32   Electrical installations; exterior lighting
   
17-33   Fuel storage tanks
   
17-34   Fire protection
   
17-35   Plumbing and electrical alterations and repairs
   
17-36   Alterations and additions to mobile homes
   
17-37   Pets running at large
   
17-38   Registration of occupants
   
17-39   Communicable disease control
   
17-40   Supervision and maintenance generally
   
17-41   Right of entry of owner, etc., to make repairs
   
17-42   Inspection generally
   
17-43   Annual inspection—Required; notice
   
17-44   Same—Travel or sport trailers
   
17-45   Same—Fee
   17-46—17-55   Reserved
Division 2: Permits
   
17-56   Required
   
17-57   Application
   
17-58   Fee; term
   
17-59   Issuance; transfer
   
17-60   Suspension; notice and hearing
   
17-61   Notice of transfer of mobile home park
Statutory reference:
   Uniform Standard Code for Mobile Homes, see Neb. RS 1943, §§ 71-4634 et seq.
DIVISION 1: GENERALLY
§ 17-21 LOCATION; SIZE.
   (A)   The mobile home park shall be located on a well-drained site and shall
be so located that its drainage will not endanger any water supply. All such
mobile home parks shall be in areas free from marshes, swamps or other
potential breeding places for insects or rodents.
   (B)   The area of the mobile home park shall be large enough to accommodate:
      (1)   The designated number of mobile home spaces;
      (2)   Necessary streets and roadways; and
      (3)   Parking areas for motor vehicles.
(1964 Code, § 13A-10)
§ 17-22 MOBILE HOME SPACES GENERALLY; PLACEMENT OF MOBILE HOME ON SPACES.
   (A)   Every mobile home space shall abut on a driveway or other clear area
with unobstructed access to a public street. Such spaces shall be defined.
Mobile homes shall be parked in such spaces so that there will be a minimum of
15 feet between mobile homes and so that no mobile home will be less than ten
feet from the exterior boundary of the mobile home park.
   (B)   Each independent mobile home space shall contain a minimum of 2,500
square feet and shall be at least 40 feet wide. Each dependent mobile home
space shall contain not less than 1,000 square feet and shall be at least 25
feet wide.
   (C)   (1)   Independent mobile home spaces in existence on the effective
date of this chapter which have a width or area less than the minimum
prescribed above may continue to operate for a period not to exceed three years
from the effective date of this chapter; provided, that the city administrator
finds:
         (a)   That immediate compliance with such minimum width and area
requirements would constitute an unreasonable hardship.
         (b)   That the owner is undertaking action reasonably calculated to
comply with such requirements during the time prescribed herein.
      (2)   Upon such a finding, the city administrator may issue a temporary
permit pending such corrective action.
(1964 Code, § 13A-11)
§ 17-23 LOCATION OF MOBILE HOMES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to locate a mobile home less than
25 feet from any public street or highway or so that any part of such mobile
home will obstruct any roadway or walkway in a mobile home park.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to allow:
      (1)   Any mobile home to be occupied in a mobile home park unless the
mobile home is situated on a mobile home space.
      (2)   An independent mobile home is to be located on a dependent mobile
home space.
(1964 Code, § 13A-12)
§ 17-24 ACCESS ROADS TO MOBILE HOME SPACES.
   Access roads shall be provided to each mobile space. Each access road shall
provide for continuous forward movement, shall connect with a street or highway
and shall have a minimum width of 20 feet.
(1964 Code, § 13A-13)
§ 17-25 AREAS FOR PARKING MOTOR VEHICLES.
   Areas shall be provided for the parking of motor vehicles. Such areas shall
accommodate at least the number of vehicles equal to the number of mobile home
spaces provided.
(1964 Code, § 13A-14)
§ 17-26 OUTDOOR CLOTHES-DRYING FACILITIES.
   Outside drying spaces or other clothes-drying facilities shall be provided.
When central outdoor clothes-drying space is provided, a minimum of 2,500
square feet per 100 mobile home spaces shall be furnished. Outdoor clothes-
drying facilities may be installed on the individual mobile home space as a
part of the basic facilities.
(1964 Code, § 13A-15)
§ 17-27 SERVICE BUILDINGS.
   (A)   Every mobile home park shall be provided with at least one service
building adequately equipped with flush-type toilet fixtures and other sanitary
facilities as required in this chapter. No service building shall contain less
than one toilet let for females, one toilet for males, one lavatory and shower
or bathtub for each sex and one laundry tray.
   (B)   All sanitary facilities required to be provided by this chapter shall
be located in a service building.
   (C)   Every mobile home park that accommodates dependent mobile homes shall
provide not less than the following facilities:
      (1)   For not more than ten dependent mobile homes: One laundry tray; two
closets, one lavatory and one shower or bathtub for females; one water closet;
one urinal, one lavatory and one shower or bathtub for males; and one slop-
water closet, consisting of at least one flush-type toilet bowl receptacle for
emptying containers of human excreta, with an adequate supply of hot and cold
water for cleaning such containers, which shall be a separate room of a service
building with a single direct opening to the outside.
      (2)   For more than ten dependent mobile homes, the following additional
fixtures shall be provided:
         (a)   One lavatory and one shower or bathtub for each sex for every
additional ten dependent mobile homes or fraction thereof;
         (b)   One water closet for females for every additional ten dependent
mobile homes or fraction thereof;
         (c)   One water closet for males for additional ten dependent mobile
homes or fraction thereof; provided that, urinals may be substituted for not
more than one-third of the additional water closets required under this
paragraph.
   (D)   Dependent mobile spaces shall be not more than 200 feet from a service
building.
   (E)   Service building shall:
      (1)   Be located 15 feet or more from any mobile home space and, where
dependent mobile homes are accommodated, not more than 200 feet from a
dependent mobile home space.
      (2)   Be of permanent construction and be adequately lighted.
      (3)   Be of moisture-resistant material to permit frequent washing and
cleaning.
      (4)   Have adequate heating facilities to maintain a temperature of 70
degrees Fahrenheit during cold weather and to supply adequate hot water during
time of peak demands.
      (5)   Have all rooms well ventilated with all openings effectively
screened.
      (6)   Provide separate compartments for each bathtub or shower and water
closet and a sound-resistant wall to separate male and female toilet
facilities.
   (F)   Laundry facilities shall be provided in the ratio of one laundry unit
to every 30 mobile home spaces and shall be in a separate soundproof room of a
service building or in a separate building.
   (G)   A laundry unit shall consist of not less than one laundry tray and one
clothes washing machine.
(1964 Code, § 13A-16)
§ 17-28 WATER SUPPLY.
   (A)   An accessible, adequate, safe and potable supply of water shall be
provided in each mobile home park, capable of furnishing a minimum of 150
gallons per day per mobile home space. The development of an independent water
supply to serve the mobile home park shall be made only after express approval
has been granted by the board of health. Where a public supply of water of such
quality is available, connection shall be made thereto, and its supply shall be
used exclusively.
   (B)   The water system of the mobile home park shall be connected by pipes
to all buildings and all mobile home spaces.
   (C)   All water piping shall be constructed and maintained in accordance
with state and local law; the water piping system shall not be connected with
nonpotable or questionable water supplies and shall be protected against the
hazards of backflow or back siphonage.
   (D)   Where drinking fountains are provided for public use, they shall be of
a type and in locations approved by the health officer.
   (E)   Individual water service connections which are provided for direct use
by mobile homes shall be so constructed that they will not be damaged by the
parking of such mobile homes. The mobile home park water system shall be
adequate to provide 20 pounds per square inch of pressure at all mobile home
connections.
   (F)   Where an independent or nonpublic water system is used to serve the
mobile home park with water obtained from wells, the wells shall have been
approved by the health officer and shall have been drilled or dug. Springs or
other sources of supply shall not be used unless approved by the health
officer.
   (G)   Every well shall be located and constructed in such manner that
neither underground nor surface contamination will reach the water supply from
any source. A minimum distance of 150 feet shall be maintained between the
water supply and any cesspool. A minimum distance of 100 feet shall be
maintained between the water supply and any other possible source of
contamination, except that sewers or pipes through which sewage may back up
shall be located at least 50 feet from any well or water-suction pipeline.
Where such sewers or pipes are specifically constructed to provide adequate
safeguards and when specifically authorized by the board of health, such sewers
or pipes through which sewage may back up may be closer than 50 feet, but not
less than 30 feet from a well.
   (H)   No well casings, pumps, pumping machinery or suction pipes shall be
located in any pit, room or space extending below ground level nor in any room
or space above ground which is walled in or otherwise enclosed unless such
rooms, whether above or below ground, have free drainage by gravity to the
surface of the ground. The floor of rooms above ground shall be at least six
inches above the ground’s surface. All floors shall be watertight and sloped
from the pump pedestal to the drain. The pedestal shall be not less than 12
inches above the floor.
   (I)   All water storage reservoirs shall be watertight and constructed of
impervious material; all overflows and vents of such reservoirs shall be
effectively screened. Open reservoirs are prohibited. Manholes shall be
constructed with overlapping covers so as to prevent the entrance of
contaminated material. Overflow pipes from a reservoir shall not connect to any
pipe in which sewage or polluted water may back up.
   (J)   Underground stopcocks and waste cocks shall not be installed on any
connection.
(1964 Code, § 13A-17)
§ 17-29 SEWAGE DISPOSAL.
   (A)   All plumbing in the mobile home park shall comply with state and local
plumbing laws and regulations.
   (B)   Each independent mobile home space shall be provided with at least a
three inch sewer connection. The sewer connection shall be provided with
suitable fittings so that a watertight connection can be made between the
mobile home drains and the sewer connection. Such individual mobile home
connections shall be so constructed that they can be closed when not linked to
a mobile home and shall be capped so as to prevent any escape of odors.
   (C)   Sewer lines shall be constructed in accordance with plans approved by
the health officer and in accordance with the recommendations of such health
officer. All sewer lines shall be adequately vented and shall be laid with
sufficient earth cover to prevent breakage from traffic.
   (D)   Where the sewer lines of the mobile home park are not connected to a
public sewer, a method of sewage disposal approved by the health officer shall
be provided. The design of such sewage treatment facilities shall be based on
the maximum capacity of the mobile home park. Effluents from sewage treatment
facilities shall not be discharged into any waters of the state except with
prior approval of the appropriate state authority and the local health officer.
The disposal facilities shall be located where they will not create a nuisance
or health hazard to the mobile home park or to the owner or occupants of any
adjacent property. The approval of the health officer shall be obtained on the
type of treatment proposed and on the design of the disposal plant prior to
construction.
(1964 Code, § 13A-18)
§ 17-30 GARBAGE AND REFUSE DISPOSAL.
   (A)   The storage, collection and disposal of refuse in the mobile home park
shall be so managed as to create no health hazards, rodent harborage, insect
breeding areas, accident or fire hazards or air pollution.
   (B)   All refuse shall be stored in flytight, watertight, rodentproof
containers, which shall be located not more than 150 feet from any mobile home
space. Containers shall be provided in sufficient number and capacity to
properly store all refuse.
   (C)   Racks or holders shall be provided for all refuse containers. Such
container racks or holders shall be so designed as to prevent containers from
being tipped, to minimize spillage and container deterioration and to
facilitate cleaning around them.
   (D)   All refuse shall be collected at least twice weekly. Where suitable
collection service is not available from municipal or private agencies, the
mobile home park operator shall provide this service. All refuse shall be
collected and transported in covered vehicles or covered containers.
   (E)   Where municipal or private disposal service is not available, the
mobile home park operator shall dispose of the refuse by incineration, burial
or transporting to an approved disposal site.
   (F)   Refuse shall be buried only at locations and by methods approved by
the board of health.
   (G)   Refuse incinerators shall be constructed only with the approval of the
local health authority (or other authority having jurisdiction). Such approval
shall be based on a review of the plans and specifications for such
incinerators and approval of the site where they will be located. Such approval
shall specify the type of material which may be placed in the incinerator.
   (H)   Incinerators shall be operated only when attended by some person
specifically authorized by the owner or operator of the mobile home park.
   (I)   Garbage shall be burned on the premises only in an approved
incinerator.
(1964 Code, § 13A-19)
§ 17-31 INSECT AND RODENT CONTROL.
   (A)   Insect and rodent control measures to safeguard public health as
required by the board of health shall be applied in the mobile home park.
   (B)   Effective larvicidal solutions may be required by the health officer
for fly or mosquito breeding areas which cannot be controlled by other, more
permanent measures.
   (C)   The health officer may require the mobile home park operator to take
suitable measures to control other insects and noxious weeds.
   (D)   Accumulation of debris which may provide harborage for rodents shall
not be permitted in the mobile home park.
   (E)   When rats or other objectionable rodents are known to be in the mobile
home park, the park operator shall take definite action, as directed by the
health officer, to exterminate them.
(1964 Code, § 13A-20)
§ 17-32 ELECTRICAL INSTALLATIONS; EXTERIOR LIGHTING.
   (A)   An electrical outlet supplying at least 115 volts shall be provided
for each mobile home space. The installation shall comply with all applicable
state and local electrical codes and ordinances. Such electrical outlets shall
be grounded and weatherproof. No main power supply line shall be permitted to
lie on the ground or to be suspended less than 18 feet above the ground.
   (B)   Public streets, driveways and walkways shall be lighted at night with
a minimum illumination of at least six-tenths of a foot candle.
(1964 Code, § 13A-21)
§ 17-33 FUEL STORAGE TANKS.
   All piping from outside fuel storage tanks or cylinders to mobile homes
shall be copper or other acceptable metallic tubing and shall be permanently
installed and securely fastened in place. All fuel storage tanks or cylinders
shall be securely fastened in place and shall not be located inside or beneath
the mobile home or less than five feet from any mobile home exit.
(1964 Code, § 13A-22)
§ 17-34 FIRE PROTECTION.
   (A)   The mobile home park area shall be subject to the rules and
regulations of the city fire prevention authority.
   (B)   Mobile home park areas shall be kept free of litter, rubbish and other
flammable materials.
   (C)   Portable fire extinguishers of a type approved by the fire prevention
authority shall be kept in service buildings and at all other locations
designated by such fire prevention authority and shall be maintained in good
operating condition.
   (D)   The public water system shall be a water main of six inches or larger
to the mobile home park, and standard fire hydrants shall be located within 300
feet of each mobile home or building.
   (E)   Fires shall be made only in stoves, incinerators and other equipment
intended for such purposes.
(1964 Code, § 13A-23)
§ 17-35 PLUMBING AND ELECTRICAL ALTERATIONS AND REPAIRS.
   All plumbing and electrical alterations or repairs in the mobile home park
shall be made in accordance with applicable local regulations.
(1964 Code, § 13A-24)
§ 17-36 ALTERATIONS AND ADDITIONS TO MOBILE HOMES.
   (A)   Skirting of mobile homes is permissible, but areas enclosed by such
skirting shall be maintained so as not to provide a harborage for rodents or
create a fire hazard.
   (B)   No permanent additions shall be built onto or become a part of any
mobile home unless they are in accordance with requirements established by the
board of health.
(1964 Code, § 13A-25)
§ 17-37 PETS RUNNING AT LARGE.
   No owner or person in charge of a dog, cat or other pet animal shall permit
it to run at large or to commit any nuisance within the limits of any mobile
home park.
(1964 Code, § 13A-26)
§ 17-38 REGISTRATION OF OCCUPANTS.
   (A)   Every mobile home park owner or operator shall maintain a register
containing a record of all mobile homes and occupants using the mobile home
park. Such register shall be available to any authorized person inspecting the
park and shall be preserved for the period required by the health officer.
   (B)   Such register shall contain:
      (1)   The names and addresses of all mobile home occupants stopping in
the park;
      (2)   The make, model and license number of the motor vehicle and mobile
home;
      (3)   The state, territory or county issuing the mobile home license;
      (4)   The dates of arrival and departure of each mobile home; and
      (5)   Whether or not each mobile home is a dependent or independent
mobile home.
(1964 Code, § 13A-27)
§ 17-39 COMMUNICABLE DISEASE CONTROL.
   Every owner, operator, attendant or other person operating a mobile home
park shall notify the local health officer immediately of any suspected
communicable or contagious disease within the mobile home park. In the case of
diseases diagnosed by a physician as quarantinable, the departure of a mobile
home or its occupants or the removal therefrom of clothing or other articles
which have been exposed to infection without approval of the health officer is
prohibited.
(1964 Code, § 13A-28)
§ 17-40 SUPERVISION AND MAINTENANCE GENERALLY.
   The person to whom a permit for a mobile home park is issued shall at all
times operate the park in compliance with this chapter and regulations issued
thereunder and shall provide adequate supervision to maintain the park, its
facilities and equipment in good repair and in a clean and sanitary condition
at all times.
(1964 Code, § 13A-29)
§ 17-41 RIGHT OF ENTRY OF OWNER, ETC., TO MAKE REPAIRS.
   It shall be the duty of every occupant of a mobile home park to give the
owner thereof or his agent or employee access to any part of such mobile home
park or its premises at reasonable times for the purpose of making such repairs
or alterations as are necessary to effect compliance with this chapter or with
any lawful regulations adopted thereunder or with any lawful order issued
pursuant to the provisions of this chapter.
(1964 Code, § 13A-8)
§ 17-42 INSPECTION GENERALLY.
   (A)   The health officer is hereby authorized and directed to make
inspections to determine the condition of mobile home parks located within the
city, in order that he may perform his duty of safeguarding the health and
safety of occupants of mobile home parks and of the general public.
   (B)   The health officer shall have the power to enter at reasonable times
upon any private or public property for the purpose of inspecting and
investigating conditions relating to the enforcement of this chapter or of
regulations promulgated thereunder.
   (C)   The health officer shall have the power to inspect the register
containing a record of all mobile homes and occupants using the mobile home
park.
   (D)   It shall be the duty of the owners or occupants of mobile home parks
and mobile homes contained therein or of the person in charge thereof to give
the health officer free access to such premises at reasonable times for the
purpose of inspection.
(1964 Code, § 13A-7)
§ 17-43 ANNUAL INSPECTION—REQUIRED; NOTICE.
   The health officer shall annually inspect the mobile home park to determine
that the park is in conformity with all of the ordinances, rules and
regulations of the city and that the mobile homes located in such park conform
to all the rules, regulations and ordinances of the city to the end that the
health, safety and welfare of the occupants of the mobile home parks and of the
general public is safeguarded. Prior to the annual inspection the health
officer shall give the operator or owner of the mobile home park at least 14
days’ notice and the mobile home park owner or operator is required to assist
the health officer in the inspection by providing access to the area
surrounding any mobile home that may otherwise be covered and particularly that
area underneath the mobile home.
(1964 Code, § 13A-7.1)
§ 17-44 SAME—TRAVEL OR SPORT TRAILERS.
   (A)   Nothing contained in the preceding section shall require the annual
inspection of travel or sport trailers, as defined in this section, located in
mobile home parks and it is not the intent of such section to require travel or
sport trailers to conform to the rules and regulations that apply to mobile
homes located in mobile home parks.
   (B)   A TRAVEL OR SPORT TRAILER, within the meaning of this section, shall
be defined as a vehicular portable structure built on a chassis, designed to be
used as a temporary dwelling for travel, recreational and vacation use, and
when equipped for the road it shall have a body width not exceeding eight feet
and a body length not exceeding 32 feet.
(1964 Code, § 13A-7.3)
§ 17-45 SAME—FEE.
   In addition to the annual permit fee, the mobile home park operator or owner
shall pay to the city an inspection fee as described in the Master Fee
Schedule; provided, said fee shall be charged per hour after the first hour the
health officer is required to spend in the annual inspection of mobile home
parks. Such additional hourly charge shall be paid before the permit is issued
or renewed.
(1964 Code, § 13A-7.2) (Ord. 3497, § 1, passed 3-9-2009)
§§ 17-46—17-55 RESERVED.
DIVISION 2: PERMITS
§ 17-56 REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to construct, maintain or operate any
mobile home park within the limits of the city unless he holds a valid permit
issued annually by the city administrator in the name of such person for the
specific mobile home park.
(1964 Code, § 13A-2)
§ 17-57 APPLICATION.
   (A)   All applications for permits shall be made to the city administrator.
   (B)   Application for original permits shall be in writing, signed by the
applicant and accompanied by an affidavit of the applicant as to the truth of
the applicant and shall contain the following:
      (1)   The name and address of the applicant;
      (2)   The interest of the applicant in and the location and legal
description of the mobile home park;
      (3)   A complete plan of the mobile home park, showing compliance with
all applicable provisions of this chapter and regulations promulgated
thereunder; and
      (4)   Such further information as may be requested by the city
administrator to enable him to determine that the proposed mobile home park
will comply with legal requirements.
   (C)   Application for renewals of permits shall be made in writing by the
holder of the permit and shall contain the following:
      (1)   Any change in the information submitted since the time the original
permit was issued or the latest renewal granted; and
      (2)   Such other information as the city administrator may require.
   (D)   A complete plan, for the purpose of obtaining a permit to be issued by
the city administrator shall show:
      (1)   The area and dimensions of the tract of land;
      (2)   The number, location and size of all mobile home spaces;
      (3)   The location and width of roadways and walkways;
      (4)   The location of service buildings and any other proposed
structures;
      (5)   The location of water and sewer lines; and
      (6)   Plans and specifications of all buildings and other improvements
constructed or to be constructed within the mobile home park.
   (E)   Any person whose application for a permit under this chapter has been
denied may request and shall be granted a hearing on the matter before the city
administrator under the procedure provided by section 17-3.
(1964 Code, § 13A-3)
§ 17-58 FEE; TERM.
   The application for a mobile home park permit and each annual renewal for
such permit shall be accompanied by a permit fee as described in the Master Fee
Schedule and no permit or renewal shall be issued until such fee has been paid
in full. The permit shall expire one year from the date of its original
issuance or its renewal.
(1964 Code, § 13A-3.1) (Ord. 3497, § 2, passed 3-9-2009)
§ 17-59 ISSUANCE; TRANSFER.
   (A)   The city administrator shall issue a permit upon compliance by the
applicant with the provisions of this chapter and of any regulations adopted
pursuant thereto and of any other legal requirements.
   (B)   No permit shall be transferable.
(1964 Code, § 13A-4)
§ 17-60 SUSPENSION; NOTICE AND HEARING.
   (A)   Whenever, upon inspection of any mobile home park, the city
administrator finds that conditions or practices exist which are in violation
of any provision of this chapter or of any regulations adopted pursuant
thereto, the city administrator shall give notice in writing in accordance with
section
17-3 to the person to whom the permit was issued that unless such conditions or
practices are corrected within a reasonable period of time specified in the
notice by the city administrator, the permit will be suspended. At the end of
such period, the city administrator shall reinspect such mobile home park, and
if such conditions or practices have not been corrected, he shall suspend the
permit and give notice in writing of such suspension to the person to whom the
permit is issued. Upon receipt of notice of suspension, such person shall cease
operation of such mobile home park except as provided in section 17-3.
   (B)   Any person whose permit has been suspended or who has received notice
from the city administrator that his permit will be suspended unless certain
conditions or practices at a mobile home park are corrected may request and
shall be granted a hearing on the matter before the city administrator under
the procedure provided by section 17-3; provided, that when no petition for
such hearing shall have been filed within ten days following the day on which
notice of suspension was served, such permit shall be deemed to have been
automatically revoked at the expiration of such ten-day period.
(1964 Code, § 13A-5)
§ 17-61 NOTICE OF TRANSFER OF MOBILE HOME PARK.
   Every person holding a permit under this chapter shall give notice in
writing to the city administrator within 24 hours after having sold,
transferred, given away or otherwise disposed of interest in or control of any
mobile home park. Such notice shall include the name and address of the person
succeeding to the ownership or control of such mobile home park.
(1964 Code, § 13A-6)
CHAPTER 18: MOTOR VEHICLES AND TRAFFIC
   Article
      
I.   IN GENERAL
      
II.   TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES
      
III.   ONE-WAY STREETS, ALLEYS
      
IV.   STOPPING, STANDING AND PARKING
      
V.   CONTROLLED ACCESS ROADS
      
VI.   FRANKLIN STREET PARKING
      
VII.   TRAFFIC CALMING
ARTICLE I: IN GENERAL
Section
   
18-1   Adoption of state traffic laws
   
18-2   Authority of police and fire department officials generally
   
18-3   Duty of police department to direct traffic, etc.
   
18-4   Police officers halting persons in violation of law
   
18-5   Citation on illegally parked vehicles
   
18-6   Removal of vehicles by police department
   
18-7   State operator’s license—Generally
   
18-8   Same—Suspension; duty of police to recommend suspension for drunk
driving, etc.
   
18-9   Public employees
   
18-10   Persons propelling push carts or riding animals
   
18-11   Coasters, roller skates, etc.
   
18-12   Speed
   
18-13   Use of vehicles with lugs, spikes, etc.
   
18-14   Driving over new pavement when barricaded or posted
   
18-15   Processions—Driving between vehicles
   
18-16   Same—Funeral processions to be identified
   
18-17   Reserved
   
18-18   Pedestrians crossing barriers at railroad grade crossing or bridge
   
18-19   Horses on sidewalks
   18-20—18-30   Reserved
Statutory reference:
   Authority to regulate traffic, see Neb. RS 1943, § 16-210
   Motor vehicles generally, see Neb. RS 1943, §§ 60-101 et seq.
   Powers of local authorities, see Neb. RS 1943, §§ 60-677 et seq.
   Rules of the road generally, see Neb. RS 1943, §§ 60-601 et seq.
§ 18-1 ADOPTION OF STATE TRAFFIC LAWS.
   To the extent that the same are enforceable, the traffic rules and
regulations contained in Neb. RS Ch. 39, Art. 6 and 7, and Neb. RS Ch. 60
(1943), as amended, are hereby adopted as the rules and regulations of the
city, except such penalties as are therein provided, and except as may be
specifically provided or modified by this Code or city ordinance. The county
court is given jurisdiction over all complaints for violations of such rules
and regulations and for the imposing of penalties as provided in section 1-11,
“general penalty,” of this Code, which shall be the maximum penalty for the
purpose of this section and shall supersede all other penalties.
§ 18-2 AUTHORITY OF POLICE AND FIRE DEPARTMENT OFFICIALS GENERALLY.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the officers of the police department or such
officers as are assigned by the chief of police to enforce all street traffic
laws of this city and all of the state vehicle laws applicable to street
traffic in this city.
   (B)   Officers of the police department or such officers as are assigned by
the chief of police are hereby authorized to direct all traffic by voice, hand
or signal in conformance with traffic laws; provided, that in the event of a
fire or other emergency or to expedite traffic or to safeguard pedestrians,
officers of the police department may direct traffic as conditions may require
notwithstanding the provisions of the traffic laws.
   (C)   Officers of the fire department, when at the scene of a fire, may
direct or assist the police in directing traffic thereat or in the immediate
vicinity.
(1964 Code, § 14-36)
Statutory reference:
   Authority to regulate traffic by means of peace officers, see Neb. RS 1943,
§ 60-680(1)(b)
§ 18-3 DUTY OF POLICE DEPARTMENT TO DIRECT TRAFFIC, ETC.
   The police department, including all regular and special policemen, shall
exercise all powers and duties with relation to the management of street
traffic and direct, control, stop, restrict and regulate and, when necessary,
temporarily divert or exclude, in the interest of public safety, health and
convenience, the movement of pedestrians, animals and vehicular traffic of
every kind, in streets, parks and on bridges, in the city.
(1964 Code, § 14-1)
Statutory reference:
   Authority to regulate traffic by means of peace officers, see Neb. RS 1943,
§ 60-680(1)(b)
§ 18-4 POLICE OFFICERS HALTING PERSONS IN VIOLATION OF LAW.
   Except when authorized or directed under state law to immediately take a
person before a judge for the violation of any traffic laws, a police officer
who halts a person for such violation other than for the purpose of giving him
a warning or warning notice and does not take such person into custody under
arrest shall take the name, address and operator’s license number of such
person, the registered number of the motor vehicle involved, and such other
pertinent information as may be necessary and shall issue to him in writing on
a form provided by the city a traffic citation containing a notice to answer to
the charge against him in court at a time at least five days after such alleged
violation to be specified in such citation. The officer, upon receiving the
written promise of the alleged violator to answer as specified in the citation,
shall release such person from custody.
(1964 Code, § 14-93)
§ 18-5 CITATION ON ILLEGALLY PARKED VEHICLES.
   Whenever any motor vehicle without a driver is found parked or stopped in
violation of any of the restrictions imposed by ordinance of this city or by
state law, the officer finding such vehicle shall take its registration number
and may take any other information displayed on the vehicle which may identify
its user, and shall conspicuously affix to such vehicle a traffic citation, on
a form provided by the city, for the driver to answer to the charge against him
within five days during the hours and at a place specified in the citation.
(1964 Code, § 14-94)
§ 18-6 REMOVAL OF VEHICLES BY POLICE DEPARTMENT.
   (A)   Members of the police department are hereby authorized to remove a
vehicle from a street or highway to the nearest garage or other place of
safety, or to a garage designated or maintained by the police department, or
otherwise maintained by this city under the circumstances hereinafter
enumerated.
      (1)   When any vehicle is left unattended upon any bridge or viaduct,
where such vehicle constitutes an obstruction to traffic;
      (2)   When a vehicle upon a highway is so disabled as to constitute an
obstruction to traffic and the person or persons in charge of the vehicle are
by reason of physical injury incapacitated to such an extent as to be unable to
provide for its custody or removal; or
      (3)   When any vehicle is left unattended upon a street and is so parked
illegally as to constitute a definite hazard or obstruction to the normal
movement of traffic.
   (B)   Whenever an officer removes a vehicle from a street as authorized in
this section and the officer knows or is able to ascertain from the
registration records in the vehicle the name and address of the owner thereof,
such officer shall immediately give or cause to be given notice in writing to
such owner of the fact of such removal and the reasons therefor and of the
place to which such vehicle has been removed.
(1964 Code, § 14-96)
§ 18-7 STATE OPERATOR’S LICENSE—GENERALLY.
   Every resident of the state who operates a motor vehicle on the public
streets, alleys or ways of the city shall, upon demand made by an authorized
officer of this city who displays proper evidence of his authority, exhibit a
state vehicle operator’s license or shall present proof of ownership thereof.
(1964 Code, § 14-4)
§ 18-8 SAME—SUSPENSION; DUTY OF POLICE TO RECOMMEND SUSPENSION FOR DRUNK
DRIVING, ETC.
   Upon conviction of violation of any provision of this chapter or any other
ordinance of the city regulating the operation of motor vehicles, the state
operator’s license of the person so convicted may be suspended for not less
than ten days and not exceeding one year. No such person shall operate a motor
vehicle upon the public ways of the city during such period of suspension.
(1964 Code, § 14-5)
Statutory reference:
   Authority of judge to suspend operators’ licenses, see Neb. RS 1943, § 60-
496
§ 18-9 PUBLIC EMPLOYEES.
   The provisions of this article shall apply to the driver of any vehicle
owned by or used in the service of the United States Government, this state,
county or city, and it shall be unlawful for any such driver to violate any of
the provisions of this article, except as otherwise permitted in this article
or by state statute.
(1964 Code, § 14-41)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 1943, §§ 60-6,112, 60-6,113
§ 18-10 PERSONS PROPELLING PUSH CARTS OR RIDING ANIMALS.
   Every person propelling any push cart or riding an animal upon a roadway,
and every person driving any animal-drawn vehicle, shall be subject to the
provisions of this article applicable to the driver of any vehicle, except
those provisions of this article which by their very nature can have no
application.
(1964 Code, § 14-39)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 1943, § 60-6,111
§ 18-11 COASTERS, ROLLER SKATES, ETC.
   No person upon roller skates, or riding in or by means of a coaster, toy
vehicle or similar device, shall go upon any roadway except while crossing a
street on a crosswalk and when so crossing such person shall be granted all of
the rights and shall be subject to all of the duties applicable to pedestrians.
This section shall not apply upon any street while set aside as a play street
as authorized by ordinance of this city.
(1964 Code, § 14-40)
§ 18-12 SPEED.
   (A)   Speed limit zones shall be established by the city council.
   (B)   Pursuant to this section and Neb. RS §§ 60-6,186, 60-6,190, and 16-
246, there is hereby created a speed limit zone on Cornhusker Road from 36th
Street east to S.P. Benson Drive. It shall be unlawful to operate a motor
vehicle in excess of 45 miles per hour in such speed limit zone.
   (C)   Pursuant to this section and Neb. RS §§ 60-6,186, 60-6,190, and 16-
246, there is hereby created a speed limit zone on Arboretum Drive from Fort
Crook Road south to Highway 370. It shall be unlawful to operate a motor
vehicle in excess of 25 miles per hour in such speed limit zone.
   (D)   Pursuant to this section and Neb. RS §§ 60-6,186, 60-6,190, and 16-
246, there is hereby created a speed limit zone on Twin Creek Drive from 36th
Street to 42nd Street. It shall be unlawful to operate a motor vehicle in
excess of 25 miles per hour in such speed limit zone.
(1964 Code, § 14-10) (Ord. 3182, § 1, passed 9-10-2001; Ord. 3275, § 1, passed
5-12-2003)
Statutory reference:
   Authority to regulate speed, see Neb. RS 1943, § 60-6,190
§ 18-13 USE OF VEHICLES WITH LUGS, SPIKES, ETC.
   No person shall run, drive, move, operate or convey over or across or upon
any paved street in the city any truck, wagon, vehicle, machine or implement
with sharp discs or sharp wheels that bear upon the pavement or with wheels
having cutting edges or with wheels having lugs or any protruding parts or
bolts thereon that extend beyond a plain tire so as to cut, mar, indent or
otherwise injure or damage any curb, gutter or pavement or any vehicle,
tractor, machine or implement of such weight or proportions or carrying any
load that will cut, mar, indent or otherwise injure or damage any pavement,
gutter or curb within the city; provided, that where heavy vehicles, structures
and machines move along paved or unpaved streets of the city, the chief of
police and the public works director may choose the route over which the moving
of such vehicles, structures or machines will be permitted or allowed.
(1964 Code, § 19-5)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 1943, § 60-6,250
§ 18-14 DRIVING OVER NEW PAVEMENT WHEN BARRICADED OR POSTED.
   No person shall ride or drive any horse or vehicle over or across any
pavement newly laid or repaired, across or around which there has been placed a
barricade, or at or near which there is a person or sign warning persons
against riding or driving over such pavement.
(1964 Code, § 19-7)
§ 18-15 PROCESSIONS—DRIVING BETWEEN VEHICLES.
   No driver of a vehicle shall drive between the vehicles comprising a funeral
or other authorized procession while they are in motion and when such vehicles
are conspicuously designated as required in the following section. This
provision shall not apply at intersections where traffic is controlled by
traffic-control signals or police officers.
(1964 Code, § 14-63)
§ 18-16 SAME—FUNERAL PROCESSIONS TO BE IDENTIFIED.
   A funeral composed of a procession of vehicles shall be identified as such
by the display upon the outside of each vehicle of a pennant or other
identifying insignia or by such other method as may be determined by the
traffic division.
(1964 Code, § 14-65)
§ 18-17 RESERVED.
§ 18-18 PEDESTRIANS CROSSING BARRIERS AT RAILROAD GRADE CROSSING OR BRIDGE.
   No pedestrian shall pass through, around, over or under any crossing gate or
barrier at a railroad grade crossing or bridge while such gate or barrier is
closed or is being open or closed.
(1964 Code, § 14-77) (Ord. 4006, §§ 1, 2, passed 10-6-2020)
Statutory reference:
   Pedestrians, see Neb. RS 1943,§ 60-6,152
§ 18-19 HORSES ON SIDEWALKS.
   No person shall ride or permit to pass any horse or any vehicle drawn
thereby over, upon or across any sidewalk, sidewalk space or public park or
plot on or along any public street within the city.
(1964 Code, § 19-8) (Ord. 4006, §§ 1, 2, passed 10-6-2020)
Statutory reference:
   Driving vehicles on sidewalk, see Neb. RS 1943, § 60-6,178
§§ 18-20—18-30 RESERVED.
ARTICLE II: TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES
Section
   
18-31   Authority to designate location
   
18-32   Conformance to manual and specifications
   
18-33   Applicability of placement and legibility of signs in relation to
enforcement of article
   
18-34   Traffic lanes
   
18-35   Crosswalks and safety zones
   
18-36   Barricades, signs, etc., required at closed streets, etc.
   
18-37   Play streets—Authority to establish and place appropriate signs, etc.
   
18-38   Same—Driving vehicles on play streets
   18-39—18-50   Reserved
§ 18-31 AUTHORITY TO DESIGNATE LOCATION.
   The public works director or his or her designee shall designate the
location of traffic-control signs, signals and devices when and as required
under the traffic ordinances of this city to make effective the provisions of
such ordinances, and may designate the location of such additional traffic-
control devices as he or she may deem necessary to regulate traffic under the
traffic ordinances of this city or under state law, or to guide or warn
traffic.
(1964 Code, § 14-44) (Ord. 4091, § 1, passed 5-3-2022)
§ 18-32 CONFORMANCE TO MANUAL AND SPECIFICATIONS.
   All traffic-control signs, signals and devices shall conform to the manual
and specifications approved by the resolution adopted by the city council. All
signs and signals required hereunder for a particular purpose shall so far as
practicable be uniform as to type and location throughout the city. All
traffic-control devices so erected shall be official traffic-control devices.
(1964 Code, § 14-45)
§ 18-33 APPLICABILITY OF PLACEMENT AND LEGIBILITY OF SIGNS IN RELATION TO
ENFORCEMENT OF ARTICLE.
   No provisions of this article for which signs are required shall be enforced
against an alleged violator, if at the time and place of the alleged violation,
an official sign is not in proper position and sufficiently legible to be seen
by an ordinarily observant person. Whenever a particular section does not state
that signs are required, such section shall be effective even though no signs
are erected or in place.
(1964 Code, § 14-47) (Ord. 4006, §§ 1, 2, passed 10-6-2020)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 1943, § 60-6,119
§ 18-34 TRAFFIC LANES.
   (A)   The public works director or his or her designee is hereby authorized
to designate the location of traffic lanes upon the roadway of any street or
highway where a regular alignment of traffic is necessary.
   (B)   Where such traffic lanes have been marked, it shall be unlawful for
the operator of any vehicle to fail or refuse to keep such vehicle within the
boundaries of any such lanes except when lawfully passing another vehicle or
preparatory to making a lawful turning movement.
(1964 Code, § 14-56) (Ord. 4091, § 1, passed 5-3-2022)
§ 18-35 CROSSWALKS AND SAFETY ZONES.
   The public works director or his or her designee is hereby authorized:
   (A)   To designate the location of, by appropriate devices, marks or lines
upon the surface of the roadway, crosswalks at intersections where in his or
her opinion there is particular danger to pedestrians crossing the roadway, and
at such other places as he or she may deem necessary.
   (B)   To establish safety zones of such kind and character and at such
places as he or she may deem necessary for the protection of pedestrians.
(1964 Code, § 14-55) (Ord. 4091, § 1, passed 5-3-2022)
§ 18-36 BARRICADES, SIGNS, ETC., REQUIRED AT CLOSED STREETS, ETC.
   Whenever a street or highway is temporarily closed for construction or
maintenance work there shall be erected, at both ends of he portion of the road
so closed, suitable barricades, fences or other enclosures and shall post signs
warning the public that the road is closed by authority of law. Such
barricades, fences, enclosures and signs shall serve as notice to the public
that such road is unsafe and that anyone entering such closed road, without
permission, does so at his own peril. Whenever a road or part of a road is
undergoing construction, repair or maintenance, while the public use thereof is
permitted, traffic thereon may be regulated, limited or controlled under the
same authority as such road may be temporarily closed. It shall be unlawful for
any person to violate any provision of this section and to remove or interfere
with any barricade, fence, enclosure or warning sign required by this section.
(1964 Code, § 14-57)
§ 18-37 PLAY STREETS—AUTHORITY TO ESTABLISH AND PLACE APPROPRIATE SIGNS, ETC.
   The public works director or his or her designee shall have authority to
declare any street or part thereof a play street and to place appropriate signs
or devices in the roadway indicating and helping to protect the same.
(1964 Code, § 14-53) (Ord. 4091, § 1, passed 5-3-2022)
§ 18-38 SAME—DRIVING VEHICLES ON PLAY STREETS.
   Whenever authorized signs are erected indicating any street or part thereof
as a play street, no person shall drive a vehicle upon any such street or
portion thereof except drivers of vehicles having business or whose residences
are within such closed areas, and then any such driver shall exercise the
greatest care in driving upon any such street or portion thereof.
(1964 Code, § 14-54)
§§ 18-39—18-50 RESERVED.
ARTICLE III: ONE-WAY STREETS, ALLEYS
Section
   
18-51   Generally
   
18-52   Signs generally
   
18-53   Change in direction of movement
   18-54—18-64   Reserved
Statutory reference:
   Authority of city to establish one-way streets, see Neb. RS 1943, § 89-697
§ 18-51 GENERALLY.
   (A)   The city council shall designate the streets and parts of streets and
the alleys on which vehicular traffic shall move only in one direction.
   (B)   The public works department or other qualified designee shall see that
appropriate signs are placed in visible positions designating such streets and
alleys as one-way streets and alleys.
(1964 Code, §§ 14-13, 14-59) (Ord. 4091, § 2, passed 5-3-2022)
Editor’s note:
   Ord. 1050, which designates one-way streets, may be found on file in the
office of the city clerk.
§ 18-52 SIGNS GENERALLY.
   Whenever any ordinance of this city designates any one-way street or alley
the public works director or his or her designee shall designate the location
of signs giving notice thereof, and no such regulation shall be effective
unless such signs are in place. Signs indicating the direction of lawful
traffic movement shall be placed at every intersection where movement of
traffic in the opposite direction is prohibited.
(1964 Code, § 14-58) (Ord. 4091, § 2, passed 5-3-2022)
§ 18-53 CHANGE IN DIRECTION OF MOVEMENT.
   (A)   The public works director or his or her designee is hereby authorized
to determine and designate streets, parts of streets or specific lanes thereon
upon which vehicular traffic shall proceed in one direction during one period
and the opposite direction during another period of the day and shall designate
the location of appropriate markings, signs, barriers or other devices to give
notice thereof. The public works director or his or her designee may designate
the location of signs temporarily designating lanes to be used by traffic
moving in a particular direction, regardless of the center line of the roadway.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate any vehicle in
violation of such markings, signs, barriers or other devices so placed in
accordance with this section.
(1964 Code, § 14-60) (Ord. 4091, § 2, passed 5-3-2022)
§§ 18-54—18-64 RESERVED.
ARTICLE IV: STOPPING, STANDING AND PARKING
Section
Division 1: Generally
   
18-65   Parking enforcement; authority of police department and other
authorized personnel
   
18-66   Long and continuous parking
   
18-67   Declaration of nuisance
   
18-68   Notice and order to remove
   
18-69   Towing of vehicles
   
18-70   Payment of costs of removal and storage
   18-71—18-73   Reserved
Division 2: Method of Parking
   
18-74   Permit for loading or unloading at angle curb
   
18-75   Lights on parked vehicles
   
18-76   Recreational vehicles, trailers and boats
   18-77—18-85   Reserved
Division 3: Stopping, Standing or Parking Prohibited in Specified Places
   
18-86   No parking zones and limited parking zones
   
18-87   Parking in manner obstructing driveways, alleys, etc.
   
18-88   In alleys
   
18-89   Parking for certain purposes prohibited
   
18-90   Adjacent to schools
   
18-91   On narrow streets
   
18-92   On one-way roadways
   
18-93   Near hazardous or congested places
   
18-94   Mission Street; Franklin Street
   
18-95   Parking of trucks
   
18-96   Parking of petroleum or chemical transport trucks
   
18-97   Emergency parking prohibitions—Authorized
   
18-98   Same—Emergency declaration by mayor
   
18-99   Same—Time that parking prohibition in effect
   
18-100   Same—Removal of vehicles by police department
   18-101—18-105   Reserved
Division 4: Reserved Spaces for Handicapped Persons
   
18-106   Definitions
   
18-107   Handicapped parking infraction; citation issuance; enforcement;
penalties
   
18-108   Off-street or privately owned parking facility; citation; removal;
tow-away authority
   
18-109   Designation of handicapped parking spaces
   
18-110   Construction of handicapped parking privileges; rebuttable presumption
against able-bodied drivers
   
18-111   Identification of vehicles
   
18-112   Permits; issuance; procedure; renewal; place of application; period
valid
   
18-113   Same—Contents
   18-114—18-130   Reserved
DIVISION 1: GENERALLY
§ 18-65 PARKING ENFORCEMENT; AUTHORITY OF POLICE DEPARTMENT AND OTHER
AUTHORIZED PERSONNEL.
   It shall be the duty of the police department, or such code enforcement
inspectors as assigned by the chief of police to enforce all parking ordinances
of this city. Any person violating any section of this article is subject to
enforcement of such provisions by the police department or any such code
enforcement inspector pursuant to this section.
(1964 Code, § 14-20) (Ord. 4091, § 3, passed 5-3-2022)
§ 18-66 LONG AND CONTINUOUS PARKING.
   No owner of any motor vehicle shall use the streets or other public
thoroughfares of the city for long and continuous parking when such use
interferes with traffic or maintenance of public thoroughfares to the extent of
becoming a nuisance. The owner of any such vehicle shall remove the same upon
notice, in writing, by the enforcing officer and within the time stated on such
notice.
(1964 Code, § 14-21) (Ord. 4091, § 2, passed 5-3-2022)
§ 18-67 DECLARATION OF NUISANCE.
   The parking of a vehicle in violation of any applicable provision of this
Code or state law is hereby declared to constitute an obstruction of the
streets and a public nuisance.
(Ord. 4091, § 4, passed 5-3-2022)
§ 18-68 NOTICE AND ORDER TO REMOVE.
   If any vehicle is found in violation of any applicable provisions of this
article and is not found to be subject to immediate removal under section
18-6 of this chapter, the enforcing officer shall affix thereto a parking
violation notice and order to move or remove such vehicle. Such parking
violation notice shall order the vehicle to be moved or removed within the time
stated therein.
(Ord. 4091, § 4, passed 5-3-2022)
§ 18-69 TOWING OF VEHICLES.
   Whenever any vehicle is found by a police officer or code enforcement
inspector parked in violation of any ordinances or state statute and such
notice and order to remove was provided pursuant to section
18-68, or which is subject to removal under section
18-6, the police officer or code enforcement inspector may remove and convey
the vehicle by means of towing it or otherwise impounding the vehicle to the
garage or lot designated by the city for such purpose.
(Ord. 4091, § 4, passed 5-3-2022)
§ 18-70 PAYMENT OF COSTS OF REMOVAL AND STORAGE.
   In such case when a vehicle is towed or removed to a garage or lot
designated by the city for such purpose, the owner, driver, or operator
responsible for the vehicle shall pay such towing fees and storage costs as may
be established by the Master Fee Schedule and the contract between the city and
such person or company operating such garage or lot.
(Ord. 4091, § 4, passed 5-3-2022)
§§ 18-71—18-73 RESERVED.
DIVISION 2: METHOD OF PARKING
§ 18-74 PERMIT FOR LOADING OR UNLOADING AT ANGLE CURB.
   (A)   The public works director or his or her designee is authorized to
issue special permits to permit the backing of a vehicle to the curb for the
purpose of loading or unloading merchandise or materials subject to the terms
and conditions of such permit. Such permits may be issued either to the owner
or lessee of real property or to the owner of the vehicle and shall grant to
such person the privilege as therein stated and authorized herein.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any permittee or other person to violate any
of the special terms or conditions of any such permit.
(1964 Code, § 14-84) (Ord. 4091, § 3, passed 5-3-2022)
§ 18-75 LIGHTS ON PARKED VEHICLES.
   (A)   Whenever a vehicle is lawfully parked at nighttime upon any street
within a business or residence district, no lights need be displayed upon such
parked vehicle.
   (B)   Whenever a vehicle is parked upon a street or highway outside of a
business or residence district during the hours between one-half hour after
sunset and one-half hour before sunrise, such vehicle shall be equipped with
one or more lamps which exhibit a white light on the roadway side visible from
a distance of 500 feet to the front of the vehicle and a red light visible from
a distance of 500 feet to the rear.
(1964 Code, § 14-83) (Ord. 4006, §§ 1, 2, passed 10-6-2020)
Statutory reference:
   Vehicle lights, see Neb. RS 1943,§§ 60-6,219 and 60-6,220
§ 18-76 RECREATIONAL VEHICLES, TRAILERS AND BOATS.
   (A)   For the purposes of this article, the following words and phrases
shall have the meanings respectively ascribed to them by this subsection:
      BOAT. A vehicle for traveling in or on water, not exceeding 40 feet in
body length, eight feet in width, or 12 feet in overall height. Height includes
the trailer, if the BOAT is mounted on a trailer. A vehicle meeting the above
definition except for size is not deemed incidental to a dwelling unit.
      NON-MOTORIZED VEHICLE. A trailer or other device without motive power
that is designed for carrying persons or property while being drawn by a motor
vehicle.
      RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. A vehicular unit not exceeding forth 40 feet in
overall length, eight feet in width, or 12 feet in overall height, primarily
designated as a temporary living quarters for recreational, camping or travel
use; it either has its own motive power or is designed to be mounted on or
drawn by an automotive vehicle. The term "recreational vehicle" includes motor
home, truck camper, travel trailer and camping trailer. A vehicle meeting the
above definition except for size is not deemed incidental to a dwelling unit.
      TRAILER. A vehicle without motive power, designed so that it can be drawn
by motor vehicle, to be used for the carrying of persons or property, or as
human habitation. However, a structure which meets the requirements of the
building code of the city in all ways, including foundation, is not a trailer,
whether or not it was once a vehicle.
      YARD, FRONT. That part of a lot between the front lot line and the front
of the principal building on the lot, and extended to both side lot lines.
      YARD, REAR. That part of a lot between the rear lot line and the back of
the principal building on the lot, and extended to both side lot lines.
      YARD, SIDE. That part of a lot not surrounded by buildings and not in the
front or rear yard.
   (B)   In all residential zones provided for in the city zoning code, it is
permissible to park a recreational vehicle, trailer, or boat and boat trailer
in the following manner:
      (1)   Parking is permitted inside any enclosed structure, which structure
otherwise conforms to the zoning requirements of the particular zone, where
located.
      (2)   Parking is permitted outside in the side yard or rear yard,
provided, on a concrete, asphalt, or other approved hard surface as defined by
the city zoning ordinance, section 8.03.04 and it is not nearer than two feet
to the lot line.
      (3)   Parking is permitted outside on a concrete driveway, provided:
         (a)   Space is not available outside in the rear yard or side yard as
permitted by subsection (B)(2) of this section, or there is no reasonable
access to either side yard or rear yard, a corner lot is always deemed to have
reasonable access to the rear yard, a fence is not necessarily deemed to
prevent reasonable access;
         (b)   Inside parking is not possible;
         (c)   The unit is parked perpendicular to the front curb.
      (4)   The body of the recreational vehicle or boat must be at least 13
feet from the face of any curb.
      (5)   No part of the unit may extend over the public sidewalk or public
thoroughfare (right-of-way).
      (6)   Parking is permitted only for storage purposes and any recreational
vehicle or trailer shall not be:
         (a)   Used for dwelling purposes, except for overnight sleeping for a
maximum of 14 days in any one calendar year. Cooking is not permitted at any
time.
         (b)   Permanently connect to sewer lines, water lines or electricity.
The recreational vehicle may be connected to electricity temporarily for
charging batteries and other purposes.
         (c)   Used for storage of goods, materials or equipment other than
those items considered to be a part of the unit or essential for its immediate
use.
      (7)   Notwithstanding the provisions of subsections (4) to (6) of this
section, a unit may be parked anywhere on the premises during active loading or
unloading, and use of electricity and propane fuel is permitted when necessary
to prepare a recreational vehicle for use.
      (8)   The unit shall be owned by the resident on whose property the unit
is parked for.
   (C)   While not attached to a motor vehicle, a nonmotorized vehicle, other
than official municipal equipment, shall not be parked or stored on any public
street in the city, except for emergency purposes. It shall be within the
discretion of the Bellevue Police Department as to what constitutes an
emergency for purposes of this section.
(1964 Code, § 15-15.1) (Ord. 3386, § 1, passed 11-14-2005; Ord. 3786, § 1,
passed 11-24-2014; Ord. 4156, § 1, passed 5-21-2024)
§§ 18-77—18-85 RESERVED.
DIVISION 3: STOPPING, STANDING OR PARKING PROHIBITED IN SPECIFIED PLACES
§ 18-86 NO PARKING ZONES AND LIMITED PARKING ZONES.
   The police department of the city shall have sole jurisdiction of
establishing “No Parking” zones and limited parking zones of whatever duration
deemed appropriate and of placing “No Parking” signs and the proper time limit
sign in the established zones. No person shall disregard any such public
notices or interfere with any restricted authority; provided, that it shall not
be a violation of this section for a United States Post Office vehicle, while
in official use, to be temporarily stopped in a “No Parking” zone for the
purpose of parcel delivery, special delivery or mail relay.
(1964 Code, § 14-19) (Ord. 4006, §§ 1, 2, passed 10-6-2020)
Statutory reference:
   Power of city to regulate parking, see Neb. RS 1943,§§ 60-6, 167, 60-6,182
§ 18-87 PARKING IN MANNER OBSTRUCTING DRIVEWAYS, ALLEYS, ETC.
   (A)   Except when necessary to avoid conflict with other traffic, or in
compliance with law or the directions of a law enforcement officer or traffic
control device, no person shall stop, stand or park any vehicle, whether the
vehicle is attended or not, on any street or highway or roadway within the
city:
      (1)   In any manner that would interfere with ingress or egress of any
private driveway or public driveway or established alley.
      (2)   Within two feet either side of the opening of a private driveway,
public driveway or established alley.
      (3)   Within 15 feet of any fire hydrant.
      (4)   Within 30 feet of any flashing signal, stop sign, yield sign or
other traffic control device located at the side of a street, highway or
roadway.
      (5)   Within 20 feet of either side of a crosswalk at an intersection.
      (6)   On the roadway side of any vehicle stopped or parked at the edge or
curb of a street, highway or roadway.
      (7)   On a sidewalk.
      (8)   Within 20 feet of the driveway entrance to any fire station and on
the side of the street, highway, or roadway opposite the entrance to any fire
station within 75 feet of such entrance when properly signposted.
      (9)   Along any curb line pained red or yellow.
      (10)   Within 30 feet of points on the curb immediately opposite the
closet end of a safety zone.
      (11)   Within any intersection of a street, highway, or roadway or
sidewalk area to in any manner interfere with the use thereof by the public.
   (B)   Any vehicle stopped or parked or standing upon a two-way street,
highway, or roadway shall stand or be stopped or parked with the right-hand
wheels parallel to and within 12 inches of the right-hand curb.
   (C)   The restrictions in this section shall not apply to city and welfare
departments engaged in the interest of public safety and emergency.
(1964 Code, § 14-18) (Ord. 4006, §§ 1, 2, passed 10-6-2020)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 1943, § 60-6,166
§ 18-88 IN ALLEYS.
   No person shall park a vehicle within an alley in such a manner or under
such conditions as to leave available less than ten (10) feet of the width of
the roadway for the free movement of vehicular traffic, and no person shall
stop, stand or park a vehicle within an alley in such position as to block the
driveway entrance to any abutting property.
(1964 Code, § 14-86)
§ 18-89 PARKING FOR CERTAIN PURPOSES PROHIBITED.
   No person shall park a vehicle upon any roadway for the principal purpose
of;
   (A)   Displaying such vehicle for sale.
   (B)   Greasing or repairing such vehicle except repairs necessitated by an
emergency.
(1964 Code, § 14-87)
§ 18-90 ADJACENT TO SCHOOLS.
   (A)   The public works director or his or her designee is hereby authorized
to designate the location of signs indicating no parking upon either or both
sides of any street adjacent to any school property when such parking would, in
his or her opinion, interfere with traffic or create a hazardous situation.
   (B)   When official signs are erected indicating no parking upon either side
of a street adjacent to any school property as such authorized herein, no
person shall park a vehicle in any such designated place.
(1964 Code, § 14-88) (Ord. 4091, § 3, passed 5-3-2022)
§ 18-91 ON NARROW STREETS.
   (A)   The public works director or his or her designee is hereby authorized
to designate the location of signs indicating no parking upon any street when
the width of the roadway does not exceed twenty (20) feet, or upon one side of
a street as indicated by such signs when the width of the roadway does not
exceed thirty (30) feet.
   (B)   When official signs prohibiting parking are erected upon narrow
streets as authorized herein, no person shall park a vehicle upon any such
street in violation of any such sign.
(1964 Code, § 14-89) (Ord. 4091, § 3, passed 5-3-2022)
§ 18-92 ON ONE-WAY ROADWAYS.
   In the event a highway includes two (2) or more separate roadways and
traffic is restricted to one direction upon any such roadway, no person shall
stand or park a vehicle upon the lefthand side of such one-way roadway unless
signs are erected to permit such standing or parking. The public works director
or his or her designee is authorized to determine when standing or parking may
be permitted upon the lefthand side of any such one-way roadway and erect signs
giving notice thereof.
(1964 Code, § 14-90) (Ord. 4091, § 3, passed 5-3-2022)
§ 18-93 NEAR HAZARDOUS OR CONGESTED PLACES.
   (A)   The public works director or his or her designee is hereby authorized
to determine and designate by proper signs places not exceeding one hundred
(100) feet in length in which the stopping, standing or parking of vehicles
would create an especially hazardous condition or would cause unusual delay to
traffic.
   (B)   When official signs are erected at hazardous or congested places as
authorized herein no person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle in any such
designated place.
(1964 Code, § 14-91) (Ord. 4091, § 3, passed 5-3-2022)
§ 18-94 MISSION STREET; FRANKLIN STREET.
   (A)   All motor vehicles parked on Mission Street, from Fort Crook Road east
to the east city limits, and on Franklin Street from 23rd Avenue north, to the
north city limits, whether attended or not, shall be parked parallel and
adjacent to the curb.
   (B)   Except when loading or unloading, no motor vehicle with a rated
capacity of five-ton gross vehicle weight shall be allowed to park on Mission
Street at any time.
   (C)   The street departments shall erect and maintain curb signs, placed in
visible positions from the street, designating either the manner of parking or
the prohibition of parking in the described area.
(1964 Code, § 14-22) (Ord. 2122, § 1, passed 1-28-1980)
§ 18-95 PARKING OF TRUCKS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to park a truck, semi-trailer,
tractor, or truck tractor with a five-ton or greater license certificate or
plate and which exceeds eight feet in width or 21 feet in length on any street
within the city except for that period of time necessary for loading and
unloading, delivery or collection of goods, wares and merchandise. In no event
shall this period of time exceed two hours.
   (B)   Subsection (A) shall not apply to trucks or motor vehicles being used
within the city in connection with construction, repair, service or moving
operations.
(Ord. 2386, § 1, passed 10-14-1985; Ord. 4152, § 1, passed 4-16-2024)
Editor’s note:
   Section 1 of Ord. 2386, adopted October 14, 1985, did not expressly amend
the Code; hence, inclusion herein as § 18-95 was at the discretion of the
editor.
§ 18-96 PARKING OF PETROLEUM OR CHEMICAL TRANSPORT TRUCKS.
   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any petroleum or chemical transport
truck, whether loaded or unloaded, to park or leave such truck standing within
200 feet of any school, hospital, church or building, any portion of which is
used for dwelling purposes except while loading and unloading.
(Ord. 2386, § 2, passed 10-14-1985)
Editor’s note:
   Section 2 of Ord. 2386, adopted October 14, 1985, did not expressly amend
the Code; hence, inclusion herein as § 18-96 was at the discretion of the
editor.
§ 18-97 EMERGENCY PARKING PROHIBITIONS—AUTHORIZED.
   Whenever the mayor or the mayor’s designated representative shall find that
an accumulation of snow or other such condition makes it necessary to prohibit
parking on the street or streets of the city, the mayor or the mayor’s
designated representative may put into effect a parking prohibition on all of,
some of or on any parts of the streets of the city. Any such parking
prohibition shall be put into effect by the mayor or mayor’s designated
representative declaring an emergency and by declaring that parking shall be
prohibited on all or some of the streets, or parts thereof, that the mayor or
mayor’s designated representative, in his or her discretion, shall designate.
(Ord. 2733, § 1, passed 3-8-1993)
§ 18-98 SAME—EMERGENCY DECLARATION BY MAYOR.
   Each declaration of an emergency by the mayor or mayor’s designated
representative made pursuant to this division of the Bellevue Code shall state
the date and time at which a parking prohibition shall take effect, provided
that such time shall not be less than two hours after making such declaration.
The declaration shall state which streets or parts thereof, are subject to the
parking prohibition and may state that parking is prohibited on all or part of
the streets of the city. The provisions of each declaration made hereunder
shall be broadcast by at least one broadcasting radio or television station
with a normal operating range and covering the city. If desired, and if
appropriate, the provisions of such declaration may also be printed in
newspapers of general circulation covering the city.
(Ord. 2733, § 1, passed 3-8-1993)
§ 18-99 SAME—TIME THAT PARKING PROHIBITION IN EFFECT.
   A parking prohibition on a street affected by an emergency declaration under
this division shall remain in effect until such street has been plowed back to
the curbs on both sides or until the parking prohibition has been terminated by
announcement of the mayor or the mayor’s designated representative, whichever
event is first to occur.
(Ord. 2733, § 1, passed 3-8-1993)
§ 18-100 SAME—REMOVAL OF VEHICLES BY POLICE DEPARTMENT.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to park, or otherwise leave a vehicle unattended
in violation of section
18-98 or
18-99 of this Code. Members of the police department and code enforcement
inspectors are authorized to remove by tow or otherwise, or cause to be towed
or otherwise removed, any vehicle parked or left unattended in violation of
section
18-98 or
18-99 of this Code to another place or location on a street or to a lot,
garage, or other facility designated by the police department or the city.
   (B)   Whenever a vehicle is towed or removed from a street as authorized in
this section and the member of the police department or code enforcement
inspector knows or has ascertained from the registration records in the vehicle
the name and address of the owner thereof, such member of the police department
or code enforcement shall, as soon as is reasonably practicable, give or cause
to be given notice to such owner of the fact of such tow or removal and the
reason therefor and of the place to which such vehicle has been removed.
   (C)   The owner and other person lawfully entitled to the possession of any
vehicle removed, towed or stored shall be charged with the reasonable cost of
removal and towing and storage fees. Any person towing, removing or storing a
vehicle shall be entitled to retain possession of such vehicle until such
charges are paid.
(Ord. 2733, § 1, passed 3-8-1993; Ord. 4091, § 3, passed 5-3-2022)
§§ 18-101—18-105 RESERVED.
DIVISION 4: RESERVED SPACES FOR HANDICAPPED PERSONS
§ 18-106 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this division, the following words and phrases shall
have the meanings respectively ascribed to them:
   ACCESS AISLE. A space adjacent to a handicapped parking space or passenger
loading zone which is constructed and designed in compliance with the federal
Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990, being 42 U.S.C. 12101 et seq., and the
federal rules and regulations adopted and promulgated in response to the act,
as the act and the rules and regulations existed on January 1, 2020.
   HANDICAPPED OR DISABLED PERSON. Any individual with a severe visual or
physical impairment which limits personal mobility and results in an inability
to travel unassisted more than 200 feet without the use of a wheelchair,
crutch, walker, or prosthetic, orthotic, or other assistant device; any
individual whose personal mobility is limited as a result of respiratory
problems; any individual who has a cardiac condition to the extent that his or
her functional limitations are classified in severity as being Class III or
Class IV, according to standards set by the American Heart Association; and any
individual who has permanently lost all or substantially all the use of one or
more limbs.
   PARAPLEGIC LICENSE PLATE. A license plate as designated by, and issued
under, the provisions of Neb. RS 1943 § 60-3,113, as amended.
   PERSON. As used by itself and not as a part of the defined terms
“handicapped or disabled person” and/or “temporarily handicapped or disabled
person,” the term PERSON shall mean any person, persons, firm, or corporation,
or agents, servants or employees of any person, persons, firm or corporation.
   TEMPORARILY HANDICAPPED OR DISABLED PERSON. Any handicapped or disabled
person whose personal mobility is expected to be limited in such manner for no
longer than one year.
(Ord. 2051, §§ 1, 2, passed 2-27-1978; Ord. 3256, § 1, passed 3-10-2003, Ord.
4016, § 1, passed 3-11-2020)
§ 18-107 HANDICAPPED PARKING INFRACTION; CITATION ISSUANCE; ENFORCEMENT;
PENALTIES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to park a vehicle in any on-street
parking space or access aisle which has been exclusively designated pursuant to
section
18-109 for handicapped or disabled persons or temporarily handicapped or
disabled persons or motor vehicles for the transportation of handicapped or
disabled persons or temporarily handicapped or disabled persons, or in any so
exclusively designated parking space or access aisle in any off-street parking
facility, without proper identification of such vehicle in accordance with
section
18-111 or when the handicapped or disabled person to whom or for whom, as the
case may be, the license plate or permit is issued will not enter or exit the
vehicle while it is parked in the designated space or access aisle.
   (B)   Any person who violates the provisions of this section shall be in
violation of section
18-86 and shall be guilty of a handicapped parking infraction as defined in
Neb. RS § 18-1741.02.
   (C)   The chief of police is hereby authorized to assign persons to exercise
the authority to issue a citation for any handicapped parking infraction set
forth in this section, in the manner prescribed by Neb. RS 1943 §§ 18-1741.01
to 18-1741.07, as amended. When a person has committed a handicapped parking
infraction, any law enforcement officer and/or any person properly assigned by
the chief of police to exercise citation authority pursuant to this section,
may issue a handicapped parking citation, which complies with the requirements
set forth in Neb. RS 1943 §§ 18-1741.03 to 18-1741.04, as amended.
   (D)   Any person found guilty of a handicapped infraction shall be fined (a)
not more than one hundred fifty dollars for the first offense, (b) not more
than three hundred dollars for a second offense within a one-year period, and
(c) not more than five hundred dollars for a third or subsequent offense within
a one-year period.
(Ord. 2051, § 1, passed 2-27-1978; Ord. 3256, § 2, passed 3-10-2003, Ord. 4016
§ 1, passed 3-11-2020)
§ 18-108 OFF-STREET OR PRIVATELY-OWNED PARKING FACILITY; CITATION; REMOVAL;
TOW-AWAY AUTHORITY.
   When any law enforcement officer or person authorized by the chief of police
to issue a handicapped parking citation observes or is advised by the owner or
person in lawful control of an off-street or privately owned parking facility
that a motor vehicle may be parked thereon in violation of this article, he or
she shall make a determination as to whether a violation has, in fact,
occurred, and if so shall personally serve or attach to such motor vehicle a
citation pursuant to the provisions of Neb. RS 1943 § 29-424, as amended,
directed to the owner or operator of such vehicle, which shall set forth the
nature of the violation. If the identity of the operator of a motor vehicle in
violation of this section cannot reasonably be determined, the owner or person
in whose name such vehicle is registered shall be held prima facie responsible
for such violation. Any person who refuses to sign the citation or otherwise
comply with the command of the citation shall be punished as provided in Neb.
RS 1943 § 29-426, as amended. In no event shall any law enforcement officer or
person authorized by the chief of police to issue a handicapped parking
citation be expected to remove any such unauthorized vehicles as described
herein. Responsibility for removal of such unauthorized vehicles shall be with
the owner of the off-street or privately-owned parking facility, or the person
in lawful control thereof pursuant to Neb. RS 1943 § 60-2401.01, as amended.
(Ord. 2051, § 3, passed 2-27-1978; Ord. 3256, § 3, passed 3-10-2003, Ord. 4016
§ 1, passed 3-11-2020)
§ 18-109 DESIGNATION OF HANDICAPPED PARKING SPACES.
   (A)   The police department, based upon a study of the need for reserved
handicapped parking spaces, is hereby authorized to designate parking spaces,
including access aisles, for the exclusive use of handicapped and disabled
persons or temporarily handicapped or disabled persons in accordance with Neb.
RS 1943 §§ 18-1736 and 18-1737, as amended.
   (B)   If the police department so designates a parking space or access
aisle, the city shall post aboveground and immediately adjacent to and visible
from each space or access aisle a sign as described in Neb. RS 1943 § 38-1737,
as amended.
   (C)   No fee shall be charged for such reserved parking spaces for
handicapped or disabled or temporarily handicapped or disabled persons.
(Ord. 2051, § 3, passed 2-27-1978; Ord. 3256, § 4, passed 3-10-2003, Ord. 4016
§ 1, passed 3-11-2020)
§ 18-110 CONSTRUCTION OF HANDICAPPED PARKING PRIVILEGES; REBUTTABLE PRESUMPTION
AGAINST ABLE-BODIED DRIVERS
   Nothing contained in the provisions of this article shall be construed to
mean the granting of parking privileges or conveniences for the sole benefit of
able-bodied drivers of motor vehicles bearing either paraplegic license plates
as provided for in Neb. RS 1943 § 60-3,113.06, as amended. A rebuttable
presumption shall exist that an able-bodied driver of a motor vehicle bearing
either paraplegic license plates, or a handicap permit, as defined herein, is
in violation of this section when parking in a space reserved for handicapped
or disabled persons or parking in a publicly owned parking space reserved for
handicapped or disabled persons, and said driver is not in the process of
transporting to or from such parking space a handicapped or disabled person as
defined herein.
(Ord. 2051, §§ 1, 2, passed 2-27-1978; Ord. 3256, § 5, passed 3-10-2003, Ord.
4016 § 1, passed 3-11-2020)
§ 18-111 IDENTIFICATION OF VEHICLES.
   Any vehicle parked in a parking space reserved under section
18-109 shall be identified as specified in Neb. RS 1943 § 60-3,113.06, as
amended.
(Ord. 2051, § 1, passed 2-27-1978; Ord. 3256, § 6, passed 3-10-2003, Ord. 4016
§ 1, passed 3-11-2020)
§ 18-112 PERMITS; ISSUANCE; PROCEDURE; RENEWAL; PLACE OF APPLICATION; PERIOD
VALID.
   (A)   Pursuant to Neb. RS 1943 § 60-3,113.02, any handicapped or disabled
person or temporarily handicapped or disabled person or such person’s parent,
legal guardian, or foster parent may apply to the city clerk for a motor
vehicle permit that will entitle the holder thereof or a person driving a motor
vehicle for the purpose of transporting such holder to park in those spaces or
access aisles reserved pursuant to section
18-109 as well as other spaces and access aisles reserved pursuant to Neb. RS
1943 §§ 18-1736 to 18-1737, as amended, when the holder of the permit will
enter or exit the motor vehicle while it is parked in such spaces or access
aisles. For purposes of this subsection (A), the handicapped or disabled person
or temporarily handicapped or disabled person shall be considered the holder of
the permit. A person desiring to make application for a permit or for the
renewal of a permit under this subsection (A) shall follow the application,
issuance and renewal procedures set forth under Neb. RS 1943 §§ 60-3,113.02, as
amended, which procedures require the applicant to complete an application,
provide proof of identity and submit a completed medical form on forms provided
by the department of motor vehicles to the city clerk.
   (B)   Pursuant to Neb. RS 1943 § 60-3,113.03, as amended, any person may
apply to the city clerk for a motor vehicle permit that will entitle the holder
thereof or a person driving the motor vehicle for the purpose of transporting
handicapped or disabled persons or temporarily handicapped or disabled persons
to park in those spaces or access aisles reserved pursuant to section
18-109 as well as other spaces and access aisles reserved pursuant to Neb. RS
1943 §§ 18-1736 to 18-1737, as amended, if the motor vehicle is used primarily
for the transportation of handicapped or disabled persons or temporarily
handicapped or disabled persons and at least one such persons will enter or
exit the motor vehicle while such motor vehicle is parked in such designated
spaces or access aisles. A person desiring to make application for a permit or
for the renewal of a permit under this subsection (B) shall follow the
application, issuance and renewal procedures set forth under Neb. RS 1943 §§
60-3, 113.03, as amended, which procedures require the applicant to complete
application forms on forms provided by the department of motor vehicles to the
city clerk and to demonstrate to the city clerk that the vehicle will be used
primarily for the transportation of handicapped or disabled persons or
temporarily handicapped or disabled persons.
   (C)   The city clerk shall only accept applications for a permit or for the
renewal of a permit made under this section that are in compliance with the
provisions of Neb. RS 1943 § 60-3,113.02, as amended.
   (D)   In accordance with Neb. RS 1943 § 60-3,113.05, as amended, all
permanently issued permits for handicapped or disabled parking authorized
pursuant to this section shall be issued for a period ending the last day of
the month of the applicant’s birthday in the sixth year after issuance and
shall expire on that day.
   (E)   In accordance with Neb. RS 1943 § 60-3,113.05, as amended, all permits
authorized pursuant to this section for temporarily handicapped or disabled
parking shall be issued by the department of motor vehicles for a period ending
not more than six months after the date of issuance but may be renewed one time
for a period not to exceed six months.
(Ord. 2051, § 2, passed 2-27-1978; Ord. 3256, § 7, passed 3-10-2003, Ord. 4016
§ 1, passed 3-11-2020)
§ 18-113 SAME---CONTENTS.
   A permit issued pursuant to subsection (A) or subsection (B) of section
18-112 shall comply with the content requirements set forth in Neb. RS 1943 §
60-1,113.04, as amended.
(Ord. 2051, § 2, passed 2-27-1978; Ord. 3256, § 8, passed 3-10-2003, Ord. 4016
§ 1, passed 3-11-2020)
§§ 18-114—18-130 RESERVED.
ARTICLE V: CONTROLLED ACCESS ROADS
Section
   
18-131   Designation
   
18-132   Regulation; hearing
Editor’s note:
   Ord. 3194, § 1, adopted February 25, 2002, repealed former Art. V, §§ 18-131
through 18-134, in its entirety and renumbered former Art. VI, §§ 18-146, 18-
147 as §§ 18-131, 18-132. Former Art. V pertained to wrecked, junked or
dismantled vehicles and derived from the Code of 1964; Ord. 2517, §§ 1—5, 9-12-
1988; Ord. 2678, §§ 1—4, 5-4-1992; Ord. 3164, § 1, 8-13-2001. Former Art. VI,
§§ 18-146, 18-147, derived from the Code of 1964.
§ 18-131 DESIGNATION.
   Payne Drive, as it now exists in Haworth Park, from its starting point
located on Highway 370 to its terminus at the Missouri River is hereby declared
to be a controlled access road and subject to the regulations contained in the
following section.
(Ord. 3194, § 1, passed 2-25-2002)
§ 18-132 REGULATION; HEARING.
   Any platted street or roadway connecting with Payne Drive from any point or
intersection shall be prohibited without the prior permission specifically
granted by the city council. Such permission shall not be given by the city
council until after a public hearing shall be held at a regular or special
council meeting. Notice of the date of such hearing shall be given at least one
week prior to the date of the hearing.
(Ord. 3194, § 1, passed 2-25-2002)
ARTICLE VI: FRANKLIN STREET PARKING
Section
   
18-133   Parking prohibited; when
   
18-134   Removal of stalled or parked vehicles
   
18-135   Signage authorized
   
18-136   Penalty
   18-137—18-139   Reserved
§ 18-133 PARKING PROHIBITED; WHEN.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to park or allow to remain parked any
vehicle on Franklin Street, beginning at the intersection of Franklin Street
and Mission Avenue and going north to the intersection of Franklin Street and
19th Street, after there has been two inches or more of snowfall, and such
parking prohibition shall continue until the city has cleared the snow from the
aforementioned portion of Franklin Street.
(Ord. 3694, § 1(18-133), passed 12-10-2012)
§ 18-134 REMOVAL OF STALLED OR PARKED VEHICLES.
   Any police officer or code enforcement officer is hereby authorized to
remove or have removed a vehicle parked on Franklin Street in violation of this
article to another place or location on a street or to a lot, garage, storage
yard, or other similar facility designated by the police department.
(Ord. 3694, § 1(18-134), passed 12-10-2012)
§ 18-135 SIGNAGE AUTHORIZED.
   The director of public works or his or her designee is hereby authorized to
place signage along that portion of Franklin Street affected by this article
providing notice to the public of the parking prohibition thereon and that
violators may be ticketed and towed. Such signs shall constitute due and
sufficient notice to the public.
(Ord. 3694, § 1(18-135), passed 12-10-2012)
§ 18-136 PENALTY.
   Any person who violates the provisions of this article shall be subject to
having his or her vehicle towed pursuant to section
18-69 of this Code.
(Ord. 3694, § 1(18-136), passed 12-10-2012; Ord. 4091, § 5, passed 5-3-2022)
§§ 18-137—18-139 RESERVED.
ARTICLE VII: TRAFFIC CALMING
Section
   
18-140   Intent and purpose
   
18-141   Implementation
§ 18-140 INTENT AND PURPOSE.
   The City of Bellevue has found that it is necessary to improve the
environment and livability of neighboring streets by calming or regulating the
impact of vehicular traffic; to promote safe and pleasant conditions for
motorists, bicyclists, pedestrians, and residents of neighborhood streets; to
encourage citizen involvement in the traffic calming process by incorporating
the preferences and requirements of the people using the area along street or
at the intersections; to reduce vehicular speeds on residential streets; to
improve safety for non-motorized users of the streets; and to discourage use of
residential streets by non-residential cut through vehicular traffic.
(Ord. 3550, § 2(18-140), passed 1-11-2010)
§ 18-141 IMPLEMENTATION.
   (A)   The Public Works Department of the City of Bellevue is hereby
authorized to establish traffic calming procedures and to undertake the
organization and operation of a traffic calming program in accordance with this
ordinance. The Department shall develop program guidelines that will ensure
public participation and access to the program. Such guidelines shall state the
means by which a resident shall request traffic calming services, the methods
to be used by the department in advising the potentially affected neighborhood
and the evaluation criteria to be used in measuring the relative benefits of
each traffic calming program. The program guideline shall provide for contact
in the neighborhood, ensuring community consensus, and public hearings and
notices of construction.
   (B)   Traffic calming measures shall be in all cases designed to comply with
recognized standards and practices of the Institute of Transportation
Engineers, American Association of State Highway and Transportation Officials,
and the Nebraska Department of Roads. Traffic calming designs shall conform to
the latest edition of the United States Department of Transportations Manual on
Uniform Traffic Control Devices and the Rules and Regulations of the Nebraska
Department of Roads. All traffic calming measures shall be designed under the
supervision of the Director of Public Works of his designee, who shall be a
professional engineer licensed in the State of Nebraska.
(Ord. 3550, § 1(18-141), passed 1-11-2010)
CHAPTER 19: NUISANCES
   Article
      
I.   IN GENERAL
      
II.   PRIVIES, OUTDOOR WATER CLOSETS, CESSPOOLS, AND OUTHOUSES
      
III.   LITTER AND NOXIOUS WEEDS
      
IV.   WRECKED, JUNKED OR DISMANTLED VEHICLES
      
V.   CREEKS AND WATERCOURSES
      
VI.   NOISE CONTROL
      
VII.   STANDING WATER
      
VIII.   DISORDERLY HOUSE
      
IX.   REGISTRATION OF VACANT PROPERTIES
ARTICLE I: IN GENERAL
Section
   
19-1   Extraterritorial jurisdiction
   
19-2   Definition
   
19-3   Illustrative enumeration
   
19-4   Prohibited
   
19-5   Duty of owner, occupant
   
19-6   Cost reimbursement for violation
   
19-7   Recovery of costs
   
19-8   Procedure for notification and abatement; order to abate; request for
hearing
   
19-9   Action by city
   
19-10   Emergency action; recovery of costs
   
19-11   General authority of enforcement officers
   
19-12   Right of entry
Editor’s note:
   Ord. 3193, §§ 1, 2, adopted February 25, 2002, repealed former Ch. 19, Arts.
I—IV, in its entirety which pertained to similar subject matter and the
following:
Ord. No. Section Date
Ord. No. Section Date
2003     1—9   2-14-1977
3166     1       8-13-2001
2129     1       4-14-1980
3167     1       8-13-2001
2184     1       11- 9-1981
3168     1       8-13-2001
2373     1       8-12-1985
3169     1       8-13-2001
2418     1       9-14-1987
3170     1       8-13-2001
2954     1, 3    5-27-1997
 
Statutory reference:
   Nuisances, see Neb. RS 1943, §§ 16-231, 18-1720
§ 19-1 EXTRATERRITORIAL JURISDICTION.
   The provisions of this chapter shall be applicable to all property within
the city and all property within the city’s zoning jurisdiction.
(Ord. 3387, § 1(19-1), passed 10-24-2005)
§ 19-2 DEFINITION.
   For the purposes of this chapter, a PUBLIC NUISANCE exists when a person
fails to perform a duty or permits any condition or thing to exist, which act,
omission, condition or thing either:
   (A)   Injures or endangers the comfort, repose, health or safety of others;
   (B)   Offends decency;
   (C)   Is offensive to the senses;
   (D)   Unlawfully interferes with, obstructs or tends to obstruct or renders
dangerous for passage any public right-of-way, public or private street, alley,
highway, sidewalk, stream, ditch or drainage;
   (E)   In any way renders other persons insecure in life or the use of
property;
   (F)   Interferes with the quiet enjoyment of life and property, or tends to
depreciate the value of the property of others; or
   (G)   Is a public nuisance as defined by the board of health.
(Ord. 3387, § 1(19-2), passed 10-24-2005)
§ 19-3 ILLUSTRATIVE ENUMERATION.
   For the purposes of this chapter, the following is a nonexclusive
illustrative list of examples of public nuisances that exist pursuant to the
definitions in section 19-2:
   (A)   Any condition which provides harborage for rats, mice, snakes or other
vermin.
   (B)   All unnecessary or unauthorized noises and annoying vibrations,
including, but not limited to, animal noises.
   (C)   All disagreeable or obnoxious gases, odors and/or fumes, as well as
the conditions, substances or other causes which give rise to the emission or
generation of such gases, odors and/or fumes.
   (D)   The dressed or undressed carcasses of fish, animals or fowl, wild game
or domestic animals, not disposed of, or removed from the general public view.
   (E)   The pollution of any public well or cistern, stream, lake, canal or
body of water by sewage, dead animals, creamery or industrial wastes, or other
substances.
   (F)   Any building, structure or location wherein or upon which any activity
which is in violation of local, state or federal law is conducted, performed or
maintained.
   (G)   Dense smoke, noxious fumes, gas, soot or cinders, in unreasonable
quantities.
   (H)   Any method of human excreta disposal which does not conform to the
provisions of this chapter, state law or city ordinance, rule or regulation.
   (I)   Leaking or defective water pipes, sewer pipes, hydrants, cisterns,
wells, gutters, drains, rain spouts or seepage in or about any structure used
for human occupancy or the surrounding earth.
   (J)   Any abandoned or open wells, cisterns or cellars.
   (K)   The discharge of any filthy or offensive water, swill, liquid or waste
from any commercial establishment into or on any street, alley, sidewalk,
gutter, vacant lot, stream or river.
   (L)   Any building or structure, including the ground on which it sits, that
is used for the unlawful manufacture, cultivation, growth, production,
processing, sale, possession, or storage of any controlled substances as
defined in Neb. RS 1943, §§ 28-401 et seq.
   (M)   Every other act or thing done, made, permitted, allowed or continued
on any property, whether public or private, detrimental to the health or likely
to injure any of the inhabitants of the city or its extraterritorial
jurisdiction.
(Ord. 3387, § 1(19-3), passed 10-24-2005)
§ 19-4 PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to cause, permit, maintain or allow the
creation of a public nuisance.
(Ord. 3387, § 1(19-4), passed 10-24-2005)
§ 19-5 DUTY OF OWNER, OCCUPANT.
   It shall be the duty of each and every owner, agent, occupant, tenant or
person in possession, charge or control of any lot or ground, or any part of
any lot or ground located within the city’s zoning jurisdiction to remove any
nuisance from such lot or ground, together with that area between the property
line and the curbed, paved or traveled roadway line.
(Ord. 3193, § 1, passed 2-25-2002; Ord. 3387, § 1(19-5), passed 10-24-2005)
§ 19-6 COST REIMBURSEMENT FOR VIOLATION.
   Any owner, agent, occupant, tenant or person in possession, charge or
control of any lot or ground, or any part of any lot or ground located within
the city’s zoning jurisdiction who fails to remove a nuisance as required by
this article shall reimburse the city for its reasonable costs incurred in
removing the same, including but not limited to labor, equipment, and disposal
costs.
(Ord. 3193, § 1, passed 2-25-2002; Ord. 3387, § 1(19-6), passed 10-24-2005)
§ 19-7 RECOVERY OF COSTS.
   In the event any owner, agent, occupant, tenant or person in possession,
charge or control of any lot or ground, or any part of any lot or ground
located within the city’s zoning jurisdiction fails to reimburse the costs
provided in section 19-6, the city may assess such costs upon such lot or
ground in the same manner as other special taxes for improvements are levied
and assessed; or the city may sue any such person or persons in any court of
competent jurisdiction for the amount of the reimbursable costs under the terms
and provisions of this article and may recover a judgment against such person
or persons for the amount so due, together with the maximum amount of interest
allowed by law.
(Ord. 3193, § 1, passed 2-25-2002; Ord. 3387, § 1(19-7), passed 10-24-2005)
§ 19-8 PROCEDURE FOR NOTIFICATION AND ABATEMENT; ORDER TO ABATE; REQUEST FOR
HEARING.
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, whenever the city, by
and through its authorized representatives, shall determine that any owner,
agent, occupant, tenant or person in possession, charge or control of any lot
or ground, or any part of any lot or ground located within the city’s zoning
jurisdiction is in violation of the provisions of this chapter, the city shall
provide notice to such person of the city’s determination and issue an order
mandating such person to abate and/or remove such nuisance. Such notice shall
be delivered personally or by mailing such notice by first-class mail, postage
prepaid, directed to the property owner of record, and by posting notice of the
violation in a conspicuous place on or about the property. Except as otherwise
provided in this chapter, a person receiving such notice may, within five
calendar days after its receipt, request a hearing with the city as described
in such notice. If a person receiving such notice fails to timely request a
hearing or fails to appear at a hearing scheduled pursuant to a timely request,
then it shall be conclusively presumed that such person is in violation of the
provisions of this chapter as set forth in such notice.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, unless a person
receiving a notice pursuant to this chapter successfully challenges the
nuisance violation set forth in such notice at a hearing requested pursuant to
this chapter, such person shall abate and/or remove such nuisance within seven
calendar days after the receipt of such notice. If a person receiving such
notice fails or refuses to comply with the order to abate and/or remove such
nuisance in a timely manner, the city may cause the abatement and/or removal of
such nuisance as provided in this article.
(Ord. 3193, § 1, passed 2-25-2002; Ord. 3214, § 1, passed 5-28-2002; Ord. 3387,
§ 1(19-8), passed 10-24-2005; Ord. 4130, 1, passed 10-3-2023)
§ 19-9 ACTION BY CITY.
   In the event any owner, agent, occupant, tenant or person in possession,
charge or control of any lot or ground, or any part of any lot or ground
located within the city’s zoning jurisdiction shall fail to comply with the
notice provided for in section 19-8, the city may cause the abatement and/or
removal of such nuisance and assess the cost thereof upon the lot or ground, in
the same manner as other special taxes for improvements are levied and
assessed, in amounts as are provided for in section 19-6.
(Ord. 3193, § 1, passed 2-25-2002; Ord. 3387, § 1(19-9), passed 10-24-2005)
§ 19-10 EMERGENCY ACTION; RECOVERY OF COSTS.
   (A)   Whenever the city, by and through its authorized representative,
determines that any nuisance causes imminent danger to public health, safety or
welfare, the city may promptly and without notice cause the abatement and/or
removal of such nuisance. Upon the city abating or removing the same, the
owner, agent, occupant, tenant or person in possession, charge or control of
the lot or ground upon which such nuisance was being maintained shall reimburse
the city for its reasonable costs incurred in abating and/or removing the same
including, but not limited to, labor, equipment, and disposal costs.
   (B)   In the event any owner, agent, occupant, tenant or person in
possession, charge or control of any lot or ground shall fail to pay the city,
upon demand, for the costs incurred by the city pursuant to subsection (A) of
this section, the city may assess the costs thereof upon such lot or ground, in
the same manner as other special taxes for improvements are levied and
assessed; or the city may sue any such person or persons in any court of
competent jurisdiction for the amount of the reimbursable costs under the terms
and provisions of this article and may recover a judgment against such person
or persons for the amount so due, together with the maximum amount of interest
allowed by law.
(Ord. 3193, § 1, passed 2-25-2002; Ord. 3387, § 1(19-10), passed 10-24-2005)
§ 19-11 GENERAL AUTHORITY OF ENFORCEMENT OFFICERS.
   The director of each of the city’s departments of planning, parks,
recreation, and public works, the chief of police, and/or any officer,
employee, or agent duly designated by the city administrator, and any other
officer, employee or agent of the city under the city administrator’s
supervision and/or health officer of the county health department shall take
all measures reasonably necessary to abate nuisances of every description on
public and private property.
(Ord. 3387, § 1(19-11), passed 10-24-2005)
§ 19-12 RIGHT OF ENTRY.
   (A)   For the purpose of administering and enforcing the provisions of this
chapter, the director of each of the city’s departments of planning, parks,
recreation and public works, the chief of police, and/or any officer or agent
duly designated by the city administrator, and any other officer, employee or
agent of the city under the city administrator’s supervision and/or health
officer of the county health department shall have the right to enter any
premises located within the city’s zoning jurisdiction at any reasonable time,
and to enforce the provisions of this chapter to the extent not prohibited by
law.
   (B)   This section shall not be construed in any manner whatsoever to
restrict or affect the City’s obligation to comply with all appropriate and
necessary procedures required by law, including this Code.
(Ord. 3193, § 1, passed 2-25-2002; Ord. 3214, § 6, passed 5-28-2002; Ord. 3387,
§ 1(19-12), passed 10-24-2005)
ARTICLE II: PRIVIES, OUTDOOR WATER CLOSETS, CESSPOOLS,
AND OUTHOUSES
Section
   
19-13   Declaration of nuisance; certain conduct prohibited; duty of owner,
occupant
   
19-14   Procedure for notification and abatement; order to abate; request for
hearing; cost reimbursement upon failure
   
19-15   Recovery of costs
§ 19-13 DECLARATION OF NUISANCE; CERTAIN CONDUCT PROHIBITED; DUTY OF OWNER,
OCCUPANT.
   (A)   Not withstanding sections
19-2 and
19-3, all privies, water closets, cesspools or outhouses now existing within
the city’s zoning jurisdiction, whether used or not, are hereby declared to be
a public nuisance, and it shall be unlawful for each and every owner, agent,
occupant, tenant or person in possession, charge or control of any lot or
ground, or any part of any lot or ground located within the city’s zoning
jurisdiction to erect, maintain or allow to remain any such privy, water
closet, cesspool or outhouse.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of each and every owner, agent, occupant, tenant
or person in possession, charge or control of any lot of ground, or any part of
any lot or ground located within the city’s zoning jurisdiction upon which any
privy, water closet, cesspool or outhouse now exists to remove the same and to
cover the contents of the same under at least two feet of earth.
(Ord. 3193, § 1, passed 2-25-2002; Ord. 3214, § 1, passed 5-28-2002; Ord. 3387,
§ 1(19-13), passed 10-24-2005)
§ 19-14 PROCEDURE FOR NOTIFICATION AND ABATEMENT; ORDER TO ABATE; REQUEST FOR
HEARING; COST REIMBURSEMENT UPON FAILURE.
   (A)   Whenever the board of health for the city, by and through its
authorized representatives, shall determine that any owner, agent, occupant,
tenant or person in possession, charge or control of any lot or ground, or any
part of any lot or ground located within the city’s zoning jurisdiction is in
violation of the provisions of this article, the board of health shall cause
notice to be provided to such person, which notice shall inform such person of
the board of health’s determination and issue an order mandating such person to
abate and/or remove such nuisance. Such notice shall be delivered personally or
by mailing such notice by first-class mail, postage prepaid, directed to the
property owner of record, and by posting notice of the violation in a
conspicuous place on or about the property. A person receiving such notice may,
within five calendar days after its receipt, request a hearing with the city as
described in such notice. If a person receiving such notice fails to timely
request a hearing or fails to appear at a hearing scheduled pursuant to a
timely request, then it shall be conclusively presumed that such person is in
violation of the provisions of this article as set forth in such notice.
   (B)   Unless a person receiving notice pursuant to this section successfully
challenges the nuisance violation set forth in such notice at a hearing
requested pursuant to this section, such person shall abate and/or remove such
nuisance within 60 calendar days after the receipt of such notice. If a person
receiving such notice fails or refuses to comply with the order to abate or
remove such nuisance in a timely manner, the city may cause the abatement and/
or removal of such nuisance. The owner, agent, occupant, tenant or person in
possession, charge or control of such lot or ground shall reimburse the city
for its reasonable costs incurred in removing the same, including, but not
limited to, labor, equipment, and disposal costs.
(Ord. 3193, § 1, passed 2-25-2002; Ord. 3214, § 1, passed 5-28-2002; Ord. 3387,
§ 1(19-14), passed 10-24-2005; Ord. 4130, 2, passed 10-3-2023)
§ 19-15 RECOVERY OF COSTS.
   In the event any owner, agent, occupant, tenant or person in possession,
charge or control of any lot or ground, or any part of any lot or ground
located within the city’s zoning jurisdiction fails to reimburse the costs
provided in section 19-2, the city may assess such costs upon such lot or
ground in the same manner as other special taxes for improvements are levied
and assessed; or the city may sue any such person or persons in any court of
competent jurisdiction for the amount of the reimbursable costs under the terms
and provisions of this article and may recover a judgment against such person
or persons for the amount so due, together with the maximum amount of interest
allowed by law.
(Ord. 3193, § 1, passed 2-25-2002; Ord. 3387, § 1(19-15), passed 10-24-2005)
ARTICLE III: LITTER AND NOXIOUS WEEDS
Section
   
19-16   Definitions
   
19-17   Declaration of nuisance
   
19-18   Litter and noxious weeds and certain grass and worthless vegetation
prohibited
   
19-19   Duty of owner, occupant in regards to litter, noxious weeds and
worthless vegetation
   
19-20   Dropping or depositing litter or noxious weeds or certain grass and
worthless vegetation prohibited
   
19-21   Cost reimbursement for violation
   
19-22   Recovery of costs
   
19-23   Procedure for notification and abatement; order to abate; request for
hearing
   
19-24   Action by city
   
19-25   Soil erosion prevention
   
19-26   Emergency action; recovery of costs
   
19-27   Same—Exception for low maintenance vegetation
   19-28—19-39   Reserved
§ 19-16 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this article, the following words and phrases shall have
the meanings respectively ascribed to them:
   LITTER. Trash, rubbish, refuse, garbage, paper, rags and ashes; wood,
plaster, cement brick, stone or other impermeable building rubble; grass,
leaves, and worthless vegetation; offal and dead animals; and any machine or
machines, or parts of a machine which have lost their identity, character,
utility, or serviceability as such through deterioration, dismantling, or the
ravages of time, or are inoperative or unable to perform their intended
functions, or are cast off, discarded, or thrown away or left as waste,
wreckage, or junk.
   GARBAGE. Animal and vegetable waste resulting from the handling,
preparation, cooking, marketing or processing of food, or the nonconsumed waste
resulting from animals or humans consuming food.
   NOXIOUS WEEDS. Bindweed, puncture vine, leafy spurge, Canada thistle,
perennial peppergrass, Russian knapweed, Johnson grass, nodding or musk
thistle, quack grass, perennial sow thistle, horse nettle, bun thistle,
buckthorn, hemp plant and rag weed. NOXIOUS WEEDS shall also mean and include
any weed designated and listed in regulations promulgated by the state director
of agriculture.
   RUBBISH. Combustible and noncombustible waste materials, except garbage; and
the term shall include and not be limited to the residue from the burning of
wood, coal, coke and other combustible material, paper, rags, cartons, boxes,
wood, excelsior, rubber, leather, tree branches, yard trimmings, tin cans,
automobile chassis and bodies, inoperable machines, metals, mineral matter,
glass, crockery and dust.
(Ord. 3193, § 1, passed 2-25-2002; Ord. 3387, § 1(19-16), passed 10-24-2005)
§ 19-17 DECLARATION OF NUISANCE.
   Not withstanding sections 19-2 and 19-3, all litter and noxious weeds and
all grass or worthless vegetation 12 inches or more in height are hereby
declared to be a public nuisance.
(Ord. 3193, § 1, passed 2-25-2002; Ord. 3387, § 1(19-17), passed 10-24-2005)
§ 19-18 LITTER AND NOXIOUS WEEDS AND CERTAIN GRASS AND WORTHLESS VEGETATION
PROHIBITED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for each and every owner, agent, occupant, tenant
or person in possession, charge or control of any lot or ground, or any part of
any lot or ground located within the city’s zoning jurisdiction to fail or
refuse to keep such lot or ground free of litter or noxious weeds or grass or
worthless vegetation which has reached a height of 12 inches or more, to
prevent litter from being carried or deposited by the elements beyond such lot
or ground, other than in proper receptacles provided therefor.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for each and every owner, agent, occupant, tenant
or person in possession, charge or control of any lot or ground, or any part of
any lot or ground located within the city’s zoning jurisdiction to permit,
allow or maintain thereon any growth of noxious weeds or grass or worthless
vegetation which has reached a height of 12 inches or more.
(Ord. 3193, § 1, passed 2-25-2002; Ord. 3387, § 1(19-18), passed 10-24-2005)
§ 19-19 DUTY OF OWNER, OCCUPANT IN REGARDS TO LITTER, NOXIOUS WEEDS AND
WORTHLESS VEGETATION.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of each and every owner, agent, occupant, tenant
or person in possession, charge or control of any lot or ground, or any part of
any lot or ground located within the city’s zoning jurisdiction to remove and
clear all litter from such lot or ground, together with that area between the
property line and the curbed, paved or traveled roadway line.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of each and every owner, agent, occupant, tenant
or person in possession, charge or control of any lot or ground, or any part of
any lot or ground located within the city’s zoning jurisdiction to cut or clear
from such lot or ground, together with that area between the property line and
the curbed, paved or traveled roadway line, noxious weeds and grass or
worthless vegetation which has reached a height of 12 inches or more. Such
noxious weeds and/or grass or worthless vegetation which has reached a height
of 12 inches or more shall be cut as close to ground level as reasonably
possible and shall be maintained so that at any time the same does not exceed
12 inches or more above the ground. The cuttings shall be raked and removed
from such lot or ground.
(Ord. 3193, § 1, passed 2-25-2002; Ord. 3387, § 1(19-19), passed 10-24-2005)
§ 19-20 DROPPING OR DEPOSITING LITTER OR NOXIOUS WEEDS OR CERTAIN GRASS AND
WORTHLESS VEGETATION PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, while transporting or hauling, or
causing to be transported or hauled, litter or noxious weeds or grass or
worthless vegetation which has reached a height of 12 inches or more, to throw,
drop or deposit or cause or allow to be thrown, dropped or deposited on any lot
or ground located within the city’s zoning jurisdiction, any such litter or
noxious weeds or grass or worthless vegetation which has reached a height of 12
inches or more.
(Ord. 3193, § 1, passed 2-25-2002; Ord. 3387, § 1(19-20), passed 10-24-2005)
§ 19-21 COST REIMBURSEMENT FOR VIOLATION.
   Any owner, agent, occupant, tenant or person in possession, charge or
control of any lot or ground, or any part of any lot or ground located within
the city’s zoning jurisdiction who fails to cut noxious weeds or grass or
worthless vegetation which has reached a height of 12 inches or more or fails
to remove litter or noxious weeds or grass or worthless vegetation which has
reached a height of 12 inches or more, or causes litter or noxious weeds or
grass or worthless vegetation which has reached a height of 12 inches or more,
to be thrown, dropped or deposited, as required by this article shall reimburse
the city for its reasonable costs incurred in cutting and/or removing the same,
including but not limited to labor, equipment, and disposal costs.
(Ord. 3193, § 1, passed 2-25-2002; Ord. 3387, § 1(19-21), passed 10-24-2005)
§ 19-22 RECOVERY OF COSTS.
   In the event any owner, agent, occupant, tenant or person in possession,
charge or control of any lot or ground, or any part of any lot or ground
located within the city’s zoning jurisdiction fails to reimburse the costs
provided in section 19-21, the city may assess such costs upon such lot or
ground in the same manner as other special taxes for improvements are levied
and assessed; or the city may sue any such person or persons in any court of
competent jurisdiction for the amount of the reimbursable costs under the terms
and provisions of this article and may recover a judgment against such person
or persons for the amount so due, together with the maximum amount of interest
allowed by law.
(Ord. 3193, § 1, passed 2-25-2002; Ord. 3387, § 1(19-22), passed 10-24-2005)
§ 19-23 PROCEDURE FOR NOTIFICATION AND ABATEMENT; ORDER TO ABATE; REQUEST FOR
HEARING.
   (A)   Whenever the city by and through its authorized representatives shall
determine that any owner, agent, occupant, tenant or person in possession,
charge or control of any lot or ground, or any part of any lot or ground
located within the city's zoning jurisdiction is in violation of the provisions
of this article, the city shall provide notice to such person(s) of the city's
determination and issue an “Official Notice” mandating such person to abate
and/or remove such nuisance. Such notice shall be delivered personally or by
mailing such notice by first-class mail, postage prepaid, directed to the
property owner of record and posting notice of the violation in a conspicuous
place on or about the property. A person receiving such notice may within five
business days after the receipt of such notice request an impartial hearing
with the Chief of Police and/or his or her designee as described in such
notice.
   (B)   To request an impartial hearing, the “applicant” must:
      (1)   Complete, sign, and date the Applicant Statement on the front side
of the Official Notice; and
      (2)   Return to the City Clerk's office within five business days, the
completed applicant statement, the white copy of the Official Notice, together
with a check in the amount of $35.00 dollars made payable to the City of
Bellevue.
      (3)   When completing the applicant statement on the front side of the
Official Notice, the applicant must briefly state the reason(s) for requesting
the hearing and precisely explain the relief requested.
   (C)   Upon timely receiving the completed applicant statement on the front
side of the Official Notice, together with all other required items, the City
Clerk will contact the applicant in writing to inform the applicant of the
date, time and place of the hearing. The City Clerk will notify the applicant
per the requested contact method on the Official Notice which the applicant
selects. The City Clerk shall also notify the Bellevue Code Enforcement Office
and the Chief of Police of the requested hearing.
   (D)   To exercise the opportunity to be heard, the applicant must attend the
hearing and explain to the Chief of Police and/or his or her designee why the
applicant should not be found in violation of the Bellevue City Code section(s)
referenced on the front side of the Official Notice. The hearing before the
Chief of Police and/or his or her designee will not be transcribed or recorded
by the Chief of Police and/or his or her designee.
   (E)   If a person receiving such Official Notice fails to timely request a
hearing or fails to appear at a hearing scheduled pursuant to a timely request,
then it shall be conclusively presumed that such person is in violation of the
provisions of this article as set forth in such notice. Additionally, if the
applicant fails to successfully challenge the violation(s) set forth on the
front side of the Official Notice at a hearing attended, then it shall be
conclusively presumed that the applicant is in violation of the Bellevue City
Code violation(s) on the Official Notice.
   (F)   If the Chief of Police and/or his or her designee finds that the
applicant is not in violation of the City Code, he or she shall inform the
applicant, the City Clerk and Bellevue code enforcement of the same in writing
within 30 days of said hearing.
   (G)   If the Chief of Police and/or his or her designee finds that the
applicant is in violation of the City Code, he or she shall inform the
applicant, the City Clerk, and Bellevue code enforcement of the same in writing
within 30 days of said hearing.
      (1)   If the applicant does not successfully challenge the violation(s)
after the hearing before the Chief of Police and/or his or her designee, the
applicant shall abate and/or remove such nuisance within seven business days
after the receipt of said notice from the city Chief of Police and/or his or
her designee.
      (2)   If the applicant fails to attend the requested hearing before the
Chief of Police and/or his or her designee, the applicant shall abate and/or
remove such nuisance as originally stated in the Official Notice and said
timelines presented therein.
   (H)   If the applicant fails or refuses to comply with these provisions and
fails to abate and/or remove such nuisance in a timely manner, the city may
cause the abatement and/or removal of such nuisance as further provided in this
article. The owner, agent, occupant, tenant or person in possession, charge or
control of such lot or ground shall reimburse the city for its reasonable costs
incurred in abating and/or removing the same including but not limited to
labor, equipment, and disposal costs.
(Ord. 3193, § 1, passed 2-25-2002; Ord. 3214, § 2, passed 5-28-2002; Ord. 3387,
§ 1(19-23), passed 10-24-2005; Ord. 3764, § 1, passed 4-28-2014; Ord. 3950, §
1, passed 6-18-2019; Ord. 4130, 3, passed 10-3-2023; Ord. 4171, § 1, passed 1-
21-2025)
§ 19-24 ACTION BY CITY.
   In the event any owner, agent, occupant, tenant or person in possession,
charge or control of any lot or ground, or any part of any lot or ground
located within the city’s zoning jurisdiction shall fail to comply with the
notice provided for in section 19-23, the city may cause such litter or noxious
weeds or grass or worthless vegetation which has reached a height of 12 inches
or more to be cut and/or removed and assess the cost thereof upon the lot or
ground, in the same manner as other special taxes for improvements are levied
and assessed, in amounts as are provided for in section 19-21; and, at all
times thereafter until new growth of the following year, the city shall have
the right, without providing further notice to such owner, agent, occupant,
tenant or person in possession, charge or control of such lot or ground, to
continue cutting and/or removing from such lot or ground all litter or noxious
weeds or grass or worthless vegetation which has reached a height of 12 inches
or more.
(Ord. 3193, § 1, passed 2-25-2002; Ord. 3387, § 1(19-24), passed 10-24-2005)
§ 19-25 SOIL EROSION PREVENTION.
   On embankments within the city’s zoning jurisdiction, with a grade exceeding
a three to one ratio, it is permitted to plant crown vetch, purpletop clover,
redtop clover, snow-on-the-mountain, bishop’s weed or dragon’s blood to prevent
soil erosion. This type of ground cover will not require mowing; however, all
foreign-type weeds and plants shall not be permitted to grow when embankments
have been seeded for erosion control. This section shall not diminish the chief
building official’s authority to require retaining walls on steep slopes when
there is a strong probability of bank collapse.
(Ord. 3193, § 1, passed 2-25-2002; Ord. 3387, § 1(19-25), passed 10-24-2005)
§ 19-26 EMERGENCY ACTION; RECOVERY OF COSTS.
   (A)   Whenever the city by and through its authorized representative
determines that any litter or noxious weed or grass or worthless vegetation
which has reached a height of 12 inches or more causes imminent danger to
public health, safety or welfare, the city may promptly and without notice cut
and/or remove such litter or noxious weed or grass or worthless vegetation
which has reached a height of 12 inches or more. Upon the city cutting and/or
removing the same, the owner, agent, occupant, tenant or person in possession,
charge or control of the lot or ground upon which such nuisance was being
maintained shall reimburse the city for its reasonable costs incurred in
cutting and/or removing the same including but not limited to labor, equipment,
and disposal costs.
   (B)   In the event any owner, agent, occupant, tenant or person in
possession, charge or control of any lot or ground shall fail to pay the city,
upon demand, for the costs incurred by the city pursuant to subsection (A) of
this section, the city may assess the costs thereof upon such lot or ground, in
the same manner as other special taxes for improvements are levied and
assessed; or the city may sue any such person or persons in any court of
competent jurisdiction for the amount of the reimbursable costs under the terms
and provisions of this article and may recover a judgment against such person
or persons for the amount so due, together with the maximum amount of interest
allowed by law.
(Ord. 3193, § 1, passed 2-25-2002; Ord. 3387, § 1(19-26), passed 10-24-2005)
§ 19-27 SAME—EXCEPTION FOR LOW MAINTENANCE VEGETATION.
   A low maintenance vegetation exceeding 12 inches may be allowed in areas
where, in the discretion of the public works director or his designee, it is
not feasible for any owner, agent, occupant, tenant or person in possession,
charge or control of any lot or ground to maintain such lot or ground, provided
such low maintenance vegetation areas do not present safety issues such as
sight distance. Such low maintenance vegetation must meet the specifications as
approved by the Papio - Missouri River Natural Resources District or
equivalent.
(Ord. 3809, § 1, passed 5-11-2015)
§§ 19-28—19-39 RESERVED.
ARTICLE IV: WRECKED, JUNKED OR DISMANTLED VEHICLES
Section
   
19-40   Declaration or nuisance
   
19-41   Same—To remain on property prohibited
   
19-42   Procedure for notification and abatement; order to abate; request for
hearing; cost reimbursement upon failure
   
19-43   Failure to pay; recovery of costs; auction for unclaimed property
   19-44—19-49   Reserved
§ 19-40 DECLARATION OR NUISANCE.
   Notwithstanding sections 19-2 and 19-3, any nonoperable, wrecked, junked or
partially dismantled motor vehicle or part thereof that is allowed to remain on
any lot or ground located within the city’s zoning jurisdiction, which motor
vehicle or part thereof has lost its identity, character, utility or
serviceability, is hereby declared to be a public nuisance and is subject to
removal as provided in this article. The lack of a current Nebraska state
license or registration shall be presumptive evidence that such vehicle has
lost its utility or serviceability.
(Ord. 3193, § 1, passed 2-25-2002; Ord. 3387, § 1(19-40), passed 10-24-2005)
§ 19-41 SAME—TO REMAIN ON PROPERTY PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for each and every owner, agent, occupant, tenant or
person in possession, charge or control of any lot or ground, or any part of
any lot or ground located within the city’s zoning jurisdiction to allow any
motor vehicle or part thereof, which is declared to be a nuisance pursuant to
section 19-40, to remain on such lot or ground longer than seven calendar days;
provided that this article shall not apply to any motor vehicle or part thereof
kept in an enclosed building or to any motor vehicle or part thereof located on
the premises of any business enterprise operated on any lot or ground zoned ML,
Light Manufacturing District, or MH, Heavy Manufacturing District, in a lawful
place and manner when necessary to the lawful operation of such business
enterprise.
(Ord. 3193, § 1, passed 2-25-2002; Ord. 3387, § 1(19-41), passed 10-24-2005)
§ 19-42 PROCEDURE FOR NOTIFICATION AND ABATEMENT; ORDER TO ABATE; REQUEST FOR
HEARING; COST REIMBURSEMENT UPON FAILURE.
   (A)   Whenever the city by and through its authorized representatives shall
determine that any owner, agent, occupant, tenant or person in possession,
charge or control of any lot or ground, or any part of any lot or ground
located within the city's zoning jurisdiction is in violation of the provisions
of this article, the city shall provide notice to such person(s) of the city's
determination and issue an “Official Notice” mandating such person to abate
and/or remove such nuisance. Such notice shall be delivered personally or by
mailing such notice by first-class mail, postage prepaid, directed to the
property owner of record and posting notice of the violation in a conspicuous
place on or about the property. A person receiving such notice may within five
business days after the receipt of such notice request an impartial hearing
with the Chief of Police and/or his or her designee.
   (B)   To request an impartial hearing, the “applicant” must:
      (1)   Complete, sign, and date the applicant statement on the front side
of the Official Notice; and
      (2)   Return to the City Clerk's office within five business days, the
completed applicant statement, the white copy of the Official Notice, together
with a check in the amount of $35.00 made payable to the City of Bellevue.
      (3)   When completing the applicant statement on the front side of the
Official Notice, the applicant must briefly state the reason(s) for requesting
the hearing and precisely explain the relief requested.
   (C)   Upon timely receiving the completed applicant statement on the front
side of the Official Notice, together with all other required items, the City
Clerk will contact the applicant in writing to inform the applicant of the
date, time and place of the hearing. The City Clerk will notify the applicant
per the requested contact method on the Official Notice which the applicant
selects. The City Clerk shall also notify the Bellevue Code Enforcement Office
and the Chief of Police of the requested hearing.
   (D)   To exercise the opportunity to be heard, the applicant must attend the
hearing and explain to the Chief of Police and/or his or her designee why the
applicant should not be found in violation of the Bellevue City Code section(s)
referenced on the front side of the Official Notice. The hearing before the
Chief of Police and/or his or her designee will not be transcribed or recorded
by the Chief of Police and/or his or her designee.
   (E)   If a person receiving such Official Notice fails to timely request a
hearing or fails to appear at a hearing scheduled pursuant to a timely request,
then it shall be conclusively presumed that such person is in violation of the
provisions of this article as set forth in such notice. Additionally, if the
applicant fails to successfully challenge the violation(s) set forth on the
front side of the Official Notice at a hearing attended, then it shall be
conclusively presumed that the applicant is in violation of the Bellevue City
Code violation(s) on the Official Notice.
   (F)   If the Chief of Police and/or his or her designee finds that the
applicant is not in violation of the City Code, he or she shall inform the
applicant, the City Clerk and Bellevue code enforcement of the same in writing
within 30 days of said hearing.
   (G)   If the Chief of Police and/or his or her designee finds that the
applicant is in violation of the City Code, he or she shall inform the
applicant, the City Clerk, and Bellevue code enforcement of the same in writing
within 30 days of said hearing.
      (1)   If the applicant does not successfully challenge the violation(s)
after the hearing before the Chief of Police and/or his or her designee, the
applicant shall abate and/or remove such nuisance within seven business days
after the receipt of said notice from the Chief of Police and/or his or her
designee.
      (2)   If the applicant fails to attend the requested hearing before the
Chief of Police and/or his or her designee, the applicant shall abate and/or
remove such nuisance as originally stated in the Official Notice and said
timelines presented therein.
   (H)   If the applicant fails or refuses to comply with these provisions and
fails to abate and/or remove such nuisance in a timely manner, the city may
cause the abatement and/or removal of such nuisance as further provided in this
article. The owner, agent, occupant, tenant or person in possession, charge or
control of such lot or ground shall reimburse the city for its reasonable costs
incurred in abating and/or removing the same including but not limited to
labor, equipment, and disposal costs.
(Ord. 3193, § 1, passed 2-25-2002; Ord. 3214, § 3, passed 5-28-2002; Ord. 3387,
§ 1(19-42), passed 10-24-2005; Ord. 3949, § 1, passed 6-18-2019; Ord. 4130, 4,
passed 10-3-2023; Ord. 4171, § 2, passed 1-21-2025)
§ 19-43 FAILURE TO PAY; RECOVERY OF COSTS; AUCTION FOR UNCLAIMED PROPERTY.
   In the event any owner, agent, occupant, tenant or person in possession,
charge or control of any lot or ground, or any part of any lot or ground
located within the city’s zoning jurisdiction shall fail to pay the city, upon
demand, for the costs incurred by the city in removing the nuisance pursuant to
section 19-42, the city may either:
   (A)   Assess the cost thereof against the lot or ground in the same manner
as other special taxes for improvements are levied and assessed in amounts as
determined by resolution of the city council; or
   (B)   After five days from the date of the removal of the motor vehicle or
part thereof which was declared a nuisance, sell it at public auction. The
proceeds from the auction shall be first applied to the costs of the auction
and then to the costs of removal and storage. Any person claiming such vehicle
or part before the auction shall be required to pay all costs incurred,
including storage.
(Ord. 3193, § 1, passed 2-25-2002; Ord. 3387, § 1(19-43), passed 10-24-2005)
§§ 19-44—19-49 RESERVED.
ARTICLE V: CREEKS AND WATERCOURSES
Section
   
19-50   Definitions
   
19-51   Litter within creeks or watercourses prohibited
   
19-52   Procedure for notification and abatement; order to abate; request for
hearing; cost reimbursement upon failure
   
19-53   Recovery of costs
   
19-54   Remedy not exclusive
   19-55—19-69   Reserved
§ 19-50 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this article, the following words and phrases shall have
the meanings respectively ascribed to them:
   LITTER. In addition to the definition provided in section
19-16 of the Bellevue City Code, “litter” includes, for the purposes of this
article only, concrete, stone, gravel, crushed rock or stone, sand, trees, root
balls, dirt and similar earthen materials.
   CREEKS or WATERCOURSES. Includes within the city’s zoning jurisdiction, the
Papillion Creek and Missouri River, including all of their branches and
watercourses leading thereto, and specifically including the channel of the
same. WATERCOURSES are further defined as any depression or draw two feet below
the surrounding lands and having a continuous outlet to a stream of water or
river or brook.
(Ord. 3193, § 1, passed 2-25-2002; Ord. 3387, § 1(19-50), passed 10-24-2005)
§ 19-51 LITTER WITHIN CREEKS OR WATERCOURSES PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for each and every owner, agent, occupant, tenant or
person in possession, charge or control of any lot or ground, or any part of
any lot or ground located within the city’s zoning jurisdiction to place or
cause to be placed on his lot or ground or any other lot or ground, or allow to
remain on his lot or ground any litter within any creek or watercourse;
provided, however, that such act will not be unlawful if a specific written
permit for such activity is obtained under any other provision of this Code.
Nothing herein shall be construed as relieving any person from state or federal
permit requirements.
(Ord. 3193, § 1, passed 2-25-2002; Ord. 3387, § 1(19-51), passed 10-24-2005)
§ 19-52 PROCEDURE FOR NOTIFICATION AND ABATEMENT; ORDER TO ABATE; REQUEST FOR
HEARING; COST REIMBURSEMENT UPON FAILURE.
   (A)   Whenever the city, by and through its authorized representatives,
shall determine that any litter deposited or existing within a creek or
watercourse causes imminent danger to the public health, safety or welfare,
particularly where such litter is determined to cause an obstruction to the
channel, watercourse, or floodway affected, the city shall cause such litter to
be removed at the expense of the owner, agent, occupant, tenant or person in
possession, charge or control of the lot or ground on which such litter is
found, or the lot or ground immediately adjacent thereto, if such lot or ground
was used as the source of such litter or the place of access for the
disposition of such litter.
   (B)   In the event that the city, by and through its authorized
representatives, determines that such danger is not imminent, the city shall
provide notice to any owner, agent, occupant, tenant or person in possession,
charge or control of the lot or ground upon which such litter is being
maintained, or the lot or ground immediately adjacent thereto, if such lot or
ground was used as the source of such litter or the place of access for the
disposition of such litter, of the city’s determination and issue an order
mandating such person to remove such public nuisance. Such notice shall be
delivered personally or by mailing such notice by first-class mail, postage
prepaid, directed to the property owner of record, and by posting notice of the
violation in a conspicuous place on or about the property. A person receiving
such notice may, within five calendar days after its receipt, request a hearing
with the city as described in such notice. If a person receiving such notice
fails to timely request a hearing or fails to appear at a hearing scheduled
pursuant to a timely request, then it shall be conclusively presumed that such
person is in violation of the provisions of this article as set forth in such
notice.
   (C)   Unless a person receiving a notice pursuant to this section
successfully challenges the nuisance violation set forth in such notice at a
hearing requested pursuant to this section, such person shall abate and/or
remove such nuisance within seven calendar days after the receipt of such
notice. If a person receiving such notice fails or refuses to comply with the
order to abate and/or remove such nuisance in a timely manner, the city may
cause the abatement and/or removal of such nuisance as provided in this
article. The owner, agent, occupant, tenant or person in possession, charge or
control of such lot or ground shall reimburse the city for its reasonable costs
incurred in abating and/or removing the same, including, but not limited to,
labor, equipment, and disposal costs.
(Ord. 3193, § 1, passed 2-25-2002; Ord. 3214, § 4, passed 5-28-2002; Ord. 3387,
§ 1(19-52), passed 10-24-2005; Ord. 4130, 5, passed 10-3-2023)
§ 19-53 RECOVERY OF COSTS.
   In the event any owner, agent, occupant, tenant or person in possession,
charge or control of any lot or ground shall fail to pay the city, upon demand,
for the costs incurred by the city in removing the litter in accordance with
section 19-52, the city may assess the costs thereof upon such lot or ground,
in the same manner as other special taxes for improvements are levied and
assessed; or the city may sue any such person or persons in any court of
competent jurisdiction for the amount of the reimbursable costs under the terms
and provisions of this article and may recover a judgment against such person
or persons for the amount so due, together with the maximum amount of interest
allowed by law.
(Ord. 3193, § 1, passed 2-25-2002; Ord. 3387, § 1(19-53), passed 10-24-2005)
§ 19-54 REMEDY NOT EXCLUSIVE.
   The remedy provided to the city for the removal of such litter and
assessment of the costs thereof shall not be deemed the exclusive remedy to the
city for such violations, but all of said acts shall remain enforceable as
other violations of this Code, and the penalties described or applicable
thereto may be applied in lieu of or in addition to the remedies provided
herein.
(Ord. 3193, § 1, passed 2-25-2002; Ord. 3387, § 1(19-54), passed 10-24-2005)
§§ 19-55—19-69 RESERVED.
ARTICLE VI: NOISE CONTROL
Section
   
19-70   Engine braking
   19-71—19-89   Reserved
§ 19-70 ENGINE BRAKING.
   Any person using or operating or causing to be used or operated within the
city an engine braking system that emits loud, excessive or disturbing noise on
any semi-tractor or commercial vehicle shall be deemed to be in violation of
the provisions of this article. For the purposes of this section, an engine
braking system shall be deemed to be any device which uses the force of the
engine in the described vehicle to slow or alter the speed of the vehicle. It
shall be a defense to any alleged violation of this section that the operator
of the vehicle used such brakes to reasonably avoid a collision or in response
to other emergency situations.
(Ord. 4029, § 1, passed 4-20-2021)
§§ 19-71—19-89 RESERVED.
ARTICLE VII: STANDING WATER
Section
   
19-90   Declaration of nuisance
   
19-91   Same—Maintenance prohibited
   
19-92   Duty of owner, occupant
   
19-93   Cost reimbursement for violation
   
19-94   Recovery of costs
   
19-95   Procedure for notification and abatement; order to abate; request for
hearing
   
19-96   Action by city
   
19-97   Emergency action; recovery of costs
   19-98—19-99   Reserved
§ 19-90 DECLARATION OF NUISANCE.
   Notwithstanding sections 19-2 and 19-3, any accumulation of stagnant water
permitted or maintained on any lot or property is hereby declared to be a
public nuisance.
(Ord. 3387, § 2(19-90), passed 10-24-2005)
§ 19-91 SAME—MAINTENANCE PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for each and every owner, agent, occupant, tenant or
person in possession, charge or control of any lot or ground located within the
city to permit any nuisance coming under the provisions of this article to
remain or exist on such lot or ground.
(Ord. 3387, § 2(19-91), passed 10-24-2005)
§ 19-92 DUTY OF OWNER, OCCUPANT.
   It shall be the duty of each and every owner, agent, occupant, tenant or
person in possession, charge or control of any lot or ground, or any part of
any lot or ground located within the city’s zoning jurisdiction to remove all
standing water from such lot or ground, together with that area between the
property line and the curbed, paved or traveled roadway line.
(Ord. 3387, § 2(19-92), passed 10-24-2005)
§ 19-93 COST REIMBURSEMENT FOR VIOLATION.
   Any owner, agent, occupant, tenant or person in possession, charge or
control of any lot or ground, or any part of any lot or ground located within
the city’s zoning jurisdiction who fails to remove standing water as required
by this article shall reimburse the city for its reasonable costs incurred in
cutting and/or removing the same, including but not limited to labor,
equipment, and disposal costs.
(Ord. 3387, § 2(19-93), passed 10-24-2005)
§ 19-94 RECOVERY OF COSTS.
   In the event any owner, agent, occupant, tenant or person in possession,
charge or control of any lot or ground, or any part of any lot or ground
located within the city’s zoning jurisdiction fails to reimburse the costs
provided in section 19-93, the city may assess such costs upon such lot or
ground in the same manner as other special taxes for improvements are levied
and assessed; or the city may sue any such person or persons in any court of
competent jurisdiction for the amount of the reimbursable costs under the terms
and provisions of this article and may recover a judgment against such person
or persons for the amount so due, together with the maximum amount of interest
allowed by law.
(Ord. 3387, § 2(19-94), passed 10-24-2005)
§ 19-95 PROCEDURE FOR NOTIFICATION AND ABATEMENT; ORDER TO ABATE; REQUEST FOR
HEARING.
   (A)   Whenever the city, by and through its authorized representatives,
shall determine that any owner, agent, occupant, tenant or person in
possession, charge or control of any lot or ground, or any part of any lot or
ground located within the city’s zoning jurisdiction is in violation of the
provisions of this article, the city shall provide notice to such person of the
city’s determination and issue an order mandating such person to abate and/or
remove such nuisance. Such notice shall be delivered personally or by mailing
such notice by first-class mail, postage prepaid, directed to the property
owner of record, and by posting notice of the violation in a conspicuous place
on or about the property. A person receiving such notice may, within five
calendar days after its receipt, request a hearing with the city as described
in such notice. If a person receiving such notice fails to timely request a
hearing or fails to appear at a hearing scheduled pursuant to a timely request,
then it shall be conclusively presumed that such person is in violation of the
provisions of this article as set forth in such notice.
   (B)   Unless a person receiving a notice pursuant to this section
successfully challenges the nuisance violation set forth in such notice at a
hearing requested pursuant to this section, such person shall abate and/or
remove such nuisance within seven calendar days after the receipt of such
notice. If a person receiving such notice fails or refuses to comply with the
order to abate and/or remove such nuisance in a timely manner, the city may
cause the abatement and/or removal of such nuisance as further provided in this
article.
(Ord. 3387, § 2(19-95), passed 10-24-2005; Ord. 4130, 6, passed 10-3-2023)
§ 19-96 ACTION BY CITY.
   In the event any owner, agent, occupant, tenant or person in possession,
charge or control of any lot or ground, or any part of any lot or ground
located within the city’s zoning jurisdiction shall fail to comply with the
notice provided for in section 19-95, the city may cause such standing water to
be removed and/or such lot or ground to be graded and assess the cost thereof
upon the lot or ground, in the same manner as other special taxes for
improvements are levied and assessed, in amounts as are provided for in section
19-93.
(Ord. 3387, § 2(19-96), passed 10-24-2005)
§ 19-97 EMERGENCY ACTION; RECOVERY OF COSTS.
   (A)   Whenever the city by and through its authorized representative
determines that any standing water causes imminent danger to public health,
safety or welfare, the city may promptly and without notice cause such standing
water to be removed or such lot or ground to be graded. Upon the city removing
or grading the same, the owner, agent, occupant, tenant or person in
possession, charge or control of the lot or ground upon which such nuisance was
being maintained shall reimburse the city for its reasonable costs incurred in
cutting and/or removing the same including but not limited to labor, equipment,
and disposal costs.
   (B)   In the event any owner, agent, occupant, tenant or person in
possession, charge or control of any lot or ground shall fail to pay the city,
upon demand, for the costs incurred by the city pursuant to subsection (A) of
this section, the city may assess the costs thereof upon such lot or ground, in
the same manner as other special taxes for improvements are levied and
assessed; or the city may sue any such person or persons in any court of
competent jurisdiction for the amount of the reimbursable costs under the terms
and provisions of this article and may recover a judgment against such person
or persons for the amount so due, together with the maximum amount of interest
allowed by law.
(Ord. 3387, § 2(19-97), passed 10-24-2005)
§§ 19-98—19-99 RESERVED.
ARTICLE VIII: DISORDERLY HOUSE
Section
   
19-100   Purpose
   
19-101   Jurisdiction
   
19-102   Suppression of nuisances; disorderly houses
   
19-103   Disorderly house; maintaining
   
19-104   Prima facie evidence
   
19-105   Substantiated complaint
   
19-106   Inmate of disorderly house
   
19-107   Disorderly house; penalty for violations
§ 19-100 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this article is to define a disorderly house, to control the
utilization of buildings, structures, or other places within the City of
Bellevue, Sarpy County, Nebraska, as disorderly houses, to establish a penalty
for violating said regulations, all to protect and promote the health, safety,
and general welfare of the citizenry of the city.
(Ord. 3596, § 1(19-100), passed 11-22-2010)
§ 19-101 JURISDICTION.
   The provisions of this article shall apply to all of the incorporated areas
of the city.
(Ord. 3596, § 1(19-101), passed 11-22-2010)
§ 19-102 SUPPRESSION OF NUISANCES; DISORDERLY HOUSES.
   The term DISORDERLY HOUSE, as used in this article, shall be deemed to be
any room, house, building, structure, or premises, where unlawful or illegal
acts are being committed. These disorderly houses are hereby declared to be an
unreasonable interference with the health, safety, welfare, and property of the
citizens of the city and a public or common nuisance. Such nuisances may be
restrained or suppressed by the city in any manner provided by law, and the
city attorney is hereby authorized and empowered to take such legal action as
may be necessary to restrain or suppress such nuisances.
(Ord. 3596, § 1(19-102), passed 11-22-2010)
§ 19-103 DISORDERLY HOUSE; MAINTAINING.
   It shall be unlawful for the owner, lessee, resident, manager, or proprietor
of any room, house, building, structure, or premises to knowingly collect or
permit to be collected therein persons who are engaging in any unlawful act, or
to knowingly make, cause, permit, or suffer to be made therein any loud or
improper noise to the annoyance or disturbance of any person or neighborhood.
(Ord. 3596, § 1(19-103), passed 11-22-2010)
§ 19-104 PRIMA FACIE EVIDENCE.
   It shall be prima facie evidence of a violation of this article if,
according to the records maintained by the Sarpy County Communications Center
and/or the city police department, law enforcement officers have responded to
the same building, structure, or place more than twice within a six-month
period and have determined that on at least two of those occasions that there
were substantiated complaints of either unlawful acts occurring at the
residence or substantiated complaints of loud or improper noise which has
caused the annoyance or disturbance of any person or neighborhood.
(Ord. 3596, § 1(19-104), passed 11-22-2010)
§ 19-105 SUBSTANTIATED COMPLAINT.
   The term SUBSTANTIATED COMPLAINT, as used in this article, means that a law
enforcement officer has investigated a complaint, whether received anonymously
or not, and has found that probable cause does exist which would support
charges being filed against the owner, lessee, resident, manager, proprietor of
any room, visitors, or any occupants of the said disorderly house in the
appropriate court. It does not necessarily mean that charges were filed, only
that charges could have been filed.
(Ord. 3596, § 1(19-105), passed 11-22-2010)
§ 19-106 INMATE OF DISORDERLY HOUSE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to be an inmate of or visit or frequent
any disorderly house as declared in section
19-102 with knowledge of, and participation in, the illegal activities
occurring therein.
(Ord. 3596, § 1(19-106), passed 11-22-2010)
§ 19-107 DISORDERLY HOUSE; PENALTY FOR VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   Any person who violates section
19-103 or 19-106 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction of a
first offense shall be punished by imprisonment in the county jail for a period
not to exceed six months, or by a fine of not less than $250.00 nor more than
$500.00, recoverable with costs, or both such fine and imprisonment.
   (B)   Any person who violates section
19-103 or 19-106 and has had one conviction for violation of either section
19-103 or 19-106 in the ten years prior to the date of the current conviction
shall be punished by imprisonment in the county jail for a period of not to
exceed six months, or by a fine of not less than $350.00 nor more than $500.00,
recoverable with costs, or both such fine and imprisonment.
   (C)   Any person who violates section
19-103 or 19-106 and has had two or more convictions for violation of either
section
19-103 or 19-106 in the ten years prior to the date of the current conviction
shall be punished by imprisonment in the county jail for a period of three days
to six months and a fine of not less than $400.00 nor more than $500.00,
recoverable with costs.
(Ord. 3596, § 1(19-107), passed 11-22-2010)
ARTICLE IX: REGISTRATION OF VACANT PROPERTIES
Section
   
19-108   Purpose
   
19-109   Public nuisance
   
19-110   Duties of owner
   
19-111   Vacant property registration
   
19-112   Definitions
   
19-113   Exemptions
   
19-114   Registration forms
   
19-115   Vacant property fees
   
19-116   Penalties
   
19-117   Removal of property from registration list
   
19-118   Appeal
§ 19-108 PURPOSE.
   Recognizing that vacant commercial and residential buildings (hereinafter
referred to as “vacant properties”) contribute to blight, discourage economic
development, hinder appreciation of property values, endanger public health and
safety, attract criminal activity, create fire hazards and otherwise diminish
quality of life. It is the responsibility of property owners to prevent vacant
properties from becoming a burden to the neighborhood and community and a
threat to the public health, safety and welfare. Maintenance of the public
health, safety, and welfare thus requires the city to maintain an accurate
registration of all vacant properties. Any fees imposed under a vacant property
registration ordinance have the potential to benefit the owners of vacant
properties by helping to finance additional government services to protect the
value and security of such properties. That enactment of a vacant property
registration ordinance is a proper exercise of the City of Bellevue's authority
to protect the public health, safety and welfare of community residents.
(Ord. 4169, § 1, passed 12-17-2024)
§ 19-109 PUBLIC NUISANCE.
   Vacant properties shall constitute a public nuisance. The City of Bellevue
is given the power and authority pursuant to Neb. RS § 18-1720 to define,
regulate, suppress and prevent such nuisances. A vacant property registration
ordinance places a duty on the owner of vacant properties to assist the city in
preventing public nuisance. The City Clerk shall be the program administrator
for the vacant properties registration list and said registration applies to
any and all vacant properties within the city limits.
(Ord. 4169, § 2, passed 12-17-2024)
§ 19-110 DUTIES OF OWNER.
   All owners of vacant property subject to a vacant property registration
ordinance, adopted pursuant to Neb. RS § 19-5406, shall be required to register
such property with the City Clerk.
(Ord. 4169, § 3, passed 12-17-2024)
§ 19-111 VACANT PROPERTY REGISTRATION.
   (A)   The owner of a vacant property must register said property with the
City Clerk within 30 calendar days of written notice provided to the owner or
the owner's resident agent of the existence of the vacant property. Such notice
shall be served on the owner or resident agent by personal service or by
certified mail, return receipt requested. If notice by personal service or
certified mail is unsuccessful, notice shall be given by publication in a
newspaper of general circulation in the city and by conspicuously posting the
notice on the commercial building or residential building which is vacant. A
copy of the notice under this section shall be recorded by the County Clerk, or
his or her designee, in the records of the Register of Deeds for Sarpy County,
Nebraska and indexed against the premises.
   (B)   For purposes of this article, evidence of vacancy means any condition
or circumstance that on its own or in combination with other conditions or
circumstances would lead a reasonable person to believe that a residential
building or commercial building is vacant. Such conditions or circumstances may
include, but are not limited to, the following:
      (1)   Overgrown or dead vegetation, including grass, shrubbery, and other
plantings;
      (2)   An accumulation of abandoned personal property, trash or other
waste;
      (3)   Visible deterioration or lack of maintenance of any building or
structure on the property;
      (4)   Graffiti or other defacement of any building or structure on the
property; or
      (5)   Any other condition or circumstance reasonably indicating that the
property is not occupied for residential purposes or being used for the
operation of a lawful business.
   (C)   For the purposes of this section, a vacant property shall not be used
for storage unless specifically allowed pursuant to the City of Bellevue zoning
ordinance.
(Ord. 4169, § 4, passed 12-17-2024)
§ 19-112 DEFINITIONS.
   For purposes of this article, the following words and phrases shall have the
meanings respectively ascribed to them:
   BUILDING, COMMERCIAL. A building with more than 25% of its floor space used
for commercial activity. For the purposes of this article, “floor space” shall
be designated as the area on the main or street level of the building. For
purposes of this article, “commercial activity” means having the objective of
supplying commodities (goods and services), industrial uses, industrial
manufacturing, and ancillary business functions.
   BUILDING, RESIDENTIAL. A housing structure or other framework, together with
such land on which the dwelling and appurtenant buildings are located, that is
used or intended to support occupancy of one or more persons for non-business
purposes. This includes but is not limited to the following: a house, a
condominium, a townhouse, an apartment unit or building, or a trailer house.
   OWNER OF A VACANT PROPERTY. The person or persons shown to be the owner or
owners of record on the records of the register of deeds.
   VACANT. The property has been vacant for 180 days or longer and during such
time, has continuously exhibited evidence of vacancy as described in § 19-111.
(Ord. 4169, § 5, passed 12-17-2024)
§ 19-113 EXEMPTIONS.
   The vacant property registration ordinance provides the following exemptions
to the vacant property registration and fee requirements, including, but not
limited to, the following:
   (A)   Property only considered to be a seasonal residence; and the property
is in compliance with all current City of Bellevue codes;
   (B)   Property of an owner who is temporarily absent, but who has
demonstrated his or her intent to return; and the property is in compliance
with all current City of Bellevue codes;
   (C)   Property that is scheduled for demolition and has a valid demo permit
issued by the City of Bellevue;
   (D)   Property under construction or renovation pursuant to a valid building
permit issued by the City of Bellevue;
   (E)   Property subject to divorce, probate or estate proceedings; and the
property is in compliance with all current City of Bellevue codes;
   (F)   Property that is “for sale,” “for rent,” or “for lease” and where the
owner can produce sufficient good faith evidence of active marketing of sale,
rent or lease; and the property is in compliance with all current City of
Bellevue codes;
   (G)   Property owned by the federal government, the State of Nebraska, the
City of Bellevue or any other political subdivision; and
   (H)   Property subject to damage by fire or an act of God.
(Ord. 4169, § 6, passed 12-17-2024)
§ 19-114 REGISTRATION FORMS.
   (A)   The required vacant property registration shall be submitted on the
form provided by the City of Bellevue. The form shall include, but not be
limited to the following: the name, current mailing address, telephone number
and facsimile (if applicable) and email address of the property owner and his
or her agent; the street address and parcel identification number of the vacant
property; the transfer date of the instrument conveying the property to the
owner; the date on which the property became vacant; and such other information
deemed necessary by the city. The form shall also include the period of time
the vacant property is expected to remain vacant, and a plan and timetable for
performance of one or more of the following:
      (1)   Returning the vacant property to the appropriate occupancy or use;
      (2)   Marketing the property for sale or lease;
      (3)   Making any necessary repairs; or
      (4)   Demolition of the property.
   (B)   All applicable laws and codes shall be complied with by the owner. The
owner shall notify the city of any changes in information supplied as part of
the vacant property registration within 30 calendar days of the change.
   (C)   If the owner of the vacant property does not reside in Sarpy County
for at least 180 days in a calendar year, then the owner must provide
information for a resident agent with authority to act with respect to the
property, including the name, current mailing address, phone number, and any
other contact information of the owner's agent. Any subsequent owner of a
vacant property must register or re-register the building with the city within
30 calendar days of any transfer of any ownership interest in the vacant
property. The new owner(s) shall comply with the approved plan and timetable
submitted by the previous owner until any proposed changes are submitted by the
new owner and meet the approval of the city.
   (D)   An owner who acquires a vacant property for which a registration fee
has already been paid for a particular period is not liable for an additional
registration fee for that period; however, the new owner must register the
change of ownership with the city.
(Ord. 4169, § 7, passed 12-17-2024)
§ 19-115 VACANT PROPERTY FEES.
   (A)   Residential property. There is no fee for initial registration of
vacant residential property.
      (1)   If the owner fails to remedy the vacant property and successfully
have it removed from the vacant property registration list within 180 days from
the initial registration date, or within 180 days from the initial registration
date deadline if the owner fails to register the property, then the owner of a
vacant residential property shall be assessed a fee of $250.00, payable to the
City of Bellevue.
      (2)   In addition, a supplemental fee of $500.00 will be assessed to the
owner of the vacant property for every 180-day period thereafter, until the
vacant property is removed from the registration list.
   (B)   Commercial property. There is no fee for initial registration of
vacant commercial property.
      (1)   If the owner fails to remedy the vacant property and successfully
have it removed from the vacant property registration list within 180 days from
the initial registration date, or 180 days from the initial registration date
deadline if the owner fails to register the property, then the owner of a
vacant commercial property shall be assessed a fee of $500.00, payable to the
City of Bellevue. In addition, a supplemental fee of $1,000.00 will be assessed
to the owner of the vacant property for every 180-day period thereafter, until
the vacant property is removed from the registration list.
      (2)   Registration fees may be refundable for the fiscal year preceding
the date on which the property is no longer vacant.
      (3)   Unpaid registration fees shall become a lien on the premises, as
well as a liability of the responsible party. Additionally, the city attorney
may institute appropriate action against the owner for the recovery of such
costs.
(Ord. 4169, § 8, passed 12-17-2024)
§ 19-116 PENALTIES.
   (A)   Any person upon whom a duty is placed by the provisions of this
article who shall fail, neglect, or refuse to perform such duty, or who shall
violate a provision of this article shall be deemed guilty of an infraction and
upon conviction thereof shall be fined in any sum not to exceed $500.00, except
that each person so convicted shall be fined in a sum of not less than $200.00
for the first offense, not less than $300.00 for the second offense, and not
less than $400.00 for the third offense and each offense thereafter. The
penalty herein provided shall be cumulative with and in addition to the
revocation, cancellation, or forfeiture of any license, permit, or right
elsewhere provided for or as provided by law. Each day that a violation of this
article continues shall constitute a separate and distinct offense and shall be
punishable as such.
   (B)   Any and all civil penalties assessed under this article shall be
billed to the owner or other responsible party. Failure or refusal to pay any
and all such penalties permits the City of Bellevue to pursue any and all
available legal remedies for the enforcement and collection of such penalties;
including, but not limited to, civil actions being filed in district court,
suits or actions being maintained in any court of competent jurisdiction,
abatement of nuisances maintained in violation of this article, institution of
injunction, mandamus, or other appropriate action or proceedings to enforce the
penalty provisions of this article. This article in no way limits the
penalties, actions or abatement procedures which may be taken by the City of
Bellevue for a violation of any other ordinance of the City of Bellevue or
statute of the State of Nebraska.
(Ord. 4169, § 9, passed 12-17-2024)
§ 19-117 REMOVAL OF PROPERTY FROM REGISTRATION LIST.
   An owner may have his or her vacant property removed from the vacant
property registration by providing sufficient notification and evidence to the
City Clerk, or his or her designee, that said vacant property no longer meets
the definition of vacancy as described in § 19-111. The City Administrator, or
his or her designee, may then evaluate or inspect the property to determine
whether the property should be removed from the registration list.
(Ord. 4169, § 10, passed 12-17-2024)
§ 19-118 APPEAL.
   (A)   The required vacant property appeal shall be submitted on the form
provided by the City of Bellevue. Upon receiving notice declaring that a
building is vacant or remains vacant, the owner of the building may appeal such
decision within 20 calendar days of receipt of the notice. Such appeal shall be
in writing to the City Clerk accompanied by a non-refundable appeal fee. Such
appeal shall request a hearing before the city council to present reasons why
the property should not be declared vacant. The appeal fee shall be set by the
City of Bellevue's Master Fee Schedule. The City Clerk shall set such hearing
within 30 business days from the date of receipt of the written request.
   (B)   A written notice of the city council decision following the hearing
shall be sent to the property owner by certified mail or shall be provided at
the conclusion of the hearing. If the city council rejects the appeal, the
owner shall have 30 calendar days from the decision to register the vacant
building; provided, the property owner may appeal such decision, within 30
calendar days of the city council decision, to the appropriate court for
adjudication during which proceedings the decision of the city council shall be
stayed.
(Ord. 4169, § 11, passed 12-17-2024)
CHAPTER 20: OFFENSES
   Article
      
I.   IN GENERAL
      
II.   GRAFFITI
      
III.   FOCUSED RESIDENTIAL PICKETING
      
IV.   SEXUAL PREDATORS
ARTICLE I: IN GENERAL
Section
   
20-1   Unlawful assembly
   
20-2   Minors—Furnishing cigarettes, tobacco, etc.
   
20-3   Same—Curfew
   
20-4   Police dogs; killing, injuring, tormenting, etc.
   
20-5   Prostitution
   
20-6   Nudity for purpose of entertainment
   
20-7   Discharge of firearms or dangerous missiles
   
20-8   Selling firearms or weapons restricted
   
20-9   Disturbing the peace
   
20-10   Maintaining a nuisance
   
20-11   Noncompliance with zoning regulations
   
20-12   Certain forms of tobacco distribution prohibited
   
20-13   Public urination or defecation prohibited
   
20-14   Use of certain medians prohibited
   
20-15   Failure to appear
   
20-16   Horns, signaling devices, drums, radios, phonographs, etc.
   
20-17   Yelling, shouting, etc.
   
20-18   Exhausts, blowers, defect in vehicle, load, etc.
   
20-19   Building construction and repair
   
20-20   Pile drivers, hammers, etc.
   
20-20.1   Obstruction or interference with ingress or egress, etc.
Statutory reference:
   Crimes and punishment, see Neb. RS 1943, Ch. 28
§ 20-1 UNLAWFUL ASSEMBLY.
   It shall be unlawful for any two or more persons to assemble together within
the city with the intent to do any unlawful act by force or violence against
the city, or against any other person, or to do any unlawful acts against the
public peace, quiet, security or repose of any person within the city, or being
unlawfully assembled to agree with each other to do, or without agreement to
do, or by words, signs or otherwise make any preparation or movement to do any
unlawful act or acts as set out in this section.
(1964 Code, § 15-19)
§ 20-2 MINORS—FURNISHING CIGARETTES, TOBACCO, ETC.
   No person shall give, sell or furnish any cigarettes, cigars, cigarette
materials or tobacco in any form to any minor under 18 years of age.
(1964 Code, § 15-9) (Ord. 4075, § 1, passed 2-15-2022)
§ 20-3 SAME—CURFEW.
   It is unlawful for any person under 18 years of age to be or remain in or
upon any of the streets, alleys or public places in the city at night after the
hour of 10:00 p.m., unless such person is accompanied by a parent, guardian or
other person having the legal custody of such minor person, or is going to or
from some meeting or assemblage of lawful character, or is in the performance
of an errand or duty directed by a parent, guardian or other person having the
legal custody of such minor person, or whose employment makes it necessary to
be upon the streets, alleys or public places during the nighttime after such
specified hours.
(1964 Code, § 15-10)
§ 20-4 POLICE DOGS; KILLING, INJURING, TORMENTING, ETC.
   No person shall willfully or maliciously torture, torment, beat, kick,
strike, mutilate, injure, disable or kill any dog used by the police department
of the city in the performance of the functions or duties of such department,
or interfere with or meddle with any such dog while being used by such
department or any officer or member thereof in the performance of any of the
duties or functions of such department or of such officer or member.
(1964 Code, § 15-12)
§ 20-5 PROSTITUTION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to follow the vocation of a common
prostitute, or engage in any prostitution or pimping, whether in a house of ill
fame or elsewhere.
(1964 Code, § 15-15)
Statutory reference:
   Prostitution, see Neb. RS 1943, § 28-801
§ 20-6 NUDITY FOR PURPOSE OF ENTERTAINMENT.
   (A)   NUDITY shall mean the showing of the human male or female genitals,
pubic area or buttocks or the human female breast including the nipple or any
portion below the nipple with less than a full opaque covering.
   (B)   It is unlawful for any person with the intent to provide
entertainment, to act as a hostess, or manager or to serve as an employee in
any capacity, purposely, or knowingly, to appear in a public place, or in a
place to which the public is invited, in a state of nudity.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person to provide or present, or direct
any performance or dance with the intent to provide entertainment which
presents a person in a state of nudity.
(1964 Code, § 15-10.4)
Statutory reference:
   Public indecency, see Neb. RS 1943, § 28-806
§ 20-7 DISCHARGE OF FIREARMS OR DANGEROUS MISSILES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to discharge or cause to be
discharged in the city any firearm, bow, machine or mechanism that propels a
bullet, arrow, rock, metal sphere, dangerous missile, or other instrument the
use of which is intended or likely to cause death or bodily injury.
   (B)   The use of a firearm or other weapon in the following instances shall
not be a violation of paragraph (A) of this section:
      (1)   Firearms or other weapons, which discharge blank cartridges that
produce a report but do not propel a bullet, dangerous missile or object, that
are used for purposes of ceremony, sports, or education;
      (2)   Students participating in courses of instruction or activities
organized and supervised by school staff;
      (3)   Patrons and staff using a commercial firing or gunnery range;
      (4)   Participants in a managed hunt or organized archery event approved
by the city, state, or a federal agency, provided that the participant has
received any appropriate waiver from the city;
      (5)   Law enforcement officers in the performance of their duties; and,
      (6)   A person may discharge a firearm or weapon to defend his or her
life or the life of another as permitted under Neb. RS §§ 28-1409 and 28-1410.
(Ord. 2199, § 1, passed 4-12-1982; Ord. 3038, § 1, passed 12-13-1999; Ord.
3531, § 1, passed 9-14-2009; Ord. 3697, § 1, passed 1-22-2013; Ord. 3723, § 1,
passed 6-10-2013; Ord. 3810, § 1, passed 5-26-2015)
Editor’s note:
   Ord. 2199, enacted April 12, 1982, did not expressly amend this Code;
therefore, inclusion of § 1, as § 20-8, was at the editor’s discretion.
§ 20-8 SELLING FIREARMS OR WEAPONS RESTRICTED.
   (A)   For the purposes of this section, the following words and phrases
shall have the meanings ascribed to them:
      FIREARM. An instrument which releases a projectile by means of an
explosive charge.
      WEAPON. Any firearm or other instrument the use of which is intended or
likely to cause death or bodily injury.
   (B)   No person for himself or herself, or as an agent or employee shall
sell, bargain, deliver, barter or convey any firearm or weapon within the city
limits during the hours of 10:00 p.m. to 7:00 a.m. of the following day.
(Ord. 2507, §§ 1, 2, passed 5-9-1988; Ord. 3723, § 2, passed 6-10-2013)
Editor’s note:
   Sections 1 and 2 of nonamendatory Ord. 2507, adopted May 9, 1988, have been
codified herein as § 20-9 at the editor’s discretion.
§ 20-9 DISTURBING THE PEACE.
   It shall be unlawful to disturb the peace and good order of the city:
   (A)   By engaging in fighting, violent, tumultuous, or threatening conduct;
   (B)   By engaging in fighting, violent, or threatening language; or
   (C)   By lewd and lascivious behavior.
(Ord. 2870, § 1, passed 1-8-1996; Ord. 4067, § 1, passed 1-18-2022)
§ 20-10 MAINTAINING A NUISANCE.
   Except as permitted by state statutes or other provisions of this Code, it
shall be unlawful for any owner, agent, occupant, tenant or person in charge or
control of any real property located within the city’s zoning jurisdiction to
permit any nuisance as set forth in chapter 19 of this Code to remain or exist
on such real property.
(Ord. 3171, § 1, passed 8-13-2001)
§ 20-11 NONCOMPLIANCE WITH ZONING REGULATIONS.
   Except as permitted by state statutes or other provisions of this Code, it
shall be unlawful for any owner, agent, occupant, tenant or person in charge or
control of any real property located within the city’s zoning jurisdiction to
use such real property in any manner that is not expressly permitted by the
city’s zoning regulations.
(Ord. 3172, § 1, passed 8-13-2001)
Editor’s note:
   The zoning regulations of the city (Ord. 3619, adopted August 8, 2011), as
amended, are on file in the office of the city clerk and may be obtained in
pamphlet form.
§ 20-12 CERTAIN FORMS OF TOBACCO DISTRIBUTION PROHIBITED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to sell cigarettes or other tobacco products in
any form except original factory-wrapped packages. The sale of individual
cigarettes is specifically prohibited.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person or organization to give away, hand
out, or otherwise distribute free samples of cigarettes or other tobacco
products, or coupons that can be redeemed for free samples of cigarettes or
other tobacco products or otherwise reduce the price to be paid for cigarettes
or other tobacco products, anywhere within the city’s zoning jurisdiction.
   (C)   Except as permitted under subsection (E), it shall be unlawful to
dispense cigarettes or other tobacco products from a vending machine or similar
device.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful for any person to:
      (1)   Sell, permit to be sold, or offer for sale tobacco or tobacco
products by means other than vendor-assisted access; or
      (2)   Display tobacco or tobacco products in a manner allowing customers
access to tobacco or tobacco products without vendor assistance; provided, that
this subsection (D) shall not prohibit tobacco vending machines that are
otherwise permitted under subsection (E).
   (E)   Cigarettes or other tobacco products may be dispensed from a vending
machine or similar device when such machine or device is located in an area,
office, business, plant, or factory which is not open to the general public or
on the licensed premises of any establishment having a license issued under the
Nebraska Liquor Control Act for the sale of alcoholic liquor for consumption on
the premises when such machine or device is located in the same room in which
the alcoholic liquor is dispensed.
(Ord. 3362, § 1, passed 5-23-2005)
§ 20-13 PUBLIC URINATION OR DEFECATION PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to urinate or defecate, or attempt to
urinate or defecate, on any public street, sidewalk, alley, park, or any other
place open to the public view within the city. This section shall not apply to
any person using a toilet, urinal or commode located in a restroom, bathroom or
other temporary or permanent structure designated for such use that is enclosed
from public view.
(Ord. 3649, § 1, passed 11-14-2011)
§ 20-14 USE OF CERTAIN MEDIANS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   In order to preserve and protect the health, safety, and welfare of
all pedestrians, motor vehicle drivers, motor vehicle passengers, and other
individuals who utilize the public rights-of-way within the city, it shall be
unlawful for any person to access, use, occupy, congregate, or assemble on or
about any median that is not designed or suitable for pedestrian use that has
been posted with a sign pursuant to this section prohibiting such access, use,
or occupancy. The public works director with the approval of the city
administrator may prohibit pedestrian access to or use or occupancy upon any
median that is not designated or suitable for pedestrian use and shall erect
and post signage on such median prohibiting access to or use or occupancy upon
such median prior to said act being declared unlawful.
   (B)   For purposes of this section, the following words and phrases shall
have the meanings ascribed to them:
      FLAT. Having a maximum difference in cross-sloe of 8.3% or less
throughout.
      HIGHER SPEED ROADWAY. A roadway with a posted speed limit of 30 miles per
hour or greater.
      HIGHER VOLUME ROADWAY. A roadway classified as a freeway, expressway,
arterial, or collector on the Federal Functional Classifications Map as
established by the Metropolitan Area Planning Agency (MAPA).
      MEDIAN. The area between two roadways of a divided street or highway
measured from the edge of the traveled way to the edge of the traveled way
including areas between traffic lanes for control and channelization of
vehicular movements. Such an area may be physically defined by curbing,
landscaping, or other physical obstacles to the area's use by motor vehicles.
      MEDIAN THAT IS NOT DESIGNATED OR SUITABLE FOR PEDESTRIAN USE. Any median
within 200 feet of an intersection that is located on any higher speed or
higher volume roadway, or any median within 200 feet of any intersection with a
higher speed or higher volume roadway, within the city that is six (6) feet or
less in width or that does not possess a flat cross-slope area regardless of
width.
   (C)   It is an affirmative defense to a violation of this section that a
person:
      (1)   Was authorized by the city, state, or other political subdivision
to access the median for maintenance, repair, or other municipal purposes;
      (2)   Obtained a permit or license from the city, state, or other
political subdivision to access the median to install, repair, maintain, or
remove any utility, communication, cable, or other type of infrastructure;
      (3)   Was a local, state, or federal law enforcement officer or first
responder engaged in the performance of an official duty; or
      (4)   Was crossing the roadway within a marked or unmarked crosswalk and
utilized the median as a temporary place of refuge for the exclusive purpose of
avoiding moving vehicular traffic upon the roadway.
(Ord. 4039, § 1, passed 7-6-2021)
§ 20-15 FAILURE TO APPEAR.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person who has been has been charged with
a violation of an ordinance of the city, issued a citation, or in any other
manner set at liberty, with or without posting bail, upon the condition that
such person will subsequently appear in court at a specific time and place, to
purposely or knowingly fail or refuse to appear at that time and place to
answer any charge(s) brought against them under the Code of the City of
Bellevue.
   (B)   Any person who purposely or knowingly fails or refuses to appear at
the time and place to answer any citation or charge(s) brought against them as
required by this section shall be punished by a fine of not more than $500.00,
or by imprisonment for not more than three (3) months, or by both such fine and
imprisonment.
(Ord. 4041, § 1, passed 7-20-2021; Ord. 4083, § 1, passed 3-1-2022)
§ 20-16 HORNS, SIGNALING DEVICES, DRUMS, RADIOS, PHONOGRAPHS, ETC.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person within the city to:
      (1)   Operate any radio, horn, drum, speaker, stereophonic sound system,
signaling device, phonograph, other machine or device for producing or
amplifying sound, or similar device, in such a manner as to be plainly audible
to any person at any point or place more than fifty (50) feet from the source.
The prohibition herein shall not apply to:
         (a)   The use of any such signaling device or horn as a danger
warning;
         (b)   The use of any such signaling device or horn during the
participation of a sporting event or other school function if being used in
connection with the operations of the sporting event or school function.
      (2)   To use, operate or permit to be played, used or operated any radio,
musical instrument, phonograph, or other machine or device for the producing of
sound in any residential area in a manner to disturb the quiet and comfort of
the neighboring residents.
   (B)   Waiver.
      (1)   This section shall not apply when:
         (a)   The city council finds and declares that it is in the best
interests of the general public and welfare that section (A) be waived after
proper consideration of the facts and circumstances surrounding certain events
to be held at public use facilities,
         (b)   The city council waives the above provisions so as to permit the
use, operation, or playing of any said prohibited sound or device during a
specified time and specified dates stated in said application for waiver at a
public-use facility upon the application and approval of any eligible
organization or individual;
         (c)   Application is made by any individual or organization for the
use of a city-owned facility or other public use facility and said waiver and
application is submitted to the city clerk and after being scheduled to be
heard during a regularly scheduled city council meeting, the city council
determines whether or not it is in the general public interest to grant the
waiver for the specified time and date.
(Ord. 4058, § 1, passed 10-19-2021; Ord. 4083, § 1, passed 3-1-2022; Ord. 4092,
§ 1, passed 5-3-2022)
§ 20-17 YELLING, SHOUTING, ETC.
   It shall be unlawful to yell, shout, hoot, whistle or sing on the public
streets, particularly between the hours of 11:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m., or at any
time or place so as to annoy or disturb the quiet comfort or repose of persons
in any office, or in any dwelling, hotel or other type of residence or of any
persons in the vicinity.
(Ord. 4058, § 1, passed 10-19-2021; Ord. 4083, § 1, passed 3-1-2022)
§ 20-18 EXHAUSTS, BLOWERS, DEFECT IN VEHICLE, LOAD, ETC.
   It shall be unlawful to:
   (A)   Discharge into the open air the exhaust of any steam engine,
stationary internal combustion engine, motor boat or motor vehicle except
through a muffler or other device which will effectively prevent loud or
explosive noises therefrom;
   (B)   To use any automobile, motorcycle or vehicle so out of repair, so
loaded or in such manner as to create loud and unnecessary grating, grinding,
rattling or other noise;
   (C)   To operate any noise-creating blower or power fan or any internal
combustion engine, the operation of which causes noise due to the explosion of
operating gases or fluids, unless the noise from such blower or fan is muffled
and such engine is equipped with a muffler device sufficient to deaden such
noise.
(Ord. 4058, § 1, passed 10-19-2021; Ord. 4083, § 1, passed 3-1-2022)
§ 20-19 BUILDING CONSTRUCTION AND REPAIR.
   It shall be unlawful to erect (including excavation), demolish, alter, or
repair any building other than between the hours of 7:00 a.m. and 6:00 p.m. on
weekdays, except in case of urgent necessity in the interest of public health
and safety. If building construction as outlined above occurs outside of the
specified hours, it shall only be allowed with a permit from the building
inspector, which permit may be granted for a period not to exceed three days or
less while the emergency continues and which permit may be renewed for periods
of three days or less while the emergency continues. If the building inspector
should determine that the public health and safety will not be impaired by the
erection, demolition, alteration or repair of any building or the excavation of
streets and highways within the hours of 6:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m., and if he
shall further determine that loss or inconvenience would result to any party in
interest, he may grant permission for such work to be done within the hours of
6:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m., upon application being made at the time the permit for
the work is awarded or during the progress of the work. Showing a valid permit
is an affirmative defense to a violation under this section.
(Ord. 4058, § 1, passed 10-19-2021; Ord. 4083, § 1, passed 3-1-2022)
§ 20-20 PILE DRIVERS, HAMMERS, ETC.
   It shall be unlawful to operate between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 7:00
a.m. any pile driver, steam shovel, pneumatic hammer, derrick, steam or
electric hoist or other appliance, the use of which is attended by loud or
unusual noise.
(Ord. 4058, § 1, passed 10-19-2021; Ord. 4083, § 1, passed 3-1-2022)
§ 20-20.1 OBSTRUCTION OR INTERFERENCE WITH INGRESS OR EGRESS, ETC.
   It shall be unlawful to interfere with, obstruct, stop, or stand on any
public right-of-way, public or private street, alley, highway, sidewalk,
driveway, stream, ditch, drainage, or within any intersection thereof in any
manner which physically interferes with or obstructs ingress or egress of the
same.
(Ord. 4058, § 1, passed 10-19-2021; Ord. 4083, § 2, passed 3-1-2022; Ord. 4092,
§ 1, passed 5-3-2022)
ARTICLE II: GRAFFITI
Section
   
20-21   Intent and purpose
   
20-22   Legislative determination
   
20-23   Definitions
   
20-24   Graffiti—Prohibited
   
20-25   Same—Violation; penalty
   
20-26   Same—Notice of removal
   
20-27   City’s costs declared lien
   
20-28   Appeal
   
20-29   Removal by city
   
20-30   Private property consent forms
§ 20-21 INTENT AND PURPOSE.
   Graffiti on public and private property is a blighting factor which not only
depreciates the value of the property which has been the target of such
malicious vandalism, but also depreciates the value of the adjacent and
surrounding property, and in so doing, negatively impacts upon the entire
community. The city has in the past undertaken to remove graffiti from public
property, but has been unable to mount a successful program for encouraging the
owners of private property to undertake to remove graffiti and other inscribed
materials from walls, structures, etc. The legislation of the state has
authorized the city to define, regulate, suppress and prevent nuisance and to
declare what shall constitute a nuisance and to abate and remove the same.
(Ord. 2884, § 1, passed 4-8-1996)
§ 20-22 LEGISLATIVE DETERMINATION.
   (A)   The city council finds and determines that graffiti is a nuisance and
unless it and other inscribed material is removed from public and private
properties, it tends to remain, and other properties are then in the target of
graffiti with the result that entire neighborhoods and indeed the community is
depreciated in value and made a less desirable place to be. The city council
therefore determines that it is appropriate that the city develop procedures to
implement the provisions of the Revised Statutes of Nebraska, 1943, as amended,
and provide for the removal of graffiti and other inscribed material from both
public and private property under the circumstances set forth hereinafter.
   (B)   The city council hereby declares as a matter of legislative
determination that:
      (1)   The increasing incidents of the defacement of public and private
property through the application of graffiti upon walls, rocks, bridges,
buildings, fences, gates, other structures, trees, and other real and personal
property within the corporate boundaries of the city constitute a blight on
this community; and, in the interests of the health, safety and general welfare
of the residents and taxpayers of the city, immediate steps must be taken to
remove this blight.
      (2)   When appropriate, the courts should require those who commit acts
of defacement of public or private property through the application of graffiti
to restore the property so defaced, damaged or destroyed.
      (3)   Obtaining convictions for the application of graffiti is difficult
due to the fact that the offense can be committed so very quickly and
secretively that witnesses to the act are frequently nonexistent.
      (4)   The public should be encouraged to cooperate in the elimination of
graffiti by reporting to the proper authorities the incidents of the
application of graffiti which they observe.
(Ord. 2884, § 1, passed 4-8-1996)
§ 20-23 DEFINITIONS.
   Whenever the following terms are used in this article, they shall have the
meanings established by this section:
   GRAFFITI. The defacing, damaging or destroying by the spraying of paint or
marking of ink, chalk, dye or other similar substances on public and private
buildings, structures and places.
   GRAFFITI ABATEMENT PROCEDURE. An abatement procedure which identifies
graffiti, issues notices to the landowner to abate the graffiti, and cures in
absence or response.
   PRIVATE CONTRACTOR. Any person with whom the city shall have duly contracted
to remove graffiti.
(Ord. 2884, § 1, passed 4-8-1996)
§ 20-24 GRAFFITI—PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to write, paint or draw upon any wall,
rock, bridge, building, fence, gate, other structure, tree or other real or
personal property within the city, either publicly or privately owned, any
drawing, inscription, figure or mark of the type which is commonly known and
referred to as “graffiti”.
(Ord. 2884, § 1, passed 4-8-1996)
§ 20-25 SAME—VIOLATION; PENALTY.
   Any person who is convicted of violating section
20-24 shall be punished by a fine not exceeding $500.00, or by imprisonment not
to exceed six months, or both such fine and imprisonment. In addition to such
punishment, the court may, in imposing sentence, order the defendant to restore
the property so defaced, damaged or destroyed at defendant’s expense.
(Ord. 2884, § 1, passed 4-8-1996)
§ 20-26 SAME—NOTICE OF REMOVAL.
   (A)   Whenever the public works director or his designated representative
has determined that graffiti exists on any public and private buildings,
structures and places which are visible to any person utilizing any public
right-of-way in this city, be this road, parkway, alley or otherwise, and that
seasonal temperatures permit the painting of exterior surfaces, the public
works director or his designated representative shall cause a notice to be
issued to abate such nuisance. The owner of the real property upon which the
object bearing the graffiti exists (respectively “owner” and the “premises”)
shall have ten days after the date of the notice to remove the graffiti or the
conditions will be subject to abatement by the city.
   (B)   The notice to abate graffiti shall be served upon the owner of the
premises in the following manner:
      (1)   By personal service on the owner, occupant or person in charge or
control of the premises; or
      (2)   By registered or certified mail addressed to the owner at the
owner’s last-known address, provided, if such address is unknown, the notice
will be sent to the owner at the address appearing on the last property tax
assessment rolls of the county, if any, and at the address of the premises.
   (C)   The notice shall be substantially in the following form:
 
NOTICE TO REMOVE GRAFFITI
 
Date:                    
 
NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN that you are required by law at your expense to remove or paint over the graffiti
located at the real estate commonly known as                               , Bellevue, Nebraska, which
graffiti is visible to public view, within ten days after the date of this notice. If you fail to do so,
city representatives will enter upon the property and abate the nuisance by removal or painting over the
graffiti. The cost of the abatement by the city will be assessed upon your property and such costs will
constitute a lien thereon, with interest, until paid.
 
All interested persons must submit any objections or comments in writing to the Public Works Director of
the City of Bellevue within five days from the date of this notice or the city may proceed with the
abatement of the graffiti inscribed at your expense without further notice.
(Ord. 2884, § 1, passed 4-8-1996)
§ 20-27 CITY’S COSTS DECLARED LIEN.
   Any and all costs incurred by the city in the abatement of the graffiti
nuisance under the provisions of this article shall constitute a lien against
the property upon which such nuisance existed.
(Ord. 2884, § 1, passed 4-8-1996)
§ 20-28 APPEAL.
   Within five days from the mailing or personal service of the notice to
remove graffiti, the owner of the premises may appeal to the city
administrator.
(Ord. 2884, § 1, passed 4-8-1996)
§ 20-29 REMOVAL BY CITY.
   Upon failure of persons to comply with the notice to remove graffiti by the
designated date, or such continued date thereafter as the public works director
or his designated representative approves, then the public works director is
authorized and directed to cause the graffiti to be abated, and the city and
its representatives are authorized to enter upon the premises for such
purposes. Any paint used to obliterate graffiti shall be reasonably close to
background color(s). If the public works director provides for the removal of
the graffiti, he shall not authorize nor undertake to provide for the painting
or repair of any more extensive area than that where the graffiti or other
inscribed material is located.
(Ord. 2884, § 1, passed 4-8-1996)
§ 20-30 PRIVATE PROPERTY CONSENT FORMS.
   Property owners may consent in advance to city or its representatives’ entry
onto private property to remove graffiti. The city will make forms for such
consent available.
(Ord. 2884, § 1, passed 4-8-1996)
ARTICLE III: FOCUSED RESIDENTIAL PICKETING
Section
   
20-31   Intent and purpose
   
20-32   Definitions
   
20-33   Focused residential picketing; prohibited
   
20-34   Cruising
   20-35—20-40   Reserved
§ 20-31 INTENT AND PURPOSE.
   The protection and preservation of the home is the keystone of democratic
government; the public health and welfare and the good order of the community
require that members of the community enjoy in their homes and dwellings, a
feeling of well-being, tranquility and privacy and, when absent from their
homes and dwellings, carry with them the sense of security inherent in the
assurance that they may return to the enjoyment of their homes and dwellings;
the practice of picketing before or about residences and dwellings causes
emotional disturbance and distress to the occupants, obstructs and interferes
with the free use of public sidewalks and public way of travel; such practice
has as its object the harassing of such occupants and, without resort to such
practice, full opportunity exists, and under the terms and provisions of this
section, will continue to exist for the exercise of freedom of speech of their
constitutional rights; and that the provisions hereinafter enacted are
necessary for the public interest to avoid the detrimental results herein set
forth.
(Ord. 3486, § 1(20-31), passed 11-24-2008)
§ 20-32 DEFINITIONS.
   For purposes of this section, the following definitions shall apply:
   FOCUSED PICKETING. Picketing directed toward a specific person or persons
including, but not limited to, marching, congregating, standing, parading,
demonstrating, parking, or pedestrian patrolling by one or more persons, with
or without signs.
   SIDEWALK SPACE. That portion of a street between the curbline and the
adjacent property line.
   STREET. The entire width between the boundary lines of every way publicly
maintained when any part thereof is open to the use of the public for purposes
of vehicular travel.
   TARGETED DWELLING. Any building or dwelling unit within a building, in which
the target or targets of focused picketing reside.
(Ord. 3486, § 1(20-32), passed 11-24-2008)
§ 20-33 FOCUSED RESIDENTIAL PICKETING; PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in focused picketing in that
portion of any street in the city which abuts on the property upon which the
targeted dwelling is located, or which abuts on property within 75 feet
(measured from the lot line) of the property upon which the targeted dwelling
is located, except the sidewalk space on the opposite side of the street from
the targeted dwelling.
(Ord. 3486, § 1(20-33), passed 11-24-2008)
§ 20-34 CRUISING.
   (A)   Definitions.
      CRUISING. The operation of a motor vehicle through a residential area
three times within a two-hour period within the city.
      RESIDENTIAL AREA. An area containing any dwellings, which includes any
structures designed or used exclusively for residential dwellings, including
single-family dwellings, two-family dwellings, multi-family dwellings, and
group dwellings. Dwellings shall not include hotels, motels, tourist centers,
cabins, hospitals, rest homes, orphanages and homes for the aged.
      PERSON HAVING THE CARE, CUSTODY AND CONTROL OF A MOTOR VEHICLE. Either
the owner of said vehicle, if present in the vehicle at the time of the
violation, or, if the owner is not so present, the person or persons having the
owner’s express authority to use the vehicle.
   (B)   Exceptions. This section shall not apply to:
      (1)   Taxicabs, buses, or other commercial vehicles being driven for
business purposes unless the intent is specifically for cruising.
      (2)   Authorized emergency vehicles, including police, fire and rescue
vehicles; public works vehicles; and other authorized government vehicles
clearly marked with a decal of the city or other marking identifying the
vehicle as an official city vehicle.
      (3)   Vehicles not within the meaning of subsection (B)(1) and (B)(2) of
this section having a vehicle gross weight (VGW) of less than 20,000 pounds and
being driven in a residential area traveling to a specific destination for a
purpose other than cruising.
   (C)   Cruising prohibited.
      (1)   No person having the care, custody and control of a motor vehicle
shall drive or permit to be driven such motor vehicle through a residential
area three times within a two-hour period.
      (2)   No violation shall occur except upon the third passage through the
same residential area within the aforementioned two-hour period.
   (D)   Penalty; nuisance; abatement.
      (1)   Any person convicted of violating this section shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and punished by a fine not exceeding $500.00 or by imprisonment not
to exceed six months, or both such fine and imprisonment.
      (2)   Any violation of this section shall be deemed a nuisance. In
addition to the punishment above, the court may, in imposing sentence, order
the defendant’s vehicle used in the commission of the offense to be impounded
for a maximum of 30 days.
(Ord. 3548, § 1, passed 12-14-2009)
§§ 20-35—20-40 RESERVED.
ARTICLE IV: SEXUAL PREDATORS
Section
   
20-41   Findings and intent
   
20-42   Definitions
   
20-43   Residence prohibitions, penalties and exceptions
   
20-44   Ordinance copies
   
20-45   Severability
§ 20-41 FINDINGS AND INTENT.
   (A)   The state legislature, pursuant to Neb. RS § 29-4002, has found that
certain sex offenders present a high risk to commit repeat offenses.
   (B)   Repeat sex offenders who use physical violence and prey on children
are sexual perpetrators who present an extreme threat to public safety. Certain
sex offenders are extremely likely to use physical violence or to repeat their
offenses. These offenders commit many offenses, have many more victims than are
ever reported, and are prosecuted for only a fraction of their crimes. This
makes the cost of sex offender victimization to society at large, while
incalculable, extremely exorbitant.
   (C)   It is the intent of the city to serve the city’s compelling interest
to promote, protect and improve the health, safety and welfare of the citizens
of the city by creating certain areas around locations where children regularly
congregate in concentrated numbers where certain sex offenders cannot reside.
(Ord. 3605, § 1(20-41), passed 1-24-2011)
§ 20-42 DEFINITIONS.
   The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall
have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context
clearly indicates a different meaning:
   CHILD CARE FACILITY. A facility licensed pursuant to the Nebraska Child Care
Licensing Act, Neb. RS §§ 71-1908 to 71-1923, as currently existing or
hereafter amended, located within the corporate limits of the City.
   RESIDENCE. A place where a person regularly sleeps, where a person has
established his or her home, and where he or she is habitually present, and to
which, when he or she departs, he or she intends to return. A RESIDENCE may
include more than one location and may be mobile, transitory or temporary. For
purposes of this chapter, a temporary domicile means any place at which the
person actually lives or stays for a period of at least five working days.
Residency may be shown by, among other evidence, receipt of mail at the
premises or identification of the premises as a RESIDENCE on a driver’s
license, vehicle registration or other like document.
   SCHOOL. A public, private, denominational, or parochial school, which meets
the requirements for accreditation or approval prescribed in Neb. RS Ch. 79,
located within the corporate limits of the city.
   SEX OFFENDER. Anyone subject to the Nebraska Sex Offender Registration Act,
Neb. RS §§ 29-4001 to 29-4013, as amended, or any person convicted under the
law of another state, if, at the time of conviction under the law of such other
state, the offense for which the person was convicted would have required
registration under the Nebraska Sex Offender Registration Act if the conviction
occurred in Nebraska.
   SEXUAL PREDATOR. An individual who is required to register under the
Nebraska Sex Offender Registration Act, who has committed an aggravated offense
as defined in Neb. RS § 29-4001.01, and who has victimized a person 18 years of
age or younger.
(Ord. 3605, § 1(20-42), passed 1-24-2011)
§ 20-43 RESIDENCE PROHIBITIONS, PENALTIES AND EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   Prohibited location of residence. It is unlawful for any person who is
subject to the Nebraska Sex Offender Registration Act, classified as a sexual
predator as herein defined, or similar requirement or law of any other state,
to reside within 500 feet of any child care facility or school as defined
herein.
   (B)   Measurement of distance. For purposes of determining the minimum
distance separation, the requirement shall be measured by following a straight
line from the outer property line of the permanent residence or temporary
residence to the nearest outer boundary line of such school or child care
facility.
   (C)   Penalty. A person who violates this section shall be punished by a
fine not exceeding $500 or six months in jail, or both.
   (D)   Exceptions. This section shall not apply to a sexual predator who:
      (1)   Resides within a prison or a correctional or treatment facility
operated by the state of Nebraska or a political subdivision;
      (2)   Established a residence before March 1, 2011, and has not moved
from that residence;
      (3)   Established a residence after March 1, 2011, and the school or
child care facility triggering the restriction was established after the
initial date of the sexual predator’s residence at that location; or
      (4)   Established a residence after March 1, 2011, outside the corporate
limits of the City, and subsequently that sexual predator’s residence is
annexed to the city.
(Ord. 3605, § 1(20-43), passed 1-24-2011)
§ 20-44 ORDINANCE COPIES.
   Any person subject to the Nebraska Sex Offender Registration Act shall, upon
making a request to the Bellevue Police Department, be provided a copy of this
article and any current amendments.
(Ord. 3605, § 1(20-44), passed 1-24-2011)
§ 20-45 SEVERABILITY.
   If any provision of this chapter or its application to any person or
circumstances shall be held invalid, the remainder of the chapter, or the
application of the provisions to other persons or circumstances, shall not be
affected.
(Ord. 3605, § 1(20-45), passed 1-24-2011)
CHAPTER 21: PARKS AND RECREATION; BELLEVUE CEMETERY
   Article
      
I.   PARKS AND RECREATION
      
II.   BELLEVUE CEMETERY
ARTICLE I: PARKS AND RECREATION
Section
   
21-1   Posting of rules
   
21-2   Defacing buildings, equipment, etc.
   
21-3   Reserved
   
21-4   Weapons; fireworks, etc.
   
21-5   Littering generally
   
21-6   Polluting pools, lakes, etc.
   
21-7   Animals running at large; field trials, etc.
   
21-8   Killing, molesting, etc., animals
   
21-9   Trespassing
   
21-10   Soliciting, peddling, etc.
   
21-11   Preaching, making speeches, etc.
   
21-12   Large gatherings
   
21-13   Fires restricted
   
21-14   Special activities
   
21-15   Vehicular traffic generally
   
21-16   Speed limits
   
21-17   Operation of trucks, trailers, etc.
   
21-18   Restrictions on travel or motor vehicle trailers
   
21-19   Operation of power-driven model airplanes and cars
   
21-20   Camping
   
21-21   Attached boat trailer at Haworth Park required during boating season
   
21-22   Alcoholic beverages
   
21-23   Closing time
   21-24—21-30   Reserved
Statutory reference:
   Parks, see Neb. RS 1943, §§ 16-695 et seq.
§ 21-1 POSTING OF RULES.
   Where applicable, the rules provided in this chapter shall be posted in
public parks in the city so as to be visible by the public upon entrance to the
park.
(1964 Code, § 15A-20)
§ 21-2 DEFACING BUILDINGS, EQUIPMENT, ETC.
   No person shall deface or injure any building, equipment, notice or placard
in any park or playground.
(1964 Code, § 15A-10)
§ 21-3 RESERVED.
§ 21-4 WEAPONS; FIREWORKS, ETC.
   No person shall carry any rifle, gun, bow and arrow or other weapon of any
kind within the parks and playgrounds of the city; nor shall any person fire,
discharge or set off any rocket, cracker, torpedo, squib or other firework or
anything of an explosive nature without special permission from the city.
Permits shall be obtained from the city clerk on forms approved by the city
council.
(1964 Code, § 15A-5)
Statutory reference:
   Explosives, see Neb. RS 1943, § 28-1228
   Fireworks, see Neb. RS 1943, §§ 28-1241 et seq.
§ 21-5 LITTERING GENERALLY.
   No person shall deposit or cause to be deposited any rubbish, waste or
refuse in or upon any park, playground or boulevard. Waste and litter must be
carried away or placed in receptacles provided.
(1964 Code, § 15A-12)
Statutory reference:
   Littering, see Neb. RS 1943, § 28-523
§ 21-6 POLLUTING POOLS, LAKES, ETC.
   No person shall pollute any basin, pool, lake, restroom or fountain with
stone, wood, glass or any other substance.
(1964 Code, § 15A-6)
§ 21-7 ANIMALS RUNNING AT LARGE; FIELD TRIALS, ETC.
   No person shall allow his dog or other domestic animal to run at large over
the parks, playgrounds or boulevards. Pets must be on leashes. Field trials or
special activities may be held by permission of the park superintendent only.
(1964 Code, § 15A-8)
§ 21-8 KILLING, MOLESTING, ETC., ANIMALS.
   No person in a park shall kill, catch, molest or disturb, any fowl,
squirrel, bird or animal, whether captive or at large, except as the city may
see fit to order.
(1964 Code, § 15A-7)
§ 21-9 TRESPASSING.
   No person, except employees of the park department in the course of their
work, shall enter any building, place or enclosure upon which is posted a sign
stating “No Admittance,” “No Trespassing,” or a sign of similar intention.
(1964 Code, § 15A-9)
Statutory reference:
   Criminal trespass, see Neb. RS 1943, §§ 28-520, 28-521
§ 21-10 SOLICITING, PEDDLING, ETC.
   No person shall canvass, solicit subscriptions of money, peddle or sell
materials in the city parks or playgrounds without obtaining permission from
the city clerk.
(1964 Code, § 15A-2)
§ 21-11 PREACHING, MAKING SPEECHES, ETC.
   No person shall attempt to preach aloud or make any speech or oration to any
group of three or more people in a park without a special permit from the city.
Permits shall be obtained from the city clerk on forms approved by the city
council.
(1964 Code, § 15A-3)
§ 21-12 LARGE GATHERINGS.
   No groups in excess of 30 persons shall hold picnics, meetings or any other
gatherings in public parks in the city without applying in advance to the park
superintendent, and leaving the name, address and telephone number of the
person responsible for cleanup.
(1964 Code, § 15A-4)
§ 21-13 FIRES RESTRICTED.
   No person other than city employees under instruction shall build, kindle or
start any fire in any park or playground except where special equipment is
already provided in picnic and camping areas for heating and cooking food,
unless by special permission from the city fire inspector and the parks
superintendent.
(1964 Code, § 15A-11)
§ 21-14 SPECIAL ACTIVITIES.
   No person shall enter any area or building in a public park in the city
where special activities are in operation, without complying with the
regulations for the use of same or paying such fee as may be required.
(1964 Code, § 15A-13)
§ 21-15 VEHICULAR TRAFFIC GENERALLY.
   No person, other than employees in the course of their work, shall ride or
drive any motorized vehicle, automobile, motorized cart, moped or motorized
bicycle on any footpath, sidewalk or any area other than the designated roadway
for the use of such vehicles. Use of minibikes and like vehicles not licensed
for operation on state roads is completely prohibited, either on or off roads,
in all parks and playground areas.
(1964 Code, § 15A-17)
§ 21-16 SPEED LIMITS.
   Speed limits on park roads are 25 miles per hour unless posted otherwise.
(1964 Code, § 15A-19)
§ 21-17 OPERATION OF TRUCKS, TRAILERS, ETC.
   No person shall operate any truck, traction engine or trailer on park roads
except as necessary for maintenance.
(1964 Code, § 15A-16)
§ 21-18 RESTRICTIONS ON TRAVEL OR MOTOR VEHICLE TRAILERS.
   No travel trailer or motor vehicle trailer in excess of 30 feet in length
shall be permitted in the parks without prior approval of the parks
superintendent.
(1964 Code, § 15A-14.1)
§ 21-19 OPERATION OF POWER-DRIVEN MODEL AIRPLANES AND CARS.
   Power-driven model airplanes and cars may not be operated in any park,
playground or parking area unless such areas shall be set aside and so
designated by the park superintendent.
(1964 Code, § 15A-15)
§ 21-20 CAMPING.
   In public parks in the city, camping is permitted in authorized areas only
and limited to seven days unless permission for a longer stay is obtained from
the park superintendent. Camping is subject to fees as posted.
(1964 Code, § 15A-18)
§ 21-21 ATTACHED BOAT TRAILER AT HAWORTH PARK REQUIRED DURING BOATING SEASON.
   No person, other than employees in the course of their work, shall be
permitted to park a vehicle without an attached boat trailer in the designated
parking lot of the public launch area of Haworth Park during the boating season
from May 1st through October 31st.
(1964 Code, § 15A-19.1) (Ord. 2522, § 1, passed 9-12-1988)
§ 21-22 ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES.
   Consumption or possession of alcoholic beverages shall be prohibited in all
city parks, park facilities and cemeteries unless a waiver of this provision is
granted by the city council. The prohibition in this section shall not apply to
the Haworth Park Campgrounds, the Haworth Park Shelters (provided they have
been reserved upon payment of the proper fee) and the Bellevue Marina. This
exemption shall be governed by the rules and regulations established by the
police and parks departments for city parks, and by the rules and regulations
established by the city’s contractor for the Bellevue Marina.
(Ord. 3580, § 1, passed 7-26-2010)
Statutory reference:
   Consumption of liquor on public property, see Neb. RS 1943, § 53-186
§ 21-23 CLOSING TIME.
   Unless otherwise provided and posted, all park and playground areas in the
city and city cemeteries shall be closed to the public at 10:00 p.m. daily.
Exceptions to such closing time may be granted to supervised or organized
activities sponsored by the city recreation department or permitted by the park
superintendent.
(1964 Code, § 15A-14)
§§ 21-24—21-30 RESERVED.
ARTICLE II: BELLEVUE CEMETERY
Section
   
21-31   Bellevue Cemetery—management and operation as a municipal cemetery.
   
21-32   Same—maintenance; funds; how used
   
21-33   Same—lots; how conveyed; title
   
21-34   Same—sale of lots; monuments; rules and regulations
   
21-35   Same—rules governing; enforcement
   
21-36   Same—cemetery committee
   
21-37   Same—prior rules and committees abolished
§ 21-31 BELLEVUE CEMETERY—MANAGEMENT AND OPERATION AS A MUNICIPAL CEMETERY.
   The Bellevue Cemetery, located at West 13th Avenue and Franklin Street, with
its principle office located at 8201 South 42nd Street, shall be managed and
operated as a municipal cemetery by the city of Bellevue under the supervision
and direction of the parks superintendent, for the purpose of burial of the
dead, and the city shall exercise police jurisdiction over the cemetery.
(Ord. 3889, passed 3-26-2018)
§ 21-32 SAME—MAINTENANCE; FUNDS; HOW USED.
   (A)   The city may survey, plat, map, grade, fence, ornament, and otherwise
improve all cemetery grounds and avenues leading thereto. The city may
construct walks, rear and protect ornamental trees therein, and provide for
paying the expenses thereof.
   (B)   The city may set aside the proceeds of the sale of lots as a perpetual
fund to be invested as provided herein. The income from the fund may be used
for the general care, management, maintenance, improvement, beautifying, and
welfare of the cemetery. The principal of the perpetual fund may be used for
the general care, management, maintenance, improvement, beautifying, and
welfare of the cemetery as long as no more than twenty percent of the principal
is so used in any fiscal year and no more than forty percent of the principal
is so used in any period of ten consecutive fiscal years. The principal of the
perpetual fund may also be used for the purchase and development of additional
land to be used for cemetery purposes as long as no more than twenty-five
percent of the principal is so used in any fiscal year and no more than thirty-
five percent of the principal is so used in any period of ten consecutive
fiscal years.
   (C)   The city may receive money by donation, bequest, or otherwise for
credit to the perpetual fund to be invested as provided herein or as
conditioned by the donor. The income therefrom may be used for the general
care, management, maintenance, improvement, beautifying, and welfare of the
cemetery as the donor may designate. The principal therefrom may be used for
the general care, management, maintenance, improvement, beautifying, and
welfare of the cemetery as the donor may designate as long as no more than
twenty percent of the principal is so used in any fiscal year and no more than
forty percent of the principal is so used in any period of ten consecutive
fiscal years. The principal therefrom may also be used for the purchase and
development of additional land to be used for cemetery purposes as the donor
may designate as long as no more than twenty-five percent of the principal is
so used in any fiscal year and no more than thirty-five percent of the
principal is so used in any period of ten consecutive fiscal years.
   (D)   The city treasurer shall be the custodian of such funds, and the same
shall be invested by a board composed of the mayor, city treasurer, and city
clerk.
   (E)   This section does not limit the use of any money that comes to the
city by donation, bequest, or otherwise that is not designated to be credited
to the perpetual fund or that allows greater use for purchase or development of
additional land to be used for cemetery purposes.
(Ord. 3889, passed 3-26-2018)
§ 21-33 SAME—LOTS; HOW CONVEYED; TITLE.
   The city may convey cemetery lots owned by the city, by certificates signed
by the mayor and countersigned by the clerk under the seal of the city,
specifying that the person to whom the same is issued is the owner of the lot
or lots described therein by number as laid down on such plat or map, for the
purpose of interment. Such certificate shall vest in the proprietor, his or her
heirs and assigns, a right in fee simple of such lot for the sole purpose of
interment, under the regulations of the city council.
(Ord. 3889, passed 3-26-2018)
§ 21-34 SAME—SALE OF LOTS; MONUMENTS; RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   The city may:
   (A)   Limit the number of cemetery lots which shall be owned by one person
at the same time;
   (B)   Prescribe rules for enclosing, adorning, and erecting monuments and
tombstones on cemetery lots;
   (C)   Prohibit any diversion of the use of such lots and any improper
adornment thereof, but no religious test shall be made as to the ownership of
lots, the burial therein or the ornamentation of graves or lots.
(Ord. 3889, passed 3-26-2018)
§ 21-35 SAME—RULES GOVERNING; ENFORCEMENT.
   The city may by resolution pass rules imposing penalties and fines not
exceeding one hundred dollars, regulating, protecting and governing the
cemetery, the owners of lots therein, visitors thereof, and trespassers
therein. The officers of such city shall have as full jurisdiction and power in
the enforcing of such rules as though they related to the city itself.
(Ord. 3889, passed 3-26-2018)
§ 21-36 SAME—CEMETERY COMMITTEE.
   The city may pass a resolution to create a cemetery committee. The committee
shall serve as an advisory body to the city council as to the rules and
regulations for the proper use of the cemetery. The resolution shall proscribe
the composition of the committee, its number of members, terms and length of
service of members, committee organization and frequency of meetings.
(Ord. 3889, passed 3-26-2018)
§ 21-37 SAME—PRIOR RULES AND COMMITTEES ABOLISHED.
   All cemetery rules and regulations adopted by the city council are hereby
abolished on January 1, 2018. Any cemetery committee or association created
pursuant to any prior ordinance, resolution, or other process approved by an
affirmative vote of the city council is hereby disbanded as of January 1, 2018.
(Ord. 3889, passed 3-26-2018)
CHAPTER 22: PAWNBROKERS AND CHATTEL LOAN BROKERS
   Article
      
I.   IN GENERAL
      
II.   LICENSE
ARTICLE I: IN GENERAL
Section
   
22-1   Definition
   
22-2   Permit required; application, contents; issuance; fees; bond; expiration
   
22-3   Appeal of denial of permit
   
22-4   Permit; business location: requirement
   
22-5   Unlawful transactions
   
22-6   Records required; inspection; stolen property; reporting procedures
   
22-7   Required use of electronic reporting system
   
22-8   Pawned goods; restrictions on disposition
   
22-9   Pawnbroker; limitation on sale of goods
   
22-10   Penalties
   
22-11   Suspension or revocation of permit; grounds; hearing; findings and
actions
   22-12—22-15   Reserved
§ 22-1 DEFINITION.
   Any person engaged in the business of lending money upon chattel property
for security, and requiring possession of the property so mortgaged on
condition of returning the same upon payment of a stipulated amount of money,
or purchasing property on condition of selling it back at a stipulated price is
declared to be a pawnbroker or chattel loan broker for the purpose of sections.
(Ord. 3850, § 1, passed 6-13-2016)
§ 22-2 PERMIT REQUIRED; APPLICATION, CONTENTS; ISSUANCE; FEES; BOND;
EXPIRATION.
   (A)   Every pawnbroker shall before engaging in the business of pawnbroking,
obtain a permit from the City of Bellevue. In order to obtain a permit, every
pawnbroker must first file an application with the City Clerk’s Office, and
have such application approved by the Chief of Police, or someone under his or
her direction.
   (B)   The application shall contain the following information:
      (1)   The name and address of the owner and the manager of the business
and, if the applicant is an individual, the applicant’s social security number;
      (2)   If the applicant is a corporation, a copy of the articles of
incorporation and the names of its officers and shareholders;
      (3)   The exact location where the business is to be conducted; and
      (4)   The exact location where any goods, wares, and merchandise may be
stored or kept if other than at the business location.
   (C)   When reviewing applications for a permit required by this section, the
Chief of Police, or his or her designee, shall take into consideration the
criminal record, if any, of the applicant and, if the applicant is a
corporation, of its officers and shareholders. No permit shall be issued to any
applicant who has been convicted of a felony, and, if the applicant is a
corporation, no permit shall be issued when any officer or shareholder has been
convicted of a felony.
   (D)   Should the permit application be approved, the applicant shall then
pay to the City Clerk’s office the fee as described in the Master Fee Schedule.
This fee can be paid either yearly, or biannually as provided for by state
statutes. Additionally, the applicant shall also give bond to the City Clerk in
the sum of five thousand dollars, with surety to be approved by the mayor,
conditioned for the faithful performance by the principal, of each and all of
the trusts imposed by law or by usage attached to pawnbrokers.
   (E)   Once issued, the permit shall be valid until midnight on August 31st
of the following year. To renew the permit, the applicant shall again be
required to pay the renewal fee and file a bond with the City Clerk’s office as
specified previously in this section.
(Ord. 3850, § 1, passed 6-13-2016)
§ 22-3 APPEAL OF DENIAL OF PERMIT.
   When an application for a permit required by the provisions of this article
has been denied by the Chief of Police, or his or her designee, the applicant
shall have the right to appeal from such denial to the City Council in the same
manner as provided for appeals from a suspension or revocation of a permit in
Sec. 22-11.
(Ord. 3850, § 3, passed 6-13-2016)
§ 22-4 PERMIT; BUSINESS LOCATION: REQUIREMENT.
   (A)   No person shall be allowed to do business in more than one location
under one permit. Each permit shall state the place where such business is to
be carried on, and shall not be transferrable or assignable. The goods, wares,
and merchandise involved shall be kept or stored only at those locations
specifically listed in the permit application.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person not having a permit as required in
section
22-2 to display any sign or advertisement stating that money is lent on goods
or that goods are purchased as described in section 22-1.
(Ord. 3850, § 3, passed 6-13-2016)
§ 22-5 UNLAWFUL TRANSACTIONS.
   No pawnbroker shall accept any article of property as collateral security,
or purchase any article or property:
   (A)   From any person under 18 years of age;
   (B)   From any person who appears to be under the influence of alcohol, or
any narcotic drug, or stimulant, or depressant, or from any person that openly
appears to be a person of diminished capacity; or
   (C)   On which the serial numbers or other identifying insignia have been
destroyed, removed, altered, covered, or defaced.
(Ord. 3850, § 3, passed 6-13-2016)
§ 22-6 RECORDS REQUIRED; INSPECTION; STOLEN PROPERTY; REPORTING PROCEDURES.
   (A)   All persons who shall be engaged in the business of pawnbroking shall
keep a ledger and complete a card, in the English language, to be furnished by
the city, on which shall be legibly written in ink, at the time of any loan or
purchase, the following information:
      (1)   The date of the loan or purchase;
      (2)   The name of the person from whom the property is purchased or
received, his or her signature, date of birth, and driver’s license number or
other means of identification;
      (3)   The description of articles of pawned property, which shall
include:
         (a)   The brand name;
         (b)   The model number, if available;
         (c)   Any serial number or other identification number installed by
the manufacturer; and
         (d)   A description of every other identifying marking, such as an
inscription, a social security number, a name, nickname, or address appearing
on the item.
      (4)   The description of each watch shall include:
         (a)   The brand name; model number, if available;
         (b)   A description of the metal or metals of its composition;
         (c)   A description of the band;
         (d)   A description of the face by number, color and cut, shape and
type of stone or stones, if any; and
         (e)   A description of any inscriptions appearing on the watch.
      (5)   The description of each item of jewelry shall include:
         (a)   The type and a description of the metal or metals of its
composition;
         (b)   The type, cut and shape of each stone; and
         (c)   A description of all inscriptions; each ring shall also be
identified by ring size.
      (6)   The time when any loan becomes due:
         (a)   The amount of purchase money, or the amount loaned and any loan
charges, for each item; and
         (b)   The identification and signature of the clerk or agent for the
business who handled the transaction.
   (B)   Each of such entries shall be made at the time the loan or purchase is
made. Entries shall not in any manner be erased, obliterated, or defaced. The
person receiving a loan or selling property shall receive, at no charge, a
plain written or printed ticket for the loan, or a plain written or printed
receipt for the articles sold, containing a copy of the entries required by
this section.
   (C)   Every pawnbroker, or employee of a pawnbroker, shall admit to the
pawnbroker’s premises at any reasonable time during normal business hours any
law enforcement officer for the purpose of examining any property and records
on the premises, and shall allow such officer to place restrictions on the
disposition of any property for which a reasonable belief exists that such
property has been stolen. Any person claiming an ownership interest in property
received by a pawnbroker, for which a reasonable belief exists that such
property has been stolen, may recover such property as provided by Neb. RS §§
25-1093 to 25-10,110, as amended.
   (D)   It shall be the duly of every such pawnbroker every day, except Sunday
before the hour of 12 noon, to deliver to the Chief of Police, or his or her
designee, a legible and correct copy of each card or ledger entry required by
this section for the transactions of the previous day. Transactions occurring
on Saturday shall be reported on the following Monday. No card shall be
required for goods purchased from manufacturers or wholesale dealers having an
established place of business, or goods purchased at open sale from any
bankrupt stock or from any other person doing business and having an
established place of business in the city, but such goods must be accompanied
by a bill of sale or other evidence of open and legitimate purchase, and must
be shown to the Chief of Police, or any member of the police department, when
demanded. Dealers in scrap metals, except gold and silver, shall not be
included in the provisions of this section.
   (E)   In the event the city enters into a contract for an electronic
reporting system of transactions for pawnbrokers, the records required by this
section, having all of the information required by this section, shall be
created and delivered to the Chief of Police, or his or her designee, before
the close of business that day. In the event that the electronic reporting
system is unable to record a transaction for any reason, the pawnbroker is
required to make a complete written report of the transaction which written
report shall be entered into the electronic system as soon as practicable.
(Ord. 3850, § 3, passed 6-13-2016)
§ 22-7 REQUIRED USE OF ELECTRONIC REPORTING SYSTEM.
   In the event the city enters into a contract for an electronic reporting
system of transactions for pawnbrokers, it shall be the exclusive means by
which such transaction are reported to the Chief of Police, or his or her
designee. Every pawnbroker shall operate and maintain a computer system with
internet access and photographic capability sufficient for the electronic
reporting requirements described in Sec. 22-6. Any failure or malfunction of
such equipment on the part of the licensee shall not exempt the licensee from
the record and reporting requirements of this article. The licensee shall
immediately notify the police department of any such failure or malfunction and
shall have such resolved as soon as practicable. In addition to the
requirements of Sec. 22-6, at the time of purchase, the pawnbroker shall use
the required electronic reporting system to collect the following:
   (A)   A digital photograph of the purchased item;
   (B)   A digital photograph of the seller;
   (C)   A digital signature of the seller;
   (D)   A digital scan of the seller’s right index finger; if the index finger
is missing, the fingerprint shall be taken from the left index finger. The
print shall be clear and legible; and
   (E)   A photographic or scanned image of the I.D. card or the seller,
sufficiently clear to allow the information of the I.D. to be read.
(Ord. 3850, § 3, passed 6-13-2016)
§ 22-8 PAWNED GOODS; RESTRICTIONS ON DISPOSITION.
   (A)   No personal property received or purchased by any pawnbroker shall be
sold or permitted to be taken from the place of business of such person for
fourteen (14) days after the copy of the card or ledger entry required to be
delivered to the police department shall have been delivered as required by
Sec. 22-5. Secondhand jewelry shall not be destroyed, damaged, or in any manner
defaced for a period of fourteen days after the time of its purchase or
receipt. For purposes of this section, jewelry shall mean any ornament which is
intended to be worn on or about the body and which is made in whole or in part
of any precious metal, including gold, silver, platinum, copper, brass, or
pewter.
   (B)   All property accepted as collateral security or purchased by a
pawnbroker shall be kept segregated from all other property in a separate area
for a period of forty-eight (48) hours after its receipt or purchase, except
that valuable articles may be kept in a safe with other property if grouped
according to the day of purchase or receipt. Notwithstanding the provisions of
this section, a pawnbroker may return any property to the person pawning the
same after the expiration of such forty-eight (48) hour period, or when
permitted by the Chief of Police, his designee, or other authorized law
enforcement officer.
(Ord. 3850, § 3, passed 6-13-2016)
§ 22-9 PAWNBROKER; LIMITATION ON SALE OF GOODS.
   It shall be unlawful for any pawnbroker to sell any goods purchased or
received as described in Sec. 22-1, during the period of four (4) months from
the date of purchasing or receiving such goods.
(Ord. 3850, § 3, passed 6-13-2016)
§ 22-10 PENALTIES.
   Any broker, agent, or dealer, who shall violate any of the provisions of
this section, or:
   (A)   Makes a false statement in the application for a permit;
   (B)   Fails to keep the record or fails to make required entries thereon;
   (C)   Intentionally or knowingly makes any false or unintelligible entry, or
any entry which he or she has reason to believe is untrue;
   (D)   Fails to make the inquiries necessary to enable him or her to make
such entries or any of them;
   (E)   Fails to procure the permit or who fails to produce his or her permit
or records when requested by an officer having authority to examine them; or
   (F)   Destroys or negligently permits such records to be destroyed;
shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction shall be punished as
provided in Bellevue City Code Sec. 1-11.
(Ord. 3850, § 3, passed 6-13-2016)
§ 22-11 SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION OF PERMIT; GROUNDS; HEARING; FINDINGS AND
ACTIONS.
   (A)   Any permit issued under the provisions of this article may be
suspended or revoked for the violation by the permittee of:
      (1)   Any provision of this article or other applicable provision of this
Code, state law or city ordinance, rule or regulation; or
      (2)   Any other provision of this Code, state law or city ordinance
classified as a misdemeanor or felony.
   (B)   Before any permit issued under the provisions of this article is
suspended or revoked, the permittee shall be given notice of the date and time
for a hearing to show cause as to why such permit should not be revoked. Such
hearing shall be within seven (7) days of the date of the notice. At the time
and place set for the show cause hearing, the Chief of Police shall hear all
the testimony as to whether or not grounds for the revocation or suspension of
the permit exist.
   (C)   If, upon the conclusion of the show cause hearing, it shall appear
that grounds for the suspension or revocation of a permit issued under the
provisions of this article exist, the Chief of Police shall so find and impose
such suspension or revocation as he or she may deem proper under the
circumstances.
   (D)   A finding, and the action taken thereon by the Chief of Police at the
conclusion of the hearing on the suspension or revocation of a permit issued
under the provisions of this article, may be appealed by the permittee to the
city council upon written application to the City Clerk within ten (10) days of
such decision. Upon hearing such appeal, the council may affirm, reverse,
change or modify the finding or action of the Chief of Police. A permit shall
remain in effect pending the outcome of such appeal.
(Ord. 3850, § 3, passed 6-13-2016)
§§ 22-12—22-15 RESERVED.
ARTICLE II: LICENSE
Section
   
22-16   Required
   
22-17   Fee
   
22-18   Bond
   
22-19   Validity restricted
   
22-20   Nonassignable
§ 22-16 REQUIRED.
   Every person desiring to engage in business as a pawnbroker in this city
shall obtain a license to do so.
(1964 Code, § 16-2)
§ 22-17 FEE.
   The fee for a license required by the provisions of this article shall be as
described in the Master Fee Schedule. Such fee shall be paid to the city
treasurer.
(1964 Code, § 16-2) (Ord. 3503, passed 3-9-2009)
§ 22-18 BOND.
   Every pawnbroker or chattel loan broker shall give bond to the city in the
sum of $5,000.00, with a surety to be approved by the mayor, conditioned upon
the faithful performance by the principal of all the trusts imposed by law or
by usage attached to pawnbrokers or chattel loan brokers.
(1964 Code, § 16-3)
§ 22-19 VALIDITY RESTRICTED.
   Each license issued under the provisions of this article shall be valid only
for the specific premises named therein.
(1964 Code, § 16-2)
§ 22-20 NONASSIGNABLE.
   Licenses issued under the provisions of this article shall not be
assignable.
(1964 Code, § 16-2)
CHAPTER 23: PEDDLERS
   Article
      
I.   IN GENERAL
      
II.   LICENSE
      
III.   MOBILE SALE OF ICE CREAM
      
IV.   FARMERS’ MARKET
      
V.   SALES OF SECONDHAND GOODS
ARTICLE I: IN GENERAL
Section
   
23-1   License required; exemptions
   
23-2   Purpose
   
23-3   Definitions
   
23-4   License application contents
   
23-5   License approval, authority and appeals
   23-6—23-20   Reserved
§ 23-1 LICENSE REQUIRED; EXEMPTIONS.
   It is hereby declared unlawful for any person to conduct business as a
peddler, solicitor, street vendor, mobile vendor, itinerant or transient
merchant within the corporate boundaries of the city, unless the person so
soliciting shall have first secured a license from the city clerk authorizing
him or her to conduct such operations within the corporate limits. A license
shall not be required by any person under 16 years of age engaged in
solicitation associated with the delivery or distribution of newspapers or
shopping news, or working on behalf of his or her own individual
entrepreneurial endeavor.
(1964 Code, § 17-1) (Ord. 3504, § 1(23-1), passed 3-9-2009; Ord. 4122, § 1(23-
1), passed 5-2-2023)
§ 23-2 PURPOSE.
   (A)   The purpose of this chapter is to prevent fraud and other crimes, to
protect citizens of Bellevue from undue invasion of privacy, from undue
annoyance and harassment, to maintain the health, safety and welfare of
residents of the city, by means of investigation and regulation of peddlers,
solicitors, canvassers and transient merchants.
   (B)   A license under this article shall not be used or represented in any
manner as an endorsement by this city, or by any department, officer or
employee thereof, of the products or services being offered for sale.
(Ord. 3504, § 1(23-2), passed 3-9-2009)
§ 23-3 DEFINITIONS.
   As used in this chapter, the following terms shall have the meaning
indicated:
   CORPORATE BOUNDARIES OF THE CITY. The area within the city boundaries of the
City of Bellevue, Nebraska, and within the extraterritorial zoning jurisdiction
of the city.
   INDIVIDUAL ENTREPRENEURIAL ENDEAVOR. Sales activity by grade and high school
students of districts within Sarpy and Douglas counties specifically designed
to raise funds for school, non-profit, and other service group functions and
operations.
   ITINERANT MERCHANT. Any person or persons who sells or offers to sell any
commodity or articles of commerce or trade, who park their conveyances or who
erect a temporary place of business for the purpose of selling said products,
but does not include a seasonal merchant.
   MOBILE VENDOR. Any person or persons who travel from street to street upon
public or private property, who engage in business out of a vehicle, trailer,
boxcar, or other portable machine for the purpose of displaying for sale,
selling, or attempting to sell items such as, but not limited to, food,
beverages, flowers, balloons, and other goods.
   PEDDLER. Any person or persons who travel from place to place selling and
delivering at the same time.
   PERSON or PERSONS. Any natural person and any firm, proprietorship,
partnership or corporation.
   SEASONAL MERCHANT. Any farmer, truck grower or others who produce, hawk, or
peddle seasonal agricultural products (such as Christmas trees, Halloween
pumpkins, Thanksgiving gourds, etc.), products of the farm, fruit, vegetables
or other staples of food, who park their conveyances or who erect a temporary
place of business for the purpose of selling said products, exclusive of that
which is sold at a Farmers Market.
   SOLICITOR. Any person or persons who travel from place to place not carrying
their goods with them, but taking orders for future delivery to the general
public.
   STREET VENDOR. Any person or persons who travel from street to street upon
public or private property, carrying, conveying or transporting items such as,
but not limited to, food, beverages, flowers, balloons, offering and exposing
the same for sale by hand or from a mobile-type device such as a push cart.
   TRANSIENT MERCHANT. Any person or persons who engage temporarily within the
city in the business of soliciting alms, selling and delivering goods, wares
and merchandise, or taking orders for same, to or at homes, apartments or other
residential premises in the city.
(Ord. 3504, § 1(23-3), passed 3-9-2009; Ord. 3564, § 1, passed 3-22-2010; Ord.
4122, § 1(23-3), passed 5-2-2023)
§ 23-4 LICENSE APPLICATION CONTENTS.
   Any person applying for a permit shall, in person at the office of the city
clerk, present a valid, government-issued photo identification card of himself
or herself, and file a written sworn application signed by the applicant
showing:
   (A)   The applicant’s name, the name of the person having the management or
supervision of the applicant’s business during the time that is proposed that
it will be carried on in the city; the applicant’s local address, the address
of such person having the management or supervision of the applicant’s business
during the time that it is proposed that it will be carried on in the city; the
capacity in which such applicant will act (that is, whether as proprietor,
agent or otherwise); and, if a corporation, has the management or supervision
of the applicant, documentation under the law of the state the same is
incorporated.
   (B)   The place or places in the city where it is proposed to carry on
applicant’s business and the length of time during which it is proposed that
such business shall be conducted.
   (C)   A statement of the nature of merchandise to be sold or offered for
sale by the applicant.
   (D)   A brief statement of the nature of the advertising done or proposed to
be done in order to attract customers.
   (E)   Documentation from the person for whom the applicant proposes to do
business, authorizing the applicant to act as such representative.
   (F)   Such other reasonable information as to the identity or character of
the person having the management or supervision of the applicant’s business or
the method or plan of doing such business as the city clerk may deem proper,
including, but not limited to, telephone numbers, physical description,
including height, weight, color of eyes, color of hair, and a valid,
government-issued photo identification card.
   (G)   If applicant is a minor, such applicant shall not be licensed unless
the minor’s parent or guardian appears personally before the city clerk and
provides the following:
      (1)   Satisfactory evidence that the person is in fact the parent or
guardian of the particular applicant.
      (2)   A written statement signed by the parent or guardian, and witnessed
by the city clerk, giving permission for the applicant to be licensed upon
meeting the requirement of this article.
   (H)   If applicant is applying for a permit to operate as a mobile vendor as
defined by this article, such applicant shall provide documentation that he or
she is the holder of a valid operator’s license.
(1964 Code, § 17-3) (Ord. 3504, § 1(23-4), passed 3-9-2009; Ord. 4122, § 1(23-
4), passed 5-2-2023)
§ 23-5 LICENSE APPROVAL, AUTHORITY AND APPEALS.
   (A)   An application deemed by the city clerk to be incomplete shall be
returned to the applicant with the clerk’s reason for the same.
   (B)   Upon receipt of a completed application containing the information
required by section 23-4, such application shall be referred to the chief of
police, who shall within three working days after the receipt thereof cause
such investigation of the applicant’s business and moral character to be made
as he or she deems necessary for the protection of the public.
   (C)   If as a result of such investigation, the applicant’s character or
business responsibility is found to be unsatisfactory, the chief of police
shall endorse on such application his or her disapproval and his or her reasons
for the same, and return said application to the city clerk, who shall notify
the applicant in writing that the application is disapproved and that no
license will be issued.
   (D)   No license shall be issued to any applicant where any of the following
has been determined during the investigation and review of the application:
      (1)   If the applicant has been convicted of a crime, the nature of which
indicates a lack of honesty and reliability which would lead one to believe
that future violations of the law could occur. An example of such crimes would
be theft, burglary, robbery, fraud, deceit or any crime of violence.
      (2)   If the applicant has been convicted of a felony or a crime
involving moral turpitude within ten years preceding the date of filing of such
application, or any felony crime that, in the determination of the chief of
police, may impact the safety of the citizens of Bellevue.
      (3)   Any previous history relating to the manner in which the applicant
made door-to-door sales which resulted in a violation of the law.
      (4)   Providing false information on the application form.
   (E)   If the character and business responsibility of the applicant are
found to be satisfactory, the chief of police shall endorse on the application
his or her approval and return said application to the city clerk, who shall
notify the applicant that his or her application has been approved and shall
issue such license. Such license shall contain the name and address of the
applicant, and, if applicable, the name and phone number of the applicant’s
manager or supervisor, the kind of goods to be sold thereunder, the date of
issuance and the length of time the same shall be operative.
   (F)   Any person aggrieved by the decision of the chief of police in regard
to the denial of an application for a license shall have the right to appeal to
the city council. Such appeal shall be taken by filing with the city council,
within 14 days after notice of the decision has been mailed to such person’s
last known address, a written statement setting forth the grounds for appeal.
The city council shall set the time and place for a hearing on such appeal and
notice shall be given to such person by registered mail, postage prepaid, at
his last known address. The decision of the city council on such appeal shall
be final.
(1964 Code, § 17-8) (Ord. 3504, § 1(23-5), passed 3-9-2009)
§§ 23-6—23-20 RESERVED.
ARTICLE II: LICENSE
Section
   
23-21   Fees; exemptions
   
23-22   Bond
   
23-23   Appointment of agent
   
23-24   Hours and places of solicitation
   
23-25   Prohibited conduct
   
23-26   License to be posted
   
23-27   License revocation; hearing
   
23-28   License suspension; hearing
   
23-29   Police enforcement
   
23-30   License nontransferable
   
23-31   Violation and penalties
   23-32—23-34   Reserved
§ 23-21 FEES; EXEMPTIONS.
   The license fee for any itinerant vendor, peddler, solicitor, street vendor,
mobile vendor or transient merchant shall be as described in the Master Fee
Schedule. The annual fee shall cover a period of one year from date of issue.
Any person representing organizations that qualify as non-profit, charitable
and tax-exempt shall be exempt from all required fees when proof of status is
attached to the permit application and status is verified through the Nebraska
Secretary of State by the city clerk.
(Ord. 3504, § 1(23-21), passed 3-9-2009; Ord. 4122, § 2(23-21), passed 5-2-
2023)
§ 23-22 BOND.
   To secure the full and faithful performance of each and every term and
condition of peddling and soliciting, a certificate of insurance from an
insurance company licensed to do business in the State of Nebraska shall be
furnished to the City Clerk, showing commercial general liability coverage of
$500,000 single occurrence/$1,000,000 aggregate limits, naming the City of
Bellevue as an additional insured, prior to the issuance of any license.
Applicants seeking a permit to operate as a mobile vendor must also provide a
certificate of insurance covering the vehicle(s) for which the permit is
granted from an insurance company licensed to do business in the State of
Nebraska, showing vehicle insurance coverage in an amount not less than
$300,000 for injury to all persons injured in any one occurrence, and $25,000
for property damage in any one occurrence. Any seasonal merchant and any person
or persons representing organizations that qualify as non-profit, charitable
and tax-exempt shall be exempt from the insurance requirements when proof of
status is attached to permit application and status is verified through the
Nebraska Secretary of State by the city clerk.
(Ord. 3504, § 1(23-22), passed 3-9-2009; Ord. 3564, § 2, passed 3-22-2010; Ord.
3760, § 1, 2, passed 3-24-2014; Ord. 4122, § 2(23-22), passed 5-2-2023)
§ 23-23 APPOINTMENT OF AGENT.
   (A)   Before any license shall be issued, such applicant shall file with the
city clerk an instrument nominating and appointing the city clerk, or the
person performing the duties of such position, his true and lawful agent with
full power and authority to acknowledge service of notice or process in respect
to any matters connected with or arising out of the business transacted under
such license.
   (B)   Immediately upon being served with process, the city clerk shall send
to the licensee at his last known address, by registered mail, a copy of such
process. Nothing herein shall be construed to apply to any applicant required
to appoint a state official as an agent for the purpose of receiving service of
process as a prerequisite for doing business within the State of Nebraska.
(Ord. 3504, § 1(23-23), passed 3-9-2009)
§ 23-24 HOURS AND PLACES OF SOLICITATION.
   (A)   All solicitations to private residences, including, but not limited
to, homes, duplexes, rooming houses and apartments, shall occur only between
the hours of 9:00 a.m. and 7:00 p.m., unless otherwise posted and prohibited by
the private property owner or by someone with apparent authority to act for the
owner. This regulation does not apply where the solicitor is on the property by
express, prior invitation of the person residing on the premises.
   (B)   Solicitation on public property is permissible except as follows:
      (1)   Solicitors may not solicit in public streets or rights-of-way or
from medians in the streets, or in any way block, obstruct or unduly hinder
passage on public streets and rights-of-way.
      (2)   Solicitors may not block, obstruct, or unduly hinder passage on
public sidewalks or passageways.
      (3)   Vendors may not solicit or sell products within one block of any
school while in session, nor shall any solicitation or sale be made for a
period of 30 minutes before the beginning of such school, or for the 30 minutes
after adjournment.
   (C)   For the purposes of this article, the judgment of a police officer,
exercised in good faith, shall be deemed conclusive as to whether the area is
blocked, obstructed or passage is hindered or the public is impeded or
inconvenienced.
(Ord. 3504, § 1(23-24), passed 3-9-2009; Ord. 4122, § 2(23-24), passed 5-2-
2023)
§ 23-25 PROHIBITED CONDUCT.
   A person engaged in solicitation shall not:
   (A)   Make physical contact with the person being solicited unless that
person’s permission is obtained;
   (B)   Misrepresent the purpose of the solicitation;
   (C)   Misrepresent the affiliation of those engaged in the solicitation;
   (D)   Continue efforts to solicit from an individual once that individual
informs the solicitor that he or she does not wish to give anything to or buy
anything from that solicitor;
   (E)   Represent the issuance of any license registration under this article
as an endorsement or recommendation of the solicitation; or
   (F)   Enter upon any private premises when the same is posted with a sign
stating “No Peddlers Allowed” or “No Solicitation Allowed,” or other words to
that effect.
   (G)   No vehicle used by a mobile vendor shall be operated at a speed in
excess of ten miles per hour while actually engaged in soliciting or selling.
   (H)   No sales shall be made to any person or persons standing in the
street.
(Ord. 3504, § 1(23-25), passed 3-9-2009; Ord. 4122, § 2(23-25), passed 5-2-
2023)
§ 23-26 LICENSE TO BE POSTED.
   The license issued by the city clerk shall be posted in a conspicuous place
if the licensee is using a vehicle or a building in his business and otherwise
must be kept upon the person so licensed and exhibited at any time upon
request.
(Ord. 3504, § 1(23-26), passed 3-9-2009)
§ 23-27 LICENSE REVOCATION; HEARING.
   (A)   Upon recommendation of the chief of police, permits issued may be
revoked by the city council after notice and a hearing, for any of the
following causes:
      (1)   Any fraud, misrepresentation or false statement contained in the
application for a license;
      (2)   Any fraud, misrepresentation, or false statement made in connection
with the selling of goods, wares or merchandise;
      (3)   Any violation of this article;
      (4)   Conviction of the licensee of any felony or of a misdemeanor
involving moral turpitude; and/or
      (5)   Conducting the business licensed under this article in an unlawful
manner or in such a manner as to threaten the health, safety or general welfare
of the public.
   (B)   Notice of a hearing before the city council for the revocation of a
license shall be given, in writing, setting forth specifically the grounds of
the complaint and the time and place of the hearing. Such notice shall be sent
by registered mail, postage prepaid, to the licensee at his last known address,
at least five days prior to the date set for hearing.
(Ord. 3504, § 1(23-27), passed 3-9-2009)
§ 23-28 LICENSE SUSPENSION; HEARING.
   (A)   Any three violations of this chapter by any licensee during the
license period shall result in suspension of such license by the chief of
police for the remainder of the person’s license period, or until all
violations are adjudicated in the appropriate court proceeding, whichever is
earlier. The city clerk shall send notice of the suspension by registered mail,
postage prepaid to the licensee, at his last known address.
   (B)   Any person aggrieved by the suspension of his or her license may
appeal license suspension. Such appeal shall be taken by filing with the city
council, within 14 days after notice of the suspension has been mailed to such
person’s last known address, a written statement setting forth the grounds for
appeal. The city council shall set the time and place for a hearing on such
appeal and notice shall be given to such person by registered mail, postage
prepaid, at his last known address. The decision of the city council on such
appeal shall be final.
(Ord. 3504, § 1(23-28), passed 3-9-2009)
§ 23-29 POLICE ENFORCEMENT.
   It shall be the duty of the city police to examine all places of business
and persons subject to the provisions of this article and to enforce the
provisions herein against any person found to be violating the same.
(Ord. 3504, § 1(23-29), passed 3-9-2009)
§ 23-30 LICENSE NONTRANSFERABLE.
   No license issued pursuant to this article shall be transferable.
(Ord. 3504, § 1(23-30), passed 3-9-2009)
§ 23-31 VIOLATION AND PENALTIES.
   Any person who violates any of the prohibitions or provisions of any section
of this chapter shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor. Unless otherwise
specified in the particular section for which the person stands convicted of
violating, the penalty for such violation shall be fined in any sum not
exceeding $500.00 or imprisoned six months, or both said fine and imprisonment
at the discretion of the sentencing court. Each day, or part thereof, in which
a violation under this chapter continues, shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 3504, § 1(23-31), passed 3-9-2009)
§§ 23-32—23-34 RESERVED.
ARTICLE III: MOBILE SALE OF ICE CREAM
Section
   
23-35   Definitions
   
23-36   Permit fee; vehicle permit—Required
   
23-37   Same—Fees; renewal
   
23-38   Same—Conditions
   
23-39   Same—Revocation; suspension
   
23-40   Operating rules
   
23-41   Enforcement; appeals
   23-42—23-51   Reserved
§ 23-35 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this article, the following words and phrases shall have
the meanings respectively ascribed to them by this section:
   FROZEN DESSERT. Any clean, frozen or partially frozen combination of two or
more of the following: Milk or milk products, eggs or egg products, sugar,
water, fruit or fruit juices, candy, nut meats or other harmless and wholesome
food products, flavors, color or harmless stabilizer, and shall be deemed to
include frozen custard, ice milk, milk sherbet, ices and other similar
products.
   ICE CREAM. A frozen product containing not less than ten percent of milk
fat, not less than a total of 20 percent milk solids and not less than 33
percent total solids, and consisting of a flavored, sugar-sweetened mixture of
cream or cream and milk, or the sweet, pure products of cream and milk, with or
without the addition of gelatin, vegetable gum or such other wholesome
stabilizers as may be approved by the health officer, to which mixture may be
added pure, fresh, sweet, wholesome eggs, fruit or fruit juice, cocoa,
chocolate or nuts.
   MOBILE OPERATIONS. For the purposes of this article, a “mobile ice cream or
frozen desserts operation” is one conducted from a truck, trailer or other
vehicle that travels from place to place and from which ice cream or frozen
desserts are processed, prepared and sold.
(1964 Code, § 17-11) (Ord. 4121, § 1(23-35), passed 5-2-2023)
§ 23-36 PERMIT FEE; VEHICLE PERMIT—REQUIRED.
   (A)   No person shall engage in retail mobile operations under this article
unless and until such person has been granted a permit by the city clerk.
   (B)   No vehicle shall be operated under any permit fee granted under this
article unless and until an individual permit is issued for that vehicle by the
city clerk.
(1964 Code, § 17-12) (Ord. 4121, § 1(23-36), passed 5-2-2023)
§ 23-37 SAME—FEES; RENEWAL.
   (A)   The annual permit fee and individual vehicle permit fee shall be as
described in the Master Fee Schedule.
   (B)   Permits for the mobile retail sale of ice cream and vehicle permits
shall be renewable annually.
(1964 Code, § 17-13) (Ord. 3504, § 2, passed 3-9-2009; Ord. 4121, § 1(23-37),
passed 5-2-2023)
§ 23-38 SAME—CONDITIONS.
   No permit for the mobile retail sale of ice cream nor any vehicle permit
under this article shall be issued by the city clerk until the following
conditions have been met:
   (A)   Safety inspection. No vehicle shall be permitted to operate hereunder
until a mechanical safety inspection has been made by the police department,
and the results thereof certified by the city clerk.
   (B)   Operator’s license. No person shall operate any vehicle hereunder
unless such person is the holder of a valid Nebraska operator’s license.
   (C)   Liability insurance. There shall be filed with the city clerk a policy
of insurance covering all vehicles operated hereunder in such form as the city
clerk may deem proper, issued by an insurance company approved by the insurance
commissioner of the state, and authorized to do business in the state, insuring
the public against injury, loss or damage resulting to persons or property from
the use, maintenance and operation of any vehicle operated hereunder for which
such permit is granted in an amount of not less than $300,000.00 for injury to
all persons injured in any one occurrence; and $25,000.00 for property damage
in any one occurrence. In addition thereto, a separate policy of insurance
shall be filed with the city clerk insuring the public against injuries or
damage resulting from the use or consumption of any product dispensed
hereunder. Such policy shall be in such form as the city clerk may deem proper
and issued by an insurance company approved by the insurance commissioner of
the state, insuring the public against injury, loss or damage resulting from
the use or consumption of any product dispensed hereunder in an amount of not
less than $50,000.00 for injury to any one person, and $100,000.00 for injury
to all persons injured in any one occurrence.
(1964 Code, § 17-14) (Ord. 4121, § 1(23-38), passed 5-2-2023)
§ 23-39 SAME—REVOCATION; SUSPENSION.
   The holder of any permit found to be in violation of this article shall be
subject to immediate suspension or revocation of his or her permit.
(1964 Code, § 17-15) (Ord. 4121, § 1(23-39), passed 5-2-2023)
§ 23-40 OPERATING RULES.
   Vehicles operated under this article and persons operating such vehicles
shall be governed by the following regulations:
   (A)   No person other than the authorized driver of the vehicle shall be on
or in the vehicle.
   (B)   No vehicle shall be operated at a speed in excess of ten miles per
hour while actually engaged in selling.
   (C)   No sales shall be made to any person standing in the street.
   (D)   No sales shall be made within one block of any school while in
session, nor shall any sale be made for a period of 30 minutes before the
beginning of such school, or for the 30 minutes after adjournment.
   (E)   Except for the use of a horn for driving purposes, no vehicle shall
use or have attached any sound device, flashing light other than brake or
safety light, or any other device which has the effect of attracting attention
of persons so as to announce the presence of the vehicle in the area for the
purpose of sales.
(1964 Code, § 17-16) (Ord. 4121, § 1(23-40), passed 5-2-2023)
§ 23-41 ENFORCEMENT; APPEALS.
   The city clerk shall have the duty of enforcing this article with the
exception of the safety check of vehicles, which shall be made by the police
department. Any order of suspension or revocation made hereunder shall be
reviewable by the city council and mayor at the next regular meeting following
suspension or revocation. Any interested party can make written application for
the review of a suspension or revocation, by serving notice upon the city clerk
within ten days after such permit holder is notified in writing of the order of
suspension or revocation.
(1964 Code, § 17-17) (Ord. 4121, § 1(23-41), passed 5-2-2023)
§§ 23-42—23-51 RESERVED.
ARTICLE IV: FARMERS’ MARKET
Section
   
23-52   Definitions
   
23-53   Market manager
   
23-54   Persons eligible to rent space
   
23-55   Application for space
   
23-56   Assignment of spaces
   
23-57   Rental fees
   
23-58   Use regulations
   
23-59   Cleanup deposit
   
23-60   Privately operated farmers’ market held on city property
   23-61—23-76   Reserved
§ 23-52 DEFINITIONS.
   The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall
have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context
clearly indicates a different meaning:
   FARMERS’ MARKET. A designated area where, on designated days and times,
growers and producers may sell directly to the public, in accordance with city
regulations. The city shall have the right to relocate or discontinue the
market, to specify the days and times of its use and to stipulate what goods
may be sold.
   GROWER AND PRODUCER. Any person offering for sale articles for human
consumption, such as fruits, vegetables, edible grains, nuts and berries,
apiary products, maple sugars, syrups, eggs, cheese products, sausage, or
nonedible articles such as cut or potted flowers, which articles have been
raised or prepared by the grower or producer, by members of their family or by
persons in their employ. All articles offered for sale by the grower or
producer must be grown or processed in the state. The sale of products
proscribed by the director of public health, with the exception of those
products specifically permitted to be sold under this article, shall be
prohibited. The sale of eggs, cheese products and sausage shall be permitted
only if proper refrigeration is provided.
   LIVE MUSIC ENTERTAINMENT PERFORMANCE. Family-friendly, live music
entertainment to be performed during regular market hours. Only one live music
entertainment performance will be provided space at each market. Performers at
each market may offer their own music CDs and other promotional items for sale.
(Ord. 3572, § 1(23-52), passed 4-26-2010; Ord. 3574, § 1, passed 5-10-2010)
§ 23-53 MARKET MANAGER.
   The city shall designate an individual to act as market manager, who shall
review the application of any grower, producer or live music entertainment
performance offering articles for sale under this article, issue permits and
collect fees therefore, assign spaces to growers, producers and live music
entertainment performances, establish a system of bookkeeping for the market,
and be responsible for maintaining the market’s cleanliness and enforcing the
market regulations.
(Ord. 3572, § 1(23-53), passed 4-26-2010; Ord. 3574, § 2, passed 5-10-2010)
§ 23-54 PERSONS ELIGIBLE TO RENT SPACE.
   Permits for a space at the farmers’ market shall only be issued to a grower,
producer or live music entertainment performance as defined in this article.
(Ord. 3572, § 1(23-54), passed 4-26-2010; Ord. 3574, § 3, passed 5-10-2010)
§ 23-55 APPLICATION FOR SPACE.
   An applicant for a space to sell goods within the farmers’ market shall
submit to the market manager or designee, together with the required fee, an
application on a form prescribed and furnished by the market manager or
designee. The market manager or designee may request additional information
from the applicant.
(Ord. 3572, § 1(23-55), passed 4-26-2010)
§ 23-56 ASSIGNMENT OF SPACES.
   Spaces in the farmers’ market shall be assigned in accordance with the order
in which applications are filed with the Market Manager or designee.
(Ord. 3572, § 1(23-56), passed 4-26-2010)
§ 23-57 RENTAL FEES.
   Fees for farmers’ market spaces shall be as set forth in the Master Fee
Schedule.
(Ord. 3572, § 1(23-57), passed 4-26-2010)
§ 23-58 USE REGULATIONS.
   The city council may, by resolution, adopt rules and regulations it
considers appropriate for the operation of the farmer’s market upon
recommendation of the market manager or designee.
(Ord. 3572, § 1(23-58), passed 4-26-2010)
§ 23-59 CLEANUP DEPOSIT.
   All growers and producers shall pay the cleanup deposit provided for in the
Master Fee Schedule upon arrival at the market. Growers and producers shall
remove all waste and refuse from their spaces before leaving the market. Any
refusal or failure by the grower or producer, or their employees or agents, to
clean their respective space shall result in forfeiture of the deposit.
(Ord. 3572, § 1(23-59), passed 4-26-2010)
§ 23-60 PRIVATELY OPERATED FARMERS’ MARKET HELD ON CITY PROPERTY.
   A Farmers’ Market may be operated privately on City property by an
individual or organization upon application, hearing and payment of the
appropriate fee for a license following the procedures outlined in Sections 5-
36 through 5-40 of this Code. A one-time seasonal fee as stated in the Master
Fee Schedule shall be paid by the applicant for a Farmers’ Market license
issued under this section. Code Sections 23-53 through 23-59 shall not apply to
a privately operated Farmers’ Market license issued under this section.
(Ord. 3863, § 1, passed 11-28-2016)
§§ 23-61—23-76 RESERVED.
ARTICLE V: SALES OF SECONDHAND GOODS
Section
   
23-77   Definitions
   
23-78   Permit required; application, contents; issuance; fees
   
23-79   Appeal of denial of permit
   
23-80   Permit; business location; unlawful transactions
   
23-81   Records required; inspection; stolen property; procedures
   
23-82   Required use of electronic reporting system
   
23-83   Retention of goods
   
23-84   Recovery of stolen property
   
23-85   Penalties
   
23-86   Suspension or revocation of permit; grounds; hearing; findings and
actions
§ 23-77 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this Article, any person who shall engage in the
business of buying, selling or dealing (whether for cash or store credit) in
secondhand property is hereby declared and defined to be a DEALER IN SECONDHAND
GOODS. The term DEALER OF SECONDHAND GOODS does not include persons conducting
a yard sale or garage sale from their residence, nor does it apply to
pawnbrokers, whose conduct is regulated by separate city ordinances.
   (B)   For the purpose of this article, SECONDHAND PROPERTY means any
previously owned audio-video equipment, audio-video recordings, video games,
video game systems, video game accessories, cameras, computer hardware,
jewelry, article made of precious metal, precious stone or gem, sporting or
athletic gear or equipment, including a bicycle, watch or currency, furniture,
wares or merchandise.
(Ord. 3595, § 1(23-51), passed 11-22-2010; Ord. 3711, § 1(23-77), passed 3-11-
2013; Ord. 3851, § 1, passed 6-13-2016)
§ 23-78 PERMIT REQUIRED; APPLICATION, CONTENTS; ISSUANCE; FEES.
   (A)   Every person desiring to engage in the business of secondhand sales
shall first obtain a permit from the City of Bellevue. The permit is valid for
the year in which it was issued and will expire on December 31 of the same
year.
   (B)   Such permit shall be obtained by filing an application with, and
having such application approved by, the Chief of Police, or someone under his
or her direction.
   (C)   The application shall contain the following information:
      (1)   The name and address of the owner and the manager of the business
and, if the applicant is an individual, the applicant’s social security number;
      (2)   If the applicant is a corporation, a copy of the articles of
incorporation and the names of its officers and shareholders;
      (3)   The exact location where the business is to be conducted; and
      (4)   The exact location where any goods, wares, and merchandise may be
stored or kept if other than at the business location.
   (D)   When reviewing applications for a permit required by this section, the
Chief of Police, or his or her designee, shall take into consideration the
criminal record, if any, of the applicant and, if the applicant is a
corporation, of its officers and shareholders. No permit shall be issued to any
applicant who has been convicted of a felony, and, if the applicant is a
corporation, no permit shall be issued when any officer or shareholder has been
convicted of a felony.
   (E)   There is no fee for the issuance of a secondhand sales permit.
(Ord. 3595, § 1(23-52), passed 11-22-2010; Ord. 3711, § 1(23-78), passed 3-11-
2013; Ord. 3851, § 1, passed 6-13-2016)
§ 23-79 APPEAL OF DENIAL OF PERMIT.
   When an application for a permit required by the provisions of this article
has been denied by the Chief of Police, or his or her designee, the applicant
shall have the right to appeal from such denial to the council in the same
manner as provided for appeals from a suspension or revocation of a permit in
Sec. 23-93.
(Ord. 3595, § 1(23-53), passed 11-22-2010; Ord. 3711, § 1(23-79), passed 3-11-
2013; Ord. 3851, § 1, passed 6-13-2016)
§ 23-80 PERMIT; BUSINESS LOCATION; UNLAWFUL TRANSACTIONS.
   (A)   No person shall be allowed to sell secondhand goods in more than one
location under one permit. Each permit shall state the place where such
business is to be carried on, and shall not be transferable or assignable. The
goods, wares, and merchandise involved shall be kept or stored only at those
locations specifically listed in the permit application.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person not having a permit as required in
section
23-78 to display any sign or advertisement stating that money or store credit
is given for goods, or that goods are purchased as described in section 23-77.
   (C)   No secondhand dealer shall accept any article of property, or purchase
any article of property:
      (1)   From any person under the age of eighteen (18) years without the
written consent of a parent or legal guardian. The consent must be signed in
the presence of the permittee, who must include the consent in the daily record
provided to the Chief of Police;
      (2)   From any person who appears under the influence of alcohol, or any
narcotic, drug, or stimulant, or depressant, or from any person that openly
appears to be a person of diminished capacity; or
      (3)   On which the serial numbers or other identifying insignia have been
destroyed, removed, altered, covered, or defaced.
(Ord. 3595, § 1(23-54), passed 11-22-2010; Ord. 3711, § 1(23-80), passed 3-11-
2013; Ord. 3851, § 1, passed 6-13-2016)
§ 23-81 RECORDS REQUIRED; INSPECTION; STOLEN PROPERTY; PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Every secondhand dealer shall keep a ledger, in which there shall be
typed or printed in ink, at the time of the transaction, a legible and accurate
description in the English language of every article of secondhand property
received, purchased, sold or exchanged by him or her, the date of the
transaction, and the purchaser or seller. A computer database can be used in
lieu of a book. No entry made in such book shall be erased, obliterated, or
defaced. For purposes of this section, the phrase “typed or printed in ink” may
include a computer printout.
   (B)   The description of articles of secondhand property shall include:
      (1)   The brand name;
      (2)   The model number, if available;
      (3)   Any serial number or other identification number installed by the
manufacturer; and
      (4)   A description of every other identifying marking, such as an
inscription, a social security number, a name, nickname, or address appearing
on the item.
   (C)   The description of each watch shall include:
      (1)   The brand name; model number, if available;
      (2)   A description of the metal or metals of its composition;
      (3)   A description of the band;
      (4)   A description of the face by number, color and cut, shape and type
of stone or stones, if any; and
      (5)   A description of any inscriptions appearing on the watch.
   (D)   The description of each item of jewelry shall include:
      (1)   The type; a description of the metal or metals of its composition;
      (2)   The type, cut and shape of each stone; and
      (3)   A description of all inscriptions. Each ring shall also be
identified by ring size.
   (E)   In addition, each watch and jewelry shall be photographed in color.
The photograph shall be retained by the business for a period of at least three
years.
   (F)   The description of each person who sells an item of secondhand
property to the licensee shall consist of the person’s name, residence address,
birth date, weight, height, and gender. If the person has no social security
number, the licensee shall record this fact.
   (G)   Every permittee shall require two forms of identification to be shown
to him or her by each person selling an article of secondhand property to the
permittee. At least one of the two forms of identification must list the
seller’s name and residence address. Except as provided, at least one of the
two forms of identification must be a photographic identification issued by a
federal, state or local governmental entity. Forms of identification may
include, but are not limited to: a state driver’s license, a state
identification card, a passport, a military identification card, a social
security card, or a credit card, or utility bill. If the customer does not have
a photographic identification card issued by a federal, state or local
governmental entity, the permittee shall photograph the customer. The
photograph shall be in color. On the reverse side of the photograph the
permittee shall record the customer’s name, residence address, date of birth,
gender, height and weight. If the customer has no social security number, the
permittee shall record this fact.
   (H)   All persons who shall be engaged in the business of dealing in
secondhand goods shall, in addition to the requirements of this section, obtain
and keep a single legible fingerprint of each person selling secondhand goods
or articles. The fingerprint shall be taken from the right index finger or, if
the right index finger is missing, from the left index finger.
   (I)   It shall be the duty of every dealer in second hand goods every day,
except Sunday before the hour of 12 noon, to deliver to the Chief of Police, or
his or her designee, a legible and correct copy of each card or ledger entry
required by this section for the transactions of the previous day. Transactions
occurring on Saturday shall be reported on the following Monday.
   (J)   The record of purchases required to be kept by the provisions of this
article, and the goods purchased, shall be open and available for inspection by
the Chief of Police, his or her designated agent, or any law enforcement
officer at any reasonable time.
   (K)   In the event the city enters into a contract for an electronic
reporting system of transactions for dealers in second hand goods, the records
required by this section, having all of the information required by this
section, shall be created and delivered to the Chief of Police, or his or her
designee, before the close of business that day. In the event that the
electronic reporting system is unable to record a transaction for any reason,
the dealer is required to make a complete written report of the transaction
which written report shall be entered into the electronic system as soon as
practicable.
(Ord. 3595, § 1(23-55), passed 11-22-2010; Ord. 3711, § 1(23-81), passed 3-11-
2013; Ord. 3851, § 1, passed 6-13-2016)
§ 23-82 REQUIRED USE OF ELECTRONIC REPORTING SYSTEM.
   (A)   In the event the city enters into a contract for an electronic
reporting system of transactions for dealers in second hand goods, it shall be
the exclusive means by which such transaction are reported to the Chief of
Police, or his or her designee. Every dealer in second hand goods shall operate
and maintain a computer system with internet access and photographic capability
sufficient for the electronic reporting requirements described in Sec. 23-80.
Any failure or malfunction of such equipment on the part of the dealer shall
not exempt the dealer from the record and reporting requirements of this
article. The dealer shall immediately notify the police department of any such
failure or malfunction, and shall have such resolved as soon as practicable.
   (B)   In addition to the requirements of Sec. 23-80, at the time of
purchase, the dealer shall use the required electronic reporting system to
collect the following:
      (1)   A digital photograph of the purchased item;
      (2)   A digital photograph of the seller;
      (3)   A digital signature of the seller;
      (4)   A digital scan of the seller’s right index finger; if the index
finger is missing, the fingerprint shall be taken from the left index finger.
The print shall be clear and legible; and
      (5)   A photographic or scanned image of the I.D. card of the seller,
sufficiently clear to allow the information of the I.D. to be read.
(Ord. 3595, § 1(23-56), passed 11-22-2010; Ord. 3711, § 1(23-82), passed 3-11-
2013; Ord. 3851, § 1, passed 6-13-2016)
§ 23-83 RETENTION OF GOODS.
   No personal property received on deposit or purchase by any dealer in
secondhand goods shall be sold or permitted to be redeemed from the place of
business of such person for the space often days after the copy of the record
of purchase thereof shall have been delivered to the Chief of Police, or his or
her designee, as required by this article.
(Ord. 3595, § 1(23-57), passed 11-22-2010; Ord. 3711, § 1(23-83), passed 3-11-
2013; Ord. 3851, § 1, passed 6-13-2016)
§ 23-84 RECOVERY OF STOLEN PROPERTY.
   When any person is found to be the owner of stolen property that has been
bought, such property shall be returned to the owner thereof upon the payment
of the amount paid by the secondhand dealer for the stolen property.
(Ord. 3595, § 1(23-58), passed 11-22-2010; Ord. 3711, § 1(23-84), passed 3-11-
2013; Ord. 3851, § 1, passed 6-13-2016)
§ 23-85 PENALTIES.
   Any broker, agent, or dealer, who shall violate any of the provisions of
this section, or:
   (A)   Makes a false statement in the application for a permit;
   (B)   Fails to keep the record or fails to make required entries thereon;
   (C)   Intentionally or knowingly makes any false or unintelligible entry, or
any entry which he or she has reason to believe is untrue;
   (D)   Fails to make the inquiries necessary to enable him or her to make
such entries or any of them;
   (E)   Fails to procure the permit or who fails to produce his or her permit
or records when requested by an officer having authority to examine them; or,
   (F)   Destroys or negligently permits such records to be destroyed, shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction shall be punished as provided in
Bellevue Municipal Code Sec. 1-11.
(Ord. 3595, § 1(23-59), passed 11-22-2010; Ord. 3711, § 1(23-85), passed 3-11-
2013; Ord. 3851, § 1, passed 6-13-2016)
§ 23-86 SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION OF PERMIT; GROUNDS; HEARING; FINDINGS AND
ACTIONS.
   (A)   Any permit issued under the provisions of this article may be
suspended or revoked for the violation by the permittee of:
      (1)   Any provision of this article or other applicable provision of this
Code, state law or city ordinance, rule or regulation; or
      (2)   Any other provision of this Code, state law or city ordinance
classified as a misdemeanor or felony.
   (B)   Before any permit issued under the provisions of this article is
suspended or revoked, the permittee shall be given notice of the date and time
for a hearing to show cause why such permit should not be revoked. Such hearing
shall be within seven days of the date of the notice. At the time and place set
for the show-cause hearing, the Chief of Police, shall hear all the testimony
as to whether or not grounds for the revocation or suspension of the permit
exist.
   (C)   If, upon the conclusion of the hearing thereon, it shall appear that
grounds for the suspension or revocation of a permit issued under the
provisions of this article exist, the Chief of Police shall so find and impose
such suspension or revocation as he may deem proper under the circumstances.
   (D)   A finding, and the action taken thereon by the Chief of Police at the
conclusion of the hearing on the suspension or revocation of a permit issued
under the provisions of this article, may be appealed by the permittee to the
City Council upon written application to the City Clerk within ten days of such
decision. Upon hearing such appeal, the council may affirm, reverse, change or
modify the finding or action of the Chief of Police. A permit shall remain in
effect pending the outcome of such appeal.
(Ord. 3595, § 1(23-60), passed 11-22-2010; Ord. 3711, § 1(23-86), passed 3-11-
2013; Ord. 3851, § 1, passed 6-13-2016)
CHAPTER 24: PENSIONS
   Article
      
I.   FIREFIGHTERS RETIREMENT COMMITTEE
ARTICLE I: FIREFIGHTERS RETIREMENT COMMITTEE
Section
   
24-1   Firefighters Retirement Committee; established
   
24-2   Same; composition; term of office; vacancies; compensation
   
24-3   Same; retirement system funds; contracts for investments; investment
plan
   
24-4   Same; officers; duties
   
24-5   By-laws
§ 24-1 FIREFIGHTERS RETIREMENT COMMITTEE; ESTABLISHED.
   The city council hereby establishes the Firefighters Retirement Committee
which shall supervise the general operation of the Fire Department’s retirement
system. The city council hereby delegates the responsibility for all functions
of the general administration of such retirement system to the Firefighters
Retirement Committee.
(Ord. 3881, § 1, passed 9-25-2017)
§ 24-2 SAME; COMPOSITION; TERM OF OFFICE; VACANCIES; COMPENSATION.
   The Retirement Committee shall consist of six (6) members of which four (4)
members shall be selected by the active paid firefighters. Two (2) members
shall be designated by the city council. The members who are not participants
in such retirement system shall have a general knowledge of retirement plans.
Members of the city council, active members of the fire department, and members
of the general public may serve on the Retirement Committee. The committee
members shall be appointed to four year terms. Vacancies shall be filled for
the remainder of the term by a person with the same representation as his or
her predecessor. Members of the Retirement Committee shall, subject to approval
by the city council, be reimbursed for their actual and necessary expenses
incurred in carrying out their duties.
(Ord. 3881, § 1, passed 9-25-2017)
§ 24-3 SAME; RETIREMENT SYSTEM FUNDS; CONTRACTS FOR INVESTMENTS; INVESTMENT
PLAN.
   (A)   The funds in the Firefighters Retirement System Fund shall be invested
by the retirement committee. The city, subject to the approval of the
Retirement Committee, shall contract with a funding agent or agents, as such
term is defined in Neb. RS § 16-1021(4), to hold or invest the assets of the
Retirement System and to provide for the benefits provided by Neb. RS §§ 16-
1020 to 16-1042, as amended. The Retirement Committee, subject to the approval
of the city, may also select an investment manager. The city, subject to
approval of the Retirement Committee, may contract with investment managers
registered under the Investment Advisers Act of 1940 to invest, reinvest, and
otherwise manage such portion of the assets of the retirement system as may be
assigned by the city or retirement committee.
   (B)   The Retirement Committee shall establish an investment plan which
allows each member of the Retirement System to allocate all contributions to
his or her employee account and, if he or she commenced his or her employment
after January 1, 1984, his or her employer account to the various investment
options or combinations of investment options described in such plan. Each
firefighter shall have the option of investing his or her employee account and,
if he or she commenced his or her employment after January 1, 1984, his or her
employer account in any proportion, including full allocation, in any
investment option offered by the plan. Upon the direction of the city,
firefighters employed on January 1, 1984, may have the option to allocate their
employer account to various investment options or combinations of investment
options in any proportion, including full allocation, in any investment option
offered by the plan. Each firefighter shall be given a summary of the
investment plan and a detailed current description of each investment option
prior to making or revising his or her allocation.
   (C)   The funds in the Firefighters Retirement System Fund shall be invested
pursuant to the policies established by the Nebraska Investment Council.
(Ord. 3881, § 1, passed 9-25-2017)
§ 24-4 SAME; OFFICERS; DUTIES.
   It shall be the duty of the Retirement Committee to:
   (A)   Elect a chairperson, a vice-chairperson, and such other officers as
the committee deems appropriate;
   (B)   Hold regular quarterly meetings and special meetings upon the call of
the chairperson;
   (C)   Conduct meetings pursuant to the Nebraska Open Meetings Act;
   (D)   Provide each employee a summary of plan eligibility requirements and
benefit provisions;
   (E)   Provide, within thirty (30) days after a request is made by a
participant, a statement describing the amount of benefits such participant is
eligible to receive;
   (F)   Make available for review an annual report of the system’s operations
describing both the amount of contributions to the system from both employee
and employer sources and an identification of the total assets of the
retirement system; and
   (G)   Beginning December 31, 2017, and each December 31 thereafter, the
chairperson of the Retirement Committee shall file with the Nebraska Public
Employees Retirement Board an annual report on each retirement plan established
pursuant to section 401(a) of the Internal Revenue Code and administered by a
retirement system established pursuant to Neb. RS §§ 16-1020 to 16-1042, as
amended, and shall submit copies of such report to the Nebraska Auditor of
Public Accounts.
(Ord. 3881, § 1, passed 9-25-2017)
§ 24-5 BY-LAWS.
   The By-laws of the Bellevue Firefighters Retirement Committee, a copy of
which is attached to the ordinance codified herein, marked as Exhibit “A” and
hereby made a part of this ordinance by this reference, are hereby approved by
the City Council, and shall become effective upon the passage, approval and
publication of this ordinance.
(Ord. 3881, § 2, passed 9-25-2017)
CHAPTER 25: PERSONNEL
Section
   
25-1   Personnel ordinances not affected by Code
§ 25-1 PERSONNEL ORDINANCES NOT AFFECTED BY CODE.
   Nothing in this Code or the ordinance adopting this Code shall affect any
ordinance classifying employees of the city, fixing their pay ranges and
providing for pay range schedules, and all such ordinances are hereby
recognized as continuing in full force and effect to the same extent as if set
out at length in this Code.
CHAPTER 26: PLANNING AND DEVELOPMENT
   Article
      
I.   IN GENERAL
      
II.   PLANNING COMMISSION
      
III.   EXTRATERRITORIAL APPLICABILITY OF CERTAIN ORDINANCES
      
IV.   PROPERTY ASSESSED CLEAN ENERGY (PACE)
ARTICLE I: IN GENERAL
Section
   
26-1   Bellevue Community Development Agency
   
26-2   Fee; tax increment financing applications, processing, and
administration
   26-3—26-15   Reserved
Statutory reference:
   Community Development Law, see Neb. RS 1943, §§ 18-2101 et seq.
   Suburban development, see Neb. RS 1943, § 18-1716
§ 26-1 BELLEVUE COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT AGENCY.
   (A)   There is hereby created the Bellevue Community Development Agency
pursuant to Neb. RS § 18-2101.01 (1943).
   (B)   The Bellevue Community Development Agency shall consist of the members
of the city council.
   (C)   The Bellevue Community Development Agency shall function as a
community development authority and shall have all the power and authority
granted to a community redevelopment authority set forth in Neb. RS §§ 18-2101
to 18-2154 (1943).
(Ord. 2483, §§ 1—3, passed 10-13-1987)
Editor’s note:
   Nonamendatory Ord. 2483, §§ 1—3, adopted October 13, 1987, was codified
herein as § 26-1 at the editor’s discretion.
§ 26-2 FEE; TAX INCREMENT FINANCING APPLICATIONS, PROCESSING, AND
ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   The City of Bellevue receives applications by parties interested in
proceeding with projects pursuant to Nebraska’s Community Development Law, Neb.
RS §§ 18-2101 to 18-2144, as supplemented by Neb. RS §§ 18-2147 to 18-2153. The
City of Bellevue Planning Department has been assigned the responsibility of
receiving applications, reviewing the applications, processing the
applications, preparing the applicable plans and agreements, and preparing any
other documents necessary to administer any redevelopment plan under the
Community Development Law which provides for the division and allocation of ad
valorem taxes pursuant to Neb. RS § 18-2147 (hereinafter referred to as “tax
increment financing” or TIF). The City of Bellevue Finance and Public Works
Departments, and the Bellevue Planning Director and city attorney, have been
assigned the responsibility of reviewing various applications and of assisting
in the administration of any award of tax increment financing, as necessary and
appropriate. The Bellevue City Attorney has been assigned the additional
responsibility of assisting in the negotiation and preparation of various
documents required to award tax increment financing. In order to offset
personnel costs incurred by or at the direction of the City of Bellevue as a
result of the applications received for tax increment financing, the City of
Bellevue herein creates a fee structure for projects of that nature.
   (B)   Prior to the time that any of the following activities occur, any
party pursuing or seeking tax increment financing shall pay the following fees:
      (1)   Upon the submission of a redevelopment plan to the City of Bellevue
Planning Department for tax increment financing, the applicant shall submit an
application fee in the amount stated in the Master Fee Schedule. This fee shall
help offset the costs incurred for reviewing the redevelopment plan by the
planning department and those other departments assigned by the city
administrator to review the redevelopment plan.
      (2)   After the redevelopment plan for tax increment financing is
approved for statutory compliance by the planning department and those other
departments assigned by the city administrator to review the document, the
applicant shall submit a processing fee in the amount stated in the Master Fee
Schedule if the applicant wishes the redevelopment plan to be further
considered. Such fee shall be submitted prior to the City of Bellevue
processing a redevelopment plan, redevelopment agreement, or any other document
pursuant to the proposed redevelopment plan. If such fee is not paid for a
period of nine months after notification of statutory compliance approval of
the redevelopment plan by the City of Bellevue Planning Department, such
redevelopment plan shall be deemed abandoned, and the application fee shall be
forfeited.
      (3)   In the event the City of Bellevue approves a redevelopment
agreement authorizing tax increment financing, the person or organization
receiving the TIF grant shall pay an administrative fee upon grant of TIF
proceeds, in whatever form, based upon the calculation in the Master Fee
Schedule. The grant of TIF proceeds upon which an administrative fee is levied
shall be reduced by the cost, as itemized in the redevelopment agreement, of
any specific amount committed for specific public improvement adjacent to, but
not located on, the redevelopment site. (Any amount contributed to any fund to
revitalize an area generally shall not reduce the amount of TIF proceeds upon
which an administrative fee is charged.) Such fee shall offset the city’s costs
in preparing the various documents and agreements as well as the ongoing
administration incurred for the 15-year report period and shall be considered a
TIF eligible expense. When any redevelopment agreement is amended to increase
the amount of the TIF principal amount, an additional fee shall be due only on
the difference between the original TIF principal amount and the new TIF
principal amount.
      (4)   If at any time, the balance of the TIF fees collected by the city
and on hand at a given time are in excess of the amount of funding necessary to
finance the expenses contemplated and paid by these fees for the following two
fiscal years, the city planning director shall review the fee structure and
report to the city council and mayor as to whether the fee structure should be
revised.
(Ord. 3537, § 1, passed 10-26-2009; Ord. 3549, § 1, passed 11-23-2009)
§§ 26-3—26-15 RESERVED.
ARTICLE II: PLANNING COMMISSION
Section
   
26-16   Established; purpose
   
26-17   Composition
   
26-18   Appointment
   
26-19   Term
   
26-20   Removal
   
26-21   Vacancies
   
26-22   Compensation
   
26-23   Officers
   
26-24   Meetings; rules of procedure; records
   
26-25   Equipment and funds
   
26-26   Powers and duties
   26-27—26-37   Reserved
Statutory reference:
   Planning commission, see Neb. RS 1943, §§ 19-924 et seq.
§ 26-16 ESTABLISHED; PURPOSE.
   There is established for the city a planning commission which is authorized
and empowered to make and adopt plans for the physical development of the city.
(1964 Code, § 2-20)
§ 26-17 COMPOSITION.
   The planning commission shall consist of nine members who shall represent,
insofar as is possible, different professions or occupations in the city and
shall hold no other municipal office.
(1964 Code, § 2-21)
Statutory reference:
   Planning commission composition, see Neb. RS 1943, § 19-926
§ 26-18 APPOINTMENT.
   The member of the planning commission shall be appointed by the mayor with
the approval of three-fourths of the city council.
(1964 Code, § 2-21)
Statutory reference:
   Appointment of members of planning commission, see Neb. RS 1943, § 19-926
§ 26-19 TERM.
   The term of each member of the planning commission shall be three years. All
members shall hold office until their successors are appointed.
(1964 Code, § 2-21)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 1943, § 19-926
§ 26-20 REMOVAL.
   Any member of the planning commission may, after a public hearing before the
city council, be removed from office by the mayor with the consent of three-
fourths of the city council for inefficiency, neglect of duty or malfeasance in
office or other good and sufficient cause.
(1964 Code, § 2-21)
Statutory reference:
   Removal of planning commission members, see Neb. RS 1943, § 19-926
§ 26-21 VACANCIES.
   Vacancies occurring in the membership of the planning commission, other than
through the expiration of term, shall be filled for the unexpired term by the
mayor.
(1964 Code, § 2-21)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 1943, § 19-926
§ 26-22 COMPENSATION.
   All members of the planning commission shall serve as such without
compensation.
(1964 Code, § 2-21)
§ 26-23 OFFICERS.
   The planning commission shall elect its chairman from its members and create
and fill such other of its offices as it may determine. The term of the
chairman shall be one year, and he shall be eligible for reelection.
(1964 Code, § 2-22)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 1943, § 19-927
§ 26-24 MEETINGS; RULES OF PROCEDURE; RECORDS.
   The planning commission shall hold at least one regular meeting in each
month. It shall adopt rules for transaction of business and shall keep a record
of its resolutions, transactions, findings and determinations, which record
shall be a public record.
(1964 Code, § 2-23)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 1943, § 19-927
§ 26-25 EQUIPMENT AND FUNDS.
   The city council may provide the funds, equipment and accommodations
necessary for the work of the planning commission, but the expenditures of the
planning commission, exclusive of gifts, shall be within the amounts
appropriated for that purpose by the city council. No expenditures shall be
valid in excess of such amounts.
(1964 Code, § 2-24)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 1943, § 19-928
§ 26-26 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   It shall be the function and duty of the planning commission to make
and adopt plans for the physical development of the city, including any areas
outside its boundaries which, in the judgment of the planning commission, bear
relation to the planning of the city.
   (B)   The planning commission shall recommend to the appropriate public
officials programs for public structures and improvements and for the financing
thereof. It shall be part of its duties to consult and advise with public
officials and agencies, public utility companies, civic, educational,
professional and other organizations and with citizens with relation to the
protecting or carrying out of the city planning.
(1964 Code, § 2-25)
Statutory reference:
   Planning commission powers, see Neb. RS 1943, §§ 19-929 et seq.
§§ 26-27—26-37 RESERVED.
ARTICLE III: EXTRATERRITORIAL APPLICABILITY OF
CERTAIN ORDINANCES
Section
   
26-38   Extension of applicability of regulations
   
26-39   Boundaries of jurisdiction
   
26-40   Filing of maps; recordation of zoning amendments
   26-41—26-50   Reserved
§ 26-38 EXTENSION OF APPLICABILITY OF REGULATIONS.
   All ordinances, rules and regulations now in force or subsequently adopted
which pertain to zoning, platting, subdividing, rezoning, use of property, area
regulations, building permits, building code, plumbing code, electrical code,
heating code, appeals to the board of adjustment, applications to the planning
commission and related hearings before the city council are hereby extended to
apply to:
   (A)   All areas lying within the corporate limits of the city, as amended
from time to time; and
   (B)   All areas adjacent to and lying within two miles of such corporate
limits of the city to the extent such areas are specified and included in the
Official Zoning Jurisdiction Maps, as defined in section
26-40 of the Code.
(1964 Code, § 7-9.1) (Ord. 2295, § 1, passed 10-24-1983; Ord. 2466, § 1, passed
6-8-1987; Ord. 2981, § 1, passed 5-27-1998; Ord. 3388, § 1, passed 11-14-2005)
§ 26-39 BOUNDARIES OF JURISDICTION.
   All lands, and all structures thereupon or improvements thereto, lying
within any area identified on the Official Zoning Jurisdiction Maps, as defined
in section
26-40 of the Code, shall be subject to all ordinances, rules and regulations
now in force or subsequently adopted which pertain to zoning, platting,
subdividing, rezoning, use of property, area regulations, building permits,
building code, plumbing code, electrical code, heating code, appeals to the
board of adjustment, applications to the planning commission and related
hearings before the city council. All land, and including structures thereupon
or improvements thereto, not included within such areas shall remain under the
jurisdiction of the appropriate county.
(1964 Code, § 7-9.2) (Ord. 2295, § 2, passed 10-24-1983; Ord. 2466, § 2, passed
6-8-1987; Ord. 2981, § 2, passed 2-23-1998; Ord. 3388, § 2, passed 11-14-2005)
§ 26-40 FILING OF MAPS; RECORDATION OF ZONING AMENDMENTS.
   (A)   Whenever used in this Code, the term OFFICIAL ZONING JURISDICTION MAPS
shall mean the map attached to this article as Exhibit A, and dated March 29,
2017, as such Maps are amended by ordinance from time to time. To the extent
required by law, the Official Zoning Jurisdiction Maps are by this reference
made a part of this Section 26-40. The Official Zoning Maps shall be maintained
by the planning department and shall be considered the official map for
purposes of Neb. RS 16-901 through 16-905, inclusive, of the laws of the State
of Nebraska, and for purposes of enforcement of the Code, including the City
zoning ordinance and the subdivision regulations.
   (B)   The Official Zoning Jurisdiction Maps shall separately identify the
corporate limits of the City and those areas that lie outside the corporate
limits of the city that have been designated by the city for purposes of
implementing Neb. RS §§ 16-901 through 16-905, inclusive, of the laws of the
State of Nebraska and contemplated by section 26-38(H) of this Code.
   (C)   The Official Zoning Jurisdiction Maps shall be amended as necessary,
or appropriate, whenever the city shall modify its corporate limits. Any such
amendment shall be promptly and permanently noted on the face of the Official
Zoning Jurisdiction Maps.
   (D)   The location, size, shape and boundaries of the zones to which the
provisions of section
26-38 and section
26-39 of this Code are applicable shall be indicated on the Official Zoning
Jurisdiction Maps. Any amendment to a zoning classification on the Official
Zoning Jurisdiction Map shall include the legal description of the land
involved, including appropriate adjacent public right-of-way on public
property. Any such amendment shall be promptly and permanently noted on the
face of the Official Zoning Jurisdiction Maps.
(1964 Code, § 7-9.3) (Ord. 2295, § 3, passed 10-24-1983; Ord. 2466, § 3, passed
6-8-1987; Ord. 2981, § 3, passed 2-23-1998; Ord. 3388, § 3, passed 11-14-2005;
Ord. 3512, § 1, passed 3-9-2009; Ord. 3616, § 1, passed 5-23-2011; Ord. 3869,
§§ 1, 2, passed 3-13-2017)
§§ 26-41—26-50 RESERVED.
ARTICLE IV: PROPERTY ASSESSED CLEAN ENERGY (PACE)
Section
   
26-51   Findings and determinations
   
26-52   Title and definitions
   
26-53   District boundaries and requirements pursuant to Neb. RS § 13-3204(3)
   
26-54   Authorization for the PACE Program
   
26-55   Liability of city officials; liability of city
§ 26-51 FINDINGS AND DETERMINATIONS.
   The City Council of the City of Bellevue, Nebraska (the “City”), hereby
finds and determines as follows:
   (A)   Pursuant to Neb. RS §§ 13-3201 to 13-3211, inclusive, the “Property
Assessment Clean Energy Act (the “Act), energy efficiency and the use of
renewable energy are important for preserving the health and economic well-
being of Nebraska’s citizens. Using less energy decreases the cost of living
and keeps the cost of public power low by delaying the need for additional
power plants. To further these goals, it is necessary for the City to promote
energy efficiency improvements and renewable energy systems. Upfront costs for
energy efficiency improvements and renewable energy systems may prohibit or
deter many property owners from making improvements. It is necessary for the
City to implement an alternative financing method through the creation of a
clean energy assessment district.
   (B)   Financing energy projects to further these goals is a valid public
purpose and can be accomplished through Property Assessed Clean Energy (“PACE”)
financing, which is used to overcome private capital and equity, not public
debt.
   (C)   Pursuant to the Act and Neb. RS § 13-3204, the City of Bellevue is
authorized to establish a clean energy assessment district so that owners of
qualifying property can access PACE financing for energy efficiency
improvements or renewable energy improvements to their properties located in
such municipality. The City may enter into an agreement pursuant to the
Interlocal Cooperation Act, Neb. RS §§ 13-801 et seq., for the creation,
administration or creation and administration of clean energy assessment
districts, pursuant to Neb. RS § 13-3210. The City declares its intent that the
provisions of this section shall be in conformity with federal and state laws.
The City enacts this section pursuant to the Act, as amended.
(Ord. 4006, §§ 1, 2, passed 10-6-2020)
§ 26-52 TITLE AND DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   This article shall be known and may be cited as “The City of Bellevue
Property Assessed Clean Energy (PACE) Ordinance.”
   (B)   Except the words and phrases specifically defined below or in, Neb. RS
§ 13-3203, as amended, words and phrases used in this article shall have their
customary meanings. As used in this Ordinance, the following words and phrases
shall have the following meanings:
      DISTRICT. The Bellevue, Nebraska, Clean Energy Assessment District,
created pursuant to this article, as authorized by Neb. RS §§ 13-3203 and 13-
3204(3), which boundaries shall be the corporate boundaries of the City of
Bellevue and its extraterritorial jurisdiction.
      DISTRICT ADMINISTRATOR. The Director of the City of Bellevue Planning
Department or a designated representative, or a third-party administrator
selected by the City.
      PACE FINANCING. Funds provided to the owner(s) of qualified property by
third-party lender, pursuant to the Act and this Ordinance, for an energy
efficiency improvement.
      QUALIFYING PROPERTY. Commercial property, including multifamily
residential property comprised of more than four dwelling units, and industrial
property located in the District.
(Ord. 3912, § 1, passed 9-24-2018)
§ 26-53 DISTRICT BOUNDARIES AND REQUIREMENTS PURSUANT TO NEB. RS § 13-3204(3).
   (A)   The City finds that the financing of energy projects is a valid public
purpose;
   (B)   The boundaries of the District shall be the corporate boundaries of
the City and its extraterritorial jurisdiction, as allowed pursuant to Neb. RS
§ 13-3204(1);
   (C)   The District Administrator shall use a contract form for assessment
contracts between the City, the owner of the qualifying property, and a third-
party lender, substantially in the form or containing terms as attached hereto
as Exhibit “A,” governing the terms and conditions of financing and annual
assessments that is in accordance with the Act, including Neb. RS § 13-3205(1),
which provides for repayment of the costs financed through annual assessments
upon the qualifying property benefited by the energy project;
   (D)   The Mayor of the City is authorized to enter into assessment contracts
on behalf of the District;
   (E)   The District Administrator will use a financing application process
and eligibility requirements, which shall be more specifically defined in a
program manual created by the District Administrator, for financing energy
projects in accordance with the requirements of the Act and accepted by the
third-party lender. The application process and program eligibility
requirements shall be, at a minimum, as follows:
      (1)   Submission of an application to the District Administrator, which
shall include, but not be limited to, the following information:
         (a)   Applicant name and contact information, including property owner
and developer;
         (b)   Project location and legal description;
         (c)   Identification of contractor or supplier, including anticipated
PACE contractor and a copy of the approved bid for the energy efficiency
project;
         (d)   Project description;
         (e)   Total project cost;
         (f)   Description of proposed improvements;
         (g)   Description of energy efficiency project to be financed;
         (h)   Amount of requested assessment;
         (i)   Interest rate on the PACE assessment and any required fees;
         (j)   Term of assessment;
         (k)   Estimated savings;
         (1)   Title report showing any mortgage or lien holders;
         (m)   Lender consent;
         (n)   Projected jobs created by PACE project;
         (o)   Project environmental benefits;
         (p)   Energy audit report;
         (q)   Funding source; and
         (r)   All other such information as needed to demonstrate the project
complies with all the requirements of the Act.
      (2)   The District Administrator shall review the application to
determine whether the energy project meets the eligibility requirements of the
Act and this article. An energy project shall not be eligible for PACE
financing if the qualifying property is subject to any of the following:
         (a)   Delinquent ad valorem taxes;
         (b)   Delinquent personal property taxes;
         (c)   Delinquent special assessments;
         (d)   Overdue or delinquent water or sewer charges;
         (e)   Involuntary liens, including but not limited to construction
liens;
         (f)   Notice of default pursuant to any mortgage or deed of trust
related to the qualifying property, or
         (g)   If the property owner or property developer is delinquent in the
payment of any assessment required to be paid for any energy efficiency
improvement financed pursuant to the Act.
      (3)   If the energy project is determined to be eligible under the terms
of the Act and as required in this article, the District Administrator shall
review the application and recommend approval, request additional information,
or deny the application, in its sole discretion.
      (4)   Upon approval of an application, the District Administrator is
authorized to proceed with an assessment contract, as allowed for and required
herein.
   (F)   Pursuant to Neb. RS § 13-3205(7), annual assessments agreed to under
an assessment contract shall be levied against the qualifying property and
collected in accordance with the Act;
   (G)   The District shall establish procedures to determine the following in
the future:
      (1)   Provisions for an adequate debt service reserve fund created under
Neb. RS § 13-3209, if applicable;
      (2)   Provisions for an adequate loss reserve fund created under Neb. RS
§ 13-3208, if applicable; and
      (3)   Any application, administration, or other program fees to be
charged to owners participating in the program that will be used to finance
costs incurred by the City as a result of the program; which costs shall be
deducted before remitting the remainder to the third-party PACE financing
program administrator.
   (H)   The term of the annual assessments shall not exceed the weighted
average useful life of the energy project paid for by the annual assessments;
   (I)   Any energy efficiency improvement that is not permanently affixed to
the qualifying property upon which an annual assessment is imposed to repay the
cost of such energy efficiency improvement must be conveyed with the qualifying
property if a transfer of ownership of the qualifying property occurs during
the term of the annual assessment;
   (J)   Prior to the effective date of any contract that binds the purchaser
to purchase qualifying property upon which an annual assessment is imposed, the
owner shall provide notice to the purchaser that the purchaser assumes
responsibility for payment of the annual assessment as provided in Neb. RS §
13-3205(3)(d), that the obligations set forth in the assessment contract,
including the obligation to pay annual assessments, are a covenant that shall
run with the land and must be obligations upon future owners of the qualifying
property;
   (K)   In connection with providing PACE financing, the District will provide
for marketing and participant education;
   (L)   After the energy project is completed, the District and/or its third-
party lenders shall obtain verification that the renewable energy system or
energy efficiency improvement was properly installed and is operating as
intended.
(Ord. 3912, § 1, passed 9-24-2018)
§ 26-54 AUTHORIZATION FOR THE PACE PROGRAM.
   Pursuant to Neb. RS § 13-3204(1) the District shall be governed by the
governing body of the City.
   (A)   The District Administrator shall comply with the Act, the provisions
of this Ordinance and follow approved City procurement policy and procedures
for selecting a third-party administrator for the administration of the PACE
program. The third-party administrator must ensure that there is no financial
requirement, liability, or exposure to the District. The City Planning
Department may serve as the administrator of the PACE program for the District.
   (B)   The District may also engage the services of a state or local
financing agency for the purposes of providing conduit bond financing for the
District as part of its third-party administration.
   (C)   Upon selection of a third-party administrator, that third-party
administrator may, on behalf of the District, accept applications for financing
energy efficient improvements within the District boundaries, facilitate the
financing application process and review eligibility requirements for financing
energy projects in accordance with the requirements of the Act and as accepted
by the third-party lender.
   (D)   The District may recommend that it be expanded via the Interlocal
Cooperation Act in order to create a program of sufficient size and scale, to
attract qualified third-party administrators, and/or to promote energy
efficiency across multiple political subdivisions, as authorized under the Act.
(Ord. 3912, § 1, passed 9-24-2018)
§ 26-55 LIABILITY OF CITY OFFICIALS; LIABILITY OF CITY.
   Notwithstanding any other provision of law to the contrary, officers and
other officials of the City, the District and the County in which the City is
located shall not be personally liable to any person for claims, of whatever
kind or nature, under or related to the City’s participation in the District’s
PACE Program, including, without limitation, claims for or related to
uncollected PACE Assessments. The City has no liability to a property owner for
or related to energy savings improvements funded under a PACE Program.
(Ord. 3912, § 1, passed 9-24-2018)
CHAPTER 27: PLUMBING
   Article
      
I.   IN GENERAL
      
II.   LICENSES
      
III.   PERMITS
      
IV.   PLUMBING CODE
      
V.   SEWER LAYER’S LICENSE
      
VI.   LAWN SPRINKLER SYSTEMS
      
VII.   MECHANICAL
      
VIII.   WATER CONDITIONING LICENSE
      
IX.   DECORATIVE APPLIANCE CONTRACTORS AND INSTALLERS
ARTICLE I: IN GENERAL
Section
   27-1—27-15   Reserved
Editor’s note:
   Ord. 2867, § 1, adopted December 11, 1995, repealed former Ch. 27, Arts. I
through VII, in its entirety and enacted new provisions as herein set out.
Former Ch. 27 pertained to similar subject matter and derived from the Code of
1964 and the following ordinances:
Ord. No. Section Date
Ord. No. Section Date
2048     —     11-28-1977
2094     1       4-23-1979
2134     1       6- 9-1980
2196     1, 2    3-8-1982
2241     1       3-14-1983
2310     1       3-26-1984
2376     1—48  8-26-1984
2392     1       11-11-1985
2415     1       4-14-1986
2458     1       4-13-1987
2510     2       5 -23-1988
2555     1       6-26-1989
2556     1       6-26-1989
2562     1       7-24-1989
2607     1       2-11-1991
2721     1       11-23-1992
2743     1       3-24-1993
2740     1       4-12-1993
2741     1       4-12-1993
2764     1       8-12-1993
 
§§ 27-1—27-15 RESERVED.
ARTICLE II: LICENSES
Section
Division 1: Generally
   27-16—27-25   Reserved
Division 2: Plumbing Contractors
   
27-26   License required; examination
   
27-27   Application
   
27-28   Examination—Required
   
27-29   Same—Fee
   
27-30   Reserved
   
27-31   Same—Certificate of insurance required, master’s license
   
27-32   Issuance; term
   
27-33   Same—Denial
   
27-34   Re-examination after failure
   
27-35   Established place of business; display name on trucks
   
27-36   Retired master’s license
   
27-37   Temporary license
   27-38—27-46   Reserved
Division 3: Plumbers
   
27-47   Only licensed master plumber permitted to contract for plumbing work
   
27-48   Expiration; not assignable
   
27-49   Same—Renewal; fee
   
27-50   Revocation or suspension of license
   
27-51   Revocation of license—Upon court conviction
   
27-52   Same—Grounds generally
   
27-53   Procedure for violation notification
   
27-54   Same—Notice; hearing
   
27-55   Same—Conduct and record of hearing
   
27-56   Same—Action of the building official; appeal
   
27-57   Special license for one job only
   
27-58   License required, generally; approval for signature on permits
   
27-59   Same—Work done by person in his/her own residence
   
27-60   Same—Effect on firms or corporations
   27-61—27-69   Reserved
Statutory reference:
   Plumbers, see Neb. RS 1943, §§ 18-1901 et seq.
DIVISION 1: GENERALLY
§§ 27-16—27-25 RESERVED.
DIVISION 2: PLUMBING CONTRACTORS
§ 27-26 LICENSE REQUIRED; EXAMINATION.
   License requirement. It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in the
plumbing business as a master or contracting plumber in the city and the two-
mile zoning jurisdiction, without having first secured a license to do so from
the Permits and Inspections Department. For purposes of chapter 27, the areas
within the city and within the two-mile zoning jurisdiction of the city shall
be collectively referred to as the “jurisdiction of the city.”
(Ord. 2867, § 1, passed 12-11-1995)
§ 27-27 APPLICATION.
   (A)   Each applicant for a license required by the preceding section shall
make application to the Permits and Inspections Department on blank forms
prepared and furnished by such department and indicating thereon whether the
application is for a master plumber or a journeyman plumber license.
   (B)   Examination. Application for Plumbing examinations will be
administered by an authorized testing agency, the applications for said
examination shall be provided by the Permits and Inspections Department, and
the applicant must provide proof of the following:
      (1)   A journeyman plumber must have a minimum of three years' practical
work experience as an apprentice and pass the journeyman test with a minimum
grade of 70 percent. An apprentice is a person other than a licensee who is
engaged in the learning of the plumbing trade through practical work experience
under a licensed master plumbing contractor. A plumbing apprentice shall be
employed full-time under the supervision and guidance of a master plumbing
contractor and shall be exempt from examination during the period and time said
license is in effect. Plumbing apprentice licenses are established to provide
individuals with the ability to pursue time and grade criteria for future
licensing. Formal education accrued from an approved educational institution
may be submitted for consideration by the building official towards the
practical work experience requirement for the journeyman license.
      (2)   A master plumber (contractor) must have a minimum of three years
practical work experience as an apprentice, or the equivalent in formal
education approved by the building official, and a minimum of three years
practical work experience as a licensed journeyman and pass the written test
with a minimum grade of 70 percent.
(Ord. 2867, § 1, passed 12-11-1995; Ord. 2934, § 1, passed 1-27-1997; Ord.
3659, § 1, passed 11-28-2011; Ord. 4060, § 1, passed 10-19-2021)
§ 27-28 EXAMINATION—REQUIRED.
   (A)   Each applicant for a license required by this division of the code
shall appear before the Permits and Inspections Department, voluntarily or upon
notice from the Permits and Inspections Department, and submit to examination
and testing of his/her education and competency, as may be required by such
department.
   (B)   In lieu of the examination and testing of education referenced in (A)
above, an applicant for a license under the provisions of this section may
submit to the Permits and Inspections Department evidence, satisfactory to the
building official, of having passed an examination and test equivalent to that
required by this division, together with his/her license currently in effect
issued to such applicant from a competent jurisdiction outside the jurisdiction
of this city. If the building official finds that by virtue of such evidence
and the license that the applicant has successfully passed an examination and
testing of his/her education equivalent to that required by this division and
also that the applicant then meets the other requisites of this division, the
building official may accept such findings as an acceptable standard and issue
to the applicant a license without submitting the applicant to further
examination and testing.
(Ord. 2867, § 1, passed 12-11-1995; Ord. 4060, § 2, passed 10-19-2021)
§ 27-29 SAME—FEE.
   Each applicant for a license required by this division shall pay an
examination fee directly to the authorized testing agency approved by the
Permits and Inspections Department.
(Ord. 2867, § 1, passed 12-11-1995; Ord. 3498, passed 3-9-2009; Ord. 3505, § 1,
passed 3-9-2009; Ord. 3659, § 2, passed 11-28-2011)
§ 27-30 RESERVED.
§ 27-31 SAME—CERTIFICATE OF INSURANCE REQUIRED, MASTER’S LICENSE.
   Prior to receiving a license under the preceding section, an applicant who
has successfully passed the masters examination shall furnish a certificate of
insurance to the Permits and Inspections Department which provides combined
coverage of bodily injury and property damage in a minimum amount of
$300,000.00, and shall strictly comply with this code and any other ordinances
of the city relating to the installation, alteration, or repair of any plumbing
system within the extraterritorial jurisdiction of the city.
(Ord. 2867, § 1, passed 12-11-1995; Ord. 3659, § 4, passed 11-28-2011)
§ 27-32 ISSUANCE; TERM.
   When the applicant for a license required by this division passes the
required examination to the satisfaction of the Permits and Inspections
Department, the building official shall notify the applicant of his or her
score within 15 days of the examination. Upon payment of a license fee as
described in the Master Fee Schedule, the building official shall issue a
license to do plumbing work in the city which shall be effective and valid
through December 31st of each calendar year.
(Ord. 2867, § 1, passed 12-11-1995; Ord. 3505, § 2, passed 3-9-2009; Ord. 3659,
§ 5, passed 11-28-2011)
§ 27-33 SAME—DENIAL.
   Any person who has been denied a license under the provisions of this
article may, within a period of ten days, appeal the decision of the building
official to the city council.
(Ord. 2867, § 1, passed 12-11-1995)
§ 27-34 RE-EXAMINATION AFTER FAILURE.
   When an applicant for a plumbing license has failed to pass the examination
based on the minimum acceptable score, the applicant may apply to the Permits
and Inspections Department for re-examination any time.
(Ord. 2867, § 1, passed 12-11-1995; Ord. 4060, § 3, passed 10-19-2021)
§ 27-35 ESTABLISHED PLACE OF BUSINESS; DISPLAY NAME ON TRUCKS.
   Every licensed master plumber must have an established place of business.
The master plumber’s registration shall be posted in a conspicuous place in the
place of business, provided the place of business fronts on a public
thoroughfare and has a separate entrance. The place of business shall have
signs posted identifying the master plumber or his/her firm. This provision
shall not prevent a master plumber from having his/her place of business and
dwelling combined, provided that such use conforms to the city zoning ordinance
requirements for home occupation. All vehicles associated with the business or
corporation in the conduct of the business shall have the name of the master
plumber, firm, or corporation and the contractor’s license number visibly
displayed on every vehicle associated with such, in letters not less than two
inches high on both sides of the vehicles.
(Ord. 2867, § 1, passed 12-11-1995)
§ 27-36 RETIRED MASTER’S LICENSE.
   (A)   A licensed master plumber who wishes to fully retire from the plumbing
trade may apply to the building official for a retired master plumber’s
license. Upon such application and payment of renewal fees ordinarily
applicable to a master plumber’s license the building official may grant such
person a retired master plumber’s license. The holder of a retired master
plumber’s license shall not engage in any plumbing activities for which a
master’s license is required under this Code. Nothing shall prevent the holder
of a retired master plumber’s license from acting in the capacity of a
journeyman under the requirements of this article.
   (B)   The insurance requirements of section
27-31 shall not be required as prerequisites for the issuance, maintenance, or
renewal of the retired master plumber’s license.
   (C)   The holder of a retired master plumber’s license may make application
to the building official for a reactivation of his/her status as a master
plumber. The building official may issue such master’s license upon compliance
with all the following:
      (1)   Payment of the required fees applicable to the renewal of the
master’s license; and
      (2)   The filing of a certificate of insurance under the provisions of
this article.
(Ord. 2867, § 1, passed 12-11-1995; Ord. 3659, § 6, passed 11-28-2011)
§ 27-37 TEMPORARY LICENSE.
   In the case of the death of the holder of a valid master’s license, the
building official may issue a temporary master license to the company or
corporation at which such master plumber was employed, if such company or
corporation has in its employ an individual with a valid Bellevue journeyman’s
license. Such license shall be valid for a period of not more than six months
and shall not be extended, nor shall any other temporary license be extended to
another member of the firm or corporation during such grace period. Such
temporary license shall be void if the company or corporation to which the
license is assigned fails to keep in its employ an individual with a valid
Bellevue journeyman’s license.
(Ord. 2867, § 1, passed 12-11-1995)
§§ 27-38—27-46 RESERVED.
DIVISION 3: PLUMBERS
§ 27-47 ONLY LICENSED MASTER PLUMBER PERMITTED TO CONTRACT FOR PLUMBING WORK.
   Only a licensed master plumber shall be allowed to contract for plumbing
work in the jurisdiction of the city. At least one person, of the firm or
corporation wishing to contract for plumbing work in the jurisdiction of the
city shall be a licensed master plumber. Licensed journeyman plumbers in the
employ of a licensed master plumber shall be allowed to work unattended on jobs
and may supervise, not to exceed three, apprentices without a master plumber
being present.
(Ord. 2867, § 1, passed 12-11-1995)
§ 27-48 EXPIRATION; NOT ASSIGNABLE.
   Master and journeyman plumber licenses under the provisions of this division
shall be effective and valid through December 31st of each calendar year and
shall not be assignable.
(Ord. 2867, § 1, passed 12-11-1995)
§ 27-49 SAME—RENEWAL; FEE.
   (A)   Before the expiration of any license issued from or by the Permits and
Inspections Department, the holder may, upon payment of a renewal fee as
described in the Master Fee Schedule, make application to the Permits and
Inspections Department for renewal of his or her license. Failure to make
application and pay the renewal fee for renewal of a license before the
expiration date thereof subjects the applicant to pay the renewal fee plus any
additional late fees as described in the Master Fee Schedule. If the
application is filed and fees are paid in accordance with the above, the
building official shall issue a renewal of such license without examination
unless there are revocations or suspension proceedings in progress against such
individual.
   (B)   Effective the date of the ordinance from which this section is
derived, all contractors holding a current license will have a three-month
grace period after the expiration date of his or her license to pay required
fees as stated in the Master Fee Schedule, section
11-120 in order to renew his or her license. After the three-month grace period
contractors will be required to pay a reinstatement fee, as stated in the
Master Fee Schedule. Failure to renew by the end of the grace period shall
cause such license to expire. If such license has expired, the building
official shall reinstate the license provided an application for reinstatement
is made by the contractor within one year of the expiration of the license, a
reinstatement fee as stated in the Master Fee Schedule is paid, there are no
revocation or suspension proceedings in progress against the license holder and
the contractor otherwise meets the requirements for the year of the
reinstatement. Except as provided herein, any license that has expired shall
not be renewed or reinstated and testing with a minimum passing score of 70
percent will be mandatory in order for the building official to issue a license
to do work within the city and its extra-territorial zoning jurisdiction. If
the building official has reason to believe that the licensee has violated the
provisions of section 27-53, he/she shall have the power to impose any
revocation or suspension clause contained within the context of this article.
(Ord. 2867, § 1, passed 12-11-1995; Ord. 2980, § 1, passed 2-23-1998; Ord.
3505, § 3, passed 3-9-2009; Ord. 3659, § 7, passed 11-28-2011)
§ 27-50 REVOCATION OR SUSPENSION OF LICENSE.
   In addition to any other penalty imposed for a violation of this article,
the building official may, at any time, revoke or suspend the license of any
plumber who neglects to carry out the provisions of this article or refuses to
be governed by such provisions in the prosecution of his/her work.
(Ord. 2867, § 1, passed 12-11-1995)
§ 27-51 REVOCATION OF LICENSE—UPON COURT CONVICTION.
   The building official shall have the power to revoke, with just cause, any
license issued under this article. A license shall be revoked immediately by
the building official upon conviction of the holder thereof in a court of
competent jurisdiction, for the violation of any laws of the state, this code
or any ordinances of the city, relative to the installation, repair, cleaning,
or alteration in or to any plumbing system.
(Ord. 2867, § 1, passed 12-11-1995)
§ 27-52 SAME—GROUNDS GENERALLY.
   A license issued pursuant to this article shall be revoked by the building
official when he/she finds that the holder is guilty of one or more of the
following:
   (A)   Fraudulent use of his/her license;
   (B)   Incompetency in the exercise of the privilege of the license;
   (C)   Fraud or misrepresentation in securing the license permits granted
pursuant to the building codes of the city;
   (D)   Refusal to perform his/her work to the requirements of the law; and/or
   (E)   Such other breaches of duty by the holder of the license as the
building official may find which cause an unsafe or unsanitary condition,
contrary to the intent and purpose of this article.
(Ord. 2867, § 1, passed 12-11-1995)
§ 27-53 PROCEDURE FOR VIOLATION NOTIFICATION.
   Except as stated, section 27-53, cases involving violations of the
provisions of this article or any other law or ordinance of the City of
Bellevue relating to contractor licensing or permit requirements, the following
notification procedure shall be implemented by the building official prior to
actual revocation of a license:
   (A)   For the first violation of this article, a written notification shall
be sent by certified mail to the licensee informing him/her of the violation
and future recourse by the city.
   (B)   The second violation of this article shall cause the building official
to suspend the license for a period of one month and notify the licensee, again
by certified mail, of the city procedures.
   (C)   The third violation of this article shall cause the building official
to revoke the license for a period of not less than six months and not to
exceed one year. The building official shall present his/her case file to the
city council at the next regularly scheduled meeting for enactment of temporary
revocation proceedings.
   (D)   The fourth violation of this article shall cause the building official
to permanently revoke the license. The building official shall present his/her
case file to the city council at the next regularly scheduled meeting for
permanent revocation.
(Ord. 2867, § 1, passed 12-11-1995)
§ 27-54 SAME—NOTICE; HEARING.
   In all cases involving revocation or suspension of a license under this
article, at least 15 days notice of the contemplated revocation or suspension
shall be served upon the licensee, and such notice shall indicate the time and
place of the hearing, the general grounds of the contemplated action, and shall
advise the holder of his/her right to appear at the hearing in person or by
counsel for the purpose of presenting his/her defense. In each case, the
licensee shall not continue to perform the duties associated with the privilege
of the license until the termination of the proceedings. This provision shall
be waived only if a court of competent jurisdiction issues a temporary
injunction against the city in such proceedings.
(Ord. 2867, § 1, passed 12-11-1995)
§ 27-55 SAME—CONDUCT AND RECORD OF HEARING.
   The building official shall make a complete record of the case involving any
revocation or suspension of a license under this article and shall keep a
written record of the testimony produced at the hearing held pursuant to the
preceding section. He/she may request legal advice from the city law department
and adopt such procedure for the decorum and the dispatch of business of such
hearings as he/she may regard advisable.
(Ord. 2867, § 1, passed 12-11-1995)
§ 27-56 SAME—ACTION OF THE BUILDING OFFICIAL; APPEAL.
   The decision of the building official, at a hearing on the revocation or
suspension of a license under this article, shall be final. In the case of a
suspension of a license, the licensee’s time in grade for the particular
license shall be suspended for the period of suspension and shall begin
accruing again at the end of the suspension. An adverse decision by the
building official may be appealed to the city council by filing with the city
clerk within 15 days from such decision, a written notice of the intention to
appeal and a request for a hearing before the city council. The city council,
within 30 days of the filing of such written notice, shall grant a hearing to
the party appealing. The revocation or suspension of a license shall not
entitle the holder to a refund of any part of the fee which he/she may have
paid.
(Ord. 2867, § 1, passed 12-11-1995)
§ 27-57 SPECIAL LICENSE FOR ONE JOB ONLY.
   Whenever the building official deems it advisable he or she may, at his or
her discretion, issue a special master plumbing license to any plumbing
contractor who is not otherwise licensed by the city to do plumbing work, but
who can provide proof of competency as a licensed master contractor in another
city’s jurisdiction. The special license, so issued, shall allow the licensee
to do plumbing work on the building for which it is issued and no other. The
fee for such special license shall be $150.00 and such fees shall be paid
before the special license is issued. A certificate of insurance, which
provides combined coverage for bodily injury and property damage in a minimum
amount of $300,000.00, shall be provided to the Permits and Inspections
Department prior to the issuance of the special license. Upon the completion of
the work, for which a special license was issued, such license shall expire and
become null and void.
(Ord. 2867, § 1, passed 12-11-1995; Ord. 3659, § 8, passed 11-28-2011)
§ 27-58 LICENSE REQUIRED, GENERALLY; APPROVAL FOR SIGNATURE ON PERMITS.
   No person licensed under this chapter shall do any plumbing work within the
city and the two mile zoning jurisdiction without having in his/her possession
a plumbing permit issued by the city pursuant to this article containing the
name of the master plumber or firm authorized to do the work. Permits
associated with this article shall be applied for by the master plumber. When
such permit has been approved, it shall be signed and paid for by the licensed
master plumber associated with the business firm, or corporation who has been
approved through other provisions of this division.
(Ord. 2867, § 1, passed 12-11-1995)
§ 27-59 SAME—WORK DONE BY PERSON IN HIS/HER OWN RESIDENCE.
   No license required under this article shall be required of any individual
doing installation or repair of the plumbing systems of the residence in which
he/she lives, provided such installation is done in conformity with this code
and any other ordinances of the city. In all cases, the rules and regulations
of this article shall be complied with and such individual shall notify the
city of such work proposed, request inspection thereof and pay a permit in
accordance with the Uniform Administrative Code provisions. Furthermore, this
section shall only apply to those installations required for remodeling,
additions, and repairs. No individual shall be allowed to perform any plumbing
work on new construction without first having been issued a license to do such
work.
(Ord. 2867, § 1, passed 12-11-1995)
§ 27-60 SAME—EFFECT ON FIRMS OR CORPORATIONS.
   A master’s license issued to an individual shall authorize a company or
corporation to engage in such business or occupation during the period of time
that the licensee maintains his/her connections with such company or
corporation. A license applied under the requirements of this article shall be
valid and in effect for one company, firm, or corporation as an active license,
and shall not be assignable to any other company, firm, or corporation.
(Ord. 2867, § 1, passed 12-11-1995)
§§ 27-61—27-69 RESERVED.
ARTICLE III: PERMITS
Section
   
27-70   Exceptions
   
27-71   Issued to holders of license
   
27-72   Permit for connection to public sewer—Required
   
27-73   Same—Fees generally; approval of plan
   
27-74   Same—Approval of private building sewer
   27-75—27-84   Reserved
§ 27-70 EXCEPTIONS.
   The provisions of this division shall not apply to any federal, state, or
municipal government or any subdivisions thereof.
(Ord. 2867, § 1, passed 12-11-1995)
§ 27-71 ISSUED TO HOLDERS OF LICENSE.
   No permit for any work covered by the provisions of this article shall be
issued to other than the holder of a master plumbing license, except for the
provisions contained in section 27-60.
(Ord. 2867, § 1, passed 12-11-1995)
§ 27-72 PERMIT FOR CONNECTION TO PUBLIC SEWER—REQUIRED.
   Before any sewer connection is made to the public main sewer, a permit shall
be applied for and approved by the building official or his/her designee.
(Ord. 2867, § 1, passed 12-11-1995)
§ 27-73 SAME—FEES GENERALLY; APPROVAL OF PLAN.
   (A)   Before any permit may be issued allowing connection to be made with
the sanitary sewer main or building sewers or allowing excavation to be made in
streets, alleys, or public grounds for the purpose of sewer connection in the
city, or in the unincorporated area two miles beyond and adjacent to the
corporate boundaries, the owner of the property so to be connected or
excavated, or his/her agent, shall pay to the city a connection fee as
described in the Master Fee Schedule.
   (B)   The commercial, industrial and institutional lots shall be computed to
the nearest 100th acre, but the fee shall in no event be less than one half of
the amount as described in the Master Fee Schedule.
Commercial, industrial, and institutional acreage shall be based upon the
entire commercial, industrial or institutional area which is the subject of the
building permit including the developed land and the land immediately adjacent
to the facility which forms the usable part of the property excluding
undeveloped open space, parking areas, unsewered playgrounds, and unsewered
sports activities areas. Subsequent buildings or additions to existing
buildings shall be recomputed and an additional sewer connection fee shall be
charged based upon the schedule of fees in the Master Fee Schedule.
   (C)   As used herein, the expression institutional refers primarily to
religious assemblies, facilities and public and private schools. Plans for the
connection shall be approved by the building official.
   (D)   Revenue generated from sewer connection fees shall be used to license
sanitary sewer projects recommended in the Sanitary Sewer Master Plan for Zones
1 and 2, dated April 1988, and supplement report, dated March 1990.
(Ord. 2867, § 1, passed 12-11-1995; Ord. 3458, § 1, passed 3-24-2008; Ord.
3505, § 4, passed 3-9-2009)
§ 27-74 SAME—APPROVAL OF PRIVATE BUILDING SEWER.
   Before any permit may be issued for the installation of any proposed private
building sewer, its plan shall have been approved by the building official.
(Ord. 2867, § 1, passed 12-11-1995)
§§ 27-75—27-84 RESERVED.
ARTICLE IV: PLUMBING CODE
Section
Division 1: Generally
   
27-85   Adopted
   
27-85.1   International Fuel Gas Code adopted
   
27-86   Uniform Swimming Pool, Spa and Hot Tub Code adopted
   
27-87   Amendments and changes to the Uniform Plumbing Code, 2021 Edition,
International Fuel Gas Code, 2021 Edition, and Uniform Swimming Pool, Spa and
Hut Tub Code, 2021 Edition
   27-88—27-96   Reserved
Division 2: Sewer Connections
   
27-97   Definitions
   
27-98   Applicability
   
27-99   Type of connection of premises with public sewer
   
27-100   Inspection and supervision of drain pipes and systems—Required
generally
   
27-101   Same—Right of entry
   
27-102   Street superintendent notified of cuts; streets, curbs, etc., to be
restored to original condition
   
27-103   Public sewer to be used
   
27-104   Use of existing building sewers
   
27-105   Privy vault or cesspool
   
27-106   Connection of storm drainage with sanitary sewer prohibited
   
27-107   Discharge of harmful substances prohibited—Generally
   
27-108   Blow-off basin/interceptor required for certain discharges
   
27-109   Depth of pipe
   
27-110   Grease traps—Required for certain drains
   
27-111   Same—Installation
   
27-112   Same—Outside installation
   
27-113   Same—Kept clean
   
27-114   Pipes not immediately connected
   
27-115   Systems to be complete and independent
   
27-116   Connections when premises are part of sewer district
   
27-117   Swimming pool drain connections
   
27-118   Sewer taps—To existing sewers; taps to new sewers; application
   
27-119   Same—Depth; location
   
27-120   Same—Denials and appeals
   
27-121   Same—Fees
   
27-122   Same—Default of tap application
   27-123—27-132   Reserved
DIVISION 1: GENERALLY
§ 27-85 ADOPTED.
   The Uniform Plumbing Code, 2021 Edition, published by the International
Association of Plumbing and Mechanical Officials, is hereby adopted by
reference and made a part of this division as though set out in full herein;
provided that whenever provisions of the Uniform Plumbing Code shall conflict
with the provisions of the City Code or any other city ordinance, the
provisions of the City Code or such city ordinance shall govern. Three (3)
copies of the Uniform Plumbing Code, 2021 edition, are on file in the office of
the Permits and Inspections Department and shall there remain for public use
and inspection.
(Ord. 3336, § 2, passed 9-27-2004; Ord. 3380, § 2, passed 10-24-2005; Ord.
3520, § 2, passed 5-11-2009; Ord. 3660, § 2, passed 11-28-2011; Ord. 3794, § 1,
passed 12-8-2014; Ord. 4035, § 1, passed 5-4-2021)
§ 27-85.1 INTERNATIONAL FUEL GAS CODE ADOPTED.
   The International Fuel Gas Code, 2021 Edition, published by the
International Code Council Inc., is hereby adopted by reference and made a part
of this division as though set out in full herein; provided that whenever
provisions of the International Fuel Gas Code shall conflict with the
provisions of the City Code or any other city ordinance shall govern. Three (3)
copies of the International Fuel Gas Code, 2021 Edition, are on file in the
office of the Permits and Inspections Department and shall there remain for
public use and inspection.
(Ord. 3336, § 2, passed 9-27-2004; Ord. 3380, § 2, passed 10-24-2005; Ord.
3520, § 2, passed 5-11-2009; Ord. 3660, § 2, passed 11-28-2011; Ord. 3794, § 2,
passed 12-8-2014; Ord. 4035, § 2, passed 5-4-2021)
Statutory reference:
   Adoption of standard codes, see Neb. RS 1943, § 18-132
§ 27-86 UNIFORM SWIMMING POOL, SPA AND HOT TUB CODE ADOPTED.
   The Uniform Swimming Pool, Spa and Hot Tub Code, 2021 Edition, published by
the International Association of Plumbing and Mechanical Officials, is hereby
adopted by reference and made a part of this division as though set out in full
herein; provided that whenever provisions of the Uniform Swimming Pool, Spa and
Hot Tub Code shall conflict with the provisions of the City Code or any other
city ordinance, the provision of the City Code or such city ordinance shall
govern. Three (3) copies of the Uniform Swimming Pool, Spa and Hot Tub Code,
2021 Edition, are on file in the office of the Permits and Inspections
Department and shall there remain for public use and inspection.
(Ord. 3080, § 2, passed 1-24-2000; Ord. 3336, § 3, passed 9-27-2004; Ord. 3380,
§ 3, passed 10-24-2005; Ord. 3520, § 3, passed 5-11-2009; Ord. 3660, § 3,
passed 11-28-2011; Ord. 3794, § 3, passed 12-8-2014; Ord. 4035, § 3, passed 5-
4-2021)
Statutory reference:
   Adoption of standard codes, see Neb. RS 1943, § 18-132
§ 27-87 AMENDMENTS AND CHANGES TO THE UNIFORM PLUMBING CODE, 2021 EDITION,
INTERNATIONAL FUEL GAS CODE, 2021 EDITION, AND UNIFORM SWIMMING POOL, SPA AND
HOT TUB CODE, 2021 EDITION.
   (A)   The Uniform Plumbing Code, 2021 Edition, is amended and changed in the
following respects:
      (1)   Delete Chapter 1, Administration, in its entirety.
      (2)   Amend Table 422.1 footnotes to read as follows:
      PLUMBING FIXTURES AND FIXTURE FITTINGS
      1.   The figures shown are based upon one (1) fixture being the minimum
required for the number of persons indicated or any fraction thereof.
      2.   A restaurant is defined as a business that sells food to be consumed
on the premises.
         (a)   The number of occupants for a drive-in restaurant shall be
considered as equal to the number of parking stalls.
         (b)   Hand-washing facilities shall be available in the kitchen for
employees.
      3.   The total number of required water closets for females shall be not
less than the total number or required water closets and urinals for males.
      4.   For each urinal added in excess of the minimum required, one water
closet shall be permitted to be deducted. The number of water closets shall not
be reduced to less than two-thirds of the minimum requirements.
      5.   Metering or self-closing faucets shall be installed on lavatories
intended to serve the transient public.
      6.   Laundry trays. One (1) laundry tray or one (1) automatic washer
standpipe for each dwelling unit or one (1) laundry tray or one (1) automatic
washer standpipe, or combination thereof, for each twelve (12) apartments.
Kitchen sinks; one (1) for each dwelling or apartment unit.
      7.   Twenty-four (24) lineal inches (610 mm) of wash sink or eighteen
(18) inches (557 mm) of a circular basin, when provided with water outlets for
such space, shall be considered equivalent to one (1) lavatory.
      (3)   Delete Sections 506.0 through 506.9 of Chapter 5, Combustion Air,
in their entirety.
      (4)   Delete Chapter 12 in its entirety.
      (5)   Delete Appendix H in its entirety, and substitute the following:
      Private Sewage Disposal Systems shall be: "Title 124 Rules and
Regulations for the Design, Operation and Maintenance of on-site wastewater
treatment system "(Nebraska Department of Environment and Energy)."
   (B)   (1)   The International Fuel Gas Code, 2021 Edition, is amended and
changed in the following respects:
      (2)   Delete Chapter 1, Administration, in its entirety.
(Ord. 3080, § 3, passed 1-24-2000; Ord. 3336, § 4, passed 9-27-2004; Ord. 3380,
§ 4, passed 10-24-2005; Ord. 3520, § 4, passed 5-11-2009; Ord. 3612, § 1,
passed 2-28-2011; Ord. 3660, § 4, passed 11-28-2011; Ord. 3794, § 4, passed 12-
8-2014; Ord. 4035, § 4, passed 5-4-2021)
§§ 27-88—27-96 RESERVED.
DIVISION 2: SEWER CONNECTIONS
Editor’s note:
   Prior sections require permits for: (1) Connections to public sewer,
sanitary sewer, and building sewer. (2) Installation of private building sewer.
§ 27-97 DEFINITIONS.
   BUILDING DRAIN. That part of the lowest horizontal piping of a building
drainage system which receives and conveys the discharge from soil, waste, and
drainage pipes, other than storm drains, from within the walls or footings of
any building to the building sewer.
   BUILDING SEWER. That part of the horizontal piping of a drainage system
which extends from the end of the building drain and which receives the
discharge of the building drain and conveys it to the public sewer, private
sewage disposal system, or other point of disposal.
   DRAIN. Any pipe which carries waste or waterborne wastes in a building
drainage system.
   PRIVATE SEWAGE DISPOSAL SYSTEM. A septic tank with the effluent discharging
into a subsurface disposal field, into one or more seepage pits, or into a
combination of subsurface disposal field and seepage pit or of such other
facilities as may be permitted under the procedures set forth elsewhere in this
code.
   PRIVATE SEWER. A building sewer which receives the discharge for more than
one building drain and conveys it to a public sewer, private sewage disposal
system, or other point of disposal.
   PUBLIC SEWER. A common sewer directly controlled by public authority.
   SANITARY SEWER. A sewer intended to receive human excrement or waste and
liquid household wastes.
   STORM SEWER. A conduit for carrying off surface, storm, and clear water.
(Ord. 2867, § 1, passed 12-11-1995)
§ 27-98 APPLICABILITY.
   (A)   All connections of private drains or sewers with the public sewers
within the jurisdiction of the city or the construction or modification of
appurtenances to sewers or sewer connections and all private drainage systems
connected to septic tanks or cesspools within the jurisdiction of the city
shall be made in accordance with the rules and regulations of this division.
   (B)   Any drain or building sewer which is to extend under or into any
dwelling or building and connects the building sanitary drainage system with
the public main of the city’s sanitary sewer system shall conform to the
requirements of this division.
(Ord. 2867, § 1, passed 12-11-1995)
Statutory reference:
   Sewage disposal and sewerage systems generally, see Neb. RS 1943, §§ 18-501
et seq.
§ 27-99 TYPE OF CONNECTION OF PREMISES WITH PUBLIC SEWER.
   Every connecting building sewer shall be connected to the public sewer
system by a licensed master plumber or the layer and connected at the “wye” or
existing building service line designated for the properties served. All other
connections shall be made by city public works employees only, except where
otherwise expressly authorized by the wastewater superintendent, and such
connection shall be made only under the direct supervision and in such manner
as he/she may direct.
(Ord. 2867, § 1, passed 12-11-1995)
§ 27-100 INSPECTION AND SUPERVISION OF DRAIN PIPES AND SYSTEMS— REQUIRED
GENERALLY.
   No drain pipes shall be used until they have been examined and approved by
the plumbing inspector. The plumbing inspector shall supervise all building
sewer connections made to the public sanitary sewer system and excavations for
the purpose of installing or repairing same. Connections to public sewers shall
be made by either glued fittings or approved couplings. There may be additional
inspections by the wastewater superintendent or his/her agent.
(Ord. 2867, § 1, passed 12-11-1995)
§ 27-101 SAME—RIGHT OF ENTRY.
   The right of free entrance shall always be allowed at any reasonable hour of
the day, into and upon the property and premises drained onto any public or
district sewer, by any proper city employee or agent for the purpose of
examining and inspecting the condition of such drain or drains.
(Ord. 2867, § 1, passed 12-11-1995)
§ 27-102 STREET SUPERINTENDENT NOTIFIED OF CUTS; STREETS, CURBS, ETC., TO BE
RESTORED TO ORIGINAL CONDITION.
   The street superintendent shall be notified of all street cuts by the
Permits and Inspections Department. No connection to the public sanitary sewer
system shall be finally approved until all street, pavements, curbs, or other
public improvements thereon have been restored to their former condition to the
satisfaction of the public works director.
(Ord. 2867, § 1, passed 12-11-1995)
§ 27-103 PUBLIC SEWER TO BE USED.
   Where a public sewer is considered reasonably accessible in a street, alley,
or easement to a building or premises abutting thereon, the liquid waste from
any plumbing system in such building shall discharge into the public sewer
unless otherwise authorized by the city council.
(Ord. 2867, § 1, passed 12-11-1995)
§ 27-104 USE OF EXISTING BUILDING SEWERS.
   Existing building sewers or portions thereof may be approved for use by the
plumbing inspector. The plumbing inspector may request that the existing
building sewer be excavated for the purpose of facilitating inspection. No
private sewage disposal system shall be connected to any portion of a building
sewer that is also connected to the public sanitary sewer.
(Ord. 2867, § 1, passed 12-11-1995)
§ 27-105 PRIVY VAULT OR CESSPOOL.
   No privy vault or cesspool shall be connected with the building sewer.
Cesspools may be approved for installation on a temporary or emergency basis by
the building official pending the construction of a public sewer or private
sewer that will connect to a public sewer.
(Ord. 2867, § 1, passed 12-11-1995)
§ 27-106 CONNECTION OF STORM DRAINAGE WITH SANITARY SEWER PROHIBITED.
   Under no conditions shall surface drains, groundwater, roof leaders, rain
water conductors, or stormwater drains be permitted to connect to the sanitary
sewer.
(Ord. 2867, § 1, passed 12-11-1995)
§ 27-107 DISCHARGE OF HARMFUL SUBSTANCES PROHIBITED—GENERALLY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to discharge into the public sewers any
substances which are deemed by the public works director or wastewater
superintendent to overload or otherwise interfere with the proper working of
the sewer or sewage treatment plant. Overloading shall be determined by means
of flow or strength as determined by biochemical oxygen demand over a five-day
period (BOD) or by laboratory analysis of a sample from the source of the
discharge.
(Ord. 2867, § 1, passed 12-11-1995)
§ 27-108 BLOW-OFF BASIN/INTERCEPTOR REQUIRED FOR CERTAIN DISCHARGES.
   No steam, gas, or vapors shall be discharged into a public sewer, but shall
be discharged into the open air through a blow-off basin or interceptor with a
special vent pipe of approved capacity to the open air. The size of vent pipe
shall be sized in accordance with the requirements of the Uniform Plumbing Code
and be approved by the plumbing inspector.
(Ord. 2867, § 1, passed 12-11-1995)
§ 27-109 DEPTH OF PIPE.
   No pipe shall be laid at a depth less than that allowed by the Uniform
Plumbing Code unless by special permit of the building official. Permit
application must show depth and location of proposed pipe.
(Ord. 2867, § 1, passed 12-11-1995)
§ 27-110 GREASE TRAPS—REQUIRED FOR CERTAIN DRAINS.
   All drains connected with packing houses, butcher shops, rendering
establishments, hotels, laundries, and restaurants shall be provided with a
suitable grease trap, and such trap shall be cleaned out at least once per
week, or more often if necessary. The wastewater superintendent or his/her
agent shall be allowed access to grease traps for inspections.
(Ord. 2867, § 1, passed 12-11-1995)
§ 27-111 SAME—INSTALLATION.
   Grease traps may be installed either inside or outside of the building
drained, and installed in accordance with Appendix H and Chapter 7 of the
Uniform Plumbing Code.
(Ord. 2867, § 1, passed 12-11-1995)
§ 27-112 SAME—OUTSIDE INSTALLATION.
   When the installation is to be made outside the building, grease traps may
be of brick, concrete, or other approved materials, according to plans approved
by the building official. The plumbing inspector, wastewater superintendent or
his/her agent shall be allowed access to grease traps for inspections during
normal working hours or in times of emergencies.
(Ord. 2867, § 1, passed 12-11-1995)
§ 27-113 SAME—KEPT CLEAN.
   All grease traps required in this chapter shall be kept clean. A log of such
cleaning procedure shall be kept on the premises at all times for inspection
and review by the wastewater superintendent or his/her designee.
(Ord. 2867, § 1, passed 12-11-1995)
§ 27-114 PIPES NOT IMMEDIATELY CONNECTED.
   The ends of all pipes, including wyes not to be immediately connected, shall
be securely closed in accordance with the Uniform Plumbing Code regulations or
as approved by the building official or his/her designee.
(Ord. 2867, § 1, passed 12-11-1995)
§ 27-115 SYSTEMS TO BE COMPLETE AND INDEPENDENT.
   The building drainage system of each new building and of new work installed
in an existing building shall be separated from and independent of that of any
other building, and every building shall have an independent connection with a
public sewer; except, that where one building stands to the rear of another
building on an interior lot and no private sewer is available or can be
constructed to the rear building through an adjoining alley, court, yard, or
driveway, the building sewer from the front building may be extended to the
rear building, and the whole shall be considered as one building sewer.
(Ord. 2867, § 1, passed 12-11-1995)
§ 27-116 CONNECTIONS WHEN PREMISES ARE PART OF SEWER DISTRICT.
   If the property to be drained by a proposed private sewer, building sewer,
or connection has ever been assessed for the construction of a sanitary
improvement district sewer and any such assessment is due, no permit for the
construction of such private or building sewer or for connection with any
sanitary improvement district sewer will be issued until such assessment has
been paid. A permit shall not be issued for the construction of such private or
building sewer to drain any lot of ground within such sanitary improvement
district, during the construction of any sanitary improvement district sewer,
prior to the payment of the assessment of the cost thereof. No connection of
any private sewer with any sanitary improvement district sewer shall be made
unless the contractor for such sanitary improvement district sewer first joins
with the owner of the lot in making application for the permit and waives all
claim for all damage thereby. If such owner fails to obtain such concurrence of
the contractor, he/she can file a contract with the city clerk agreeing to pay
the amount of all assessments for laterals as soon as they become due and also
agreeing to pay the contractor for any damage that he/she may sustain by reason
of the connection made by the property owner, which contract shall, by its
terms, be made a lien upon the property to be drained.
(Ord. 2867, § 1, passed 12-11-1995)
§ 27-117 SWIMMING POOL DRAIN CONNECTIONS.
   Swimming pools shall be connected to the sanitary sewer system. All
connections shall be made in accordance with the Uniform Plumbing Code, and the
Uniform Swimming Pool and Hot Tub Code, 1991 Edition regulations governing the
installation of such. It shall be considered unlawful to drain swimming pools,
hot tubs, whirlpools, and similar water vessels to the open environment.
(Ord. 2867, § 1, passed 12-11-1995)
§ 27-118 SEWER TAPS—TO EXISTING SEWERS; TAPS TO NEW SEWERS; APPLICATION.
   (A)   (1)   The following persons shall be licensed to make sewer
connections to the building drain, sewer stub, and public sewer and to make
repairs, extensions, or alterations or [to] any stub or wye of an existing
connection to the city sewer under the direction of the building official,
wastewater superintendent or his/her designee:
         (a)   Licensed master plumber;
         (b)   Licensed journeyman plumber working for a master plumber; and/or
         (c)   Licensed sewer layers.
      (2)   (For purposes of this subsection (A), sewer connection shall mean
the connection of any sewer joining at the wye or stub out or a tap of the
sanitary sewer or manhole only.)
   (B)   All other sewer connections to city sewer mains, including those in
the two-mile zoning jurisdiction, shall be defined as sewer taps to existing
sanitary sewers. These connections shall be applied for through the Permits and
Inspections Department, and connections to a depth of less than ten feet below
grade shall be made by public works department employees only, using city
equipment. Sewer taps at depths in excess of ten feet below grade will be
monitored by public works employees, and city equipment may be used for the
purpose of creating the actual tap. Taps will not be permitted on identical
size lines, i.e., a six-inch tap on a six-inch line. Manholes or wyes will be
the only method of connection allowed in such cases.
   (C)   Application to the Permits and Inspections Department for sewer taps
shall include the location by address and the approximate time the sewer will
be ready to tap. The owner or contractor shall notify the wastewater department
24 hours prior to the time a tap is scheduled to be done.
(Ord. 2867, § 1, passed 12-11-1995)
§ 27-119 SAME—DEPTH; LOCATION.
   The public works department shall furnish the depth and location of public
sewers to licensed engineers, architects and plumbers or their agents to secure
permits for sewer taps. Reasonable care will be taken to ensure correctness of
such information provided, and it will not be guaranteed, as it is for
estimating only. Drawings or plans shall accompany the application for a
request for a tap.
(Ord. 2867, § 1, passed 12-11-1995)
§ 27-120 SAME—DENIALS AND APPEALS.
   When any licensed plumber, sewer layer, or engineer/architect has made an
application for a permit to make a connection to the city sewer, and such
application is denied or refused by the building official, the applicant may
appeal to the building board of review for approval.
(Ord. 2867, § 1, passed 12-11-1995)
§ 27-121 SAME—FEES.
   Permit fees for tapping sanitary sewers shall be established by the public
works department; no sanitary sewer tap will be greater than eight inches in
diameter; all fees collected for tapping a sanitary sewer shall be payable to
the city treasurer and credited to the wastewater accounts. Fees for tapping
any size sanitary sewer by public works employees or equipment shall be as
described in the Master Fee Schedule. There will be a charge as described in
the Master Fee Schedule for re-scheduling of public works crews and equipment
if the contractor/builder is not ready for the tapping of the sewer or an
unsafe condition exists at the work site. The right to refuse entry into unsafe
opened trenches will be at the direction of the wastewater superintendent.
(Ord. 2867, § 1, passed 12-11-1995; Ord. 3505, § 5, passed 3-9-2009)
§ 27-122 SAME—DEFAULT OF TAP APPLICATION.
   A permit for a sewer tap shall become void six months from the date of its
issuance, unless such permit is extended by the Permits and Inspections
Department. Within six months of the date of issuance of the sewer tap permit,
an applicant may request, in writing, an extension of such permit from the
Permits and Inspections Department, which may grant an extension of up to six
months.
(Ord. 2867, § 1, passed 12-11-1995)
§§ 27-123—27-132 RESERVED.
ARTICLE V: SEWER LAYER’S LICENSE
Section
   
27-133   Required
   
27-134   Application
   
27-135   Examination
   
27-136   Examination; examination fee
   
27-137   License fee
   
27-138   Reserved
   
27-139   Issuance; term
   
27-140   Renewal
   
27-141   Examinations to be the basis for issuance
   27-142—27-151   Reserved
§ 27-133 REQUIRED.
   Within the jurisdiction of the city, no person shall engage in the business
of installing water or sanitary sewer service leading to a building from the
public water main or public sewer without first having secured a license to do
so from the city.
(Ord. 2867, § 1, passed 12-11-1995)
§ 27-134 APPLICATION.
   The application for a license, required by this article, shall be made in
writing to the Permits and Inspections Department on forms prepared and
furnished by the city and shall give the full name under which such business is
to be conducted.
(Ord. 2867, § 1, passed 12-11-1995)
§ 27-135 EXAMINATION.
   A sewer layer applicant must provide proof of the following: A sewer layer
must have completed three years of practical work experience as an apprentice
under a licensed sewer layer and must have passed the written test with a
minimum grade of 70 percent. Formal education accrued from an approved
educational institution may be submitted for consideration by the building
official towards the practical work experience requirement.
(Ord. 2867, § 1, passed 12-11-1995; Ord. 2934, § 4, passed 1-27-1997; Ord.
3659, § 9, passed 11-28-2011)
§ 27-136 EXAMINATION; EXAMINATION FEE.
   The applicant for a sewer layers license shall appear before the Permits and
Inspections Department upon notice and submit to such examination and test of
his/her ability and qualifications as may be required by the city; and shall
pay an examination fee directly to the authorized testing agent.
(Ord. 2867, § 1, passed 12-11-1995; Ord. 3505, § 6, passed 3-9-2009; Ord. 3659,
§ 10, passed 11-28-2011)
§ 27-137 LICENSE FEE.
   When an applicant for a sewer layers license passes the examination and
tests required to the satisfaction of the city, he or she shall pay the license
fee as described in the Master Fee Schedule and shall furnish the required
insurance as set forth in the following section.
(Ord. 2867, § 1, passed 12-11-1995; Ord. 3505, § 7, passed 3-9-2009; Ord. 3659,
§ 11, passed 11-28-2011)
§ 27-138 RESERVED.
§ 27-139 ISSUANCE; TERM.
   The building official shall grant a license to do sewer laying within the
jurisdiction of the city at such time as the applicant shall have complied with
the provisions of this article. Such license shall be signed by the building
official and issued for a period ending December 31 following the date of
issuance.
(Ord. 2867, § 1, passed 12-11-1995; Ord. 3659, § 13, passed 11-28-2011)
§ 27-140 RENEWAL.
   (A)   Before the expiration of any license issued pursuant to this division,
the holder may, upon payment of the renewal fee as described in the Master Fee
Schedule, make application to the Permits and Inspections Department for
renewal of his or her license. Failure to make application for renewal of a
license before the expiration date subjects the applicant to pay an additional
sum as described in the Master Fee Schedule for each month or partial month
since the expiration date of the license, up to and including three months from
such expiration date. The building official shall issue a renewal of such
license without examination unless there are revocation or suspension
proceedings against such individual.
   (B)   Effective the date of the ordinance from which this section is
derived, all contractors holding a current license will have a three-month
grace period after the expiration date of his or her license to pay required
fees as stated in the Master Fee Schedule, section
11-120 in order to renew his or her license. After the three-month grace period
contractors will be required to pay a reinstatement fee, as stated in the
Master Fee Schedule. Failure to renew by the end of the grace period shall
cause such license to expire. If such license has expired, the building
official shall reinstate the license provided an application for reinstatement
is made by the contractor within one year of the expiration of the license, a
reinstatement fee as stated in the Master Fee Schedule is paid, there are no
revocation or suspension proceedings in progress against the license holder and
the contractor otherwise meets the requirements for the year of the
reinstatement. Except as provided herein, any license that has expired shall
not be renewed or reinstated and testing with a minimum passing score of 70
percent will be mandatory in order for the building official to issue a license
to do work within the city and its extra-territorial zoning jurisdiction. If
the building official has reason to believe that the licensee has violated the
provisions of section 27-53, he/she shall have the power to impose any
revocation or suspension clause contained within the context of this article.
(Ord. 2867, § 1, passed 12-11-1995; Ord. 3505, § 8, passed 3-9-2009; Ord. 3659,
§ 14, passed 11-28-2011)
§ 27-141 EXAMINATIONS TO BE THE BASIS FOR ISSUANCE.
   When an applicant for a license required by this division passes the
required examination to the satisfaction of the Permits and Inspections
Department, the building official shall notify the applicant of his/her score
within 15 days of the examination. After payment of a license fee, as described
in the Master Fee Schedule, the building official shall issue a license to do
sewer work in the city which shall be effective and valid through December 31st
of each calendar year.
(Ord. 2867, § 1, passed 12-11-1995; Ord. 3505, § 9, passed 3-9-2009; Ord. 3659,
§ 15, passed 11-28-2011)
§§ 27-142—27-151 RESERVED.
ARTICLE VI: LAWN SPRINKLER SYSTEMS
Section
Division 1: Generally
   
27-152   Compliance
   
27-153   Definitions
   
27-154   Violations
   27-155—27-164   Reserved
Division 2: Licensing
   
27-165   Required
   
27-166   Qualifications
   
27-167   Examination fee
   
27-168   Examination of applicants
   
27-169   Re-examination after failure
   
27-170   License fee
   
27-171   Issuance; term
   
27-172   Renewal
   
27-173   Established place of business; display name on trucks
   
27-174   Certificate of insurance required, contractor’s license
   
27-175   Denial
   
27-176   Scope of license
   
27-177   Permit required
   
27-178   Exception
   
27-179   Connection
   
27-180   Valves and controls
   
27-181   Materials and specifications
   
27-182   Electrical
   
27-183   Inspection
   
27-184   Notice for inspection
   
27-185   Approval, disapproval
   27-186—27-195   Reserved
Statutory reference:
   Contractor Registration Act, see Neb. RS 1943, §§ 48-2101 et seq.
DIVISION 1: GENERALLY
§ 27-152 COMPLIANCE.
   The installing, replacing, repairing, or relocating of any lawn sprinkler
system shall be made in conformance with the provisions of this article.
(Ord. 2867, § 1, passed 12-11-1995)
§ 27-153 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this article, the following words and phrases shall have
the meanings respectively ascribed to them:
   LAWN SPRINKLER CONTRACTOR. Any person who is engaged in the business of
installing, altering, replacing, repairing, or relocating any lawn sprinkler
systems, or parts thereof, or who sets himself/herself out as willing to
perform such work himself/herself or through his/her employees.
   LAWN SPRINKLER INSTALLER. An individual who installs, alters, or assembles
lawn sprinkler systems, and who is in the employment of a lawn sprinkler
contractor.
(Ord. 2867, § 1, passed 12-11-1995)
§ 27-154 VIOLATIONS.
   Any person who violates or who refuses, neglects, or fails to comply with
any of the provisions of this article shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor
and upon conviction shall be punished as provided in section
1-11 of this code. Any person who has been convicted for having done any work
in a manner prohibited by this article, and who fails, neglects, or refuses to
correct the same within ten days after conviction, shall be guilty of an
independent and separate offense for each day thereafter during which said work
is permitted to remain in such improper condition.
(Ord. 2867, § 1, passed 12-11-1995)
§§ 27-155—27-164 RESERVED.
DIVISION 2: LICENSING
§ 27-165 REQUIRED.
   (A)   Beginning one year from the effective date of this section, it shall
be unlawful for any person, including firms and corporations to engage in
business as a lawn sprinkler contractor unless he/she or it is the holder of a
valid lawn sprinkler contractor’s license and is registered and bonded as
provided for in this article. Such lawn sprinkler contractor’s license shall
have been issued by the chief building official. In case of any firm having
more than one partner or owner, only one of such persons shall be required to
qualify as a lawn sprinkler contractor; in case of a legally constituted
corporation, only one executive officer, who is liable to service of regular
processes, shall be required to qualify as a lawn sprinkler contractor.
   (B)   Beginning two years from the effective date of this section, it shall
be unlawful for any individual to install, alter, or assemble any lawn
sprinkler systems unless he/she shall be the holder of a valid lawn sprinkler
installer’s license as provided for in this article; provided that a
residential homeowner may install a lawn sprinkler system at his or her own
home only, without such license, and such system shall be subject to the
permits, inspections, and other requirements of this article.
   (C)   A master or journeyman plumber, licensed in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter, may perform lawn sprinkler system work without
having to secure the licenses required under this section.
   (D)   Beginning on the effective date of this section, all lawn sprinkler
contractors must register with the city as provided in section
27-172 of this Code.
(Ord. 2867, § 1, passed 12-11-1995)
§ 27-166 QUALIFICATIONS.
   All applicants for lawn sprinkler contractor’s licenses must:
   (A)   Have reached the age of majority in the State of Nebraska; and
   (B)   Submit to examination. Lawn sprinkler examinations shall be composed
and given by the authorized testing agency approved by the Permits and
Inspections Department, and the applicant must provide proof of the following:
      (1)   A lawn sprinkler installer must have a minimum of three years’
practical work experience as an apprentice and pass the lawn sprinkler
installer test with a minimum grade of 70 percent. An apprentice is a person
other than a licensee who is engaged in the learning of the lawn sprinkler
trade through practical work experience under a licensed lawn sprinkler
contractor. Formal education accrued from an approved educational institution
may be submitted for consideration by the building official towards the
practical work experience requirement for the lawn sprinkler installer license.
      (2)   A lawn sprinkler contractor must have a minimum of three years
practical work experience as an apprentice, or the equivalent in formal
education approved by the building official, and a minimum of three years
practical work experience as a licensed lawn sprinkler installer and pass the
written test with a minimum grade of 70 percent.
(Ord. 2867, § 1, passed 12-11-1995; Ord. 2934, § 1, passed 1-27-1997; Ord.
3696, § 1, passed 1-11-2013)
§ 27-167 EXAMINATION FEE.
   Each applicant for a license required by this division shall pay an
examination fee directly to the authorized testing agency approved by the
Permits and Inspections Department as either a lawn sprinkler contractor or a
lawn sprinkler installer.
(Ord. 2867, § 1, passed 12-11-1995; Ord. 2934, § 6, passed 1-27-1997; Ord.
3505, § 10, passed 3-9-2009; Ord. 3659, § 16, passed 11-28-2011; Ord. 3660, §
5, passed 11-28-2011)
§ 27-168 EXAMINATION OF APPLICANTS.
   Each applicant for a license required by this division shall appear before
the Permits and Inspections Department upon notice and submit to examination
and testing of his/her education and competency, as may be required by such
department.
(Ord. 2867, § 1, passed 12-11-1995; Ord. 2934, § 6, passed 1-27-1997)
§ 27-169 RE-EXAMINATION AFTER FAILURE.
   When an applicant for a lawn sprinkler license has failed to pass the
examination based on the minimum acceptable score, the applicant may apply to
the Permits and Inspections Department for re-examination any time.
(Ord. 2867, § 1, passed 12-11-1995; Ord. 3660, § 6, passed 11-28-2011)
§ 27-170 LICENSE FEE.
   When an applicant for a lawn sprinkler license passes the examination and
test required to the satisfaction of the city, he or she shall pay a license
fee as described in the Master Fee Schedule and shall furnish the required
insurance as set forth in section 27-174.
(Ord. 2867, §§ 1, 2, passed 12-11-1995; Ord. 2875, § 1, passed 3-11-1996; Ord.
3505, § 11, passed 3-9-2009; Ord. 3660, § 7, passed 11-28-2011)
§ 27-171 ISSUANCE; TERM.
   When the applicant for a license required by this division passes the
required examination to the satisfaction of the Permits and Inspections
Department, the building official shall notify the applicant of his or her
score within 15 days of the examination. Upon payment of a license fee as
described in the Master Fee Schedule, the building official shall issue a
license to do lawn sprinkler work in the city which shall be effective and
valid through December 31st of each calendar year.
(Ord. 2867, §§ 1, 2, passed 12-11-1995; Ord. 2875, § 2, passed 3-11-1996; Ord.
3505, § 12, passed 3-9-2009; Ord. 3659, § 17, passed 11-28-2011; Ord. 3660, §
8, passed 11-28-2011)
§ 27-172 RENEWAL.
   (A)   Effective the date of the ordinance from which this section is
derived, all contractors holding a current license will have a three-month
grace period after the expiration date of his or her license to pay required
fees as stated in the Master Fee Schedule, in order to renew his or her
license. After the three-month grace period contractors will be required to pay
a reinstatement fee, as stated in the Master Fee Schedule. Failure to renew by
the end of the grace period shall cause such license to expire. If such license
has expired, the building official shall reinstate the license provided an
application for reinstatement is made by the contractor within one year of the
expiration of the license, a reinstatement fee as stated in the Master Fee
Schedule is paid, and there are no revocation or suspension proceedings in
progress against the license holder. Except as provided herein, any license
that has expired shall not be renewed or reinstated and testing with a minimum
passing score as referenced in section
27-198 will be mandatory in order for the building official to issue a license
to do work within the city and its extra-territorial zoning jurisdiction.
   (B)   If the building official has reason to believe that the licensee has
violated the provisions of section 27-51, he/she shall have the power to impose
any revocation or suspension clause contained within the context of this
article.
(Ord. 2867, §§ 1, 2, passed 12-11-1995; Ord. 2875, § 3, passed 3-11-1996; Ord.
3505, § 13, passed 3-9-2009; Ord. 3659, § 18, passed 11-28-2011; Ord. 3660, §
9, passed 11-28-2011)
§ 27-173 ESTABLISHED PLACE OF BUSINESS; DISPLAY NAME ON TRUCKS.
   Every licensed lawn sprinkler contractor must have an established place of
business. The lawn sprinkler contractor’s registration shall be posted in a
conspicuous place in the place of business, provided the place of business
fronts on a public thoroughfare and has a separate entrance. The place of
business shall have signs posted identifying the lawn sprinkler contractor or
his/her firm. This provision shall not prevent a lawn sprinkler contractor from
having his/her place of business and dwelling combined, provided that such use
conforms to the city zoning ordinance requirements for home occupation. All
vehicles associated with the business or corporation in the conduct of the
business shall have the name of the lawn sprinkler contractor, firm, or
corporation and the contractor’s license number visibly displayed on every
vehicle associated with such, in letters not less than two inches high on both
sides of the vehicles.
(Ord. 2867, § 1, passed 12-11-1995)
§ 27-174 CERTIFICATE OF INSURANCE REQUIRED, CONTRACTOR’S LICENSE.
   Prior to receiving a license, an applicant who has successfully passed the
contractor’s examination shall furnish a certificate of insurance which
provides combined coverage for bodily injury and property damage in a minimum
amount of $300,000.00, and shall strictly comply with this Code and any other
ordinances of the city relating to the installation, alteration, or repair of
any lawn sprinkler system within the extra-territorial jurisdiction of the
city.
(Ord. 2867, § 1, passed 12-11-1995; Ord. 3660, § 10, passed 11-28-2011)
§ 27-175 DENIAL.
   Any person who has been denied a license under the provisions of this
article may, within a period of ten days, appeal the decision of the building
official to the city council.
(Ord. 2867, § 1, passed 12-11-1995)
§ 27-176 SCOPE OF LICENSE.
   The holder of a valid lawn sprinkler contractor’s or installer’s license may
install, repair, or relocate only that part of the lawn sprinkler system from
the discharge side of approved vacuum breaker or backflow preventer. Only the
holder of a valid master plumber license or a journeyman plumber license,
working under such a master plumber, shall install the vacuum breaker or
backflow preventer.
(Ord. 2867, § 1, passed 12-11-1995)
§ 27-177 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   No work of installing or relocating any lawn sprinkler system shall be
commenced by any authorized person without first obtaining a permit for the
same from the Permits and Inspections Department.
(Ord. 2867, § 1, passed 12-11-1995)
§ 27-178 EXCEPTION.
   Minor repairs of a lawn sprinkler system shall not require a permit under
the provisions of this division.
(Ord. 2867, § 1, passed 12-11-1995)
§ 27-179 CONNECTION.
   Underground lawn sprinkler systems shall not be connected to the water
distribution system unless such lawn sprinkler system shall be separated from
the water distribution system by an approved vacuum breaker or backflow
preventer.
(Ord. 2867, § 1, passed 12-11-1995)
§ 27-180 VALVES AND CONTROLS.
   (A)   Lawn sprinkler systems shall be equipped with an approved pressure-
type vacuum breaker, which meets A.N.S.I. Standard No. 1020, on the discharge
side of the last valve. The vacuum breaker shall be installed no less than 12
inches above the highest head and no less than 12 inches above the surrounding
ground. Where combination control valves and backflow preventers are installed,
the bottom of the valve shall constitute the bottom of the backflow preventer;
and when area controls are installed, a vacuum breaker may be installed on the
discharge side of the main control providing not less than one head shall be
controlled exclusively by the main control valve.
   (B)   All installations other than single-family dwellings are to have a
reduced principal backflow preventer assembly approved by the building official
and by the Metropolitan Utilities District.
   (C)   All pressure vacuum breakers must be installed outside.
   (D)   A reduced pressure backflow preventer assembly can be installed inside
a building if approved drainage is provided.
   (E)   If a master valve is installed inside a building, it should be of a
brass material operated by a 24-volt solenoid.
   (F)   Copper pipe shall be run from the discharge side of a backflow
preventer to approximately three inches below grade.
   (G)   Under no circumstances can an atmospheric vacuum breaker be used on a
pressurized main line.
   (H)   If a pressure vacuum breaker must be mounted more than four feet above
the grade due to higher elevation in the surrounding grade, then an ASSE
approved dual check valve shall be installed on the service side of the PVB, to
be mounted less than four feet above the grade.
   (I)   Any sprinkler system on which a chemical or fertilizer injection
system has been installed must have a reduced pressure principal backflow
preventer assembly installed according to this Code.
(Ord. 2867, § 1, passed 12-11-1995)
§ 27-181 MATERIALS AND SPECIFICATIONS.
   (A)   All pressure main lines shall be a minimum of 160 PSI polyvinyl
chloride pipe made of a virgin material with an NSF approval and installed at a
minimum depth of eight inches.
   (B)   All lateral lines after control valves shall be a minimum of 80 PSI
polyethylene pipe or polyvinyl chloride pipe installed at a minimum depth of
eight inches.
   (C)   All polyvinyl chloride pipe joints shall be ring tight or solvent
welded according to pipe manufacturer’s specifications.
   (D)   All polyvinyl chloride pipe shall be installed with polyvinyl chloride
insert fittings using pinch or screw clamps made of only stainless steel and
clamped over the barbed portion of fitting. All polyvinyl chloride pipe larger
than one inch shall be double clamped with one clamp directly over barbs and
one clamp behind barbs.
   (E)   Saddles may be used only if a gasket is part of the saddle and the
saddle is made of brass or plastic material with stainless steel or brass
screws.
   (F)   All underground control or manual valves are to be made entirely of a
noncorrosive material.
   (G)   No watering by underground sprinkler systems shall be allowed across
public sidewalks or streets.
   (H)   All underground lawn sprinkler systems installed after the effective
date of this article shall be set back at least two feet from the back of the
curb or road surface of any adjacent public street or right-of-way.
(Ord. 2867, § 1, passed 12-11-1995)
§ 27-182 ELECTRICAL.
   (A)   All electric wiring shall be a minimum of 18-gauge UL-approved
underground feed multi-strand for lengths of less than 500 feet, and a minimum
of 14-gauge UL-approved underground feed wire for lengths over 500 feet.
   (B)   All electrical connections underground shall be made by an approved
waterproof connection.
   (C)   All 12-volt and 24-volt wiring shall be done by the lawn sprinkler
contractor.
   (D)   All controllers within an internal transformer requiring hard wiring
directly into circuit wiring shall have the wire installed by a licensed
electrician and shall have a disconnect switch installed by the controller.
   (E)   All underground electric or hydraulic control valves shall be
installed in a valve box.
   (F)   All exposed irrigation circuit wires above grade, before entering a
structure, shall be encased in a PVC or galvanized protective conduit.
(Ord. 2867, § 1, passed 12-11-1995)
§ 27-183 INSPECTION.
   The chief building official of the Permits and Inspections Department, or
his/her authorized plumbing inspector, shall inspect all new lawn sprinkler
systems.
(Ord. 2867, § 1, passed 12-11-1995)
§ 27-184 NOTICE FOR INSPECTION.
   The permittee shall notify the Permits and Inspections Department when work
is ready for inspection. The plumbing inspector shall within one working day
thereafter make the necessary inspection.
(Ord. 2867, § 1, passed 12-11-1995)
§ 27-185 APPROVAL, DISAPPROVAL.
   Upon the inspection of any lawn sprinkler system installation or work for
which a permit was issued under this division, the inspector shall indicate in
writing that such installation or work has been inspected and approved or
disapproved.
(Ord. 2867, § 1, passed 12-11-1995)
§§ 27-186—27-195 RESERVED.
ARTICLE VII: MECHANICAL
Section
Division 1: Generally
   
27-196   Adopted
   
27-196.1   Amendments and changes to International Mechanical Code, 2021
Edition
   
27-197   License required; examination
   
27-198   Application
   
27-199   Examination—Required
   
27-200   Same—Fee
   
27-201   Reserved
   
27-202   Same—Certificate of issuance required, master’s license
   
27-203   Issuance; term
   
27-204   Same—Denial
   
27-205   Re-examination after failure
   
27-206   Established place of business; display name on trucks
   
27-207   Retired master’s license
   
27-208   Temporary license
   27-209—27-218   Reserved
Division 2: Mechanical Contractors
   
27-219   Only licensed mechanical masters permitted to contract for mechanical
work
   
27-220   Expiration; not assignable
   
27-221   Same—Renewal; fee
   
27-222   Revocation or suspension of license
   
27-223   Revocation of license—Upon court conviction
   
27-224   Same—Grounds generally
   
27-225   Procedure for violation notification
   
27-226   Same—Notice; hearing
   
27-227   Same—Conduct and record of hearing
   
27-228   Same—Action of building official; appeal
   
27-229   Special license for one job only
   
27-230   License required generally; approval for signature on permits
   
27-231   Same—Work done by person in his/her own residence
   
27-232   Same—Effect on firms or corporations
   
27-233   Permit to install gas appliances—Issued
   
27-234   Electrical work
   27-235—27-244   Reserved
Division 3: Permits
   
27-245   Exceptions
   
27-246   Issued to holder of license
   27-247—27-256   Reserved
Division 4: Standards
   
27-257   Mechanical Code—Adopted
   
27-258   Same—Amendments and changes
   27-259—27-264   Reserved
Statutory reference:
   Building Construction Act, see Neb. RS 1943, §§ 71-6401 et seq.
   Contractor Registration Act, see Neb. RS 1943, §§ 48-2101 et seq.
DIVISION 1: GENERALLY
§ 27-196 ADOPTED.
   The International Mechanical Code, 2021 Edition, published by the
International Code Council, Inc., is hereby adopted by reference and made a
part of this division as though set out in full herein; provided that whenever
any provisions of the International Mechanical Code conflict with the
provisions of the City Code or any other city ordinance, the provisions of the
City Code or such city ordinance shall govern. Three (3) copies of the
International Mechanical Code, 2021 Edition, are on file in the office of the
Permits and Inspections Department and shall there remain for public use and
inspection.
(Ord. 2867, § 1, passed 12-11-1995; Ord. 3337, § 1, passed 9-27-2004; Ord.
3381, § 1, passed 10-24-2005; Ord. 3517, § 1, passed 5-11-2009; Ord. 3661, § 1,
passed 11-28-2011; Ord. 3793, § 1, passed 12-8-2014; Ord. 4034, § 1, passed 5-
4-2021)
Statutory reference:
   Adoption of standard codes, see Neb. RS 1943, § 18-132
§ 27-196.1 AMENDMENTS AND CHANGES TO INTERNATIONAL MECHANICAL CODE, 2021
EDITION.
   The International Mechanical Code, 2021 Edition, is amended and changed in
the following respects:
   (A)   Delete Chapter 1, Administration, in its entirety.
   (B)   Amend Section 401.2, Ventilation required, to read as follows:
   Every occupied space shall be ventilated by natural means in accordance with
Section 402 or if needed by mechanical means in accordance with Section 403.
   (C)   Amend Section 403.2.1, Recirculation of air, to read as follows:
   The outdoor air provided by Section 403.3 shall not be recirculated. Air in
excess of that provided by Section 403.3 shall not be prohibited from being
recirculated as a component of supply air to building spaces, except that:
   (1)   Ventilation air shall not be recirculated from one dwelling to another
or to dissimilar occupancies.
   (2)   Supply air to a swimming pool and associated deck areas shall not be
recirculated unless such air is dehumidified to maintain the relative humidity
of the area at 60 percent or less. Air from this area shall not be recirculated
to other spaces where more than 10 percent of the resulting supply airstream
consists of air recirculated from these spaces.
   (3)   Where mechanical exhaust is required by Note b in Table 403.3.1.1,
recirculation of air from such spaces shall be prohibited. Recirculation of air
that is contained completely within such spaces is prohibited, all air supplied
to such spaces shall be exhausted, including any air in excess of that required
by Table 403.3.1.1.
   (4)   Where mechanical exhaust is required by Note g in Table 403.3.1.1,
mechanical exhaust is required and recirculation from such spaces is prohibited
where more than 10 percent of the resulting supply airstream consists of air
recirculated from these spaces. Recirculation of air that is contained
completely within such spaces shall not be prohibited.
   (D)   Amend Section 403.3, Outdoor air and local exhaust airflow rates, to
read as follows:
   When group R-2, R-3 and R-4 occupancies three stories and less in height
above grade plane are provided with outdoor air and local exhaust they shall be
in accordance with Section 403.3.2. Other buildings intended to be occupied may
be provided with outdoor air and local exhaust in accordance with Section
403.3.1.
   (E)   Section 508.1.1, Makeup air temperature. Delete this section in its
entirety.
   (F)   Section 1101.9, Locking access port caps. Delete this section in its
entirety.
(Ord. 3337, § 2, passed 9-27-2004; Ord. 3381, § 2, passed 10-24-2005; Ord.
3517, § 2, passed 5-11-2009; Ord. 3661, § 2, 11-28-2011; Ord. 3793, § 1, passed
12-8-2014; Ord. 4034, § 2, passed 5-4-2021)
§ 27-197 LICENSE REQUIRED; EXAMINATION.
   License requirement. It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in the
mechanical business as a mechanical master in the city and the two-mile zoning
jurisdiction, without having first secured a license to do so from the Permits
and Inspections Department. For purposes of chapter 27, the areas within the
city and within the two-mile zoning jurisdiction of the city shall be
collectively referred to as the “jurisdiction of the city.”
(Ord. 2867, § 1, passed 12-11-1995)
Statutory reference:
   Contractor Registration Act, see Neb. RS 1943, §§ 48-2101 et seq.
§ 27-198 APPLICATION.
   (A)   Each applicant for a license, required by the preceding section, shall
make application to the Permits and Inspections Department on blank forms
prepared and furnished by such department and indicating thereon whether the
application is for a master or journeyman mechanical license.
   (B)   Examination. Application for Mechanical examinations will be
administered by an authorized testing agency, the applications for said
examination shall be provided by the Permits and Inspections Department, and
the applicant must provide proof of the following:
      (1)   A mechanical apprentice shall be employed full time under the
supervision and guidance of a master mechanical contractor and shall be exempt
from examination during the period and time said license is in effect.
Mechanical apprentice licenses are established to provide individuals with the
ability to pursue time and grade criteria for future licensing.
      (2)   An unlimited mechanical journeyman must have a minimum of three
years of practical work experience under a licensed unlimited mechanical master
as an apprentice and pass the journeyman unlimited air conditioning exam with a
minimum grade of 70 percent.
      (3)   A limited mechanical journeyman must have a minimum of three years
of practical work experience under a licensed mechanical master as an
apprentice and pass the journeyman heating exam with a minimum grade of 70
percent. (The limitation of this license is for residential one and two family
dwellings and accessory structures with a furnace not to exceed 200,000 BTUs of
input and an air conditioning system not to exceed five tons of cooling
capacity.)
      (4)   A limited sheet metal journeyman must have a minimum of three years
of practical work experience under a licensed mechanical master as an
apprentice and pass the sheet metal exam with a minimum grade of 70 percent.
      (5)   An unlimited sheet metal journeyman must have a minimum of three
years of practical work experience under a licensed master mechanical
contractor as an apprentice and pass the sheet metal examination with a minimum
grade of 70 percent.
      (6)   An unlimited mechanical master must provide proof of a minimum of
three years as an apprentice, and three years as a licensed mechanical
journeyman and pass the residential air conditioning exam with a minimum grade
of 70 percent. (The limitation of this license is for residential one and two
family dwellings and accessory structures with a furnace not to exceed 200,000
BTUs of input and an air conditioning system not to exceed five tons of cooling
capacity.)
      (7)   An unlimited mechanical master must provide proof of a minimum of
three years as an apprentice, and three years as a licensed unlimited
mechanical journeyman and pass the heating, air conditioning, refrigeration and
ventilation exam with a minimum grade of 70 percent.
(Ord. 2867, § 1, passed 12-11-1995; Ord. 2934, §§ 7, 8, passed 1-27-1997; Ord.
3517, § 3, passed 5-11-2009; Ord. 3527, § 2, passed 6-8-2009; Ord. 3661, § 3,
passed 11-28-2011)
§ 27-199 EXAMINATION—REQUIRED.
   (A)   Each applicant for a license required by this division of the Code
shall appear before the Permits and Inspections Department, voluntarily or upon
notice from the Permits and Inspections Department, and submit to examination
and testing of his/her education and competency as may be required by this
division in order to issue a license to the applicant.
   (B)   In lieu of the examination and testing of education referenced in (A)
above, an applicant for a license under the provisions of this section may
submit to the Permits and Inspections Department evidence, satisfactory to the
building official, of having passed an examination and test equivalent to that
required by this division, together with his/her license currently in effect
issued to such applicant from a competent jurisdiction outside the jurisdiction
of this city. If the building official finds that by virtue of such evidence
and the license that the applicant has successfully passed an examination and
testing of his/her education equivalent to that required by this division and
also that the applicant then meets the other requisites of this division, the
building official may accept such findings as an acceptable standard and issue
to the applicant a license without submitting the applicant to further
examination and testing.
(Ord. 2867, § 1, passed 12-11-1995; Ord. 3264, § 1, passed 3-24-2003)
§ 27-200 SAME—FEE.
   Each applicant for a license required by this division shall pay to the city
treasurer an examination fee as described in the Master Fee Schedule as either
a master mechanical contractor or a mechanical journeyman.
(Ord. 2867, § 1, passed 12-11-1995; Ord. 3505, § 14, passed 3-9-2009)
§ 27-201 RESERVED.
§ 27-202 SAME—CERTIFICATE OF ISSUANCE REQUIRED, MASTER’S LICENSE.
   Prior to receiving a license under the preceding section, an applicant who
has successfully passed the master’s examination shall furnish a certificate of
insurance which provides combined coverage for bodily injury and property
damage in a minimum amount of $300,000.00, and shall strictly comply with this
code and any other ordinances of the city relating to the installation,
alteration, or repair of any mechanical system within the city and the
extraterritorial jurisdiction of the city.
(Ord. 2867, § 1, passed 12-11-1995; Ord. 3661, § 5, passed 11-28-2011)
§ 27-203 ISSUANCE; TERM.
   When an applicant for a license required by this division passes the
required examination and test to the satisfaction of the Permits and
Inspections Department, the building official shall notify the applicant of
his/her score within 15 days of the examination. After payment of a license fee
as described in the Master Fee Schedule as either a master mechanical
contractor or a mechanical journeyman, the building official shall issue a
license to do mechanical work in the city which shall be effective and valid
through December 31 of each year.
(Ord. 2867, § 1, passed 12-11-1995; Ord. 3505, § 15, passed 3-9-2009; Ord.
3661, § 6, passed 11-28-2011)
§ 27-204 SAME—DENIAL.
   Any person who has been denied a license under the provisions of this
article may, within a period of ten days, appeal the decision of the building
official to the city council.
(Ord. 2867, § 1, passed 12-11-1995)
§ 27-205 RE-EXAMINATION AFTER FAILURE.
   When an applicant for a mechanical license has failed to pass the
examination based on the minimum acceptable score, the applicant may apply to
the Permits and Inspections Department for re-examination any time.
(Ord. 2867, § 1, passed 12-11-1995; Ord. 3661, § 7, passed 11-28-2011)
§ 27-206 ESTABLISHED PLACE OF BUSINESS; DISPLAY NAME ON TRUCKS.
   Every licensed master mechanical contractor must have an established place
of business. The master’s registration number shall be posted in a conspicuous
place in the place of business, provided the place of business fronts on a
public thoroughfare and has a separate entrance. The place of business shall
have signs posted identifying the master mechanical contractor or his/her firm.
This provision shall not prevent a master from having his/her place of business
and dwelling combined, provided that such use conforms to the city zoning
ordinance requirements for home occupation. All vehicles associated with the
business or corporation in the conduct of the business must have the name of
the master, firm, or corporation and the contractor’s license number visibly
displayed on every vehicle associated with such, in letters not less than two
inches high on both sides of the vehicles.
(Ord. 2867, § 1, passed 12-11-1995)
§ 27-207 RETIRED MASTER’S LICENSE.
   (A)   A licensed master mechanical contractor who wishes to fully retire
from the mechanical trade may apply to the building official for a retired
master mechanical license. Upon such application and payment of renewal fees
ordinarily applicable to a master mechanical license, the building official may
grant such person a retired master mechanical license. The holder of a retired
master mechanical license shall not engage in any activities for which a
master’s license is required under this code. Nothing shall prevent the holder
of a retired master mechanical license from acting in the capacity of a
journeyman under the requirements of this article.
   (B)   The bond and insurance requirements of section
27-203 shall not be required as prerequisites for the issuance, maintenance, or
renewal of the retired master mechanical license.
   (C)   The holder of a retired master mechanical license may make application
to the building official for a re-activation of his/her status as a master
mechanical contractor. The building official may issue such master’s license
upon compliance with all the following:
      (1)   Payment of the required fees applicable to the renewal of the
master’s license; and
      (2)   The filing of a bond and certificate of insurance under the
provisions of this article.
(Ord. 2867, § 1, passed 12-11-1995)
§ 27-208 TEMPORARY LICENSE.
   In the case of the death of the holder of a valid master license, the
building official may issue a temporary master license to the firm or
corporation if it employs a licensed Bellevue journeyman mechanical contractor.
Such license shall be valid for a period of not more than six months and shall
not be extended, nor shall any other temporary license be extended to another
member of the firm or corporation during the grace period. Such temporary
license shall be void if the company or corporation to which the license is
assigned fails to keep in its employ an individual with a valid Bellevue
journeyman’s license.
(Ord. 2867, § 1, passed 12-11-1995)
§§ 27-209—27-218 RESERVED.
DIVISION 2: MECHANICAL CONTRACTORS
§ 27-219 ONLY LICENSED MECHANICAL MASTERS PERMITTED TO CONTRACT FOR MECHANICAL
WORK.
   Only a licensed mechanical master shall be allowed to contract for
mechanical work in the jurisdiction of the city. At least one person of the
firm or corporation wishing to contract for mechanical work in the jurisdiction
of the city shall be a licensed mechanical master. Licensed mechanical
journeymen in the employ of a licensed mechanical master shall be allowed to
work unattended on jobs and may supervise, not to exceed three, apprentices
without a mechanical master being present.
(Ord. 2867, § 1, passed 12-11-1995)
§ 27-220 EXPIRATION; NOT ASSIGNABLE.
   Masters and journeyman mechanical licenses under the provisions of this
division shall be effective and valid through December 31 of each calendar year
and shall not be assignable.
(Ord. 2867, § 1, passed 12-11-1995)
§ 27-221 SAME—RENEWAL; FEE.
   (A)   Before the expiration of any license issued, from or by the Permits
and Inspections Department, the holder may, upon payment of the renewal fee, as
described in the Master Fee Schedule, as either a master mechanical contractor,
mechanical journeyman, apprentice, or sheet metal journeyman, make application
to the Permits and Inspections Department for renewal of his/her license.
Failure to make application and pay the renewal fee for renewal of a license
before the expiration date thereof subjects the applicant to pay the renewal
fee plus an additional late fee in the amount described in the Maser Fee
Schedule. If the application is filed and the fees are paid in accordance with
the above, the building official shall issue a renewal of such license without
examination unless there are revocation or suspension proceedings in progress
against such individual.
   (B)   Effective the date of the ordinance from which this section is
derived, all contractors holding a current license will have a three-month
grace period after the expiration date of his or her license to pay required
fees as stated in the Master Fee Schedule, section
11-120 in order to renew his or her license. After the three-month grace period
contractors will be required to pay a reinstatement fee, as stated in the
Master Fee Schedule. Failure to renew by the end of the grace period shall
cause such license to expire. If such license has expired, the building
official shall reinstate the license provided an application for reinstatement
is made by the contractor within one year of the expiration of the license, a
reinstatement fee as stated in the Master Fee Schedule is paid, there are no
revocation or suspension proceedings in progress against the license holder and
the contractor otherwise meets the requirements for the year of the
reinstatement. Except as provided herein, any license that has expired shall
not be renewed or reinstated and testing with a minimum passing score of 70
percent will be mandatory in order for the building official to issue a license
to do work within the City and its extra-territorial zoning jurisdiction. If
the building official has reason to believe that the license has violated the
provisions of section 27-225, he or she shall have the power to impose any
revocation or suspension clause contained within the context of this article.
(Ord. 2867, § 1, passed 12-11-1995; Ord. 2980, § 2, passed 2-23-1998; Ord.
3505, § 16, passed 3-9-2009; Ord. 3517, § 4, passed 5-11-2009; Ord. 3661, § 8,
passed 11-28-2011)
§ 27-222 REVOCATION OR SUSPENSION OF LICENSE.
   In addition to any other penalty imposed for a violation of this article,
the building official may at any time revoke or suspend the license of any
mechanical master who neglects to carry out the provisions of this article or
refuses to be governed by such provisions in the prosecution of his/her work.
(Ord. 2867, § 1, passed 12-11-1995)
§ 27-223 REVOCATION OF LICENSE—UPON COURT CONVICTION.
   The building official shall have the power to revoke, with just cause, any
license issued under this article. A license shall be revoked immediately by
the building official upon conviction of the holder thereof, in a court of
competent jurisdiction, for the violation of any laws of the state, this code
or any ordinances of the city, relative to the installation, repair, cleaning,
or alteration in or to any mechanical system.
(Ord. 2867, § 1, passed 12-11-1995)
§ 27-224 SAME—GROUNDS GENERALLY.
   A license issued pursuant to this article shall be revoked by the building
official when he/she finds that the holder is guilty of one or more of the
following:
   (A)   Fraudulent use of his/her license;
   (B)   Incompetency in the exercise of the privilege of the license;
   (C)   Fraud or misrepresentation in securing the license or permits granted
pursuant to the building codes of the city;
   (D)   Refusal to perform his/her work to the requirements of law; and/or
   (E)   Such other breaches of duty by the holder of the license as the
building official may find to be contrary to the intent and purpose of this
article.
(Ord. 2867, § 1, passed 12-11-1995)
§ 27-225 PROCEDURE FOR VIOLATION NOTIFICATION.
   Except as stated in section 27-225, cases involving violations of the
provisions of this article or any other law or ordinance of the City of
Bellevue relating to contractor licensing or permit requirements the following
notification procedure shall be implemented by the building official prior to
actual revocation of a license:
   (A)   For the first violation of this article, a written notification shall
be sent to the licensee informing him/her of the violation and future recourse
by the city;
   (B)   The second violation of this article shall cause the building official
to suspend the license for a period of one month, and notify the licensee again
by certified mail of the city procedures;
   (C)   The third violation of this article shall cause the building official
to revoke the license for a period of not less than six months and not to
exceed one year. The building official shall present his/her case file to the
city council at the next regularly scheduled meeting for enactment of temporary
revocation proceedings;
   (D)   The fourth violation of this article shall cause the building official
to permanently revoke the license. The building official shall present his/her
case file to the city council at the next regularly scheduled meeting for
permanent revocation.
(Ord. 2867, § 1, passed 12-11-1995)
§ 27-226 SAME—NOTICE; HEARING.
   In all cases involving revocation or suspension of a license under this
article, at least 15 days notice of the contemplated revocation or suspension
shall be served upon the licensee, and such notice shall indicate the time and
place of the hearing, the general grounds of the contemplated action and shall
advise the holder of his/her right to appear at the hearing in person or by
council for the purpose of presenting his/her defense. In each case, the
licensee shall not continue to perform the duties associated with the privilege
of the license until the termination of the proceedings. This provision shall
be waived only if a court of competent jurisdiction issues a temporary
injunction against the city in such proceedings.
(Ord. 2867, § 1, passed 12-11-1995)
§ 27-227 SAME—CONDUCT AND RECORD OF HEARING.
   The building official shall make a complete record of the case involving any
revocation or suspension of a license under this article and shall keep a
written record of the testimony produced at the hearing held pursuant to the
preceding section. He/she may request legal advice from the city law department
and adopt such procedure for the decorum and the dispatch of business of such
hearings as he/she may regard advisable.
(Ord. 2867, § 1, passed 12-11-1995)
§ 27-228 SAME—ACTION OF BUILDING OFFICIAL; APPEAL.
   The decision of the building official at a hearing on the revocation or
suspension of a license under this article shall be final. In the case of a
suspension of a license, the licensee’s time in grade for the particular
license shall be suspended for the period of suspension and shall begin
accruing again at the end of the suspension. An adverse decision of the
building official may be appealed to the city council by filing with the city
clerk within 15 days from such decision a written notice of the intention to
appeal, and a request for a hearing before the city council. The city council,
within 30 days of the filing of such written notice, shall grant a hearing to
the party appealing. The revocation or suspension of a license shall not
entitle the holder to a refund of any part of the fee which he/she may have
paid.
(Ord. 2867, § 1, passed 12-11-1995)
§ 27-229 SPECIAL LICENSE FOR ONE JOB ONLY.
   Whenever the building official deems it advisable he or she may at his or
her discretion issue a special mechanical master license to any mechanical
master who is not otherwise licensed by the city to do mechanical work, but who
can provide proof of competency as a licensed mechanical master in another
city’s jurisdiction. The special license so issued shall allow the licensee to
do mechanical work on the building for which it is issued and no other. The fee
for such special license shall be described Master Fee Schedule, and shall be
paid to the city treasurer before the special license is issued. A certificate
of insurance, which provides combined coverage for bodily injury and property
damage in a minimum amount of $300,000.00 shall be provided to the Permits and
Inspections Department prior to the issuance of the special license. Upon the
completion of the work for which a special license was issued, such license
shall expire and become null and void.
(Ord. 2867, § 1, passed 12-11-1995; Ord. 3505, § 17, passed 3-9-2009; Ord.
3661, § 9, passed 11-28-2011)
§ 27-230 LICENSE REQUIRED GENERALLY; APPROVAL FOR SIGNATURE ON PERMITS.
   No person licensed under this chapter shall do any mechanical work within
the jurisdiction of the city without having in his/her possession a mechanical
permit issued by the city, pursuant to this article containing the name of the
mechanical master or firm authorized to do the work. Permits associated with
this article shall be applied for by the mechanical master. When such permit
has been approved, it shall be signed and paid for by the licensed mechanical
master associated with the business, firm, or corporation who has been approved
through other provisions of this division.
(Ord. 2867, § 1, passed 12-11-1995)
§ 27-231 SAME—WORK DONE BY PERSON IN HIS/HER OWN RESIDENCE.
   No license required under this article shall be required of any individual
doing installation or repair of the mechanical systems of the residence in
which he/she lives; provided that such installation is done in conformity with
this code and any other ordinances of the city. In all cases, the rules and
regulations of this article shall be complied with, and such individual shall
notify the city of such work proposed, request inspection thereof and pay a
permit in accordance with the Uniform Administrative Code provisions.
Furthermore, this section shall only apply to those installations required for
remodeling, additions, and repairs. No individual shall be allowed to perform
any mechanical work on new construction without first having been issued a
license to do such work.
(Ord. 2867, § 1, passed 12-11-1995)
§ 27-232 SAME—EFFECT ON FIRMS OR CORPORATIONS.
   A master’s license issued to an individual shall authorize a company or
corporation to engage in such business or occupation during the period of time
that the licensee maintains his/her connections with such company or
corporation. A license applied under the requirements of this article shall be
valid and in effect of one company, firm, or corporation as an active license,
and shall not be assignable to any other company, firm, or corporation.
(Ord. 2867, § 1, passed 12-11-1995)
§ 27-233 PERMIT TO INSTALL GAS APPLIANCES—ISSUED.
   Any holder of a master license under this article shall be allowed to
install gas appliances, regulated under the current adoption addition of the
Uniform Mechanical Code, upon the issuance of a permit therefor by the city.
(Ord. 2867, § 1, passed 12-11-1995)
§ 27-234 ELECTRICAL WORK.
   All electrical work, to be done in conjunction with the work under this
article, shall be done in accordance with all electrical regulations of the
city by a holder of a master electrician’s license under this code.
(Ord. 2867, § 1, passed 12-11-1995)
§§ 27-235—27-244 RESERVED.
DIVISION 3: PERMITS
§ 27-245 EXCEPTIONS.
   The provisions of this division shall not apply to any federal, state, or
municipal government, or any subdivisions thereof.
(Ord. 2867, § 1, passed 12-11-1995)
§ 27-246 ISSUED TO HOLDER OF LICENSE.
   No permit for any work covered by the provisions of this article shall be
issued to other than the holder of a master heating license, except for the
provisions contained in section 27-232.
(Ord. 2867, § 1, passed 12-11-1995)
§§ 27-247—27-256 RESERVED.
DIVISION 4: STANDARDS
§ 27-257 MECHANICAL CODE—ADOPTED.
   The Uniform Mechanical Code, 1997 Edition, published by the International
Conference of Building Officials, is hereby adopted by reference and made a
part of this division as though set out in full herein; provided, that whenever
any provision of the Uniform Mechanical Code shall conflict with the provisions
of the city Code or any other city ordinance, the provision of the city Code or
such city ordinance shall govern. Three copies are on file in the office of the
Permits and Inspections Department and shall there remain for public use and
inspection.
(Ord. 2867, §§ 1, 2, passed 12-11-1995; Ord. 2901, § 1, passed 8-12-1996; Ord.
3081, § 1, passed 1-24-2000)
Statutory reference:
   Adoption of standard codes, see Neb. RS 1943, § 18-132
   Building Construction Act, see Neb. RS 1943, §§ 71-6401 et seq.
§ 27-258 SAME—AMENDMENTS AND CHANGES.
   The Uniform Mechanical Code, 1997 Edition, is amended and changed in the
following respects:
   (A)   Delete chapter 1 in its entirety.
(Ord. 2867, §§ 1, 2, passed 12-11-1995; Ord. 2901, § 2, passed 8-12-1996; Ord.
3081, § 2, passed 1-24-2000)
§§ 27-259—27-264 RESERVED.
ARTICLE VIII: WATER CONDITIONING LICENSE
Section
   
27-265   Compliance
   
27-266   License required
   
27-267   Scope of license
   
27-268   Application; qualifications
   
27-269   License fees
   
27-270   Bond, certificate of insurance required, contractors license
   
27-271   Compliance, revocation of license
   27-272—27-274   Reserved
Statutory reference:
   Contractor Registration Act, see Neb. RS 1943, §§ 48-2101 et seq.
   Licensing of plumbers, see Neb. RS 1943, §§ 18-1901 et seq.
§ 27-265 COMPLIANCE.
   The installation, alteration, repair or relocation of any water conditioning
equipment shall be made in conformance with the provisions of this article.
(Ord. 3520, § 4(27-265), passed 5-11-2009)
§ 27-266 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, including firms and corporations,
to engage in business as a water conditioning contractor or installer or to
install, replace or relocate a water conditioning appliance without first
obtaining a license to do so from the Permits and Inspections Department,
provided however, that a master plumber or journeyman plumber licensed in
accordance with the provisions of this chapter may perform such work without
having to secure an additional license.
   (B)   In the case of any firm having more than one person, only one such
person shall be required to qualify as a water conditioning contractor; in the
case of a legally constituted corporation, only one executive officer, who is
liable to service of regular processes, shall be required to qualify as a water
conditioning contractor.
   (C)   A water conditioning license shall only be valid and in effect for one
company, firm, or corporation for whom the license holder is a full-time
employee, and shall not be assignable to, or be available for use by any other
company, firm, or corporation.
(Ord. 3520, § 4(27-266), passed 5-11-2009)
§ 27-267 SCOPE OF LICENSE.
   The holder of a valid water conditioning contractor’s license or the holder
of a valid water conditioning installers license employed by a water
conditioning contractor may install, replace, relocate or repair a water
conditioning appliance or point of use appliance with the following limits:
   (A)   Extend piping from the point of connection with the existing potable
water system a maximum of ten feet to the water inlet or outlet of the water
conditioning device.
   (B)   Extend piping from the point of connection with the existing potable
water system a maximum of five feet to the water inlet or outlet of a point of
use or reverse osmosis device.
   (C)   Install the drain line for the water conditioning device to an
approved drain.
(Ord. 3520, § 4(27-267), passed 5-11-2009)
§ 27-268 APPLICATION; QUALIFICATIONS.
   An applicant for a water conditioning contractor or installers license shall
submit proof of a current license, issued by the City of Omaha or any other
approved jurisdiction. Upon submission, and the completion of the city
application, the Permits and Inspections Department shall issue said applicant
the appropriate license to perform the prescribed work stipulated in section
27-267.
(Ord. 3520, § 4(27-268), passed 5-11-2009)
§ 27-269 LICENSE FEES.
   The fees for a license required by the provisions of this section are not
listed in the Master Fee Schedule.
(Ord. 3520, § 4(27-269), passed 5-11-2009; Ord. 3660, § 11, passed 11-28-2011)
§ 27-270 BOND, CERTIFICATE OF INSURANCE REQUIRED, CONTRACTORS LICENSE.
   Prior to receiving a license under the provisions of this article, those
individuals requesting a water conditioning contractor license shall furnish to
the Permits and Inspections Department, a certificate of insurance which
provides combined coverage for bodily injury and property damage in the minimum
amount of $300,000.00 and shall strictly comply with this code and other
ordinances of the city relating to the installation, alteration, repair or
relocation of any water conditioning appliance within the extraterritorial
jurisdiction of the city.
(Ord. 3520, § 4(27-270), passed 5-11-2009; Ord. 3660, § 12, passed 11-28-2011)
§ 27-271 COMPLIANCE, REVOCATION OF LICENSE.
   It shall be the duty of all licensed water conditioning contractors and
installers to abide by and comply with the provisions of chapter 27, sections
27-47 through 27-60 with respect the authority of the license. Failure to
comply with any part of said sections may cause the building official to invoke
the revocation processes established in said section.
(Ord. 3520, § 4(27-271), passed 5-11-2009)
§§ 27-272—27-274 RESERVED.
ARTICLE IX: DECORATIVE APPLIANCE CONTRACTORS AND INSTALLERS
Section
   
27-275   Compliance
   
27-276   License required
   
27-277   Scope of license
   
27-278   Application, qualifications
   
27-279   License fees
   
27-280   Certificate of insurance required, contractors license
   
27-281   Compliance; revocation of license
Statutory reference:
   Contractor Registration Act, see Neb. RS 1943, §§ 48-2101 et seq.
§ 27-275 COMPLIANCE.
   The installation, alteration, repair or relocation of any decorative
appliance/gas log installation shall be made in conformance with the provisions
of this article.
(Ord. 3517, § 5(27-275), passed 5-11-2009; Ord. 3661, § 10(27-275), passed 11-
28-2011)
§ 27-276 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, including firms and corporations,
to engage in the business as a decorative appliance/gas log contractor or
installer or to install, replace, or relocate decorative appliances/gas logs
without first obtaining a license to do so from the Permits and Inspections
Department, provided however, that licensed master and journeyman mechanical
contractors may, in accordance with the provisions of this chapter, perform
such work without having to secure an additional license.
   (B)   In the case of any firm employing more than one individual, only one
such person shall be required to qualify as a decorative appliance/gas log
contractor; in the case of a legally constituted corporation, only one
executive officer, who is liable to service of regular processes, shall be
required to qualify as a decorative appliance/gas log contractor.
   (C)   A decorative appliance/gas log license shall only be valid and in
effect for one company, firm or corporation for whom the license holder is a
full-time employee, and shall not be assignable to, or be available for use by
any other company, firm, or corporation.
(Ord. 3517, § 5(27-276), passed 5-11-2009; Ord. 3661, § 10(27-276), passed 11-
28-2011)
§ 27-277 SCOPE OF LICENSE.
   The holder of a valid decorative appliance/gas log contractor’s license or
the holder of a valid decorative appliance/gas log installer’s license employed
by a licensed contractor, may install, replace, repair or relocate a decorative
appliance/gas log appliance within the following limits:
   (A)   Installation, relocation or replacement of decorative appliance/gas
log systems which are listed and approved by the Permits and Inspections
Department, including gas piping system extensions from the service line to the
point of use in accordance with the International Fuel Gas Code. Licensed
contractors or installers are strictly prohibited from performing electrical
work associated with said installation or repair.
   (B)   Installation of venting systems for direct vent appliances.
(Ord. 3517, § 5(27-277), passed 5-11-2009; Ord. 3661, § 10(27-277), passed 11-
28-2011)
§ 27-278 APPLICATION, QUALIFICATIONS.
   (A)   An applicant for a decorative appliance/gas log contractor or
installer license shall submit a city competency application to the Permits and
Inspections Department. This application shall additionally require the
applicant to submit evidence of successful completion of the national fireplace
institute certifications for the area of responsibility of the appliance.
Installers must obtain two of the three following certifications, and
successfully pass the journeyman gas fitters examination provided by the
department’s independent testing agency with a minimum passing score of 70
percent. Contractors shall pass all three national fireplace institute
certifications listed below and pass the journeyman gas fitters examination
with a minimum passing score of 70 percent.
   (B)   National fireplace institute certifications:
      (1)   Certified gas specialist.
      (2)   Certified wood burning specialist.
      (3)   Certified pellet specialist.
   (C)   Submission of a current City of Lincoln or other approved
jurisdictions decorative appliance/gas log license shall be evidence of minimum
acceptable qualification, and shall cause the Permits and Inspections
Department to issue said license when compliance with section
27-280 has been complied with.
(Ord. 3517, § 5(27-278), passed 5-11-2009; Ord. 3661, § 10(27-278), passed 11-
28-2011)
§ 27-279 LICENSE FEES.
   The fees for a license required by the provisions of this section for a
decorative appliance/gas log contractors license or a decorative appliance/gas
log installer shall be as stated in the Master Fee Schedule.
(Ord. 3517, § 5(27-279), passed 5-11-2009; Ord. 3661, § 10(27-279), passed 11-
28-2011)
§ 27-280 CERTIFICATE OF INSURANCE REQUIRED, CONTRACTORS LICENSE.
   Prior to receiving a license under the provisions of this article, those
individuals requesting a decorative appliance/gas log contractor’s license
shall furnish to the Permits and Inspections Department a certificate of
insurance which provides combined coverage for bodily injury or property damage
in the minimum amount of $300,000.00 and shall strictly comply with this code
and other ordinances of the city relating to the installation, alteration,
repair or relocation of any decorative appliance/gas log appliances within the
extraterritorial jurisdiction of the city.
(Ord. 3517, § 5(27-280), passed 5-11-2009; Ord. 3661, § 11, passed 11-28-2011)
§ 27-281 COMPLIANCE; REVOCATION OF LICENSE.
   It shall be the duty of all decorative appliance/gas log contractors and
installers to abide by and comply with the provisions of chapter 27, sections
27-47 through 27-60 with respect to the authority of the license. Failure to
comply with any part of said sections may cause the building official to invoke
the revocation process established in said sections.
(Ord. 3517, § 5(27-281), passed 5-11-2009)
CHAPTER 27.5: STORMWATER MANAGEMENT
   Article
      
I.   IN GENERAL
      
II.   DISCHARGES
      
III.   INDUSTRIAL STORMWATER PERMIT
      
IV.   GRADING PERMIT
      
V.   POST-CONSTRUCTION STORMWATER MANAGEMENT PLAN
ARTICLE I: IN GENERAL
Section
   
27.5-1   Purpose and authority
   
27.5-2   Incorporation by reference
   
27.5-3   Definitions
   27.5-4—27.5-20   Reserved
§ 27.5-1 PURPOSE AND AUTHORITY.
   (A)   The purpose of chapter 27.5 of this Code is to protect, maintain, and
enhance the public health, safety, and general welfare by establishing minimum
requirements and procedures to control the adverse impacts associated with
increased and altered stormwater runoff. The city council hereby finds that
proper management of stormwater runoff will minimize damage to public and
private property, reduce the harmful effects of development on land, control
stream channel erosion, reduce local flooding, and maintain after development,
as nearly as possible, the predevelopment runoff characteristics.
   (B)   The provisions of chapter 27.5 shall be construed to be minimum
stormwater management requirements. No such provisions shall be deemed a
limitation on appropriate management practices or the city’s authority in
respect thereto. The city, in coordination with the City of Omaha, Nebraska,
Douglas County. Nebraska, and Sarpy County, Nebraska shall be responsible for
the coordination and enforcement of the provisions of this chapter 27.5
   (C)   The provisions of chapter 27.5 of this Code shall be applicable to all
that property lying within the city and all property lying within the city’s
zoning jurisdiction, as either is extended from time to time.
(Ord. 3409, § 1(32-1), passed 7-24-2006)
§ 27.5-2 INCORPORATION BY REFERENCE.
   For the purpose of interpreting and enforcing the provisions of chapter 27.5
and pursuant to section
1-5 of the Code, the Omaha Regional Stormwater Design Manual (Manual) as the
same shall be duly amended by the City of Omaha, Nebraska, from time to time,
shall be and hereby is incorporated into chapter 27.5 by this reference. A
current copy of the Manual shall be maintained with the director and the city
clerk.
(Ord. 3409, § 1(32-2), passed 7-24-2006)
§ 27.5-3 DEFINITIONS.
   The following words, phrases and terms as used in chapter 27.5 shall have
the following meanings ascribed to them, whether or not such term is
capitalized in any provision of this chapter 27.5. Unless specifically
differently defined in this chapter 27.5 all words, phrases and terms as used
in chapter 27.5 shall be ascribed the meaning ascribed under the Code.
   BASELINE LAND USE CONDITIONS. That which existed for year 2001 for Big and
Little Papillion Creeks and its tributaries (excluding West Papillion Creek)
and for year 2004 for West Papillion Creek and its tributaries. That which
existed in 2007 for all areas not within the Papillion Creek Watershed.
   BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICES (BMP). The pollution control practices designed
and carried out to reduce the pollutants contained in discharges, including low
impact development techniques.
   BUILDING. The same meaning as identified in the city’s zoning code, but
shall include any structure as defined in the zoning code.
   BUILDING DRAIN. That part of the lowest horizontal piping of a wastewater
drainage system that receives the discharge from soil and waste pipes inside
the walls of the building and conveys it to the building sewer, beginning two
feet outside the inner face of the building wall.
   CAUSE, RESULT OR PERMIT. Whether or not specified in any provision of this
chapter, to directly or indirectly, cause result or permit such activity,
omission or occurrence.
   CHAPTER. This chapter 27.5 (as amended from time to time) except where the
context shall otherwise require.
   CODE. The Bellevue Municipal Code.
   COMBINED SEWER. A sewer receiving, by designation of the director, both
runoff water and sanitary sewage.
   CLEAN WATER ACT. The Federal Water Pollution Control Act enacted to prohibit
the discharge of pollutants to receiving waters of the United States as the
same is amended from time to time.
   COMMERCIAL ACTIVITY. Any public or private activity that is not defined in
40 Code of Federal Regulations (CFR) 122.26(b)(14) as an “industrial activity”
(or similar term), involved in the storage, transportation, distribution,
exchange or sale of goods and/or commodities or providing professional and/or
nonprofessional services.
   CONSTRUCTION ACTIVITY. Any cleaning, grading, or excavation that results in
soil disturbance. CONSTRUCTION ACTIVITY includes, any construction, repairs,
dewatering, remodeling, building, and emergency construction activities
required to immediately protect public health and safety.
   DIRECTOR. The director of public works department for the city or his/her
authorized agent or representative.
   DISCHARGE. Any spill, leak, pump, flow, escape, dumping, disposal or other
release of any liquid, semi-solid, or solid substance to the municipal storm
sewer system.
   EFFECTIVE DATE. The effective date of the adoption of the ordinance creating
this chapter.
   HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCE. Any substance so designated under 40 CFR Part 116
pursuant to section 311 of the Clean Water Act.
   ILLICIT CONNECTION. Any human made conveyance that is, directly or
indirectly, connected to the municipal separate storm sewer system that
directly or indirectly causes or permits an illicit discharge.
   ILLICIT DISCHARGE. Any discharge to the municipal separate storm sewer
system that is prohibited under any laws. Illicit discharges include all non-
stormwater discharges other than those discharges allowed pursuant to a NPDES
permit or conditionally exempted by this chapter. Illicit discharges include
those discharges prohibited in sections 27.5-21 and 27.5-22 of this chapter.
   ILLICIT DISPOSAL. Any disposal, either intentional or unintentional, of
material(s), substance(s), or waste(s) that has the potential to pollute runoff
unless otherwise allowed by law.
   INCLUDE or INCLUDING. “Including without limitation” whether or not so
specified.
   INDUSTRIAL ACTIVITY. Any public or private activity which may be directly or
indirectly related to any other categories of activities identified or defined
in 40 CFR 122.26(b)(14).
   LAW or LAWS. Any law(s) defined in section 1-2, and any local, state, or
federal statutes, ordinances, codes, or regulations applicable to any matter
regulated, restricted or controlled by this chapter, as any such laws shall be
amended from time to time.
   LOW IMPACT DEVELOPMENT (LID). De-centralized management of precipitation
that would otherwise be stormwater runoff, utilizing design techniques that
infiltrate, filter, store, evaporate, or temporarily detain stormwater.
   MANUAL. The Omaha Regional Stormwater Design Manual as amended from time to
time.
   MUNICIPAL STORM SEWER SYSTEM. Any inlet, pipe, ditch or gully, or system of
pipes, ditches, or gullies or other system, that is owned, operated, maintained
or controlled by the city and is used for collecting and conveying stormwater.
Such systems include both separate storm sewers and combined storm sewers.
   MAXIMUM EXTENT PRACTICABLE. The standard for implementation of stormwater
management programs to reduce pollutants in stormwater, which shall mean the
maximum extent possible taking into account equitable consideration of
competing factors, including the seriousness of the problem, public health
risk, environmental benefits, pollutant removal effectiveness, regulatory
compliance, ability to implement, cost and technical feasibility.
   NEW DEVELOPMENT. Any land or soil disturbing activities; any building or
structural development, including construction or installation of a building or
impervious surfaces; and any subdivision of real property.
   NPDES. The National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System that is
implemented or enforced by a permit issued by the U.S. Environmental Protection
Agency or the Nebraska Department of Environmental Quality (NDEQ) pursuant to
the Clean Water Act that relates to, or authorizes discharges to, waters of the
United States and requires the reduction of pollutants in the discharge.
   NON-STORMWATER RUNOFF. Any discharge or disposal to the municipal storm
sewer system that is not composed entirely of stormwater.
   NUISANCE. Public nuisance as defined in this chapter or any other related
“nuisance” identified in the Code.
   PEAK DISCHARGE or PEAK FLOW. The instantaneous surface water discharge rate
resulting from a design storm frequency event for a particular hydrologic and
hydraulic analysis as defined by the Omaha Regional Storm Water Design Manual.
The measurement of the PEAK DISCHARGE shall be at the lowest most drainage
outlet(s) from a new development or significant redevelopment.
   POLLUTANT. The term as defined in the Clean Water Act including the
substances or materials set forth in subsections (1)—(8) of this definition.
POLLUTANTS shall not include uncontaminated stormwater, potable water,
groundwater, or water reclaimed by a lawfully permitted water treatment
facility. POLLUTANTS shall include:
      (1)   Materials (including fuels, solvents, chemical, detergents,
plastic, pellets, hazardous substances, radioactive wastes, fertilizers,
pesticides, paints, soot, slag, ash, sludge);
      (2)   Metals and nonmetals both soluble and insoluble (including cadmium,
lead, zinc, copper, silver, nickel, chromium, chlorine, phosphorous, and
arsenic);
      (3)   Petroleum hydrocarbons (including fuels, oils, lubricants,
surfactants, waste oils, solvents, coolants, and grease);
      (4)   Eroded soils, sediment, and particulate materials in amounts, which
may adversely affect the beneficial use of the receiving waters, flora, or
fauna of the state;
      (5)   Animal wastes (including discharge from confinement facilities,
kennels, pens, recreational facilities, and stables);
      (6)   Substances having acidic or corrosive characteristics, unusual
coloration or turbidity;
      (7)   Any domestic or industrial wastewater; and
      (8)   Any hazardous substance.
   PRIVATE STORMWATER CONVEYANCE SYSTEM. A stormwater conveyance system that is
not owned, operated, maintained or controlled by a municipality, a county or
the State of Nebraska that drains or conveys water from a building or from/
through one or more properties to a receiving water, the environment or the
city’s stormwater system.
   PUBLIC NUISANCE. Any discharge in violation of this chapter, any other
related applicable provisions of the Code, a wastewater discharge permit, or an
order of the city council.
   RECEIVING WATERS. All surface water bodies, including all streams, lakes,
ponds, impounding reservoirs, marshes, wetlands, watercourses, waterways,
wells, springs, irrigation ditches, gullies or channels, drainage systems, and
all other bodies or accumulation of water, natural or artificial, public or
private, situated wholly or partly, within or adjacent to the city or the
extraterritorial jurisdiction of the city.
   RUNOFF. Any discharges from a drainage area that enters the municipal storm
sewer system.
   SANITARY SEWAGE. Liquid and water-carried industrial or domestic wastes from
any buildings or structures, including any dwellings, commercial buildings,
industrial facilities and institutions.
   SEPARATE STORM SEWER. Pipe or conduit, which by designation of the director,
carries only stormwater runoff, discharges pursuant to a NPDES permit or
discharges conditionally exempted by law.
   SIGNIFICANT REDEVELOPMENT.
      (1)   Land or soil disturbing activity that directly or indirectly
results in the creation, addition or replacement of at least 5,000 square feet
of impervious surface area, including:
         (a)   Any such expansion of a building footprint;
         (b)   Any such addition or replacement of a structure;
         (c)   Any such replacement of impervious surface that that is not part
of a routine maintenance activity; and
         (d)   Any such land or soil disturbing activities related to
structural or impervious surfaces.
      (2)   SIGNIFICANT REDEVELOPMENT does not include routine maintenance
activities that are conducted to maintain original line and grade, hydraulic
capacity, original purpose of facility or any emergency redevelopment activity
required to protect public health and safety.
   STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION (SIC). A classification pursuant to the
Standard Industrial Classification Manual issued by the Executive Office of the
President of the United States, Office of Management and Budget, as amended
from time to time.
   STORMWATER POLLUTION PREVENTION PLAN (SWPPP). A plan required by the State
of Nebraska under either the general permit for stormwater discharges or an
individual NPDES permit that includes requirements for stormwater discharges
associated with either industrial or construction activities. Typically, the
purpose of the plan is to help identify the sources of pollution that affect
the quality of stormwater discharges from a site and to describe and ensure the
implementation of practices to reduce pollutants in stormwater discharges.
   STORMWATER RUNOFF. That part of natural precipitation (rainfall or snowmelt,
including that of any frozen precipitation), which travels via flow across any
surface to the municipal storm sewer system.
   STREET WASH WATER. The water and the associated debris resulting from the
washing of streets or sidewalks.
   URBAN RUNOFF. Any stormwater and non-stormwater runoff from developed land
situated wholly or partly within or adjacent to the city or the
extraterritorial jurisdiction of the city.
   U.S. EPA. The United States Environmental Protection Agency.
(Ord. 3409, § 1(32-3), passed 7-24-2006; Ord. 3490, § 1, passed 1-12-2009; Ord.
3562, § 1, passed 3-8-2010)
§§ 27.5-4—27.5-20 RESERVED.
ARTICLE II: DISCHARGES
Section
Division 1: Illicit Discharges
   
27.5-21   Illicit discharges prohibited
   
27.5-22   Prohibition of illicit connections
   
27.5-23   Removal of illicit connection
   27.5-24—27.5-40   Reserved
Division 2: Storm Sewer Systems
   
27.5-41   Private stormwater conveyance systems
   
27.5-42   Damage to the municipal storm sewer system
   
27.5-43   Discharge of sanitary sewage prohibited
   27.5-44—27.5-60   Reserved
Division 3: Prohibited Discharges
   
27.5-61   Waste disposal prohibitions
   
27.5-62   Prohibited discharges from industrial and commercial activities
   
27.5-63   Notification of prohibited discharges required
   27.5-64—27.5-80   Reserved
DIVISION 1: ILLICIT DISCHARGES
§ 27.5-21 ILLICIT DISCHARGES PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person shall cause or permit the discharge of non-stormwater runoff
to directly or indirectly enter the municipal separate storm sewer system
unless the discharge is:
      (1)   Authorized by a NPDES permit issued by EPA or NDEQ.
      (2)   Caused by, or resulting from:
         (a)   Fire fighting activities, where such discharges or flows contain
no significant sources of pollutants;
         (b)   Diverted stream flows;
         (c)   Rising groundwaters;
         (d)   Uncontaminated groundwater infiltration, as defined at 40 CFR
35.2005(b)(20);
         (e)   Uncontaminated pumped groundwater;
         (f)   Discharges from potable water sources;
         (g)   Foundation drains;
         (h)   Air conditional condensation;
         (i)   Irrigation water;
         (j)   Springs;
         (k)   Water from crawl space pumps;
         (l)   Footing drains;
         (m)   Lawn watering;
         (n)   Individual residential car washing;
         (o)   Flows from riparian habitats and wetlands;
         (p)    Dechlorinated swimming discharges;
         (q)   Street washwater; or
         (r)   Specifically authorized by the city.
   (B)   Notwithstanding that such discharges may be permitted under subsection
(1), such discharges are allowable only if otherwise in conformance with all
applicable provisions of this chapter and this Code.
(Ord. 4006, §§ 1, 2, passed 10-6-2020)
§ 27.5-22 PROHIBITION OF ILLICIT CONNECTIONS.
   (A)   No person shall install, maintain, permit or use any connection to the
municipal separate storm sewer system that may result in an illicit discharge
to the municipal storm sewer system, including any such connection to the
municipal storm sewer system from inside a building or structure.
   (B)   Without limitation to the foregoing, the prohibition contemplated by
this section expressly includes any illicit connections made in the past,
regardless of whether the connection was permissible under law or accepted
practices at the time of connection; provided that upon discovery or awareness
of any permitted illicit connections made in the past, a plan to promptly
remedy the illicit connection shall be promptly submitted to the director from
the present owner or occupant.
(Ord. 3409, § 1(32-22), passed 7-24-2006)
§ 27.5-23 REMOVAL OF ILLICIT CONNECTION.
   If any person fails to disconnect an illicit connection upon 30-days’ prior
notification by the director, the director may cause the removal of such
connection from the municipal storm sewer system. The city may pursue the
recovery of costs by appropriate means including a suit at law against the
person or persons responsible or from the present owner or occupant.
(Ord. 3409, § 1(32-23), passed 7-24-2006)
§§ 27.5-24—27.5-40 RESERVED.
DIVISION 2: STORM SEWER SYSTEMS
§ 27.5-41 PRIVATE STORMWATER CONVEYANCE SYSTEMS.
   (A)   The owner of a property where a private stormwater conveyance system
is located shall be responsible for the maintenance and repair, and proper
operation of the private stormwater conveyance system whether or not the
private stormwater conveyance system is completely located on the private
property or is partially located within the public right-of-way. The city shall
have no responsibility or obligation for the maintenance, repair, or proper
operation of a private stormwater conveyance system.
   (B)   Without prejudice to any other right, remedy, recourse or punishment
contemplated by the laws, including this chapter or chapter 19 of this Code, in
the event the director determines that a private stormwater conveyance system
is not operating properly or that such system directly or indirectly causes the
improper discharge of stormwater onto the street or sidewalk or into the
municipal storm sewer system, the director may also declare this condition to
constitute a public nuisance and proceed to abate that nuisance in accordance
with this chapter and sections 19-51 through 19-54, as the director shall
consider appropriate.
(Ord. 3409, § 1(32-41), passed 7-24-2006)
§ 27.5-42 DAMAGE TO THE MUNICIPAL STORM SEWER SYSTEM.
   It is unlawful for any person to maliciously, willfully, or negligently
break, damage, destroy, uncover, deface or tamper with any structure,
appurtenance or equipment that is part of the municipal storm sewer system.
(Ord. 3409, § 1(32-42), passed 7-24-2006)
§ 27.5-43 DISCHARGE OF SANITARY SEWAGE PROHIBITED.
   No person shall cause or permit discharge of sanitary sewage into the
municipal separate storm sewer system. Without prejudice to, any other right,
remedy, recourse or punishment contemplated by the laws, including this chapter
or chapter 30 of this Code, in the event the director determines that a
building drain or building sewer is not operating properly and causes the
discharge of sewage onto any street or sidewalk, or into any municipal separate
storm sewer system, the director may also declare this condition to constitute
a public nuisance and proceed to abate that nuisance in accordance with this
chapter, chapter 30 and sections 19-51 through 19-54, as the director shall
consider appropriate.
(Ord. 3409, § 1(32-43), passed 7-24-2006)
§§ 27.5-44—27.5-60 RESERVED.
DIVISION 3: PROHIBITED DISCHARGES
§ 27.5-61 WASTE DISPOSAL PROHIBITIONS.
   No person shall throw, deposit, place, leave, maintain, litter, keep, or
permit to be thrown, deposited, left, maintained or kept any pollutant, refuse,
rubbish, food waste, yard waste, garbage, or any other discarded or abandoned
objects in or upon any public or private real property, including any driveway,
parking area, street, alley, sidewalk, or other location that may result in an
illicit discharge to the municipal storm sewer system. Nothing in this section
27.5-61 shall be construed to apply to wastes that is located in containers
protected from urban runoff such as bags, cans, or recycling bins, or to any
city-approved wastes from construction that is properly contained or stored on
the public right-of-way.
(Ord. 3409, § 1(32-61), passed 7-24-2006)
§ 27.5-62 PROHIBITED DISCHARGES FROM INDUSTRIAL AND COMMERCIAL ACTIVITIES.
   (A)   The following discharges are prohibited unless permitted under a
separate NPDES permit or are specially approved by the director.
   (B)   Nothing in this section 27.5-62 shall be construed to limit the
application of any other provision of this chapter 27.5, including section
27.5-21.
      (1)   Water from the cleaning of vehicle fueling stations, vehicle
service garages, or other types of vehicle service facilities.
      (2)   Water, cleansers, or solvents from the cleaning of vehicles,
machinery or equipment, and other such commercial and industrial operations.
      (3)   Water from the washing or rinsing of vehicles containing soap,
detergents, solvents, or other cleaners.
      (4)   Water from the cleaning or rinsing of vehicle engine,
undercarriage, or auto parts cleaning.
      (5)   Vehicle fluids.
      (6)   Mat wash water from food service facilities.
      (7)   Food and kitchen cleaning water from food service facilities.
      (8)   Leakage from dumpsters or trash containers.
      (9)   Water from the cleaning or rinsing of garbage dumpster areas and
areas where garbage is stored or contained.
      (10)   Water from pressure washing, steam cleaning, and hand scrubbing of
sidewalks, gutters, plazas, alleyways, outdoor eating areas, steps, building
exteriors, walls, driveways, and other outdoor surfaces.
      (11)   Wastewater or cleaning fluids from carpet cleaning.
      (12)   Swimming pool and spa water.
      (13)   Wash out from concrete trucks.
      (14)   Runoff from areas where hazardous substances, including diesel
fuel, gasoline and motor oil are stored.
      (15)   Super-chlorinated, i.e. greater than 4 mg/l chlorine, water
normally associated with the disinfection of potable water systems.
(Ord. 3409, § 1(32-62), passed 7-24-2006)
§ 27.5-63 NOTIFICATION OF PROHIBITED DISCHARGES REQUIRED.
   (A)   Upon discovery of an illicit discharge to the municipal storm sewer
system or any other discharge that is prohibited by application of any
provision of this chapter, the owner or occupant of the property, the holder of
any applicable permit and the person responsible for the discharge shall be
responsible to immediately notify the director of the incident by telephone,
facsimile or e-mail. The notification shall include the discharge location,
type of materials discharged, estimated concentration and volume of the
discharge, and any corrective actions taken to contain or minimize the effects
of the discharge.
   (B)   A written report, facsimile or e-mail, addressed to the director
detailing the date, time and cause of the discharge, the quantity and
characteristics of the discharge, corrective actions taken to contain or
minimize the effects of the discharge, and corrective actions taken to prevent
future discharges shall be filed by the property owner or his designee within
five days of the occurrence of such discharge.
(Ord. 3409, § 1(32-63), passed 7-24-2006)
§§ 27.5-64—27.5-80 RESERVED.
ARTICLE III: INDUSTRIAL STORMWATER PERMIT
Section
   
27.5-81   Industrial stormwater discharge permit required
   
27.5-82   Industrial stormwater discharge permit application
   
27.5-83   Duration
   
27.5-84   Revocation
   
27.5-85   Monitoring requirements
   
27.5-86   Termination
   27.5-87—27.5-100   Reserved
§ 27.5-81 INDUSTRIAL STORMWATER DISCHARGE PERMIT REQUIRED.
   Any industrial or commercial facility within the city or within its zoning
jurisdiction that directly or indirectly discharges stormwater associated with
industrial activity into the City of Omaha’s municipal storm sewer system, must
obtain an Industrial Stormwater Discharge Permit from the City of Omaha to the
extent required by the City of Omaha. This requirement applies to discharges to
both separate storm sewers and combined sewers, irrespective of the source of
the discharges (e.g. only from paved areas and roofs). This permit is in
addition to any permits obtained from the NDEQ.
(Ord. 3409, § 1(32-81), passed 7-24-2006)
§ 27.5-82 INDUSTRIAL STORMWATER DISCHARGE PERMIT APPLICATION.
   Users seeking an industrial stormwater discharge permit shall complete and
file with the director an application on the form prescribed by the director.
The director will evaluate the data furnished by the user and may require
additional information. After evaluation and acceptance of the data furnished,
the director may issue an industrial discharge permit subject to such terms and
conditions as shall be appropriate or as may be required by the laws.
(Ord. 3409, § 1(32-82), passed 7-24-2006)
§ 27.5-83 DURATION.
   (A)   No permit (other than a grading permit) issued under the authority of
this chapter shall be transferable or assignable to any person. Any such permit
shall be valid only for the time indicated thereupon, but may be revoked at any
time effective 30 days prior after written notice from the director.
   (B)   Notwithstanding any other provision in this chapter, all terms and
conditions of any permit issued by authority of this chapter shall be subject
to modification and change by the director:
      (1)   Immediately upon the existence of an emergency; and
      (2)   Whenever made necessary by amendment of this chapter or by
operation of law; provided that, except in the event of an emergency, the
director shall endeavor to provide the holder of a permit 30 days’ prior
written notice of any proposed changes in the permit for such reasons; provided
further, that except in the event of any emergency, that such permit holder
shall be granted a time, as reasonably determined under the circumstances
(without regard to financial hardship), to comply with any such requirements.
(Ord. 3409, § 1(32-83), passed 7-24-2006)
§ 27.5-84 REVOCATION.
   (A)   Any permit issued under authority of this chapter may be revoked at
any time whenever the holder of any such permit, knowingly or otherwise,
violates the conditions of such permit or any provision of this chapter or any
related laws.
   (B)   Examples of such violations include:
      (1)   Failure to report significant changes in operations, or stormwater
constituents and character;
      (2)   Refusal of reasonable access to the user’s premises for the purpose
of inspection or monitoring;
      (3)   Violation of conditions of the permit; or
      (4)   Falsification of information on the permit application or in
subsequent reports.
(Ord. 3409, § 1(32-84), passed 7-24-2006)
§ 27.5-85 MONITORING REQUIREMENTS.
   Routine periodic monitoring of stormwater is not required unless requested
by the director. The director may request such monitoring either verbally or in
writing.
(Ord. 3409, § 1(32-85), passed 7-24-2006)
§ 27.5-86 TERMINATION.
   Should industrial activities cease or a change in ownership occur, the owner
or operator of a permitted industrial facility shall complete and file with the
director a written request for permit termination or modification.
(Ord. 3409, § 1(32-86), passed 7-24-2006)
§§ 27.5-87—27.5-100 RESERVED.
ARTICLE IV: GRADING PERMIT
Section
   
27.5-101   Grading permit required
   
27.5-102   Application for grading permit
   
27.5-103   Grading permit fee
   
27.5-104   Issuance of grading permit
   
27.5-105   Erosion and sediment control at construction and development sites
   27.5-106—27.5-120   Reserved
§ 27.5-101 GRADING PERMIT REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in or cause any grading,
cleaning, or excavation activities unless a grading permit has been issued by
the Permits and Inspections Department as may be required by application of any
provision of this Code. Without limitation to the preceding sentence, it shall
be unlawful for any person to engage in or cause any grading, clearing, or
excavation activities that may cause or result, directly or indirectly, in the
disturbance of any land or soil areas sufficiently large to require a general
NPDES construction site stormwater permit, without the property owner, tenant,
or easement holder, or their agent, first obtaining a grading permit from the
Permits and Inspections Department. This section shall not apply to grading
performed solely for agricultural purposes.
(Ord. 3409, § 1(32-101), passed 7-24-2006)
§ 27.5-102 APPLICATION FOR GRADING PERMIT.
   (A)   Any property owner, occupant, tenant, or easement holder, or their
agent, desiring a grading permit shall make an application to the Permits and
Inspections Department of the city on the forms provided.
   (B)   Any property owner, occupant, tenant, or easement holder, or their
agent, desiring a grading permit shall also submit to the Permits and
Inspections Department a completed NDEQ notice of intent/permit application for
coverage under the general NPDES construction site stormwater permit. Such
permit application shall be made on forms provided by the NDEQ and distributed
by the Permits and Inspections Department. The city shall review all such
completed applications and then forward the application, with any
recommendation, (including the basis therefor) to the NDEQ for approval.
(Ord. 3409, § 1(32-102), passed 7-24-2006)
§ 27.5-103 GRADING PERMIT FEE.
   Before any grading permit application will be accepted by the Permits and
Inspections Department, in addition to any grading permit fee required by this
Code, the applicant shall pay to the city a fee of $750.00 for ten acres or
less, or $1,250.00 for more than ten acres.
(Ord. 3409, § 1(32-103), passed 7-24-2006)
§ 27.5-104 ISSUANCE OF GRADING PERMIT.
   If, after examination of the application for a grading permit, the director
determines that the proposed plan will meet the requirements of this chapter
and the laws, and if the NDEQ approved the NPDES application for the project,
or fails to review and approve or deny the application within seven days, then
the Permits and Inspections Department shall issue the grading permit.
(Ord. 3409, § 1(32-104), passed 7-24-2006)
§ 27.5-105 EROSION AND SEDIMENT CONTROL AT CONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT SITES.
   Provisions for erosion and sediment control at construction and development
sites within the corporate limits and within the jurisdictional area outside
the city limits are set forth in the Manual, which provisions shall be deemed
to control on all construction, development, reconstruction, redevelopment or
any other matter or subject to which such Manual shall apply. In the event of
any conflict between the provisions of the Manual, or any other laws or the
provisions of an NPDES permit issued by the State of Nebraska, the provision
that imposes the highest or most stringent or most specific practice shall
prevail.
(Ord. 3409, § 1(32-105), passed 7-24-2006)
§§ 27.5-106—27.5-120 RESERVED.
ARTICLE V: POST-CONSTRUCTION STORMWATER MANAGEMENT PLAN
Section
Division 1: Generally
   
27.5-121   Requirement for all new development and redevelopment projects
   
27.5-122   Post-construction stormwater management plan
   
27.5-123   Exemptions from the post-construction stormwater management plan
   
27.5-124   Maintenance of post-construction BMPs
   
27.5-125   Admission to property
   27.5-126—27.5-140   Reserved
Division 2: Enforcement
   
27.5-141   Regulatory actions
   
27.5-142   Notice of violation; correction of violations
   
27.5-143   Penalty; recovery of damages
   
27.5-144   Additional rules and regulation
   
27.5-145   Appeals
   
27.5-146   Conflicts with other Code sections
   
27.5-147   Severability
   27.5-148—27.5-160   Reserved
DIVISION 1: GENERALLY
§ 27.5-121 REQUIREMENT FOR ALL NEW DEVELOPMENT AND REDEVELOPMENT PROJECTS.
   Land development and significant redevelopment projects with the potential,
as reasonably determined by the director in his discretion, to add pollutants
to stormwater or to affect the flow rate or velocity of stormwater runoff after
construction is completed must include provisions for the management of the
increased post construction runoff in a post-construction stormwater management
plan.
(Ord. 3409, § 1(32-121), passed 7-24-2006)
§ 27.5-122 POST-CONSTRUCTION STORMWATER MANAGEMENT PLAN.
   (A)   The post-construction stormwater management plan shall be submitted to
the planning department for transmittal to the director, as part of any
preliminary plat application required under section
13-3 of the City Subdivision Regulations. If not already submitted as part of a
preliminary plat process, a post-construction stormwater management plan shall
be submitted to the director for any activity requiring a permit under section
27.5-101, at the same time the application for a City of Bellevue grading
permit is submitted. For any significant redevelopment that does not require a
permit under section 27.5-101, a post-construction stormwater management plan
shall be submitted along with the permit application for any activity requiring
a building permit under the Uniform Administration Code, section 8-18.5.
   (B)   For all development applications made after the adoption date of the
ordinance from which this chapter is derived, the post-construction stormwater
management plan, at a minimum, shall include Low Impact Development (LID) BMPs
to provide for water quality control of the first one-half inch of runoff from
the site and shall maintain the peak discharge rates during the two-year storm
event to baseline land use conditions, measured at every drainage outlet
(stormwater discharge) from the new development or significant redevelopment.
The director shall also require this minimum control level for replats that
significantly increase the amount of impervious area in a preliminarily platted
subdivision, which was approved by the city council prior to July 1, 2008.
   (C)   For all developments with plats preliminarily approved by the city
council prior to the adoption date of the ordinance from which this chapter is
derived and for any sites requiring a permit under section 27.5-101 and for
significant redevelopment projects, the post-construction stormwater management
plan, at a minimum, shall include the BMP or BMPs selected, the BMP design,
schedules and procedures for inspection and maintenance of the BMPs, and for
any sites requiring a permit under section 27.5-101 and where it is reasonably
practicable, include BMPs for water quality control of the first one-half inch
of runoff from the site. Provisions for BMPs are set forth in the Omaha
Regional Stormwater Design Manual. For significant redevelopment projects that
do not require a permit under section 27.5-101 or that involve replacement of
building structures without significant disturbance of existing parking or
other pervious areas, BMPs for water quality control of the first one-half inch
of runoff from the site shall not be required. For significant redevelopment
projects involving an outlot parcel that is part of a greater existing
development, the calculation of the area requiring control of the first one-
half inch of runoff shall be based only on the impervious area of the project
site that is being added or disturbed within the outlot parcel.
(Ord. 3409, § 1(32-122), passed 7-24-2006; Ord. 3490, § 2, passed 1-1-2009;
Ord. 3562, § 2, passed 3-8-2010)
§ 27.5-123 EXEMPTIONS FROM THE POST-CONSTRUCTION STORMWATER MANAGEMENT PLAN.
   Systems designed to accommodate only one single-family dwelling unit,
duplex, triplex, or quadraplex, provided the single unit is not part of a
larger common plan of development or sale, are exempt from the requirements in
this chapter to submit a post-construction stormwater management plan.
(Ord. 3409, § 1(32-123), passed 7-24-2006)
§ 27.5-124 MAINTENANCE OF POST-CONSTRUCTION BMPS.
   (A)   The owners and occupants of lands on which post-construction BMPs have
been installed to meet the requirements of this chapter shall be required to
maintain any such BMPs. All such BMPs shall be inspected or reviewed as
appropriate at least annually, and a written record of inspection results and
any maintenance work shall be maintained and available for review by the city.
   (B)   Any person that has agreed, by contract, covenant, agreement or
otherwise, to maintain a BMP on behalf of any owner or occupant of land shall
do so in accordance with this chapter and the laws; however, that by no owner
or occupant of land shall be relieved of any obligation to maintain any BMP or
any other obligation imposed by any provision of this chapter or the laws by
virtue of the existence of any such contract, agreement or covenant.
   (C)   Any maintenance arrangement contemplated by subparagraph (B) of this
section shall require the applicant or owner to execute an inspection and
maintenance agreement to be filed on record with the register of deeds which
shall be binding on all subsequent owners of land served by a private
stormwater management facility. Such agreement shall permit the city to access
and inspect the facility at all reasonable times and in an emergency to ensure
that the facility is maintained in proper working condition to meet design
standards. The agreement shall also provide that if after notice by the city to
correct a violation requiring maintenance work, satisfactory corrections are
not made by the owner or occupant within a reasonable period of time (30 days
maximum), the city may perform all necessary work to place the facility in
proper working condition, the cost of which shall be assessed against the owner
or occupant of the land.
(Ord. 3409, § 1(32-124), passed 7-24-2006)
§ 27.5-125 ADMISSION TO PROPERTY.
   (A)   Whenever it shall be necessary for the purposes of enforcing the
provisions of the laws or this chapter, including any rules or regulations
promulgated hereunder, the director, upon the presentation of credentials, may
enter upon any property or premises at reasonable times for the purpose of:
      (1)   Copying any records required to be kept under the provisions of the
laws or this chapter;
      (2)   Inspecting or reviewing any BMPs; and
      (3)   Sampling any discharge to the municipal storm sewer system.
   (B)   The director may enter upon the property at any hour under emergency
circumstances. The authority to so inspect, sample and copy records shall be
limited to only those things, and only the extent, that it has a direct bearing
on the kind and source of discharges or disposals into the municipal storm
sewer system.
(Ord. 3409, § 1(32-125), passed 7-24-2006)
§§ 27.5-126—27.5-140 RESERVED.
DIVISION 2: ENFORCEMENT
§ 27.5-141 REGULATORY ACTIONS.
   In addition to the authority right remedy or recourse permitted by any other
applicable provision of this chapter, including section 27.5-41 through section
27.5-43, or this Code, in the event that any person shall cause or permit,
directly or indirectly, any prohibited material, substance or effluent to be
disposed, discharged or proposed to be discharged into the municipal storm
sewer system, the city may take action necessary to:
   (A)   Prohibit such disposal or discharge.
   (B)   Require a discharger to demonstrate that modifications to such
discharger’s facilities will reduce or eliminate such disposal or discharge in
conformity with this chapter.
   (C)   Require pretreatment, including storage, detention or retention
facilities necessary to reduce or eliminate the objectionable characteristics
or materials, substances or effluent so that the disposal or discharge will not
violate the provisions of this chapter.
   (D)   Require the person making, causing, or allowing the disposal or
discharge to pay an additional cost or expense incurred by the city for taking
remedial actions as may be deemed to be desirable or necessary to achieve the
purpose of this chapter.
   (E)   Require any combination or all of the above or such other action that
is permitted under the laws, including this Code.
(Ord. 3409, § 1(32-141), passed 7-24-2006)
§ 27.5-142 NOTICE OF VIOLATION; CORRECTION OF VIOLATIONS.
   Whenever the director finds that any person has violated or is violating
this chapter or any prohibition, limitation or requirement contained herein,
such person shall be notified in writing.
(Ord. 3409, § 1(32-142), passed 7-24-2006)
§ 27.5-143 PENALTY; RECOVERY OF DAMAGES.
   Any person who shall fail to comply with any order issued by the city or the
director in furtherance of this chapter or who is found to have willfully or
negligently failed to comply with any provisions of this chapter, including any
rules and regulations issued hereunder, shall, in addition to being guilty of
the violation of, and punishment under, any other applicable provision of this
Code be deemed to be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be fined an amount that
does not exceed $500.00. Each day any such violation or failure to perform such
act shall continue, shall constitute a separate offense, unless otherwise
specifically provided in this chapter. Except as prohibited by the laws,
prosecution under this chapter, shall not be deemed to be the exclusive penalty
or remedy for any such act or omission.
(Ord. 3409, § 1(32-143), passed 7-24-2006)
§ 27.5-144 ADDITIONAL RULES AND REGULATION.
   The director may make rules and regulations, which expand upon or add to the
provisions of this chapter but are not inconsistent with them. Prior to taking
effect, such rules and regulations, or any amendments thereto, shall be
approved by resolution of the city council. A copy of such rules and
regulations, with any current amendments, shall be on file with the director
and the city clerk.
(Ord. 3409, § 1(32-144), passed 7-24-2006)
§ 27.5-145 APPEALS.
   Any person aggrieved by the issuance, denial, suspension, cancellation,
modification, or revocation of any permit provided for in this chapter or by
any other action ordered by the director, may appeal to the city council by
delivering written notice of such appeal to the city clerk within ten days
after receipt of written notice of the entry of such order. Such notice of
appeal shall specify every basis for appeal and shall include all written
information or documentation supporting the same. The city administrator shall
schedule a show cause hearing before the city council no later than the second
regularly scheduled council meeting following receipt of the notice of appeal,
at which time the aggrieved person shall bear the burden to show why the action
ordered by the director should not apply.
(Ord. 3409, § 1(32-145), passed 7-24-2006)
§ 27.5-146 CONFLICTS WITH OTHER CODE SECTIONS.
   It is the intention of the city council that the application of, and
authority conferred by, any provision of this chapter shall be cumulative with,
and in addition to, any other applicable provision of the Bellevue City Code,
the city’s zoning code or the city’s subdivision regulations; provided,
however, that any existing provision of the Bellevue City Code, the city’s
zoning code or the city’s subdivision regulations that may be inconsistent, or
otherwise in conflict, with any provision of this chapter shall be superceded.
Whether or not specified in any provision of this chapter, the laws or this
Code, nothing in any provision of this chapter shall be construed to limit any
other available right, remedy or recourse of city in enforcing this chapter,
including prosecution under any provision of law.
(Ord. 3409, § 1(32-146), passed 7-24-2006)
§ 27.5-147 SEVERABILITY.
   If any portion of this chapter or the application thereof to any person or
circumstances is held invalid, the remainder of this chapter, and the
application of such provisions to other persons or circumstances, shall not be
affected thereby.
(Ord. 3409, § 1(32-147), passed 7-24-2006)
§§ 27.5-148—27.5-160 RESERVED.
CHAPTER 28: STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
   Article
      
I.   IN GENERAL
      
II.   SIDEWALK CONSTRUCTION AND REPAIR
      
III.   EXCAVATIONS
      
IV.   SPECIAL ASSESSMENTS
      
V.   PARADES, MEETINGS, ETC.
      
VI.   REMOVAL OF SNOW, ICE, MUD AND SLUSH FROM PUBLIC SIDEWALKS AND PRIVATE
PROPERTY
      
VII.   COMPLETE STREETS
      
VIII.   COMMEMORATIVE STREET AND PUBLIC FACILITIES NAMING
      
IX.   ARTERIAL STREET IMPROVEMENT PROGRAM (ASIP)
ARTICLE I: IN GENERAL
Section
   
28-1   Opening, widening and vacating streets and alleys
   
28-2   Establishment and construction of crossings and crosswalks
   
28-3   Openings and gratings in sidewalks generally
   
28-4   Construction of driveways generally; permit
   
28-5   Use of heavy machines, etc., on curbs, sidewalks, bridges, etc.
   
28-6   Obstructions in sidewalk space, street, etc., generally
   
28-7   Storage of building materials on streets and sidewalks
   
28-8   Mixing of concrete on pavement
   
28-9   Gasoline pumps in sidewalks; servicing of vehicles in streets
   
28-10   Eave and gutter drain spouts
   
28-11   Harmful liquids on pavement
   
28-12   Depositing, etc., glass, nails, tacks, etc., upon streets
   
28-13   Overhanging limbs and branches
   
28-14   Poles, wires, etc., of utility companies
   
28-15   Declaration of nuisance; abatement
   28-16—28-25   Reserved
Case law annotation:
   An ordinance creating a street improvement district must describe the
improvements to be made, 167 Neb. 809, 95 N.W.2d 57 (1959).
Statutory reference:
   Construction and maintenance of streets, sidewalks, see Neb. RS 1943, §§ 16-
249, 16-250
   Control of streets, see Neb. RS 1943, § 16-210
   Street improvements generally, see Neb. RS 1943, §§ 16-609 et seq., 18-2001
et seq.
§ 28-1 OPENING, WIDENING AND VACATING STREETS AND ALLEYS.
   The mayor and city council shall have the power to open or widen any street
or and to condemn or purchase private property for such public use as provided
by law. Streets and alleys may be vacated when the mayor and city council deem
it necessary for public safety, welfare and convenience and the title to
vacated streets or alleys, unless reserved in the city, shall revert to the
owners of the lots from which it was originally taken, as provided by law, one-
half on each side thereof.
(1964 Code, § 19-1) (Ord. 3636, passed 9-12-2011)
Statutory reference:
   Vacation of streets, see Neb. RS 1943, § 16-611
§ 28-2 ESTABLISHMENT AND CONSTRUCTION OF CROSSINGS AND CROSSWALKS.
   The city council may order and cause to be constructed under the supervision
of the public works director such street, avenue and alley crossings and
crosswalks of such material as the city council may deem necessary. When a
petition for the construction of any such crossing by the city is filed by any
interested residents of the city in the office of the city clerk, the city
clerk shall refer the same to the public works director who shall investigate
and then submit the petition, together with the director’s recommendation for
allowance or rejection to the city council for final action.
(1964 Code, § 19-2)
§ 28-3 OPENINGS AND GRATINGS IN SIDEWALKS GENERALLY.
   No sidewalks shall contain any openings or gratings unless the adjacent
building is not accessible to vehicles at any other point. It shall be the duty
of the owner of such building to which openings or gratings are adjacent to
keep and maintain them in a safe condition for public travel.
(1964 Code, § 19-3)
§ 28-4 CONSTRUCTION OF DRIVEWAYS GENERALLY; PERMIT.
   No person shall construct or cause to be constructed in the city any
driveway or apron over the curb and corner of the streets and avenues of the
city without specific permission from the public works director. The fee for
obtaining such permit to cover necessary engineering expenses shall be as
determined by resolution of the city council. On all streets to be curbed and
guttered and paved, the city clerk shall notify all parties desiring driveways
into their premises to furnish him with the width and location of such
driveway. The cost of all such driveways in excess of the cost of the
continuous gutter and curb may be charged against the lots or real estate so
benefited by their use when the levy for such work shall be made.
(1964 Code, § 19-4)
§ 28-5 USE OF HEAVY MACHINES, ETC., ON CURBS, SIDEWALKS, BRIDGES, ETC.
   No person shall move or operate any tractor, heavy machine, structure or
road roller across any curb, gutter, bridge, culvert, sidewalk, crosswalk or
crossing in any unpaved street within the city without first having protected
such curb, gutter, bridge, culvert, sidewalk, crosswalk or crossing with heavy
plank sufficient in strength to warrant against breaking or damaging of such
curb, gutter, bridge, culvert, sidewalk, crosswalk or crossing and without
first having obtained permission from the office of the public works director.
(1964 Code, § 19-6)
§ 28-6 OBSTRUCTIONS IN SIDEWALK SPACE, STREET, ETC., GENERALLY.
   No person shall erect, maintain or suffer to remain on any street or public
sidewalk or on any portion of the area between the lot line and the curbline of
any street, any stand, wagon or other obstruction injurious to, inconvenient or
inconsistent with the public use of the same; provided, that a reasonable time
shall be allowed to remove goods, wares and merchandise from sidewalks or
streets while the same are being received, delivered or shipped.
(1964 Code, § 19-9)
§ 28-7 STORAGE OF BUILDING MATERIALS ON STREETS AND SIDEWALKS.
   Persons engaged in the erection, construction, reconstruction, wrecking or
repairing of any building or the construction or repair of any sidewalk along
any street may occupy the public space with building materials and equipment if
such person shall make written application to and receive a permit in writing
from the public works director to do so. No permit for the occupancy of the
sidewalk space and more than one-third of the roadway of the public space
adjacent to the real estate on which such building is to be constructed,
erected, reconstructed, wrecked or repaired shall be granted. A suitable
passageway for pedestrians shall be maintained within the public space included
in the permit, which passageway shall be protected and lighted in the manner
required by the public works director. The public works director and/or his or
her designee shall enforce the provisions of this section.
(1964 Code, § 19-10) (Ord. 4048, § 1, passed 9-7-2021)
§ 28-8 MIXING OF CONCRETE ON PAVEMENT.
   No person shall mix any concrete or plastering material directly on the
pavement using the pavement as a mixing board for the material.
(1964 Code, § 19-11)
§ 28-9 GASOLINE PUMPS IN SIDEWALKS; SERVICING OF VEHICLES IN STREETS.
   No gasoline pump shall be constructed, located or installed in the sidewalk
space along any street within the city. The construction, location or
installation of such gasoline pump beyond the building line or lot line or the
servicing of any motor vehicle while standing beyond the building line or lot
line of any portion of the streets as described in this section is prohibited.
(1964 Code, § 19-12)
§ 28-10 EAVE AND GUTTER DRAIN SPOUTS.
   No person shall erect or maintain any dwelling, house or business building
within the city where the dwelling or building abuts on any sidewalk or street
without providing proper guttering and eave spouts to receive the waste waters
that drip on the streets and sidewalks of the city. All eave spouts erected on
any dwelling, house or business building within the city shall be constructed
to drain in the alleys even for such eave spouts shall be buried beneath the
sidewalks and drain into the streets where it is impossible to drain such eave
spouts in the alley.
(1964 Code, § 19-14)
§ 28-11 HARMFUL LIQUIDS ON PAVEMENT.
   No person shall place or permit to leak in the gutter or upon any street
pavement in the city any waste gasoline, kerosene, high lubricating oils or
other liquids which harm or deteriorate the pavement.
(1964 Code, § 19-15)
§ 28-12 DEPOSITING, ETC., GLASS, NAILS, TACKS, ETC., UPON STREETS.
   No person shall throw, cast, lay or place upon any street within the city
any tacks, nails, glass, bottles, window glass or other article made of or
containing glass and in case of an accident causing the breaking of any glass
upon any such street, the owner or person in charge of such glass or the person
responsible for such breakage shall at once remove or cause the same to be
removed from the street.
(1964 Code, § 19-16)
§ 28-13 OVERHANGING LIMBS AND BRANCHES.
   The owner or occupant of any lot, piece or parcel of ground abutting or
adjacent to any sidewalk or traveled street or alley over which extend the
branches of any trees shall at all times keep the branches or limbs thereof
trimmed to the height of at least eight feet above the surface of the sidewalk
and at least 14 feet above the height of the street or alley. Whenever the
limbs or branches of any trees extend over sidewalks, streets, or alleys
contrary to the provisions of this section so as to interfere with the lighting
of the street from lamps or with the convenience of the public using the
sidewalks, streets or alleys, the city administrator or his designee shall
order by certified mail, the owner or occupant to cut or remove and dispose of
properly such obstructions within three days after having received a copy
thereof stating the height restrictions and stating that the city will do so
and charge the costs thereof to the owner or occupant as a special assessment
for improvements as provided in this chapter, if such regulation is not
complied with.
(1964 Code, § 19-17) (Ord. 2024, § 1, passed 7-25-1977)
§ 28-14 POLES, WIRES, ETC., OF UTILITY COMPANIES.
   (A)   Poles, wires and other appurtenances of public service companies shall
be erected or located over, upon or under the streets, alleys and common
grounds, or elsewhere within the city, only after application shall have been
made to the mayor and city council and permission in writing shall have been
given to do so. Public service companies granted rights-of-way for erection and
maintenance of poles, conduits and wires and all appurtenances thereto for the
purpose of transacting their business upon, under and over the streets, alleys
and public grounds of the city shall at all times, when requested by the mayor
and city council, erect, locate or relocate their poles and wires at such
places and in such manner as may be designated by the mayor and city council.
Such poles and wires shall be removed or relocated by such companies at their
own expense when requested to do so by the mayor and city council.
   (B)   Whenever it becomes necessary for the mayor and city council to use
the ground where the poles or fixtures are located, they shall notify the
company or their agent at the city or elsewhere and the company shall, within
24 hours after receiving such notice, at their own expense, cause the poles to
be removed. The mayor and city council shall designate some place as close as
possible where such poles or fixtures may be reset or replaced.
   (C)   All poles and lines shall be erected in such manner that they will not
interfere with the travel through or drainage on the streets and alleys of the
city, or with buildings now erected or which may be erected. When permitted,
such pole lines shall be confined to the alleys where possible.
(1964 Code, § 15-11)
§ 28-15 DECLARATION OF NUISANCE; ABATEMENT.
   The occupation of the public space with building materials and equipment for
the erection, construction, reconstruction, wrecking, or repairing of any
building or the construction or repair of any sidewalk along any street without
a permit in writing from the public works director pursuant to section
28-7, or such occupation for which a permit has been issued but subsequently
does not comply with the permitting requirements, is hereby declared to be a
public nuisance and is subject to abatement and/or removal of such nuisance
pursuant to the sections of
Chapter 19, Article I of this code.
(Ord. 4048, § 2, passed 9-7-2021)
§§ 28-16—28-25 RESERVED.
ARTICLE II: SIDEWALK CONSTRUCTION AND REPAIR
Section
   
28-26   Definitions
   
28-27   Duty of property owners to maintain sidewalks
   
28-28   Conformity and specifications of the public works department for
sidewalk improvement
   
28-29   Order to construct or repair sidewalk; notification
   
28-30   Letting of bids for construction by city
   
28-31   Creation of a sidewalk district; assessment of costs
   
28-32   Sidewalk building permit provisions
   
28-33   Waiver, authority of city council
   
28-34   Request for waiver; procedure
   28-35—28-65   Reserved
Editor’s note:
   Ord. 2778, § 1, adopted September 27, 1993, amended Art. II to read as
herein set out in §§ 28-26—28-34. Prior to inclusion of said ordinance, Art.
II, Divs. 1 and 2, §§ 28-26—23-39 and 28-46—28-51 pertained to similar subject
matter and derived from the Code of 1964, §§ 19-21—19-24, 19-27—19-38.
Statutory reference:
   Construction, repair of sidewalks, see Neb. RS 1943, §§ 16-250, 16-661 et
seq., 19-2417 et seq.
§ 28-26 DEFINITIONS.
   As used in this article, the following terms shall have the meanings
assigned herein:
   BUILDING. Any structure having a roof (partial or otherwise) and built to
provide shelter, support or enclosure for animals, persons or property;
   PERMANENT SIDEWALK. A sidewalk meeting the specifications adopted by the
city council pursuant to section 28-28;
   SIDEWALK SPACE. That portion of a street between the lateral line of a
roadway and the adjacent property line;
   SIDEWALK. That portion of the sidewalk space constructed, developed or
intended for use by pedestrians, whether or not a permanent sidewalk; and
   STRUCTURE. The same meaning as provided in article 1662 of Ordinance No. 770
(zoning regulations).
(Ord. 2778, § 1, passed 9-27-1993)
§ 28-27 DUTY OF PROPERTY OWNERS TO MAINTAIN SIDEWALKS.
   The owner(s) of any land, lot or parcel shall at all times keep and maintain
all sidewalks in the sidewalk space abutting on or adjacent to such land, lot
or parcel in good and proper repair and in a condition reasonably safe for
travel by pedestrians.
(Ord. 2778, § 1, passed 9-27-1993)
§ 28-28 CONFORMITY AND SPECIFICATIONS OF THE PUBLIC WORKS DEPARTMENT FOR
SIDEWALK IMPROVEMENT.
   (A)   The public works director shall periodically review and determine
plans and specifications to be applicable to all sidewalks within the city
which are designated, altered, constructed or substantially repaired after the
effective date of this section; provided however that such plans and
specifications shall not be effective unless first approved by the city
council.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to construct or substantially repair any sidewalk
in the city until a permit authorizing such work has been issued by the Permits
and Inspections Department of the city.
   (C)   Application for a permit shall be made in writing to the Permits and
Inspections Department on such forms as shall be considered appropriate.
Application shall be accompanied by a fee established for such purpose by the
city council.
   (D)   All work and improvements made pursuant to such permit shall be
inspected by the public works director or the director’s designated
representative upon completion and shall meet and be in conformity with the
plans and specifications of section
28-28 or the resolution of the city council adopted pursuant to section
28-29 unless a waiver has been granted by the city council pursuant to sections
28-33 and 28-34 of this article; provided, however, no such waiver shall be
available whenever such work has been ordered by the city council pursuant to
section
28-29 of this article. Whenever the city council grants any waiver authorized
by this article, a permit to construct or repair a sidewalk shall be issued in
conformity with the decision of the city council. Such work and improvements
shall be constructed at and upon the location and according to city sidewalk
specifications developed and approved in accordance with this section. An on-
site inspection and survey of the site for which a permit has been issued for
sidewalk repair or construction shall be done by the public works director or
the director’s designated representative at least 24 hours prior to the
commencement of the pouring of concrete, or the commencement of any other work
entailing substantial permanent improvement to a sidewalk, in order to
determine that the sidewalk is constructed or repaired according to the
location, grade and elevation required by the plans and specifications for
sidewalk improvement applicable in accordance with this section.
(Ord. 2778, § 1, passed 9-27-1993)
§ 28-29 ORDER TO CONSTRUCT OR REPAIR SIDEWALK; NOTIFICATION.
   (A)   (1)   The city council may by resolution, adopted by a majority of
those council members in attendance at any validly commenced meeting of the
city council, order the owner(s) of any land, lot or parcel abutting on or
adjacent to any sidewalk space to construct, repair, replace or otherwise
improve a sidewalk to conform to the plans and specifications applicable
pursuant to section
28-28 whenever it considers such work and improvements to be necessary in the
interests of public health, safety or welfare; provided that at the time of
adopting any such resolution, the city council may, in its discretion, waive or
modify any part of such plans and specifications as it may consider
appropriate, but only upon a showing that an undue hardship then exists and
that the completed work would satisfy public health, safety or welfare. In such
event the resolution shall also specify the nature and extent of the work and
improvements to be performed.
      (2)   No such resolution shall be so adopted:
         (a)   Until the expiration of at least seven days following the date
that the affected land, lot or parcel has been posted with notice from the
public works director that the condition of the existing sidewalk or sidewalk
space constitutes a threat to public health, safety or welfare;
         (b)   For a period of 30 days following the issuance of a permit for
such work; or
         (c)   While any valid application for waiver made to the city council
pursuant to sections 28-33 and 28-34 of this article is pending.
   (B)   (1)   All work and improvements ordered pursuant to section 28-29(a)
shall be completed within the time provided in such resolution, which shall not
be less than 30 days following notice to the owner of record of the affected
land, lot or parcel; provided, in the event the city council finds that an
immediate threat to the public health, safety or welfare shall then exist the
city council may order the work and improvements to be completed in less than
30 days. In the event the work and improvements are not completed as required
by the city council’s resolution, then the city council may in its discretion
complete the work itself or enter into a contract for completion of such work
and improvements; provided that the city council may either:
         (a)   Create a sidewalk district and specially assess the expense of
all such work and improvements against the affected lands, lots, or parcels
abutting on or adjacent to such improvements as described in section 28-31(a)
through section 28-31(c) of this article; or
         (b)   Specially assess the expense of all such work and improvements
directly against the affected lands, lots, or parcels abutting on or adjacent
to such improvements as described in section 28-31(d) of this article.
      (2)   For the purposes of this section, costs shall include, but are not
limited to, engineer costs and fees, survey costs and fees, wages and benefits,
reasonable estimated administrative costs, and attorneys’ fees.
   (C)   Notice shall be substantially in the form proposed below and shall be
deemed made, and therefor sufficient:
      (1)   At the time of mailing, if sent by certified mail postage prepaid
to the address of record of the owner of record;
      (2)   Upon personal service to the owner of record which may be affected
by leaving a copy of the same at such owner’s usual place of residence; or
      (3)   By combination of both. If after reasonable effort notice is not so
made, then the notice shall be deemed made, and therefore sufficient, upon the
date of publication if made in a newspaper published in or of general
circulation in the city. In the event of notice by publication, the city clerk
shall cause an affidavit of publication to be filed and maintained as part of
the official records of the city.
   (D)   (1)   Notice made by mail or by personal service shall include a copy
of the city council’s resolution, a reference to this article, the current
plans and specifications approved pursuant to section 28-28, if applicable, and
the following written provisions:
 
NOTICE TO PROPERTY OWNER: You are hereby notified that on                                , the Bellevue City Council determined that the interests
of public health, safety or welfare required that the sidewalk space abutting on or adjacent to your property
                                                                       should be improved by the construction of a sidewalk meeting those
specifications enclosed herein. All work shall be completed within the time specified in the enclosed resolution. Details of compliance may be
obtained from the public works director. Failure to comply may result in the work being completed by city contractors, the expense of which may be
levied as a special assessment and lien against the property.
 
      (2)   In the event of notice by personal service, the following return
shall be made:
 
STATE OF NEBRASKA   )
)   SS.
COUNTY OF SARPY   )
 
The undersigned  [name] , the  [position]  of the City of Bellevue hereby
certifies that I served the following documents  ( )  on  [name]  by
[describe]  .
 
   (E)   (1)   Notice made by publication shall be in substantially the
following form:
 
NOTICE TO CONSTRUCT PERMANENT SIDEWALK
 
To:  [OWNER(S)]
 
PROPERTY:  [Address, common, if possible]
 
You are hereby notified that on [date] the Bellevue City Council determined that the interests of public
health, safety or welfare required that the sidewalk space abutting the property identified above should
be improved by the construction of a sidewalk meeting specifications of law. Such work must be completed
by  [date]  .
 
Details may be obtained from the public works director at
                                                    .
 
FAILURE TO COMPLY MAY RESULT IN THE WORK BEING COMPLETED BY CITY CONTRACTORS, THE EXPENSE OF WHICH MAY
BE LEVIED AS A SPECIAL ASSESSMENT.
 
      (2)   The names of the owners, the property address and the last sentence
of the notice shall be printed in bold capital letters.
(Ord. 2778, § 1, passed 9-27-1993; Ord. 3008, §§ 1, 2, passed 1-25-1999)
§ 28-30 LETTING OF BIDS FOR CONSTRUCTION BY CITY.
   All contracts for work and improvements to be completed by the city pursuant
to section 28-29(b) hereinabove shall be awarded by the city council following
bids taken in accordance with then current city procedures; provided, however,
that the city council, may in its discretion, enter into a single contract
annually for any such type of work to be performed in the ensuing calendar
year.
(Ord. 2778, § 1, passed 9-27-1993)
§ 28-31 CREATION OF A SIDEWALK DISTRICT; ASSESSMENT OF COSTS.
   (A)   Whenever a resolution of the city council has been adopted pursuant to
section 28-29(A) by at least a three-fourths vote of all the members of the
city council and such work has not been completed in compliance with such
resolution, the city council may by ordinance create a sidewalk district
consisting of the affected land, lot or parcels; provided, nothing in this
section is intended to prevent the city council from creating a sidewalk
district pursuant to Neb. RS § 19-2417, as amended. Nothing herein shall be
construed to prevent the city council from adopting a new resolution ordering
such work and providing for the introduction of such an ordinance at any time
whenever the resolution of ordering the work may have not received sufficient
votes to permit the creation of a sidewalk district; provided, however, that
such resolution shall fail unless it is adopted by a three-fourths vote of all
council members.
   (B)   The ordinance shall specify the land, lots or parcels to be made a
part of the sidewalk district; the work to be performed; and that the cost of
the work is to be assessed against the benefitted land, lots or parcels
abutting on or adjacent to the work and improvements. The ordinance shall also
authorize the award of a contract for performance of work specified.
   (C)   Whenever the city council has created a sidewalk district the cost of
all work and improvements authorized by such ordinance shall be assessed
against the benefitted land, lots or parcels in the manner required by state
law.
   (D)   In lieu of subsections (A) through (C) of this section, if any
construction, repairs, replacements, or other improvements to or of a sidewalk
are not completed pursuant to a city council resolution under section
28-29 of this article, the city may complete such work itself or contract for
the completion of such work and improvements. The mayor and city council may
assess the costs on such land, lots or parcels abutting on or adjacent to such
improvements or construction in an amount not greater than the costs and
expenses, including administrative costs and expenses, of the improvements or
construction. The assessment shall be a lien on the real property from the date
of the levy, and shall be due and payable to the city treasurer 30 days after
such levy, and shall be collected as other real estate taxes and assessments
are collected. Any assessments which are not paid, payable to the city
treasurer, 30 days after such levy shall bear interest at the rate of nine
percent annually.
(Ord. 2778, § 1, passed 9-27-1993; Ord. 3008, §§ 1, 2, passed 1-25-1999)
§ 28-32 SIDEWALK BUILDING PERMIT PROVISIONS.
   No building permit shall be granted for the construction of a new building
or for the addition of square footage to an existing building unless the
building plans provide for the construction of a permanent sidewalk in the
sidewalk space abutting or adjacent to the land, lot or parcel on which the
building or the addition is to be constructed. The public works director or his
designee may waive the requirement of this section on a showing by the permit
applicant that the requirement of this section creates a substantial hardship
under the individual circumstance and that waiver of the requirement would not
have an adverse effect on public health, safety and welfare.
(Ord. 2788, § 1, passed 1-10-1994)
§ 28-33 WAIVER, AUTHORITY OF CITY COUNCIL.
   The city council shall have authority to hear and decide any request for
waiver authorized by sections 28-28(D) or 28-34 of this article. In granting
any waiver, it may also modify the otherwise applicable plans and
specifications. No such waiver or modification shall be granted however, except
upon a showing by the applicant that the existing sidewalk or the proposed
waiver or modification to the plans and specifications does not constitute a
threat to public health, safety or welfare; provided further that whenever such
waiver or modification is granted, nothing herein shall be construed to
prohibit the city council from exercising its authority pursuant to section
28-29 any time thereafter.
(Ord. 2778, § 1, passed 9-27-1993)
§ 28-34 REQUEST FOR WAIVER; PROCEDURE.
   A request for waiver shall be made in writing to the city council by
delivery to the office of the city clerk setting out with specificity: the
basis for the request; as required by section 28-33, a showing that the
requested waiver does not constitute a threat to public health, safety or
welfare; the precise provisions of the applicable plans and specifications from
which a waiver is requested; and the specific alternatives to the plans and
specifications proposed by the person requesting the waiver to the city
council. The request for waiver shall be made prior to filing an application
for a permit under this article and prior to a sale of the affected land, lot
or parcel for which a waiver from the requirements of this article is
requested. There shall be a filing fee of $30.00 for the request for waiver
made in accordance with this article. Following the receipt of any such request
the city council shall schedule and conduct a hearing at a regularly scheduled
city council meeting. Following the hearing the city council shall grant or
deny the application and, if denied, shall state the reason thereof.
(Ord. 2778, § 1, passed 9-27-1993)
§§ 28-35—28-65 RESERVED.
ARTICLE III: EXCAVATIONS
Section
Division 1: Generally
   
28-66   “Paving” defined
   
28-67   Tamping and refilling required
   
28-68   Notice of paving or repaving by city; excavations prohibited
   
28-69   Separate trenches required for underground electric lines and for sewer
pipe from other underground utilities
   28-70—28-75   Reserved
Division 2: Permit
   
28-76   Required
   28-77   Curb and street cut permit application procedures; initial and
extended permits; recovery of cost and expense; inspection
   
28-77.1   Paving, curb and sidewalk cut and public right-of-way excavation
permit application fees; authority to perform curb work; paving cutting fees;
barricading
   
28-78   Deposit required
   
28-79   Bond
   
28-80   Authority of city to perform or authorize performance of work
   
28-81   Work done by permittee
   28-82—28-92   Reserved
Statutory reference:
   Regulation of excavations, see Neb. RS 1943, § 16-232
DIVISION 1: GENERALLY
§ 28-66 “PAVING” DEFINED.
   The term PAVING as used in this article shall include any substances used by
the city in accord with the plans and specifications of the city engineer.
(1964 Code, § 19-39)
§ 28-67 TAMPING AND REFILLING REQUIRED.
   No person shall make an excavation in any street of the city for any purpose
whatsoever, if and when permitted and allowed, without thoroughly tamping and
refilling the same in such manner as the city engineer shall prescribe and
direct.
(1964 Code, § 19-46)
§ 28-68 NOTICE OF PAVING OR REPAVING BY CITY; EXCAVATIONS PROHIBITED.
   Whenever a street or alley or a part thereof is to be put under contract for
paving or repaving, the city clerk shall notify the owners in fee simple of
real estate abutting such street or alley and their tenants or lessees and also
all gas, electric service and telephone companies and water consumers by
publication or otherwise, of the purpose of the city to pave and that all gas,
water, sewer and underground connections shall be made prior to the paving or
repaving of the street or alley. Such notice shall be published one time in a
legal newspaper at least 20 days prior to the beginning of the operation by the
party having the work under construction and the notice shall state at what
date connection shall be made and excavation completed. After expiration of
such time, permits for excavation will not be issued nor will excavation be
allowed until after the completion of the pavement in such street or alley and
the formal and final acceptance thereof by the proper officials of the city.
(1964 Code, § 19-47)
§ 28-69 SEPARATE TRENCHES REQUIRED FOR UNDERGROUND ELECTRIC LINES AND FOR SEWER
PIPE FROM OTHER UNDERGROUND UTILITIES.
   No gas pipe or water pipe shall be laid in the same trench with the sewer
pipe in any street, alley or public grounds in the city or nearer than three
feet to any sewer pipe. No underground electric line shall be laid in the same
trench with any gas pipe, water pipe or sewer pipe in any street, alley or
public grounds in the city nor nearer than three feet to any such pipes or
conduits.
(1964 Code, § 19-48)
§§ 28-70—28-75 RESERVED.
DIVISION 2: PERMIT
§ 28-76 REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to cut into any paving, curb or
sidewalk, or perform any excavation in the public rights-of-way located within
the boundaries of the city for any purpose whatsoever without having first
obtained a permit from the public works administrative division.
(1964 Code, § 19-40) (Ord. 2377, § 1, passed 8-26-1985; Ord. 3279, § 1, passed
7-14-2003)
§ 28-77 CURB AND STREET CUT PERMIT APPLICATION PROCEDURES; INITIAL AND EXTENDED
PERMITS; RECOVERY OF COST AND EXPENSE; INSPECTION.
   (A)   Any person required by this division to obtain a permit shall apply
for such permit by making a written application with the public works
administrative division. All applications for an initial permit or an extended
permit shall describe the extent and character of the work to be done and shall
be accompanied by a paving, curb and/or sidewalk cut plan or excavation plan
showing the location and dimensions of the proposed cut or excavation and any
other information as may be necessary for the enforcement of this Code. The
public works administrative division shall keep a record of all paving, curb
and sidewalk cuts and excavations in the public right-of-way.
   (B)   Any initial permit issued by the public works administrative division
shall expire at the end of 20-business days after its date of issuance. If a
permittee under an initial permit does not satisfactorily complete the work
described in the application before the expiration of the initial permit, then
in order to complete and/or rectify such work, such permittee shall apply for
and receive an extended permit from the public works administrative division.
Any extended permit issued by the public works administrative division shall
expire at the end of 20 business days after its date of issuance. If, prior to
the expiration of an initial permit or extended permit, as the case may be, an
applicant does not
      (1)   Satisfactorily complete the work described in such permit; or
      (2)   Apply for and receive an extended permit or subsequent extended
permit for such work, then such applicant, upon the expiration of such permit,
shall cease all work referenced in the application; and the city, acting
through its public works director, may either:
         (a)   Perform or authorize the performance of the work as described in
such application in accordance with sections
28-77.1 and
28-80; or
         (b)   Restore the property as may be reasonably possible to its
original condition by backfilling, tamping and replacing any paving and/or
seeding any grass which was removed by the applicant.
   (C)   Whenever the city incurs any cost or expense in performing or
authorizing the performance of work or restoration, permitting, or inspection
of said performance, pursuant to this section, the applicant under such permit
(s) shall be liable to the city for such cost and/or expense. The city shall
send a written statement to such applicant setting forth the amount of money
due to the city for such cost and/or expense and such amount shall be payable
to the city within 15 days after the date it is mailed by the city. If not paid
within such period, interest shall accrue from and after the date of the
statement at a rate of 16 percent per annum or the highest rate allowable by
law, whichever is greater. In addition, any applicant deemed liable by the city
pursuant to this subsection shall, after the date the city mails such applicant
a written statement detailing the city’s cost and/or expense, be prohibited
from obtaining any other initial or extended permit pursuant to this division,
unless and until the city has fully recovered its cost and/or expense,
including any accrued interest, which is owed to the city by such applicant. An
applicant shall be prevented from obtaining any other initial or extended
permit under the foregoing sentence regardless of whether the permit requested
by the applicant is for work at the same location as the location the city
incurred its cost and/or expense in performing or authorizing the performance
of work or restoration on behalf of such applicant under such applicant’s prior
application.
   (D)   It shall be the duty of the public works director to inspect or cause
an inspection to be made of the place of entry into the paving, curb, sidewalk
or public right-of-way area after work has been completed. If, following
inspection, the public works department determines in its sole discretion that
all work has been performed in a satisfactory manner, then the permittee shall
be so notified and shall be relieved of any further obligations of performing
work described in the permit.
(1964 Code, § 19-41) (Ord. 2377, § 2, passed 8-26-1985; Ord. 3279, § 2, passed
7-14-2003; Ord. 4094, § 1, passed 5-3-2022)
§ 28-77.1 PAVING, CURB AND SIDEWALK CUT AND PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY EXCAVATION
PERMIT APPLICATION FEES; AUTHORITY TO PERFORM CURB WORK; PAVING CUTTING FEES;
BARRICADING.
   (A)   Before any initial permit shall be issued under the provisions of this
division, the applicant therefor shall pay an application fee in the amount of
$25.00 for the city’s processing and inspection services. Before any extended
permit or subsequent extended permit shall be issued under the provisions of
this division, the applicant therefor shall pay an application fee in the
amount of $200.00 for the city’s processing and inspection services.
   (B)   If any street cutting, curb grinding, curb removal or public right-of-
way excavation work is required to be performed under a permit issued pursuant
to this division, then the public works director may authorize such work to be
performed by a pre-approved contractor in accordance with sections
28-80 and
28-81. Notwithstanding the foregoing, all curbs shall be ground per the City of
Omaha Standard Specifications for Public Works Construction. No curbs shall be
saw cut without permission of the public works director.
   (C)   Whenever the city performs any paving cuts and/or removal work, in
addition to the application fees described above in subsection (A), the
applicant shall pay to the city:
      (1)   The cost for cutting, street backfilling, tamping, and replacing
concrete, asphalt, or other hard surface paving, which cost shall be charged at
the rate of $35.00 per square foot to a maximum depth of six feet. For each
additional foot in depth beyond six feet, a charge of ten percent per foot
shall be added. Any cut within four feet of a construction joint shall be
removed to the joint. No side of any street cut shall be less than four feet.
The city will saw, knock out and remove the pavement. The contractor shall
complete his work, backfill one foot above whatever utility he has repaired and
remove all excess dirt. The city will then complete the backfill and repour the
street. All street cuts performed between November 15 and April 1 of each year
shall pay a ten percent winter charge.
      (2)   Such amounts so paid shall compensate the city for cutting,
refilling, tamping, or paving such portion of the pavement. If the actual cost
to the city of such cutting, refilling, tamping, or repaving shall exceed the
amount paid, the applicant shall pay the city the difference in cost upon
demand being made therefor.
   (D)   All paving cut locations must be barricaded by the applicant prior to
the commencement of any cutting. All traffic control devices shall meet the
requirements, including but not limited to the location requirements,
prescribed in the Manual of Uniform Traffic Control Devices (MUTCD) and
whenever a new edition of the MUTCD is published, such new edition shall
supercede the old edition for purposes of this section
28-77.1(D). All barricades shall be a minimum of two feet wide, reflectorized
and equipped with a flashing light. Curb grinding does not require barricading.
(Ord. 2377, § 4, passed 8-26-1985; Ord. 2468, §§ 1, 2, passed 6-8-1987; Ord.
2845, § 1, passed 5-8-1995; Ord. 2896, § 1, passed 6-24-1996; Ord. 3279, § 3,
passed 7-14-2003; Ord. 4094, § 1, passed 5-3-2022)
§ 28-78 DEPOSIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   Whenever the work or any part thereof covered by a permit required by
this division is to be done by the city, the permittee shall pay into the
treasury of the city a sum equal to the cost of the work to be done, as
determined by a resolution of the city council.
   (B)   Such amount so deposited shall compensate the city for cutting,
refilling, tamping and repaving such portion of the pavement. If the actual
cost to the city of such cutting, refilling, tamping or repaving shall exceed
the sum deposited, the permittee shall pay to the city the difference in cost
upon demand being made thereof.
(1964 Code, § 19-42)
§ 28-79 BOND.
   The applicant will, if requested by the city, promptly replace and repair
each place cut into any pavement, curb or sidewalk, under such rules as may be
prescribed by the city engineer or street superintendent, in as good a
condition as before the same was cut; and that the applicant will promptly
compensate the city for all work done by the city in replacing or repairing any
places cut in any pavement, curb or sidewalk by the applicant; and that the
applicant will obey this Code and all other ordinances of the city in doing
such work and will save the city harmless from any damage which may occur as a
result of either cutting or repairing any pavement curb, or sidewalk; that the
applicant will maintain and keep in repair the place where the pavement, curb
or sidewalk is cut in good order to the satisfaction of the city and its
officers for a period of one year after the completion of the work.
(1964 Code, § 19-43) (Ord. 2377, § 3, passed 8-26-1985)
§ 28-80 AUTHORITY OF CITY TO PERFORM OR AUTHORIZE PERFORMANCE OF WORK.
   The public works director shall use his discretion to authorize any work
under a permit required by this division to be performed:
   (A)   By the city street department and charge the cost thereof to the party
who obtained such permit;
   (B)   By a contractor pre-approved by the public works director after
demonstrating to the public works director such contractor’s qualifications to
perform the paving, curb and sidewalk cutting, excavation and/or removal
services described in this division, including but not limited to, having the
equipment and competent workmen necessary to perform such services; and/or
   (C)   By the party holding such permit, if the public works director is
satisfied that such party is qualified to perform the paving, curb and sidewalk
cutting, excavation and/or removal services described in this division,
including but not limited to having the equipment and competent workmen
necessary to perform such services.
(1964 Code, § 19-44) (Ord. 3279, § 4, passed 7-14-2003)
§ 28-81 WORK DONE BY PERMITTEE.
   If the city elects to require the applicant for a permit required by this
division to do the work covered by such permit, such work shall be performed in
accordance with the public works director’s specifications and shall be
completed to the public work director’s satisfaction.
(1964 Code, § 19-45) (Ord. 3279, § 5, passed 7-14-2003)
§§ 28-82—28-92 RESERVED.
ARTICLE IV: SPECIAL ASSESSMENTS
Section
   
28-93   Authority to levy for street improvements
   
28-94   Procedure for making and levying
   
28-95   Review by city council as board of equalization
   
28-96   Collection generally
   
28-97   Ordinary street and alley repairs
   28-98—28-110   Reserved
Statutory reference:
   Authority to levy special assessments generally, see Neb. RS 1943, § 16-204
   Special assessments for street improvements, see Neb. RS 1943, §§ 16-632 et
seq.
§ 28-93 AUTHORITY TO LEVY FOR STREET IMPROVEMENTS.
   To defray the costs and expenses of street improvements as may be authorized
by law, the mayor and city council shall have power and authority to levy and
collect special taxes and assessments upon the lots and pieces of ground
adjacent to and abutting upon the street, avenue, alley or sidewalk in whole or
in part opened, widened, curbed, curbed and guttered, graded, paved, repaired,
graveled, macadamized, parked, extended, constructed or otherwise improved or
repaired or which may be specially benefited by any of such improvements.
(1964 Code, § 19-49)
§ 28-94 PROCEDURE FOR MAKING AND LEVYING.
   All special assessments made and levied as provided in this article shall be
made by the city council at any meeting by a resolution fixing the costs of
construction or repair of such work along the lot or parcel of land adjacent
thereto as a special assessment thereon, which, with the amount charged against
the same, and the vote thereon by yeas and nays, shall be spread at length upon
the minutes. Notice of the time of holding such meeting and the purposes for
which it is to be held shall be published in some legal newspaper published or
of general circulation in this city at least ten days before the same shall be
held or in lieu thereof personal service may be had upon the persons owning or
occupying property to be assessed.
(1964 Code, § 19-50)
§ 28-95 REVIEW BY CITY COUNCIL AS BOARD OF EQUALIZATION.
   The mayor and city council sitting as a board of equalization shall review
all special assessments made pursuant to this article in accordance with
procedure provided by law.
(1964 Code, § 19-51)
§ 28-96 COLLECTION GENERALLY.
   The assessments made pursuant to this article shall be known as special
assessments for improvements and with the cost of the required notice shall be
levied and collected as a special tax, in addition to the taxes for general
revenue purposes, subject to the same penalties and collected in like manner as
other city taxes, but shall draw interest at nine percent per annum; the same
shall be certified to the county clerk at the same time as the next
certification for general revenue purposes.
(1964 Code, § 19-52)
§ 28-97 ORDINARY STREET AND ALLEY REPAIRS.
   This article shall not apply to ordinary repairs of streets and alleys and
the cost of such repair shall be paid out of the road fund. The mayor and city
council are authorized to draw warrants against the road fund not to exceed 85
percent of the amount levied as soon as city’s annual levy shall be certified
and delivered to the county clerk.
(1964 Code, § 19-53)
§§ 28-98—28-110 RESERVED.
ARTICLE V: PARADES, MEETINGS, ETC.
Section
Division 1: Generally
   28-111—28-124   Reserved
Division 2: Permit
   28-125—28-133   Reserved
DIVISION 1: GENERALLY
§§ 28-111—28-124 RESERVED.
DIVISION 2: PERMIT
§§ 28-125—28-133 RESERVED.
ARTICLE VI: REMOVAL OF SNOW, ICE, MUD AND SLUSH FROM PUBLIC SIDEWALKS AND
PRIVATE PROPERTY
Section
   
28-134   Duty to remove
   
28-135   Special assessment for removal by city
   
28-136   Liability of owner and occupant
   
28-137   Placement of snow and ice on public ways prohibited
   
28-138   Violator liable for cost to city
   28-139—28-150   Reserved
§ 28-134 DUTY TO REMOVE.
   The owner and the occupant of any real property in the city shall have the
duty of keeping the sidewalks adjacent to such real property clean and free
from obstructions and accumulations of snow, ice, mud and slush. All
obstructions and accumulations shall be cleared from sidewalks as soon as is
reasonably possible, and in any event accumulations shall be removed within 24
hours after cessation of any storm or snowfall. For the purposes of this
article, the term OCCUPANT shall include the person or persons actually
occupying the real property or having the right to do so, whether a tenant,
lessee or owner.
(Ord. 2732, § 1, passed 3-8-1993)
§ 28-135 SPECIAL ASSESSMENT FOR REMOVAL BY CITY.
   If any sidewalk adjacent to real property within the city shall not be
cleared of obstructions or accumulations of snow, ice, mud and slush by the
owner or occupant of said real property as required by this article, the city
may cause the sidewalk to be cleared. The mayor and city council may levy a
special assessment on such real property in an amount not greater than that
sufficient to pay the costs and expenses of the removal of the obstruction or
accumulation of snow, ice, mud or slush to the city. The special assessment
shall be a lien on the real property from the date of levy, shall be due and
payable to the city treasurer 30 days after such levy, and shall be collected
as other real estate taxes and assessments are collected.
§ 28-136 LIABILITY OF OWNER AND OCCUPANT.
   A failure or neglect to comply with section
28-134 of the Bellevue Code shall give rise to a cause of action for damages in
favor of any person, including the city, who is injured or sustains damages by
such failure or neglect.
(Ord. 2732, § 1, passed 3-8-1993)
§ 28-137 PLACEMENT OF SNOW AND ICE ON PUBLIC WAYS PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to create any obstruction or to place
snow, ice, mud or slush upon any public way.
(Ord. 2732, § 1, passed 3-8-1993)
§ 28-138 VIOLATOR LIABLE FOR COST TO CITY.
   In the event any person violated section
28-137 and the city incurs cost or expense in having the obstruction or snow,
ice, mud or slush removed from the public way, the violator shall, in addition
to any penalties imposed, be liable to the city for such cost and expense. The
city shall send a written statement to such violator showing the amount due to
the city and such amount shall be payable within 15 days after the date it is
mailed by the city, and, if not paid within such period, shall accrue interest
at 16 percent from the date of the statement or the highest rate allowable by
law, whichever is greater.
(Ord. 2732, § 1, passed 3-8-1993)
§§ 28-139—28-150 RESERVED.
ARTICLE VII: COMPLETE STREETS
Section
   
28-151   Planning, design and construction
   
28-152   Incorporation by planning and public works departments
   
28-153   Exceptions
   
28-154   Achievement; annual progress report
   
28-155   Advisory panel - mayor to appoint
   
28-156   Performance measurement
§ 28-151 PLANNING, DESIGN AND CONSTRUCTION.
   Complete Streets are streets designed and operated to enable a multimodal,
context sensitive, framework of streets that provide safe, efficient access and
use for all users. The Bellevue Planning and Public Works Departments will plan
for, design, construct, and modify all City transportation improvements to
provide appropriate accommodation for motor vehicles, pedestrians, bicyclists,
transit riders, and persons of all abilities, while promoting safe and
efficient operation for all users, as provided for hereafter.
(Ord. 3921, passed 1-14-2019)
§ 28-152 INCORPORATION BY PLANNING AND PUBLIC WORKS DEPARTMENTS.
   The Bellevue Planning and Public Works Departments will develop, with
citizen input, then incorporate Complete Streets principles, with City Council
approval as necessary, into: Planning and Public Works plans, manuals, rules,
regulations and programs as appropriate. All projects brought forward to the
City Council will identify the improvements being made to meet the Complete
Streets policy, to include the allocation of costs.
(Ord. 3921, passed 1-14-2019)
§ 28-153 EXCEPTIONS.
   Except in unusual or extraordinary circumstances, Complete Streets
principles will not apply:
   (A)   To ordinary maintenance activities designed to keep assets in
serviceable condition (e.g., mowing, cleaning, sweeping, spot repair and
surface treatment such as chip seal, or interim measures on detour or haul
routes);
   (B)   Where the Planning or Public Works Director recommends an exception
which determines that the application of Complete Street principles is
unnecessary or inappropriate because it would be contrary to public safety or
substantially detrimental to the efficient flow of current or projected motor
vehicle traffic flow and the City Council approves the documented exception; or
   (C)   Where the Planning or Public Works Director recommends an exception
determining that other available means or factors indicate an absence of then-
current or future need, and the City Council approves the documented exception.
   (D)   Where the application of complete streets on one street would have a
substantial detrimental impact on traffic volume and/or safety on a neighboring
street.
(Ord. 3921, passed 1-14-2019)
§ 28-154 ACHIEVEMENT; ANNUAL PROGRESS REPORT.
   Complete Streets may be achieved through single improvements or
incrementally through a series of smaller improvements or substantial
maintenance activities over time. The city administrator shall make an annual
report to the city council showing the progress made in implementing complete
streets.
(Ord. 3921, passed 1-14-2019)
§ 28-155 ADVISORY PANEL - MAYOR TO APPOINT.
   The Mayor of Bellevue, Nebraska will appoint a five-member Citizen Complete
Streets Advisory Panel. The members will be appointed to four-year terms. The
Panel will develop recommendations to the Planning Commission for review, and
recommendations to City Council for action to meet the Performance Measurements
in Section 28-156.
(Ord. 3921, passed 1-14-2019)
§ 28-156 PERFORMANCE MEASUREMENT.
   (A)   Performance measurement will be by, but not limited to, the miles of
bicycle routes created; new linear feet of pedestrian accommodation; increase
in use of public transportation, bicycling and walking; the miles of connection
added between trails; the increased efficiency of traffic flow through the use
of sophisticated traffic control devices, turn lanes, traffic circles, and the
leveling or decrease of transportation-related accidents.
   (B)   It is the Bellevue City Council’s intent that all sources of
transportation funding be drawn upon to implement Complete Streets. The City
believes the maximum financial flexibility is important to implement Complete
Streets principles.
(Ord. 3921, passed 1-14-2019)
ARTICLE VIII: COMMEMORATIVE STREET AND PUBLIC FACILITIES NAMING
Section
   
28-170   Statement of intent
   
28-171   Written request
   
28-172   Criteria
   
28-173   Limitations
   
28-174   Approval
   
28-175   Construction
§ 28-170 STATEMENT OF INTENT.
   (A)   The city has a long and notable history beginning in its early days as
a fur trading post during the country’s westward expansion, and continuing with
the city’s connection to the United States military by the establishment of
Offutt Air Force Base. Several of city’s residents have greatly benefited the
city through their extraordinary and special efforts, accomplishments, and
contributions. Some have even paid the ultimate sacrifice serving their
country.
   (B)   The city finds that it is appropriate to name certain city buildings,
parks, other fixed facilities and public places (“public facilities”), and
streets in honor of prominent Nebraskans who achieved a public status worthy of
long-term recognition. Commemorative street and public facility naming is an
important vehicle for bringing the past into the present, helping weave history
into the geographic fabric of everyday life.
(Ord. 3622, § 1(28-139), passed 6-27-2011; Ord. 3712, § 1(28-170), passed 3-11-
2013)
§ 28-171 WRITTEN REQUEST.
   (A)   Consideration of a commemorative street or public facility name shall
be initiated by a written request from a person, organization, or other entity
requesting the commemorative name. The written request shall include the
requested commemorative name, the reason justifying the commemoration, the
existing street name/number or facility name, the range or length of the
portion of the street if a requested commemorative street name, and any
information regarding requested signage or plaques.
   (B)   For a commemorative street name, a written request must be accompanied
by a petition signed by at least 75 percent of the recorded property owners who
own structures on the street proposed for the commemoration.
   (C)   The request may include a written letter of support or recommendation
from the city council member representing the ward where the street or public
facility is located, or any other elected official representing the city,
county or state.
(Ord. 3622, § 1(28-140), passed 6-27-2011; Ord. 3712, § 1(28-171), passed 3-11-
2013; Ord. 3821, § 1, passed 9-24-2015)
§ 28-172 CRITERIA.
   (A)   The following preferences shall apply to the review and approval of
any proposed commemorative name:
      (1)   A proposed commemorative name shall have a long-standing local or
community identification with city residents and be understandable to a
majority of those residents.
      (2)   Preference shall be given to any name which:
         (a)   Gives a sense of place, continuity, and belonging reflecting the
geographic location, community, and neighborhood;
         (b)   Recognizes the historical significance of an area;
         (c)   Reflects any unique characteristics of the area; or
         (d)   Is consistent with any generally accepted or common theme.
      (3)   The name of a person, organization, corporation, foundation, or
similar entity shall be considered only when such person or entity has a made a
significant contribution to the city by enhancing the quality of life and well-
being of the city and its citizens or contributing to the historical, cultural,
or societal interests of the City, the State of Nebraska, or the United States.
   (B)   A proposed commemorative street or public facility name must meet all
applicable addressing standards established. If for any reason the request does
not meet these standards, a letter requesting a waiver of these standards,
showing a good cause justification therefor, shall be provided by the
requestors.
   (C)   A proposed commemorative name must meet any requirements or
limitations imposed by applicable emergency services and public safety service
providers. These requirements may not be waived.
(Ord. 3622, § 1(28-141), passed 6-27-2011; Ord. 3712, § 1(28-172), passed 3-11-
2013; Ord. 3821, § 1, passed 9-24-2015)
§ 28-173 LIMITATIONS.
   The review and final approval of any proposed commemorative street or public
facility name shall be within the sole discretion of the city council, which
may reject any proposed commemorative street or public facility name. The city
council shall apply the following general limitations regarding a proposed
commemorative name change which:
   (A)   Causes confusion or misunderstanding due to duplication of or
similarity with the city or county;
   (B)   Is the name of an entity or business associated with tobacco, alcohol,
pornography, or subject to police regulation;
   (C)   Is discriminatory of or derogatory towards any race, gender, creed,
political affiliation, or similar consideration;
   (D)   Recognizes a single person for a contribution similar or identical to
the efforts;
   (E)   Consists of a logo or trade name for a commercially available product;
   (F)   Is any public facility donated to the City contingent upon assignment
of a specific name to such public facility; or
   (G)   Is any public facility constructed from money or property donated to
the city for the specific purpose of securing a particular name of such public
facility.
(Ord. 3622, § 1(28-142), passed 6-27-2011; Ord. 3712, § 1(28-173), passed 3-11-
2013)
§ 28-174 APPROVAL.
   (A)   A petition for a commemorative street or public facility name shall be
initially reviewed and considered for recommendation by the public works
department, which shall review the proposal for compliance. The public works
department also may request the review and recommendation of additional city
departments and public safety service providers, where necessary.
   (B)   The recommendation of the public works department shall be forwarded
for review and approval by the city administrator. The city administrator shall
review the proposal and send a written recommendation regarding the proposal to
the city council.
   (C)   Final approval, either accepting or rejecting the petition, shall be
made by the city council. The council may, in its discretion, conduct a public
hearing regarding the proposed name change before making a final decision.
(Ord. 3622, § 1(28-143), passed 6-27-2011; Ord. 3712, § 1(28-174), passed 3-11-
2013)
§ 28-175 CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   If the request is approved by the city council, the planning
department shall provide the appropriate information regarding the
commemorative street or public facility name to the Sarpy County Geographic
Information Systems Department (GIS) for input into its system.
   (B)   A street’s official numerical designation or other certified name
shall be used, not the commemorative name.
   (C)   The cost of making and installing appropriate plaques or signs
designating the commemorative name shall be paid for by the original
requestors.
(Ord. 3622, § 1(28-144), passed 6-27-2011; Ord. 3712, § 1(28-175), passed 3-11-
2013)
ARTICLE IX: ARTERIAL STREET IMPROVEMENT PROGRAM (ASIP)
Section
   
28-176   Purpose
   
28-177   ASIP jurisdiction
   
28-178   ASIP fund
   
28-179   ASIP revenue
   
28-180   ASIP fund projects
   
28-181   Expenditure of ASIP funds
   
28-182   Construction responsibilities and supervision
   
28-183   Review of the program
§ 28-176 PURPOSE.
   In order to provide adequate, safe, and modern street infrastructure to
serve the ongoing growth and economic development of the City of Bellevue
(“City”), the City finds that an Arterial Street Improvement Program (“ASIP”)
is necessary to fund the design and construction of street improvements and
appurtenances within the City of Bellevue’s zoning jurisdiction (i.e., within
the corporate city limits and the City’s extraterritorial jurisdiction
(“ETJ”)). This program will provide a mechanism for collecting, managing and
expending certain funds, as hereinafter more fully described to pay for the
design and construction costs of such street improvements. Street improvements
and appurtenances which are identified or proposed to be partially or wholly
funded by ASIP shall be designated ASIP Fund Projects.
(Ord. 3844, § 2, passed 8-8-2016)
§ 28-177 ASIP JURISDICTION.
   ASIP shall apply to the City’s zoning jurisdiction, as set forth in Section
I herein. Any funds derived from the City’s ASIP shall be available for the
City to contribute to street improvements and appurtenances for any street (a)
designated by the City’s comprehensive plan as an arterial or collector (b)
identified in the City’s One & Six Year Road Plan (c) proposed within the
City’s ETJ or (d) identified as priority ASIP projects by a resolution adopted
by City Council. Proposed ASIP fund projects within the ETJ may be constructed
with Sarpy County or another political subdivision through an interlocal
cooperation or with a private developer by agreement.
(Ord. 3844, § 3, passed 8-8-2016)
§ 28-178 ASIP FUND.
   The City will establish an ASIP Fund into which all ASIP fees collected for
new construction and development projects shall be deposited in the ASIP Fund
set up by the Finance Director. This ASIP Fund will be subject to the City’s
annual budget setting and auditing processes. ASIP funds generated from
development within the City’s ETJ shall be dedicated to projects or
developments that have a reasonable nexus to where the funds were generated and
shall generally serve and benefit those areas.
(Ord. 3844, § 4, passed 8-8-2016)
§ 28-179 ASIP REVENUE.
   (A)   In addition to any other applicable permit fees set forth in the
Master Fee Schedule, ASIP fees shall be charged and collected by the City’s
Permits and Inspections Department. ASIP fees shall be collected with building
permits for primary structure within the City’s zoning jurisdiction starting on
September 1, 2016. Such fee shall be collected in full at the time that the
first building permit for a primary structure is issued for a lot or tax lot.
   (B)   For the purposes of the ASIP, the term DEVELOPMENT ACRE shall mean
each individual acre of land within the lot or tax lot for which the permit is
sought, and specifically shall exclude any land located within the public
street right of way, dedicated land such as public parks, and any outlots. The
ASIP fee will be collected for each development acre within the lot or tax lot
where the primary building is to be constructed.
   (C)   ASIP fees shall be as stated in the Master Fee Schedule.
(Ord. 3844, § 5, passed 8-8-2016)
§ 28-180 ASIP FUND PROJECTS.
   The Engineering Department will refer to the One and Six Year Plan of the
City or Sarpy County and any resolution adopted by City Council identifying
priority ASIP projects to select ASIP Fund Projects within the City’s zoning
jurisdiction, and shall, at least annually, convene a representative group of
stakeholders (e.g., developers, representatives of developers, Sarpy County,
representatives of Sanitary Improvement Districts (SIDs) and associations that
represent local home builders), as appropriate to provide input on the
selection of ASIP Fund Projects located outside the City’s corporate limits but
within its ETJ. Any annual meeting with a group stakeholder(s) shall be open to
any other stakeholders, as deemed appropriate by the Manager of Engineering
Services, and shall be at a date, time and place established by the Manager of
Engineering Services. The Manager of Engineering Services will budget said ASIP
Fund Projects on a biannual basis for City Council approval. The city shall
have sole discretion in deciding project priorities, and the expenditure of
ASIP funds on all ASIP Fund Projects.
(Ord. 3844, § 6, passed 8-8-2016)
§ 28-181 EXPENDITURE OF ASIP FUNDS.
   The City may expend ASIP Funds as follows:
   (A)   Revenue may be accumulated in the ASIP Fund until sufficient funds are
accumulated to pay for one or more ASIP Fund Projects.
   (B)   Bonds may be issued to pay for the costs of ASIP Fund Projects and
ASIP Funds may be used to retire principal and interest on the bonds.
   (C)   ASIP Fund Projects may be constructed in phases and ASIP Funds may be
used to pay for construction costs as each phase is completed.
   (D)   ASIP Funds may be used for matching funds for Federal Aid Projects.
   (E)   If the City requests a developer or a SID to install arterial street
improvements, ASIP funds may be used for such improvements or to reimburse the
developer; or
   (F)   As described in paragraph (E) above, in the event that a developer or
SID constructs arterial street improvements within the City’s zoning
jurisdiction, the developer or the SID may request reimbursement through the
ASIP Fund. If the Engineering Department determines that if some or all of such
improvements are eligible for ASIP Funds and that a reimbursement is warranted,
they may recommend a full or partial reimbursement from the ASIP Fund for City
Council approval. In all such cases, the City shall require the developer and/
or the SID, as applicable; to enter into a Subdivision Agreement or an
amendment to an existing Subdivision Agreement with the City to identify the
use of such reimbursed ASIP Funds.
(Ord. 3844, § 7, passed 8-8-2016)
§ 28-182 CONSTRUCTION RESPONSIBILITIES AND SUPERVISION.
   The Engineering Department shall be responsible for the oversight of the
entire construction process, for ASIP Fund Projects, including right-of-way
acquisition, engineering consultant selection, bidding, construction
observation, and project close-out and acceptance unless otherwise delegated.
The Engineering Department shall follow the City’s standard accounting
processes to drawdown ASIP Funds for ASIP Fund Projects. The City may designate
a lead agency for any ASIP Fund Project with oversight by the Engineering
Department.
(Ord. 3844, § 8, passed 8-8-2016)
§ 28-183 REVIEW OF THE PROGRAM.
   The ASIP shall be reviewed by the Engineering Department and stakeholder
groups every five (5) years for possible amendment to ASIP Fund Project
priorities and ASIP fee adjustments.
(Ord. 3844, § 9, passed 8-8-2016)
CHAPTER 29: SUBDIVISIONS GENERALLY
Section
   
29-1   Appendix B to govern subdivisions
   
29-2   Annexation of platted and developed land—Improvement district created
   
29-3   Same—Waiver of requirement for district
   
29-4   Same—Cost of improvements borne by owner or developer
   
29-5   Same—Agreement given by owner or developer
   
29-6   Land within two miles of city—Permission of council
   
29-7   Same—Approval, etc., by council
   
29-8   Same—Compliance with standards
   
29-9   Grading of lots
Statutory reference:
   Additions, see Neb. RS 1943, §§ 19-916 et seq.
§ 29-1 APPENDIX B TO GOVERN SUBDIVISIONS.
   The regulations governing subdivisions shall be as set out by the provisions
of Ordinance No. 2355, adopted June 10, 1985, which ordinance, plus amendments,
is set out as appendix B of this Code.
§ 29-2 ANNEXATION OF PLATTED AND DEVELOPED LAND—IMPROVEMENT DISTRICT CREATED.
   Whenever the owner of any land which is being developed and platted for home
construction shall request the city to annex such land to the city, such
development and the owner thereof shall be required to have all street
improvements, including paving, the installation of all sanitary sewer mains,
all storm sewer mains and all water service mains, accomplished by the creation
of the appropriate improvement districts as provided by the statutes of the
state relating to improvement districts in cities of the first class.
(1964 Code, § 20-1)
§ 29-3 SAME—WAIVER OF REQUIREMENT FOR DISTRICT.
   If the owner of land to be annexed requests the city council to waive the
requirements of the preceding section, the city council may do so; provided,
that, the owner of such land agrees in writing or otherwise assures the city
council of the employment of a qualified engineering firm to directly supervise
and engineer the installation and performance of all street, sewer main or
water main improvements in such development. Such supervision shall mean the
employment of a resident engineer to supervise and inspect all of such
improvements as such improvements are being done.
(1964 Code, § 20-2)
§ 29-4 SAME—COST OF IMPROVEMENTS BORNE BY OWNER OR DEVELOPER.
   Whenever any land platted and developed is annexed to the city, all costs
for the installation, including material and labor, of water mains, sanitary
sewers, storm sewers and all costs for the paving of streets in such
development, including the cost of paving the intersections, engineering costs,
interest expenses and all other development expenses, shall be paid by the
person who owns or is developing such annexed land and no part of such expense
shall inure to the city; provided, that where the annexed development abuts
property already within the city the proportionate share of the paving costs
shall be assessed to such abutting property owners.
(1964 Code, § 20-3)
§ 29-5 SAME—AGREEMENT GIVEN BY OWNER OR DEVELOPER.
   Before the ordinance annexing property to the city is passed and approved by
the city council, if paving and utility installations are not completed, the
person owning or developing such property shall sign a written statement and
file the same with the city clerk, agreeing to pay all costs as stated in the
preceding section.
(1964 Code, § 20-4)
§ 29-6 LAND WITHIN TWO MILES OF CITY—PERMISSION OF COUNCIL.
   No owner of any real property located within two miles of the corporate
limits of the city as the same exists or as altered or changed, shall be
permitted to subdivide, plat or lay out such real property in building lots,
streets or other portions of the same, intended to be dedicated for public use
or for the use of purchasers or owners of lots fronting thereon or adjacent
thereto, without first having obtained approval thereof of the city council.
(1964 Code, § 20-5) (Ord. 2987, §§ 1, 2, passed 4-27-1998)
§ 29-7 SAME—APPROVAL, ETC., BY COUNCIL.
   No plat of real property located within one mile of the corporate limits of
the city as the same exists or as altered or changed shall be recorded or have
any force and effect, unless the same be approved by the city council. The city
council shall have power by ordinance to provide the manner, plan or method by
which real property in any such area may be subdivided, platted or laid out,
including a plan or system for the avenues, streets or alleys to be laid out
within or across the same.
(1964 Code, § 20-6)
§ 29-8 SAME—COMPLIANCE WITH STANDARDS.
   The city council shall have power to compel the owner of any real property
in any area within one mile of the city limits, in subdividing, platting or
laying out the same, to conform to the requirements of the Code or any
ordinance and to lay out and dedicate the avenues, streets and alleys in
accordance therewith.
(1964 Code, § 20-7)
§ 29-9 GRADING OF LOTS.
   All building lots in areas annexed to the city after January 1, 1960, which
are to be improved by any construction thereon, shall be graded, if grading is
necessary, from the back of the curb or edge of an unimproved street, for a
minimum distance of ten feet at a grade not to exceed five percent, plus or
minus.
(1964 Code, § 20-8)
CHAPTER 29.5: CITY TREES
Section
   
29.5-1   Title
   
29.5-2   Purpose
   
29.5-3   Applicability
   
29.5-4   Definitions
   
29.5-5   Declaration of nuisance–generally
   
29.5-6   Prohibited nuisances
   
29.5-7   Tree maintenance and care
   
29.5-8   Examination of trees
   
29.5-9   Procedure for notification and abatement; order to abate; request for
hearing; cost reimbursement upon failure
   
29.5-10   Action by city
   
29.5-11   Recovery of costs
   
29.5-12   Penalty
   
29.5-13   Arborist license required
   
29.5-14   Procedure for violation notification
   
29.5-15   Same–Notice; hearing
   
29.5-16   Same–Conduct and record
   
29.5-17   Same–Action of the city; appeal
   
29.5-18   Creation and establishment of a city tree board
   
29.5-19   Terms of office and compensation
   
29.5-20   Duties and responsibilities
   
29.5-21   Operation
   
29.5-22   Authority
   
29.5-23   Tree board liability
   
29.5-24   Historical trees
   
29.5-25   Tree planting
   
29.5-26   Tree removal
   
29.5-27   Interference with city tree board
   
29.5-28   Review by governing body
   
29.5-29   Severability
§ 29.5-1 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the City Tree Ordinance of
Bellevue, Nebraska.
(Ord. 4002, § 1, passed 8-18-2020)
§ 29.5-2 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to promote and protect the public health,
safety, and general welfare by providing for the regulation of the planting,
maintenance, and removal of trees, shrubs, and other plants within the city. As
the home of Fontenelle Forest and a designated Community Arboretum, the city is
committed to establishing policies, regulations and standards necessary to
ensure that the city will continue to realize the benefits provided by its
community forest.
(Ord. 4002, § 1, passed 8-18-2020)
§ 29.5-3 APPLICABILITY.
   This chapter provides full power and authority over all trees, plants, woody
vines and shrubs located within street rights-of-way, parks and public places
of the city; trees, plants, woody vines and shrubs located on private property
that constitute historical significance or a risk hazard described herein.
(Ord. 4002, § 1, passed 8-18-2020)
§ 29.5-4 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this chapter, the following terms are defined and mean:
   STREET TREES. Trees, shrubs, bushes, and all other woody vegetation on land
lying between property lines on either side of all streets, avenues, or ways
within the city.
   PARK TREES. Trees, shrubs, bushes, and all other woody vegetation in public
parks and all areas owned by the city, or to which the public has free access
as a park.
   PUBLIC TREES. Both park trees and street trees plus all other trees, shrubs,
bushes and other woody vegetation on land designated as public.
   HISTORICAL TREES. Trees, shrubs, bushes, and all other woody vegetation that
have significant historical value to the city so designated by the city tree
board and approved by the city council.
   RISK TREES. Trees, shrubs, bushes, and all other woody vegetation that
present varying degrees of danger to persons, life, or property. Risk trees may
be low risk, medium risk, and high risk, with high risk trees creating the most
danger.
   HEALTHY TREES. Trees, shrubs, bushes, and all other woody vegetation that
provide a public benefit to the city and do not cause a public nuisance.
   SMALL TREES. Trees up to 30 feet tall, at maturity, as defined by the
National Arbor Day Foundation.
   MEDIUM TREES. Trees between 30 and 70 feet tall, at maturity, as defined by
the National Arbor Day Foundation.
   LARGE TREES. Trees over 70 feet tall, at maturity, as defined by the
National Arbor Day Foundation.
   PUBLIC NUISANCE. Any tree that poses a threat to safety; an infectious
disease or insect problem; dead or dying trees; a tree or limb that obstruct
street lights, traffic signs, and the free passage of pedestrians or vehicles.
   ANSI STANDARDS. The American National Standard Institute’s standards for
proper tree planting and pruning techniques.
   ARTERIAL STREETS. Streets that serve as the main thoroughfares in the city
and provide access from one end of town to the next.
   COLLECTOR STREETS. Streets that funnel into arterial streets from local
streets.
   DISEASED TREES. A sustained and progressive impairment of the structure or
function of any part of a living tree caused by non-living (abiotic) and living
(biotic) factors or agents.
   TREE HAZARDS. All trees that exhibit the following symptoms or appearances:
      (1)   PESTS. Infestation of bugs causing wood destruction.
      (2)   DECAY. Visible symptoms that include mushroom-like spores, an
expanded base, dead branches, and soft, breakable wood.
      (3)   WEAK UNIONS OR JOINTS. A tree’s branches that do not appear to be
attached to the tree, branches that have grown too close together with bark in
between, or branches that could fall at any time.
      (4)   CANKERS. Areas of dead bark on tree caused by bacteria/fungi that
infect a tree through an open wound.
      (5)   DEADWOOD. Wood that is dead, brittle and easy to break.
(Ord. 4002, § 1, passed 8-18-2020)
§ 29.5-5 DECLARATION OF NUISANCE—GENERALLY.
   Notwithstanding sections 19-2 and 19-3 regarding nuisances in the city, any
dead tree, any part of a dead tree, any fatally diseased or structurally weak
tree, any part of a fatally diseased or structurally weak tree, or any logwood
pile or cut wood unless debarked, which is a menace to public safety or
endangers any building or other property, is hereby declared to be a public
nuisance.
(Ord. 4002, § 1, passed 8-18-2020)
§ 29.5-6 PROHIBITED NUISANCES.
   It shall be unlawful for each and every owner, agent, occupant, tenant or
person in possession, charge or control of any lot or ground located within the
city to permit any nuisance coming under the provisions of this chapter to
remain or exist on such lot or ground.
(Ord. 4002, § 1, passed 8-18-2020)
§ 29.5-7 TREE MAINTENANCE AND CARE.
   (A)   Public tree care. The city shall have the right to plant, prune,
maintain and remove trees, plants and shrubs within the lines of all streets,
alleys, avenues, lanes, squares and public grounds, as may be necessary to
insure public safety or to preserve or enhance the symmetry and beauty of such
public grounds. All work on trees shall be according to ANSI standards of tree
planting, pruning and care. A copy of the ANSI standards is available at the
permits and inspections office during normal business hours.
   (B)   Tree topping. It shall be unlawful as a normal practice for any
person, firm or city department to top any street tree, park tree, or other
tree on public property. The term “topping” is defined as the severe cutting
back of limbs to the stubs larger than three inches in diameter within the
tree’s crown to such a degree so as to remove the normal canopy and disfigure
the tree. Trees severely damaged by storms or other causes, or certain trees
under utility wires or other obstructions where other pruning practices are
impractical, shall be exempted from this provision.
   (C)   Pruning, corner clearance. Every owner of any tree overhanging any
street or right-of-way within the city shall prune the branches so that such
branches shall not obstruct the light from any street lamp or obstruct the view
of any street intersection and so that there shall be a clear space of eight
feet above the surface of sidewalks and 12 feet above streets.
      (1)   The city shall have the right to prune any tree or shrub on private
property when it interferes with utilities, the proper spread of light along
the street from a street light, or interferes with visibility of any traffic
control device or sign.
      (2)   If the city determines that the traffic on an arterial or collector
street is creating damage to the street trees, it can recommend a clearance of
14 feet be required over the said street.
(Ord. 4002, § 1, passed 8-18-2020)
§ 29.5-8 EXAMINATION OF TREES.
   The city shall have the right to examine all trees, alive or dead, standing
or fallen, and logwood piles or cut wood for the purpose of determining whether
same are contagiously diseased, dead or hazardous, or otherwise not in full
compliance with the provisions of this chapter, and in accordance with section
19-12, may enter upon any private properties where necessary to conduct such
examinations. Such examinations shall include the right to take samples from
such trees and logwood piles for laboratory testing.
(Ord. 4002, § 1, passed 8-18-2020)
§ 29.5-9 PROCEDURE FOR NOTIFICATION AND ABATEMENT; ORDER TO ABATE; REQUEST FOR
HEARING; COST REIMBURSEMENT UPON FAILURE.
   (A)   Whenever a violation of the provisions of this article is found to
exist by an examination conducted pursuant to section 29.5-8, the city shall
provide notice to any owner, agent, occupant, tenant or person in possession,
charge or control of the lot or ground upon which such violation is found to
exist of the city's determination and issue an “official notice” mandating such
person(s) to abate and/or remove such nuisance. Such notice shall be delivered
personally or by mailing such notice by first-class mail, postage prepaid,
directed to the property owner of record and posting notice of the violation in
a conspicuous place on or about the property. A person receiving such notice
may within five calendar days after the receipt of such notice request an
impartial hearing with the tree board arborist, city administrator and/or his
or her designee.
   (B)   To request an impartial hearing, the “applicant” must:
      (1)   Complete, sign, and date the applicant statement on the front side
of the official notice; and
      (2)   Return to the city clerk's office within five calendar days, the
completed applicant statement, the white copy of the official notice, together
with a check in the amount of $35.00 made payable to the City of Bellevue.
   (C)   When completing the applicant statement on the front side of the
official notice, the applicant must briefly state the reason(s) for requesting
the hearing and precisely explain the relief requested.
   (D)   Upon timely receiving the completed applicant statement on the front
side of the official notice, together with all other required items, the city
clerk will contact the applicant in writing to inform the applicant of the
date, time and place of the hearing. The city clerk will notify the applicant
per the requested contact method on the official notice which the applicant
selects. The city clerk shall also notify the Bellevue code enforcement office,
tree board arborist and the chief of police of the requested hearing.
(Ord. 4002, § 1, passed 8-18-2020; Ord. 4131, § 1, passed 10-3-2023; Ord. 4172,
§ 1, passed 1-21-2025)
§ 29.5-10 ACTION BY CITY.
   If any owner, agent, occupant, tenant or person in possession, charge or
control of any lot or ground, or any part of any lot or ground located within
the city fails or refuses to comply with section
29.5-9 above and the official notice and/or chief of police and/or his or her
designee's findings, the city through its property appointed designee shall
have the power and is hereby authorized and instructed, after the expiration of
the timeframes in section
29.5-9, to abate and/or remove such nuisance by causing such trees, or logwood
piles or cut wood to be removed, pruned or sprayed at the expense of such
person. If the city abates and/or removes such nuisance pursuant to this
section, the city clerk shall provide notice of the same and the costs to the
owner, agent, occupant, tenant or person in possession, charge or control of
any lot or ground, or any part of any lot or ground located of the costs and
demand reimbursement of the same within 30 days.
(Ord. 4002, § 1, passed 8-18-2020; Ord. 4172, § 2, passed 1-21-2025)
§ 29.5-11 RECOVERY OF COSTS.
   In the event any owner, agent, occupant, tenant or person in possession,
charge or control of any lot or ground shall fail to pay the city, upon demand,
for the costs incurred by the city in abating a nuisance in accordance with
section 29.5-10, the city may assess such costs upon such lot or ground in the
same manner as other special taxes for improvements are levied and assessed; or
the city may initiate legal proceedings against any such person or persons in
any court of competent jurisdiction for the amount of the reimbursable costs
under the terms and provisions of this chapter and may recover a judgment
against such person or persons for the amount so due, together with the maximum
amount of interest allowed by law. The city also may initiate legal proceedings
to recover costs against any person or entity responsible for damage to any
public trees, whether caused by negligence or intentional acts of the person or
entity, with such costs to be determined by a formula listed in the master fee
schedule. All available fines and fees collected will be credited to the
general parks fund for tree care.
(Ord. 4002, § 1, passed 8-18-2020)
§ 29.5-12 PENALTY.
   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter or who fails to comply
with any notice issued pursuant to the provisions of this chapter, upon being
found guilty of violation, shall be punished by a fine of $250.00 for a first
offense; $500.00 for a second offense; $1,000.00 for a third offense with an
additional $500.00 for each subsequent offense. Each day during which any
violation of the provisions of this ordinance shall occur or continue shall be
a separate offense. If, as the result of the violation of any provision of this
chapter, the injury, mutilation, or death of a tree, shrub, or other plant
located on city-owned property is caused, the cost of repair or replacement, or
the appraised dollar value of such tree, shrub, or other plant, shall be borne
by the party in violation. The value of trees, shrubs and other plants shall be
based upon a formula listed in the master fee schedule.
(Ord. 4002, § 1, passed 8-18-2020)
§ 29.5-13 ARBORIST LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in the business or
occupation of cutting, trimming, pruning, spraying or otherwise treating public
trees or privately-owned trees, within the City of Bellevue, without having
first secured a license to do so from the city Permits & Inspections
Department.
   (B)   The application for an arborist license shall include all information
required by the city tree ordinance and each applicant shall comply with the
reasonable requests of the city to supply additional or updated information.
The city Permits & Inspection Department is authorized to develop additional
license requirements and forms for permit applications.
   (C)   An applicant must show proof of a valid current arborist certification
from either the Nebraska Arborist Association or the International Society of
Arboriculture or a City of Omaha issued current first or second-class arborist
license. The arborist certification may be issued to the applicant or an
employee, and at least one such valid certification must be current to the
person, firm or business at ail times of operation. Any applicant who sprays,
injects, fertilizes or otherwise chemically treats any tree for pests or
diseases shall show proof of a valid pesticide applicator's license issued by
the Nebraska Department of Agriculture.
   (D)   All vehicles associated with the person, firm or business, in the
conduct of the business, shall have the name of the person, firm or business
and the arborist license number visibly displayed, clearly, on vehicles
associated with such, in letters not less than two (2) inches high.
   (E)   Nothing contained in the provisions of this chapter, except as
provided in subsection (C) above, shall be interpreted as prohibiting the
employment by a holder of an arborist’s license of assistants who are not
license holders; provided that the holder of the license shall be equally
responsible for all acts of his/her assistants as if he/she had done them
himself/herself. The holder of the license shall be available to his/her
assistants within sixty (60) miles from the work being performed.
   (F)   Arborist licenses under the provisions of this act shall be effective
and valid from January 1 through December 31 of each calendar year and shall
not be assignable.
   (G)   The fee for an arborist license shall be set in the Master Fee
Schedule and shall be paid annually as listed in division (F) and may be paid
up to three (3) years in advance.
   (H)   Failure to make application and pay the renewal fee for a license
renewal, before the expiration date thereof, subjects the applicant to pay the
renewal fee, plus an additional late fee as established by the Permits and
Inspections Department.
   (I)   In addition to any other penalty imposed for a violation of this act,
the city may at any time revoke the license of any person, arborist, firm, or
business, who neglects to carry out the provisions of this act or who is found
using improper methods as defined by ANSI standards. Procedure for license
revocation shall follow sections 29.5-14 through 29.5-17.
   (J)   No license, required under this act, shall be required of an
individual, doing work themselves as a private party and not as a business or
an agent of a business, on trees in the yard of their personal residence.
   (K)   Before an arborist license may be issued, each applicant shall first
file evidence of possession of liability insurance in the amount of $1,000,000
for injury and damage, indemnifying the city or any person injured or damage
resulting from the pursuit of such endeavors as herein described.
   (L)   Any person performing tree work and removal shall have proof of
liability and workers compensation insurance submitted annually to the Permits
and Inspection office and follow ANSI standards. A copy of the ANSI standards
shall be kept on file in the permits and inspections office and shall be
available to the public for reference during business hours.
   (M)   The city Permits and Inspections Department will annually notify
current Arborist License holders within the City of Bellevue of the requirement
for a license and renewal to operating in the City of Bellevue. The active
licensees may be listed on the city web site for public reference.
(Ord. 4002, § 1, passed 8-18-2020)
§ 29.5-14 PROCEDURE FOR VIOLATION NOTIFICATION.
   The following notification procedure shall be provided by the chief building
inspector, or his/her designee, prior to actual revocation of a license:
   (A)   For the first violation of this chapter, a written notification shall
be sent by certified mail to the licensee informing him/her of the violation
and future recourse by the city.
   (B)   The second violation of this chapter shall cause the chief building
inspector to suspend the license for a period of one month and notify the
licensee, again by certified mail, of the city procedures.
   (C)   The third violation of this chapter shall cause the chief building
inspector to revoke the license for a period of not less than six months and
not to exceed one year. The chief building inspector, or his/her designee,
shall present his/her case file to the city council at the next regularly
scheduled meeting for enactment of temporary revocation proceedings.
   (D)   The fourth violation of this chapter shall cause the chief building
inspector to permanently revoke the license. The chief building inspector, or
his/her designee, shall present his/her case file to the city council at the
next regularly scheduled meeting for permanent revocation.
(Ord. 4002, § 1, passed 8-18-2020)
§ 29.5-15 SAME—NOTICE; HEARING.
   In all cases involving revocation or suspension of a license under this
chapter, at least 15 days’ notice of the contemplated revocation or suspension
shall be served upon the licensee, and such notice shall indicate the time and
place of the hearing, the general grounds of the contemplated action, and shall
advise the holder of his/her right to appear at the hearing in person or by
counsel for the purpose of presenting his/her defense. In each case, the
licensee shall not continue to perform the duties associated with the privilege
of the license until the termination of the proceedings. This provision shall
be waived only if a court of competent jurisdiction issues a temporary
injunction against the city in such proceedings.
(Ord. 4002, § 1, passed 8-18-2020)
§ 29.5-16 SAME—CONDUCT AND RECORD.
   The chief building inspector, or his/her designee, shall make a complete
record of the case involving any revocation or suspension of a license under
this article and shall keep a written record of the testimony produced at the
hearing held pursuant to the preceding section. He/she may request legal advice
from the city attorney and adopt such procedure for the decorum and the
dispatch of business of such hearings as he/she may regard advisable.
(Ord. 4002, § 1, passed 8-18-2020)
§ 29.5-17 SAME—ACTION OF THE CITY; APPEAL.
   The decision of the chief building inspector at a hearing on the revocation
or suspension of a license under this article, shall be final. In the case of a
suspension of a license, the licensee’s time in grade for the particular
license shall be suspended for the period of suspension and shall begin
accruing again at the end of the suspension. An adverse decision by the chief
building inspector may be appealed to the city council by filing with the city
clerk within ten (10) days from such decision, a written notice of the
intention to appeal and a request for a hearing before the city council. The
city council, within 30 days of the filing of such written notice, shall grant
a hearing to the party appealing. The revocation or suspension of a license
shall not entitle the holder to a refund of any part of the fee which he/she
may have paid. If appealed to the city council, the city council may review the
evidence and hear testimony on the matter and issue a decision on the record at
the hearing regarding its decision on the matter(s) appealed.
(Ord. 4002, § 1, passed 8-18-2020)
§ 29.5-18 CREATION AND ESTABLISHMENT OF A CITY TREE BOARD.
   There is hereby created and established a city tree board for the City of
Bellevue, Nebraska, which shall consist of seven (7) members, including an
arborist certified through the International Society of Arboriculture or
Nebraska Arborists Association and tree knowledgeable people who shall be
appointed by the mayor with the approval of the city council. The Bellevue
public works director shall designate an appropriate city employee who is, or
will become, a certified arborist, to serve as a liaison to the Tree Board to
carry out its mission. A city council member also may serve with the tree
board. A majority of the Tree Board members shall reside in Bellevue or within
the city’s zoning jurisdiction.
(Ord. 4002, § 1, passed 8-18-2020)
§ 29.5-19 TERMS OF OFFICE AND COMPENSATION.
   The term of the persons to be appointed by the mayor shall be four years. In
the event that a vacancy shall occur during the term of any member, his/her
successor shall be appointed for the unexpired portion of the term. Members of
the board shall serve without compensation.
(Ord. 4002, § 1, passed 8-18-2020)
§ 29.5-20 DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES.
   (A)   It shall be the responsibility of the tree board to study,
investigate, counsel and develop a written plan for the care, preservation,
trimming, planting, replanting, removal or disposition of the trees and shrubs
in parks, on public rights-of-way and in other public areas. Such plan will be
presented to the city council and upon their acceptance and approval shall
constitute the official comprehensive tree plan for the city. The tree board
shall review annually and update, if needed, the comprehensive city tree plan.
The board shall prepare and present an annual management plan to the city
council for their acceptance and approval.
   (B)   The tree board, when requested by the city council, shall consider,
investigate, make finding, report and recommend upon any special matter or
question coming within the scope of its work.
(Ord. 4002, § 1, passed 8-18-2020)
§ 29.5-21 OPERATION.
   The tree board shall choose its own officers, make its own operational rules
and regulations and keep a journal of its proceedings. A majority of the
members shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business.
(Ord. 4002, § 1, passed 8-18-2020)
§ 29.5-22 AUTHORITY.
   The city tree board shall have the power to promulgate rules, regulations
and specifications concerning the trimming, spraying, removal, planting,
pruning and protection of trees, shrubs, vines, hedges and other plants upon
the right-of-way of any street, alley, sidewalk, or other public place in the
city. Such rules, regulations and specifications shall first be approved by the
city council.
(Ord. 4002, § 1, passed 8-18-2020)
§ 29.5-23 TREE BOARD LIABILITY.
   The city shall cover the tree board members from liability under its general
liability insurance coverage policy.
(Ord. 4002, § 1, passed 8-18-2020)
§ 29.5-24 HISTORICAL TREES.
   The city council, upon recommendation from the tree board, may designate
certain trees as “historical trees” within the city. The purpose of the
historical tree designation is to recognize, foster appreciation of, and
protect trees having significance to the community. In making its
recommendation, the city tree board shall have the authority to determine,
select, and identify such trees that qualify as historical trees. Upon the
adoption of such list by the city council, as it may be modified from time to
time, a copy of such list of historical trees shall be kept on file in the
office of the city clerk and shall be available to the public for reference
during business hours. Once a tree is designated as a historical tree it will
remain so unless it becomes necessary to classify it as a risk tree and removed
as such. Historical trees may not be removed without the approval of the city
council.
(Ord. 4002, § 1, passed 8-18-2020)
§ 29.5-25 TREE PLANTING.
   (A)   Species; tree species to be discouraged. The tree board shall adopt a
list of undesirable species of trees, listed by common name. The tree board may
modify the list from time to time. A copy of such list of undesirable tree
species shall be kept on file in the office of the city clerk and shall be
available to the public for reference during business hours. No species in such
list may be planted as street or park trees without prior approval of the tree
board.
   (B)   Standards. Trees will be planted following ANSI, A300 standards.
   (C)   Prohibited:
      (1)   No street tree or park tree shall be planted within 35 feet of any
street intersection, measured from the point of nearest intersecting curbs or
curb lines or within 15 feet of any driveway or alley.
      (2)   No street tree or park tree other than those species listed as
small trees in subsection (a) of this section may be planted under or within
ten lateral feet of any overhead utility wire.
      (3)   No street or park tree shall be planted within ten feet of any
fireplug or over or within five lateral feet of any metal underground water
line, transmission line or other utility line wire or main.
(Ord. 4002, § 1, passed 8-18-2020)
§ 29.5-26 TREE REMOVAL.
   (A)   Public tree removal. The city shall have the right to remove or cause
or order to be removed, any risk tree or part thereof which is in an unsafe
condition or which by reason of its nature is injurious to sewers, electric
power lines, gas lines, water lines, or other public improvements, or is
infected with any injurious fungus, insect or other pest, If the risk tree
causes an immediate threat, no appeal process is available and the tree shall
be removed immediately.
   (B)   Dead or diseased tree removal on private property. The city shall have
the right to cause the removal of any dead or diseased trees on private
property within the city when such trees constitute a risk to life and
property, or harbor insects or disease which constitute a potential threat to
other trees within the city. The city shall have this authority as further
outlined in sections 29.5-5 through 29.5-12.
   (C)   Removal of stumps. Stumps of street and park trees may be required to
be removed to eight inches below the surface of the ground so that the top of
the stump shall not project above the surface of the ground and no sprouting
shall occur.
   (D)   Healthy tree. If a person wants to remove a healthy street tree, they
must obtain permission from the city tree board. Requests shall be submitted to
the city tree board by mailing the permits and inspections office. If the city
tree board denies the request, the healthy tree cannot be removed. If the city
tree board grants the request, the tree may be removed at the owner’s expense
and another tree will be planted to replace the healthy tree. The tree may be
replaced on the original property or in a city park, if so approved. Within 30
days of the removal of the healthy tree, the replacement tree must be planted
or a monetary contribution determined by the tree board given to the city.
Failure to replace the healthy tree will result in a monetary penalty of three
times the cost of the approved replacement tree.
   (E)   Tree removal. Trees removed from city parks, and similar city owned
public grounds, will have a new tree planted for each one removed, with the
exception of a natural disaster, disease, or multi tree disaster event which
replacement will be made at the discretion of the city in consultation with the
tree board. The location and details for each tree will be set by the parks
department, with the tree board assisting in an advisory role, with all funding
grants sought prior to it being a city expense.
(Ord. 4002, § 1, passed 8-18-2020)
§ 29.5-27 INTERFERENCE WITH CITY TREE BOARD.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to prevent, delay or interfere with the
city tree board, or any of its agents, while engaging in and about the
planting, cultivating, mulching, pruning, spraying, or removing of any street
trees, park trees, or trees on private grounds, as authorized by this chapter.
(Ord. 4002, § 1, passed 8-18-2020)
§ 29.5-28 REVIEW BY GOVERNING BODY.
   The city council shall have the right to review the conduct, acts and
decisions of the tree board, chief building inspector, and the chief of police
and/or his or her designee. Any person may appeal from any ruling, finding or
order of the tree board, chief building inspector, and the chief of police and/
or his or her designee to the city council, which may hear the matter and make
final decision(s). To be effective, an appeal shall be filed in writing with
the city clerk within ten days of such ruling, finding, or order.
(Ord. 4002, § 1, passed 8-18-2020; Ord. 4172, § 3, passed 1-21-2025)
§ 29.5-29 SEVERABILITY.
   Should any part or provision of this chapter be declared by a court of
competent jurisdiction to be invalid, the same shall not affect the validity of
the ordinance as a whole or any part thereof other than the part held to be
invalid.
(Ord. 4002, § 1, passed 8-18-2020)
CHAPTER 30: UTILITIES
   Article
      
I.   IN GENERAL
      
II.   WATER CONSERVATION
      
III.   SEWER USE
      
IV.   SEWER SERVICE CHARGES
ARTICLE I: IN GENERAL
Section
   30-1—30-42   Reserved
Statutory reference:
   Public utilities generally, see Neb. RS 1943, §§ 16-673 et seq., 18-401 et
seq.
   Water and sewer districts, see Neb. RS 1943, §§ 16-667 et seq.
§§ 30-1—30-42 RESERVED.
ARTICLE II: WATER CONSERVATION
Section
   30-43—30-60   Reserved
§§ 30-43—30-60 RESERVED.
ARTICLE III: SEWER USE
Section
Division 1: Generally
   
30-61   Definitions
   
30-62   Application of article
   
30-63   Specific agreement incorporated into article
   
30-64   Notice of violations
   
30-65   Liability for damages
   
30-66   Criminal mischief
   
30-67   Special agreements
   
30-68   Insanitary deposit of wastes
   
30-69   Discharges into natural outlets
   
30-70   When connection to public sewer required
   
30-71   Permit for connection to public sewers
   
30-72   Storm, etc., waters, unpolluted wastes—Prohibited in sanitary sewers
   
30-73   Same—Permitted discharges
   
30-74   Prohibited discharges into public sewers
   
30-75   Restricted discharges
   
30-76   Discretionary judgment of superintendent
   
30-77   Interceptors
   
30-78   Maintenance of facilities
   
30-79   Control manhole
   
30-80   Measurements, tests, etc.
   
30-81   Authority to enter premises
   
30-82   Inspections; right of entry
   
30-83   Observance of safety rules
   30-84—30-90   Reserved
Division 2: Private Sewage Disposal Systems
   
30-91   Privies, etc., restricted
   
30-92   Permit required
   
30-93   Application for permit
   
30-94   Permit, inspection fees
   
30-95   Approval, inspection of work
   
30-96   Compliance with state recommendations
   
30-97   Minimum area served
   
30-98   Discharges into natural outlet prohibited
   
30-99   Maintenance
   
30-100   Additional requirements
   
30-101   Connection to public sewer
   30-102—30-110   Reserved
Division 3: Building Sewer
   
30-111   Connection to private system generally
   
30-112   Classification of permits
   
30-113   Application for permit
   
30-114   Permit, inspection fees
   
30-115   Liability for expense
   
30-116   Separate sewers required; exception
   
30-117   Use of old sewers
   
30-118   Application of technical codes; specifications
   
30-119   Elevation at building
   
30-120   Certain connections prohibited
   
30-121   Procedures for connection to public sewer
   
30-122   Notice for connection, inspection
   
30-123   Protection of public
   30-124—30-134   Reserved
Statutory reference:
   Sewer systems, see Neb. RS 1943, §§ 18-501 et seq.
DIVISION 1: GENERALLY
§ 30-61 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this article, the following words and phrases shall have
the meanings respectively ascribed to them:
   BOD (denoting BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND). The quantity of oxygen utilized in
the biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory procedure
in five days at 20 degrees Celsius (68 degrees Fahrenheit), expressed in
milligrams per liter.
   BUILDING DRAIN. That part of the lowest horizontal piping of a drainage
system which receives the discharge from soil, waste, and other drainage pipes
inside the walls of the building and conveys it to the building sewer,
beginning five feet (1-1/2 meters) outside the inner face of the building wall.
   BUILDING SEWER. The extension from the building drain to the public sewer or
other place of disposal.
   COMBINED SEWER. A sewer receiving both surface runoff and sewage.
   GARBAGE. Solid wastes from the domestic and commercial preparation, cooking
and dispensing of food, and from the handling, storage and sale of produce.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTES. The liquid wastes from industrial manufacturing
processes, trade, or business as distinct from sanitary sewage.
   JURISDICTION OF THE CITY. All of those geographic areas in which the city
has installed public sewers, whether inside or outside the corporate limits; or
has contracted with another governmental subdivision for maintenance of the
public sewers located therein, or areas over which the city has zoning,
building and construction jurisdiction.
   NATURAL OUTLET. Any outlet into a watercourse, pond, ditch, lake, or other
body of surface or groundwater.
   pH. The logarithm of the reciprocal of the weight of hydrogen ions in grams
per liter of solution.
   PROPERLY SHREDDED GARBAGE. The wastes from the preparation, cooking, and
dispensing of food that have been shredded to such a degree that all particles
will be carried freely under the flow conditions normally prevailing in public
sewers, with no particle greater than one-half inch (2.7 centimeters) in any
dimension.
   PUBLIC SEWER. A sewer in which all owners of abutting properties have equal
rights, and is controlled by public authority.
   SANITARY SEWER. A sewer which carries sewage and to which storm, surface,
and groundwaters are not intentionally admitted.
   SEWAGE. A combination of the water-carried wastes from residences, business
buildings, institutions, and industrial establishments, together with such
ground, surface, and stormwaters as may be present.
   SEWAGE TREATMENT PLANT. Any arrangement of devices and structures used for
treating sewage.
   SEWAGE WORKS. All facilities for collecting, pumping, treating and disposing
of sewage.
   SEWER. A pipe or conduit for carrying sewage.
   SLUG. Any discharge of water, sewage, or industrial waste which in
concentration of any given constituent or in quantity of flow exceeds for any
period of duration longer than 15 minutes more than five times the average 24-
hour concentration of flows during normal operation.
   STORM DRAIN. A sewer which carries storm and surface waters and drainage,
but excludes sewage and industrial wastes, other than unpolluted cooling water
(sometimes termed STORM SEWER).
   SUPERINTENDENT. The director of the wastewater treatment plant of the city
or his authorized deputy, agent or representative.
   SUSPENDED SOLIDS. Solids that either float on the surface of, or are in
suspension in water, sewage, or other liquids, and which are removable by
laboratory filtering.
   WATERCOURSE. A channel in which a flow of water occurs, either continuously
or intermittently.
(Ord. 2043, Art. I, § 1(1—24), passed 11-14-1978)
§ 30-62 APPLICATION OF ARTICLE.
   The provisions of this article shall apply to all areas over which the city
has jurisdiction.
(Ord. 2043, Art. VIII, § 1, passed 11-14-1978)
§ 30-63 SPECIFIC AGREEMENT INCORPORATED INTO ARTICLE.
   The provisions in the agreement between the city and the City of Omaha dated
June 29, 1972, is hereby included in this article by reference and as if fully
set out herein.
(Ord. 2043, Art. IX, § 1, passed 11-14-1978)
§ 30-64 NOTICE OF VIOLATIONS.
   Any person found to be violating any provision of this article, except
section 30-66, shall be served by the city with written notice stating the
nature of the violation and providing a reasonable time limit for the
satisfactory correction thereof. The offender shall, within the period of time
stated in such notice, permanently cease all violations.
(Ord. 2043, Art. X, § 1, passed 11-14-1978)
§ 30-65 LIABILITY FOR DAMAGES.
   Any person violating any of the provisions of this article shall become
liable to the city for any expense, loss, or damage occasioned the city by
reason of such violation.
(Ord. 2043, Art. X, § 3, passed 11-14-1978)
§ 30-66 CRIMINAL MISCHIEF.
   No authorized person shall maliciously, willfully, or negligently break,
damage, destroy, uncover, deface, or tamper with any structure, appurtenance,
or equipment which is part of the sewage works.
(Ord. 2043, Art. VI, § 1, passed 11-14-1978)
§ 30-67 SPECIAL AGREEMENTS.
   No statement contained in this article shall be construed as preventing any
special agreement or arrangement between the city and any industrial concern
whereby an industrial waste of unusual strength or character may be accepted by
the city for treatment, subject to payment therefor, by the industrial concern.
(Ord. 2043, Art. V, § 10, passed 11-14-1978)
§ 30-68 INSANITARY DEPOSIT OF WASTES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, deposit, or permit to be
deposited in any insanitary manner on public or private property within the
city, or in any area under the jurisdiction of the city, any human or animal
excrement, garbage, or other objectionable waste.
(Ord. 2043, Art. II, § 1, passed 11-14-1978)
§ 30-69 DISCHARGES INTO NATURAL OUTLETS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to discharge to any natural outlet
within the city, or in any area under the jurisdiction of the city, any sewage
or other polluted waters, except where suitable treatment has been provided in
accordance with subsequent provisions of this article.
(Ord. 2043, Art. II, § 2, passed 11-14-1978)
§ 30-70 WHEN CONNECTION TO PUBLIC SEWER REQUIRED.
   The owner of all houses, buildings or properties used for human employment,
recreation or other purposes situated within the city and abutting on any
street, alley or right-of-way in which there is not located or may in the
future be located a public sanitary or combined sewer of the city is hereby
required at his expense to install suitable toilet facilities therein and to
connect such facilities directly with the proper public sewer in accordance
with the provisions of this article within 90 days after the date of official
notice to do so provided that said public sewer is not located more than 200
feet from any proposed building or exterior drainage facility on any lot or
premises which abuts and is served by such public sewer.
(Ord. 2043, Art. II, § 4, passed 11-14-1978; Ord. 2610, § 1, passed 3-11-1991)
§ 30-71 PERMIT FOR CONNECTION TO PUBLIC SEWERS.
   No unauthorized person shall uncover, make any connections with or opening
into, use, alter, or disturb any public sewer or appurtenance thereof without
first obtaining a written permit from the building inspector.
(Ord. 2043, Art. IV, § 1, passed 11-14-1978)
§ 30-72 STORM, ETC., WATERS, UNPOLLUTED WASTES—PROHIBITED IN SANITARY SEWERS.
   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any stormwater, surface
water, groundwater, roof runoff, subsurface drainage, including interior and
exterior foundation drains, uncontaminated cooling water, or unpolluted
industrial process waters to any sanitary sewer.
(Ord. 2043, Art. V, § 1, passed 11-14-1978)
§ 30-73 SAME—PERMITTED DISCHARGES.
   Stormwater and all other unpolluted drainage shall be discharged to such
sewers as are specifically designated as combined sewers or storm sewers, or to
a natural outlet approved by the building inspector. Industrial cooling water
or unpolluted process waters may be discharged on approval of the building
inspector, to a storm sewer, combined sewer, or natural outlet.
(Ord. 2043, Art. V, § 2, passed 11-14-1978)
§ 30-74 PROHIBITED DISCHARGES INTO PUBLIC SEWERS.
   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any of the following
described waters or wastes to any public sewers:
   (A)   Any gasoline, benzene, naphtha, fuel oil, or other flammable or
explosive liquid, solid or gas.
   (B)   Any waters or wastes containing toxic or poisonous solids, liquids, or
gases in sufficient quantity, either singly or by interaction with other
wastes, to injure or interfere with any sewage treatment process, constitute a
hazard to humans or animals, create a public nuisance, or create any hazard in
the receiving waters of the sewage treatment plant, including but not limited
to cyanides in excess of two mg/l as CN in the wastes as discharged to the
public sewer.
   (C)   Any waters or wastes having a pH lower than 5.5 or having any other
corrosive property capable of causing damage or hazard to structures,
equipment, and personnel of the sewage works.
   (D)   Solid or viscous substances in quantities or of such size capable of
causing obstruction to the flow in sewers, or other interference with the
proper operation of the sewage works such as, but not limited to, ashes,
cinders, sand, mud, straw, shavings, metal, glass, rags, feathers, tar,
plastics, wood, unground garbage, whole blood, paunch manure, hair and
fleshings, entrails and paper dishes, cups, milk containers, etc., either whole
or ground by garbage grinders.
   (E)   Any waters or wastes having:
      (1)   A five day BOD greater than 300 parts per million by weight;
      (2)   Containing more than 350 parts per million by weight of suspended
solids; or
      (3)   Having an average daily flow greater than two percent of the
average sewage flow of the city, shall be subject to the review of the
superintendent. Where necessary in the opinion of the superintendent, the owner
shall provide, at his expense, such preliminary treatment as may be necessary
to:
         (a)   Reduce the biochemical oxygen demand to 300 parts per million by
weight;
         (b)   Reduce the suspended solids to 350 parts per million by weight;
or
         (c)   Control the quantities and rates of discharge of such waters and
wastes. Plans, specifications, and any other pertinent information relating to
proposed preliminary treatment facilities shall be submitted for the approval
of the superintendent and no construction of such facilities shall be commenced
until said approvals are obtained in writing.
(Ord. 2043, Art. V, § 3, passed 11-14-1978)
§ 30-75 RESTRICTED DISCHARGES.
   (A)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged the following
described substances, materials, waters, or wastes if it appears likely in the
opinion of the superintendent that such wastes can harm either the sewers,
sewage treatment process, or equipment, have an adverse effect on the receiving
stream, or can otherwise endanger life, limb, public property or constitute a
nuisance. In forming his opinion as to the acceptability of these wastes, the
superintendent will give consideration to such factors as the quantities of
subject wastes in relation to flows and velocities in the sewers, material of
construction of the sewers, nature of the sewage treatment process, capacity of
the sewage treatment plant, degree of treatability of wastes in the sewage
treatment plant, and other pertinent factors.
   (B)   The substances prohibited are:
      (1)   Any liquid or vapor having a temperature higher than 150 degrees
Fahrenheit (65 degrees Celsius).
      (2)   Any water or waste containing fats, wax, grease, or oils, whether
emulsified or not, in excess of 100 mg/l or containing substances which may
solidify or become viscous at temperatures between 32 and 150 degrees
Fahrenheit (zero and 65 degrees Celsius).
      (3)   Any garbage that has not been properly shredded. The installation
and operation of any garbage grinder equipped with a motor of 0.76 hp metric or
greater shall be subject to the review and approval of the superintendent.
      (4)   Any waters or wastes containing strong acid iron pickling wastes,
or concentrated plating solutions whether neutralized or not.
      (5)   Any waters or wastes containing iron, chromium, copper, zinc, and
similar objectionable or toxic substances; or wastes exerting an excessive
chlorine requirement, to such degree that any such material received in the
composite sewage at the sewage treatment works exceeds the limits established
by the superintendent for such materials.
      (6)   Any waters or wastes containing phenols or other taste- or odor-
producing substances, in such concentrations exceeding limits which may be
established by the superintendent as necessary, after treatment of the
composite sewage, to meet the requirements of state, federal, or other public
agencies of jurisdiction for such discharge to the receiving waters.
      (7)   Any radioactive wastes or isotopes of such half-life or
concentration as may exceed limits established by the Superintendent in
compliance with applicable state or federal regulations.
      (8)   Any waters or wastes having a pH in excess of 9.5.
      (9)   Materials which exert or cause:
         (a)   Unusual concentrations of inert suspended solids (such as, but
not limited to, Fullers earth, lime slurries, and lime residues) or of
dissolved solids (such as, but not limited to, sodium chloride or sodium
sulfate).
         (b)   Excessive discoloration (such as, but not limited to, dye wastes
and vegetable tanning solutions).
         (c)   Unusual BOD, chemical oxygen demand, or chlorine requirements in
such quantities as to constitute a significant load on the sewage treatment
works.
         (d)   Unusual volume of flow or concentration of wastes constituting
“slugs” as defined herein.
      (10)   Waters or wastes containing substances which are not amenable to
treatment or reduction by the sewage treatment processes employed, or are
amenable to treatment only to such degree that the sewage treatment plant
effluent cannot meet the requirements of other agencies having jurisdiction
over discharge to the receiving waters.
(Ord. 2043, Art. V, § 4, passed 11-14-1978)
§ 30-76 DISCRETIONARY JUDGMENT OF SUPERINTENDENT.
   (A)   If any waters or wastes are discharged, or are proposed to be
discharged to the public sewers, which waters contain the substances or possess
the characteristics enumerated in the preceding section, and which in the
judgment of the superintendent may have a deleterious effect upon the sewage
works, processes, equipment or receiving waters, or which otherwise create a
hazard to life or constitute a public nuisance, the superintendent may:
      (1)   Reject the wastes;
      (2)   Require pretreatment to an acceptable condition for discharge to
the public sewers;
      (3)   Require control over the quantities and rates of discharge; and/or
      (4)   Require payment to cover the added cost of handling and treating
the wastes not covered by existing taxes or sewer charges under the provisions
of section
30-67 of the article.
   (B)   If the superintendent permits the pretreatment or equalization of
waste flows, the design and installation of the plants and equipment shall be
subject to the review and approval of the superintendent, and subject to the
requirement of all applicable codes, ordinances and laws.
(Ord. 2043, Art. V, § 5, passed 11-14-1978)
§ 30-77 INTERCEPTORS.
   Grease, oil and sand interceptors shall be provided when, in the opinion of
the superintendent, they are necessary for the proper handling of liquid wastes
containing grease in excessive amounts, or any flammable wastes, sand, or other
harmful ingredients; except that such interceptors shall not be required for
private living quarters or dwelling units. All interceptors shall be of a type
and capacity approved by the superintendent, and shall be located as to be
readily and easily accessible for cleaning and inspection.
(Ord. 2043, Art. V, § 6, passed 11-14-1978)
§ 30-78 MAINTENANCE OF FACILITIES.
   Where preliminary treatment or flow-equalizing facilities are provided for
any waters or wastes, they shall be maintained continuously in satisfactory and
effective operation by the owner at his expense.
(Ord. 2043, Art. V, § 7, passed 11-14-1978)
§ 30-79 CONTROL MANHOLE.
   When required by the superintendent, the owner of any property serviced by a
building sewer carrying industrial wastes shall install a suitable control
manhole together with such necessary meters and other appurtenances in the
building sewer to facilitate observation, sampling, and measurement of the
wastes. Such manhole, when required, shall be accessibly and safely located,
and shall be constructed in accordance with plans approved by the
superintendent. The manhole shall be installed by the owner at his expense, and
shall be maintained by him so as to be safe and accessible at all times.
(Ord. 2043, Art. V, § 8, passed 11-14-1978)
§ 30-80 MEASUREMENTS, TESTS, ETC.
   All measurements, tests, and analyses of the characteristics of waters and
wastes to which reference is made in this article shall be determined in
accordance with the latest edition of “Standard Methods for the Examination of
Water and Wastewater,” published by the American Public Health Association, and
shall be determined at the control manhole provided, or upon suitable samples
taken at said control manhole. In the event that no special manhole has been
required, the control manhole shall be considered to be the nearest downstream
manhole in the public sewer to the point at which the building sewer is
connected. Sampling shall be carried out by customarily accepted methods to
reflect the effect of constituents upon the sewage works and to determine the
existence of hazards to life, limb, and property. (The particular analyses
involved will determine whether a 24-hour composite of all outfalls of a
premise is appropriate or whether a grab sample or samples should be taken.
Normally, but not always, BOD and suspended solids analyses are obtained from
24-hour composites of all outfalls whereas pHs are determined from periodic
grab samples.
(Ord. 2043, Art. V, § 9, passed 11-14-1978)
§ 30-81 AUTHORITY TO ENTER PREMISES.
   The superintendent and building inspector and other duly authorized
employees of the city bearing proper credentials and identification shall be
permitted to enter all private properties through which the city holds a duly
negotiated easement for the purposes of, but not limited to, inspection,
observation, measurement, sampling, repair, and maintenance of any portion of
the sewage works lying within said easement. All entry and subsequent work, if
any, on said easement, shall be done in full accordance with the terms of the
duly negotiated easement pertaining to the private property involved.
(Ord. 2043, Art. VII, § 3, passed 11-14-1978)
§ 30-82 INSPECTIONS; RIGHT OF ENTRY.
   The superintendent and building inspector and other duly authorized
employees of the city bearing proper credentials and identification shall be
permitted to enter all properties for the purposes of inspection, observation,
measurement, sampling, and testing in accordance with the provisions of this
article. The superintendent or his representatives shall have no authority to
inquire into any processes including metallurgic chemical, oil, refining,
ceramic, paper, or other industries beyond that point having a direct bearing
on the kind and source of discharge to the sewers or waterways or facilities
for waste treatment.
(Ord. 2043, Art. VII, § 1, passed 11-14-1978)
§ 30-83 OBSERVANCE OF SAFETY RULES.
   While performing the necessary work on private properties referred to in
section
30-82 of this article, the superintendent or duly authorized employees of the
city shall observe all safety rules applicable to the premises established by
the company and the company shall be held harmless for injury or death to the
city employees and the city shall indemnify the company against loss or damage
to its property by city employees and against liability claims and demands for
personal injury or property damage asserted against the company and growing out
of the gauging and sampling operation, except as such may be caused by
negligence or failure of the company to maintain safe conditions as required in
section 30-79.
(Ord. 2043, Art. VII, § 2, passed 11-14-1978)
§§ 30-84—30-90 RESERVED.
DIVISION 2: PRIVATE SEWAGE DISPOSAL SYSTEMS
§ 30-91 PRIVIES, ETC., RESTRICTED.
   Except as provided above in this article, it shall be unlawful to construct
or maintain any privy, privy vault, septic tank, cesspool or other faculty
intended or used for the disposal of sewage.
(Ord. 2043, Art. II, § 3, passed 11-14-1978)
§ 30-92 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   Before commencement of construction of a private sewage disposal system the
owner shall first obtain a written permit signed by the building inspector.
(Ord. 2043, Art. III, § 2, passed 11-14-1978)
§ 30-93 APPLICATION FOR PERMIT.
   The application for a permit required by the provisions of this division
shall be made on a form furnished by the city, which the applicant shall
supplement by any plans, specifications, and other information as are deemed
necessary by the building inspector.
(Ord. 2043, Art. III, § 2, passed 11-14-1978)
§ 30-94 PERMIT, INSPECTION FEES.
   All permit and inspection fees shall be paid to the city at the time the
application for a permit required by the provisions of this division is filed.
(Ord. 2043, Art. III, § 2, passed 11-14-1978)
§ 30-95 APPROVAL, INSPECTION OF WORK.
   A permit for a private sewage disposal system shall not become effective
until the installation is completed to the satisfaction of the building
inspector. He shall be allowed to inspect the work at any stage of construction
and, in any event, the applicant for the permit shall notify the building
inspector when the work is ready for final inspection, and before any
underground portions are covered. The inspection shall be made within 24 hours
of the receipt of notice by the building inspector.
(Ord. 2043, Art. III, § 3, passed 11-14-1978)
§ 30-96 COMPLIANCE WITH STATE RECOMMENDATIONS.
   The type, capacities, location, and layout of a private sewage disposal
system shall comply with all recommendations of the department of public health
of the state.
(Ord. 2043, Art. III, § 4, passed 11-14-1978)
§ 30-97 MINIMUM AREA SERVED.
   No permit shall be issued for any private sewage disposal system employing
subsurface soil absorption facilities where the area of the lot to be served is
less than one-half acre.
(Ord. 2043, Art. III, § 4, passed 11-14-1978)
§ 30-98 DISCHARGES INTO NATURAL OUTLET PROHIBITED.
   No septic tank or cesspool shall be permitted to discharge to any natural
outlet.
(Ord. 2043, Art. III, § 4, passed 11-14-1978)
§ 30-99 MAINTENANCE.
   The owner shall operate and maintain the private sewage disposal facilities
in a sanitary manner at all times, at no expense to the city.
(Ord. 2043, Art. III, § 6, passed 11-14-1978)
§ 30-100 ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS.
   No statement contained in this division shall be construed to interfere with
any additional requirements that may be imposed by the health officer.
(Ord. 2043, Art. III, § 7, passed 11-14-1978)
§ 30-101 CONNECTION TO PUBLIC SEWER.
   At such time as a public sewer becomes available to a property served by a
private sewage disposal system, as provided in section 30-96, a direct
connection shall be made to the public sewer in compliance with this article
within 60 days, and any septic tanks, cesspools and similar private sewage
disposal facilities shall be cleaned of sludge, abandoned and filled with
suitable material such as clean bankrun gravel or dirt.
(Ord. 2043, Art. III, §§ 5, 8, passed 11-14-1978)
§§ 30-102—30-110 RESERVED.
DIVISION 3: BUILDING SEWER
§ 30-111 CONNECTION TO PRIVATE SYSTEM GENERALLY.
   Where a public sanitary or combined sewer is not available under the
provisions of section 30-70, the building sewer shall be connected to a private
sewage disposal system complying with the provisions of this division.
(Ord. 2043, Art. III, § 1, passed 11-14-1978)
§ 30-112 CLASSIFICATION OF PERMITS.
   There shall be two classes of building sewer permits:
   (A)   For residential and commercial service, and
   (B)   For service to establishments producing industrial wastes.
(Ord. 2043, Art. IV, § 2, passed 11-14-1978)
§ 30-113 APPLICATION FOR PERMIT.
   The owner, or his agent, of the premises to be served by a building sewer
shall make application for a permit therefor on a special form furnished by the
city. The permit application shall be supplemented by any plans,
specifications, or other information considered pertinent in the judgment of
the building inspector.
(Ord. 2043, Art. IV, § 2, passed 11-14-1978)
§ 30-114 PERMIT, INSPECTION FEES.
   All permit and inspection fees for residential or commercial building sewer
permits or for an industrial building sewer permit shall be paid to the city at
the time the application for the permit is filed.
(Ord. 2043, Art. IV, § 2, passed 11-14-1978)
§ 30-115 LIABILITY FOR EXPENSE.
   All costs and expense incident to the installation and connection of the
building sewer shall be borne by the owner. The owner shall indemnify the city
from any loss or damage that may directly or indirectly be occasioned by the
installation of the building sewer.
(Ord. 2043, Art. IV, § 3, passed 11-14-1978)
§ 30-116 SEPARATE SEWERS REQUIRED; EXCEPTION.
   A separate and independent building sewer shall be provided for every
building; except where one building stands at the rear of another on an
interior lot and no private sewer is available or can be constructed to the
rear building through an adjoining alley, court yard, or driveway, the building
sewer from the front building may be extended to the rear building and the
whole considered as one building sewer.
(Ord. 2043, Art. IV, § 4, passed 11-14-1978)
§ 30-117 USE OF OLD SEWERS.
   Old building sewers may be used in connection with new buildings only when
they are found, on examination and test by the building inspector to meet all
requirements of this article.
(Ord. 2043, Art. IV, § 5, passed 11-14-1978)
§ 30-118 APPLICATION OF TECHNICAL CODES; SPECIFICATIONS.
   The size, slope, alignment, materials of construction of a building sewer,
and the methods to be used in excavating, placing of the pipe, jointing,
testing, and backfilling the trench, shall all conform to the requirements of
the building and plumbing code or other applicable rules and regulations of the
city. In the absence of code provisions or in amplification thereof, the
materials and procedures set forth in appropriate specifications of the
A.S.T.M. and W.P.C.F. Manual of Practice No. 9 shall apply.
(Ord. 2043, Art. IV, § 6, passed 11-14-1978)
§ 30-119 ELEVATION AT BUILDING.
   Whenever possible, the building sewer shall be brought to the building at an
elevation below the basement floor. In all buildings in which any building
drain is too low to permit gravity flow to the public sewer, sanitary sewage
carried by such building drain shall be lifted by an approved means and
discharged to the building sewer.
(Ord. 2043, Art. IV, § 7, passed 11-14-1978)
§ 30-120 CERTAIN CONNECTIONS PROHIBITED.
   No person shall make connection of roof downspouts, exterior foundation
drains, areaway drains, or other sources of surface runoff or groundwater to a
building sewer or building drain which in turn is connected directly or
indirectly to a public sanitary sewer.
(Ord. 2043, Art. IV, § 8, passed 11-14-1978)
§ 30-121 PROCEDURES FOR CONNECTION TO PUBLIC SEWER.
   The connection of the building sewer into the public sewer shall conform to
the requirements of the building and plumbing code or other applicable rules
and regulations of the city, or the procedures set forth in appropriate
specifications of the A.S.T.M. and S.P.C.F. Manual of Practice No. 9. All such
connections shall be made gastight and watertight. Any deviation from the
prescribed procedures and materials must be approved by the building inspector
before installation.
(Ord. 2043, Art. IV, § 9, passed 11-14-1978)
§ 30-122 NOTICE FOR CONNECTION, INSPECTION.
   The applicant for the building sewer permit shall notify the building
inspector when the building sewer is ready for inspection and connection to the
public sewer. The connection shall be made under the supervision of the
building inspector or his representative.
(Ord. 2043, Art. IV, § 10, passed 11-14-1978)
§ 30-123 PROTECTION OF PUBLIC.
   All excavations for building sewer installation shall be adequately guarded
with barricades and lights so as to protect the public from hazard. Streets,
sidewalks, parkways and other public property disturbed in the course of the
work shall be restored in a manner satisfactory to the city.
(Ord. 2043, Art. IV, § 11, passed 11-14-1978)
§§ 30-124—30-134 RESERVED.
ARTICLE IV: SEWER SERVICE CHARGES
Section
   
30-135   “User” defined
   
30-136   Residential and commercial users’ rates—Generally
   
30-137   Same—Minimum monthly charges
   
30-138   Industrial rates—Generally
   
30-139   Same—Capital cost recovery
   
30-140   Same—Operation and maintenance cost
   
30-141   Same—Surcharge for operation and maintenance
   
30-142   Same—Water department charges
   
30-143   Sewage treatment works fund—Generally
   
30-144   Same—Annual review of rates
   
30-145   Collection
   
30-146   Disposition of proceeds
   
30-147   Delinquent charges
Statutory reference:
   Sewer service charges, see Neb. RS 1943, §§ 16-694, 18-509
§ 30-135 “USER” DEFINED.
   The word USER, for the purpose of this article, shall include all persons
whose premises are served by the sanitary sewerage system, including all owners
and tenants of real estate and buildings which are connected with such sanitary
sewerage system or are served thereby or in any way, either directly or
indirectly, discharge sewage, industrial waste matter or liquids therein.
(1964 Code, § 9-8)
§ 30-136 RESIDENTIAL AND COMMERCIAL USERS’ RATES—GENERALLY.
   (A)   The following sewer charges shall be levied against the user of
residential premises, property or structures of every kind, nature and
description which have water service from any supply source and are connected
directly or indirectly to the sewerage system of the city:
      (1)   For the months of December, January, February and March, the
monthly charge for sewer services will be based on the actual amount of water
used during each of these months.
      (2)   The monthly charge for sewer service in the months of April, May,
June, July, August, September, October and November will be based on the
average amount of water used during the preceding winter months of December,
January, February and March, or for such portion of said winter months as may
have been metered or at actual consumption, whichever is the lesser.
   (B)   The following sewer charges shall be levied against the user of
commercial premises, property or structures of every kind, nature and
description which have water service from any supply source and are connected
directly or indirectly to the sewerage system of the city:
      (1)   The monthly charge for sewer services will be based on the actual
amount of water used during each month of the year.
      (2)   There will be no sewer service charges levied for water received
from a supply source if the user can show, to the satisfaction of the city
wastewater superintendent, that no amount of water used from that particular
source is allowed to enter, either directly or indirectly, the sewerage system
of the city.
   (C)   At the option of the city, water used from private sources shall be
either metered or estimated by the city for sewer service billing purposes.
(Ord. 2090, § 1, passed 3-26-1979; Ord. 2113, § 1, passed 12-10-1979; Ord.
2509, § 1, passed 5-23-1988)
§ 30-137 SAME—MINIMUM MONTHLY CHARGES.
   (A)   For all residential and commercial users, the minimum monthly charge
shall be nineteen dollars and ninety-five cents ($19.95) for the first two CCF
(hundred cubic feet) of water used, plus four dollars and eighty cents ($4.80)
for each additional CCF (hundred cubic feet) of water used.
   (B)   Effective January 1, 2024, for all residential and commercial users,
the minimum monthly charge shall be twenty dollars and ninety cents ($20.90)
for the first two CCF (hundred cubic feet) of water used, plus five dollars and
three cents ($5.03) for each additional CCF (hundred cubic feet) of water used.
   (C)   Effective January 1, 2025, for all residential and commercial users,
the minimum monthly charge shall be twenty-one dollars and eighty-four cents
($21.84) for the first two CCF (hundred cubic feet) of water used, plus five
dollars and twenty-six cents ($5.26) for each additional CCF (hundred cubic
feet) of water used.
   (D)   Effective January 1, 2026, for all residential and commercial users,
the minimum monthly charge shall be twenty-two dollars and eighty-two cents
($22.82) for the first two CCF (hundred cubic feet) of water used, plus five
dollars and fifty cents ($5.50) for each additional CCF (hundred cubic feet) of
water used.
   (E)   Effective January 1, 2027, for all residential and commercial users,
the minimum monthly charge shall be twenty-three dollars and eighty-two cents
($23.82) for the first two CCF (hundred cubic feet) of water used, plus five
dollars and seventy-four cents ($5.74) for each additional CCF (hundred cubic
feet) of water used.
   (F)   Effective January I, 2028, for all residential and commercial users,
the minimum monthly charge shall be twenty-four dollars and eighty-nine cents
($24.89) for the first two CCF (hundred cubic feet) of water used, plus six
dollars ($6.00) for each additional CCF (hundred cubic feet) of water used.
(Ord. 2090, § 1, passed 3-26-1979; Ord. 2113, § 1, passed 12-10-1979; Ord.
2353, § 1, passed 4-22-1985; Ord. 2452, §§ 1, 2, passed 3-9-1987; Ord. 2490, §
1, passed 11-23-1987; Ord. 2527, § 1, passed 11-18-1988; Ord. 2603, § 1, passed
12-10-1990; Ord. 2641, § 1, passed 11-12-1991; Ord. 2717, § 1, passed 11-9-
1992; Ord. 2791, § 1, passed 1-10-1994; Ord. 3459, § 1, passed 3-24-2008; Ord.
3521, § 1, passed 6-6-2009; Ord. 3554, § 1, passed 12-14-2009; Ord. 3666, § 1,
passed 3-12-2012; Ord. 3707, § 1, passed 3-25-2013; Ord. 3797, § 1, passed 1-
26-2015; Ord. 3862, § 1, passed 12-12-2016; Ord. 3914, § 1, passed 9-24-2018;
Ord. 4138, § 1, passed 9-19-2023)
§ 30-138 INDUSTRIAL RATES—GENERALLY.
   (A)   The following rates shall be charged for all industrial contributors
to the city sewer system. INDUSTRIAL CONTRIBUTORS shall be as defined in
Ordinance No. 2044. Rates charged shall be the sum of the following three
parts:
      (1)   Industrial cost recovery;
      (2)   Operation and maintenance cost; and
      (3)   Surcharge for operation and maintenance.
   (B)   There will be no sewer service charges levied for water received from
a supply source if the user can show, to the satisfaction of the city
wastewater superintendent, that no amount of water used from that particular
source is allowed to enter, either directly or indirectly, the sewerage system
of the city.
(Ord. 2090, § 1, passed 3-26-1979; Ord. 2113, § 1, passed 12-10-1979; Ord.
2509, § 2, passed 5-23-1988)
§ 30-139 SAME—CAPITAL COST RECOVERY.
   Capital cost recovery will be charged as determined in Ordinance No. 2044.
(Ord. 2090, § 1, passed 3-26-1979; Ord. 2113, § 1, passed 12-10-1979)
§ 30-140 SAME—OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE COST.
   Operation and maintenance cost for wastewater with not more than 225 mg/l of
BOD and 200 mg/l of suspended solids shall be as follows: Operation and
maintenance charge—$839.37 per 1,000,000 gallons.
(Ord. 2090, § 1, passed 3-26-1979; Ord. 2113, § 1, passed 12-10-1979)
§ 30-141 SAME—SURCHARGE FOR OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE.
   The surcharge for operation and maintenance for wastewater and with more
than 225 mg/l of BOD and 200 mg/l of suspended solids shall be as follows:
   The surcharge formula:
SC = [Rp (Pi - Pn) + Rs (Si - Sn) + Rx
       (Xi - Xn) × 8.34 × V
   as described would be used to determine this “extra charge” based upon
laboratory analysis of the wastewater as selected time periods to be determined
for each industry involved.
   Where:
SC = Surcharge, in dollars
Rp = Unit BOD cost of treating normal sewage, $0.1449 per pound
Pi = BOD in the industrial waste, ppm
Pn = BOD in normal sewage, ppm (225)
Rs = Unit suspended solids cost of treating normal sewage, $0.1475 per pound
Si = Suspended solids in the industrial waste, ppm
Sn = Suspended solids in normal sewage, ppm (200)
Rx = Unit cost of treating any additional substance in the industrial waste, in
dollars per pound
Xi = Substance requiring additional treatment in the industrial waste, ppm
Xn = Substance requiring additional treatment in normal sewage, ppm
8.34 = lb/million gallon-mg/l
V = Wastewater volume, million gallon
(Ord. 2090, § 1, passed 3-26-1979; Ord. 2113, § 1, passed 12-10-1979)
§ 30-142 SAME—WATER DEPARTMENT CHARGES.
   The water department shall be charged the following rates for processing
water plant sludge:
   (A)   Flow charge—$215.00 per 1,000,000 gallons of flow; plus
   (B)   Suspended solids—$17.00 per 1,000 pounds of suspended solids.
(1964 Code, § 9-9) (Ord. 2081, § 1, passed 11-13-1978; Ord. 2090, § 1, passed
3-26-1979; Ord. 2113, § 1, passed 12-10-1979)
§ 30-143 SEWAGE TREATMENT WORKS FUND—GENERALLY.
   (A)   The operation, maintenance and replacement portion of all amounts
billed and collected for sewage service from all users shall be segregated in a
separate fund designated as the sewage treatment works fund. Within this fund,
there are hereby established two accounts: (1) sewage treatment works operation
and maintenance account and (2) sewage treatment works replacement account.
Amounts within the sewage treatment works fund shall be credited to said
accounts as provided for in paragraphs (1) and (2) below:
      (1)   Sewage treatment works operation and maintenance account. All
amounts credited to the sewage treatment works fund which are not specifically
designated for the sewage treatment works replacement account shall be credited
to this account and used only for the purpose of paying the costs of the
operation, maintenance, bond, payments and administration of the sewage
treatment works of the city, including any minor replacements to the system not
otherwise provided for in the sewage treatment works replacement account.
      (2)   Sewage treatment works replacement account. All amounts from the
sewer user charges specifically designated for this account shall be credited
herein and shall only be used to meet the replacement needs of the treatment
works, including any necessary upgrading in the process of replacement to the
sewage treatment works. Credits to this account from the sewage treatment works
fund shall be made at least annually and shall initially be in the amount of
$5,000.00.
   (B)   Should a balance remain in either account within the sewage treatment
works fund after payment of the items hereinbefore provided, then said balance
shall be carried over within the same account and used for the same purposes in
the following year. Transfers of funds to meet temporary shortages in either
account within this fund shall be returned to the appropriate fund, following
an adjustment in the user charge for operation, maintenance and replacement.
(Ord. 2090, § 2, passed 3-26-1979; Ord. 2113, § 2, passed 12-10-1979)
§ 30-144 SAME—ANNUAL REVIEW OF RATES.
   No later than April 1st of each calendar year, the city administrator and
the superintendent of the wastewater treatment facilities shall initiate a
review of the sewer service charges to make sure the revenue is adequate for
the requirements of the bond ordinance and to provide for operation,
maintenance and equipment replacement for the sewerage system. No later than
July 1st of each calendar year, the city administrator and superintendent of
the wastewater treatment facilities shall recommend to the city council any
ordinance revisions necessary to assure such adequacy of sewer revenue for the
succeeding fiscal year.
(Ord. 2081, § 2, passed 11-13-1978; Ord. 2090, § 2, passed 3-26-1979; Ord.
2113, § 2, passed 12-10-1979)
§ 30-145 COLLECTION.
   The service charges prescribed by this article shall be collected at the
same time and in the same manner as water charges are collected by the city,
except as provided in the contract between the city and the Metropolitan
Utilities District for those users whose water is supplied by the Metropolitan
Utilities District.
(1964 Code, § 9-10)
§ 30-146 DISPOSITION OF PROCEEDS.
   The proceeds collected under the provisions of this article shall be used
for maintenance or operation of the existing sanitary sewerage system, for
payment of principal and interest on bonds issued under section 18-506, Reissue
Revised Statutes of Nebraska, 1943, or to create a reserve fund for the purpose
of future maintenance or construction of a new sewer system and disposal plant
for the city. All funds raised from such charges shall be placed in a separate
fund and shall not be used for any other purpose or diverted to any other fund.
(1964 Code, § 9-11)
Statutory reference:
   General obligation bonds, interest, power to issue, see Neb. RS 1943, § 18-
506
§ 30-147 DELINQUENT CHARGES.
   All sanitary sewerage service charges shall be a lien upon the premises and
real estate for which the sewer service is supplied and used; and if not paid
when due, such charge shall be certified to the city treasurer and may be
recovered by the city in an action at law, and it may be certified to the
county clerk and assessed against the real estate and premises served and be
collected and returned in the same manner as other city taxes. All charges
levied by this article which are not paid when due shall be deemed to be
delinquent, and the water and sewer service for such user may be discounted.
(1964 Code, § 9-12)
CHAPTER 31: ZONING
ARTICLE 31: ZONING
Section
   
31-1   Zoning regulations not affected by Code
   
31-2   Additional setback requirements for structures or improvements adjacent
to creeks and drainageways
Statutory reference:
   Planning and zoning, see Neb. RS 1943, §§ 19-901 et seq.
§ 31-1 ZONING REGULATIONS NOT AFFECTED BY CODE.
   Nothing in this Code or the ordinance adopting this Code shall affect any
ordinance regulating zoning, and all such ordinances are hereby recognized as
continuing in full force and effect to the same extent as if set out at length
in this Code.
Editor's note:
   The zoning regulations of the city, Ord. No. 770, adopted May 3, 1965, as
amended are on file in the office of the city clerk and may be obtained in
pamphlet form.
§ 31-2 ADDITIONAL SETBACK REQUIREMENTS FOR STRUCTURES OR IMPROVEMENTS ADJACENT
TO CREEKS AND DRAINAGEWAYS.
   (A)   No person shall be granted a permit for the construction of any
structure or improvement, exclusive of bank stabilization structures or
improvements, poles, and sign structures or improvements adjacent to any creek
or stream unless such structure or improvement is located so that no portion
thereof is any closer to the stream than will allow a maximum three-to-one
slope between the waters edge of the stream and the closest point on the
structure or improvement at grade, plus an additional 20 feet on each side of
the creek or drainageway, to allow for maintenance to be performed. An easement
should also be provided on each side of the creek or drainageway, to include
the three-to-one slope and the additional 20 feet for maintenance.
   (B)   A property shall be exempt from the provisions of subsection (A)
hereof upon a showing by a registered professional engineer that adequate bank
stabilization structures or slope protection will be installed in the
construction of said structure or improvement, having an estimated useful life
equal to that of the structure or improvement, which will provide adequate
erosion control conditions coupled with adequate lateral support so that no
portion of said structure or improvement adjacent to the stream will be
endangered by erosion or lack of lateral support. In the event that the
structure or improvement is adjacent to any stream which has been channelized
or otherwise improved by any agency of government, then such certification
providing an exception to subsection (A) above may take the form of a
certification as to the adequacy and protection of the improvements installed
by such governmental agency.
(Ord. 2953, § 1, passed 5-27-1997)
APPENDIX A: ZONING
Section
   
A-1   Regulations adopted by reference
§ A-1 REGULATIONS ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The city’s zoning regulations are hereby adopted by reference and
incorporated herein as if set out in full.
(Ord. 3619, passed - -; Ord. 3708, § 1, passed 3-11-2013; Ord. 3714, §§ 1, 2,
passed 4-8-2013; Ord. 3715, §§ 1—3, passed 5-13-2013; Ord. 3716, §§ 1—4, passed
4-22-2013; Ord. 3729, §§ 1, 2, passed 7-8-2013; Ord. 3757, § 1, passed 4-28-
2014; Ord. 3761, §§ 1—3, passed 4-14-2014; Ord. 3762, § 1, passed 4-14-2014;
Ord. 3773, §§ 1, 2, passed 8-11-2014; Ord. 3774, §§ 1, 2, passed 8-11-2014;
Ord. 3775, §§ 1, 2, passed 8-11-2014; Ord. 3776, §§ 1, 2, passed 8-11-2014;
Ord. 3781, §§ 1—4, passed 10-13-2014; Ord. 3802, §§ 1—3, passed 3-9-2015; Ord.
3806, §§ 1, 2, passed 4-13-2015; Ord. 3811, §§ 1, 2, passed 6-8-2015; Ord.
3824, §§ 1—4, passed 11-9-2015; Ord. 3825, §§ 1, 2, passed 11-9-2015; Ord.
3840, § 1, passed 2-8-2016; Ord. 3846, §§ 1, 2, passed 4-11-2016; Ord. 3849, §§
1, 2, passed 6-13-2016; Ord. 3853, §§ 1, 2, passed 7-11-2016; Ord. 3858, § 1,
passed 10-10-2016; Ord. 3882, §§ 1—3, passed 9-11-2017; Ord. 3886, §§ 1, 2,
passed 10-9-2017; Ord. 3888, §§ 1—4, passed 12-11-2017; Ord. 3899, §§ 1—4,
passed 2-12-2018; Ord. 3902, §§ 1—10, passed 4-9-2018; Ord. 3911, §§ 1—5,
passed 9-10-2018; Ord. 3923, §§ 1—3, passed 2-26-2018; Ord. 3924, §§ 1—3,
passed 11-26-2018; Ord. 3952, §§ 1, 2, passed 7-16-2019; Ord. 3984, §§ 1—4,
passed 12-3-2019; Ord. 3988, § 1, passed 2-18-2020; Ord. 3987, § 1, passed 3-3-
2020; Ord. 3989, § 1, passed 3-3-2020; Ord. 3990, §§ 1, 2, passed 4-21-2020;
Ord. 3991, §§ 1—3, passed 4-21- 2020; Ord. 3995, § 1, passed 6-2-2020; Ord.
4000, § 1, passed 7-21-2020; Ord. 4001, §§ 1, 2, passed 8-4- 2020; Ord. 4004, §
1, passed 9-1-2020; Ord. 4011, §§ 1, 2, passed 10-6-2020; Ord. 4012, §§ 1, 2,
passed 11-3-2020; Ord. 4013, § 1, passed 11-3-2020; Ord. 4014, §§ 1, 2, passed
11-3-2020; Ord. 4015, §§ 1, 2, passed 11-3-2020; Ord. 4027, §§ 1, 2, passed 3-
2-2021; Ord. 4053, §§ 1—3, passed 10-5-2021; Ord. 4054, § 1, passed 10-5-2021;
Ord. 4055, § 1—6, passed 10-5-2021; Ord. 4104, §§ 1, 2, 8-16-2022; Ord. 4108, §
1, 10-4-2022; Ord. 4154, § 1, passed 5-21-2024; Ord. 4155, § 1, passed 5-21-
2024)
APPENDIX B: SUBDIVISIONS
Section
   
B-1   Regulations adopted by reference
§ B-1 REGULATIONS ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The city’s subdivision regulations are hereby adopted by reference and
incorporated herein as if set out in full.
(Ord. 2355, passed 6-10-1985; Ord. 2812, passed - -; Ord. 3704, § 1, passed 3-
11-2013; Ord. 3777, §§ 1, 2, passed 8-11-2014; Ord. 3780, § 1, passed 11-24-
2014; Ord. 3826, § 1, passed 11-9-2015; Ord. 3848, §§ 1, 2, passed 6-13-2016;
Ord. 3873, §§ 1, 2, passed 4-24-2017; Ord. 4105, § 1, 8-16-2022; Ord. 4147, §
1, 3-5-2024)
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Nebraska Revised Statutes
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO NEBRASKA REVISED STATUTES
Neb. RS Cites Code Section
Neb. RS Cites            Code Section
9-401 et seq.            5-40
11-1                     2-273
13-801 et seq.           26-51
13-2001 et seq.          Ch. 13
13-3201 to 13-3211       26-51
13-3202                  26-52
13-3203                  26-52
13-3204(1)               26-53
13-3204(3)               26-52;
                         26-53
13-3205(1)               26-53
14-2139                  11-42
Ch. 16                   Ch. 2
16-104                   9-3
16-205                   4-32;
                         4-40
16-206                   6;
                         6-31
16-210                   Ch. 18;
                         Ch. 28
16-217                   2-144
16-222                   Ch. 12
16-231                   Ch. 19
16-234                   Ch. 8
16-235                   Ch. 6;
                         6-3
16-236                   Ch. 6;
                         6-51
                         Ch. 14;
16-238                   14-1;
                         14-3
16-240                   Ch. 14
16-246                   1-11;
                         18-12
16-247                   1-1
16-249                   Ch. 28
16-250                   Ch. 28
16-251                   Ch. 16
16-302.01 et seq.        Ch. 9
16-312                   2-41
16-312 et seq.           2-141
16-314                   14-11
16-319                   2-142
16-402                   2-41
16-403                   2-184
16-405                   2-184;
                         14-11
16-609 et seq.           Ch. 28
16-611                   28-1
16-667 et seq.           Ch. 30
16-673 et seq.           Ch. 30
16-695 et seq.           Ch. 21
16-701                   11-1
16-701 et seq.           Ch. 11
16-712 et seq.           11-16
16-715                   11-18
16-1020 to 16-1042       24-3;
                         24-4
16-1021(4)               24-3
18-131                   2-184
                         2-184;
                         8-17;
                         10-57;
18-132                   12-36;
                         27-85.1;
                         27-86;
                         27-196;
                         27-257
18-401 et seq.           Ch. 30
18-501 et seq.           27-98
18-506                   30-146
18-1716                  Ch. 26
18-1720                  Ch. 19 ,
                         19-109
18-1722 et seq.          8-52
18-1736                  18-109
18-1736 to 18- 737       18-112
18-1737                  18-109
18-1741.01 to 18-1741.07 18-107
18-741.02                18-107
18-1741.03 to 18-1741.04 18-107
18-1752 et seq.          Ch. 13
18-2001 et seq.          Ch. 28
18-2101 to 18-2144       26-2
18-2101 et seq.          Ch. 26
18-2101.01               26-1
18-2101 to 18-2154       26-1
18-2147                  26-2
18-2147 to 18-2153       26-2
18-3210                  26-51
19-825 to 19- 1848       2-221
19-901 et seq.           Ch. 31
19-916 et seq.           Ch. 29
                         26-17;
                         26-18;
19-926                   26-19;
                         26-20;
                         26-21
19-927                   26-23;
                         26-24
19-928                   26-25
19-929 et seq.           26-26
19-1102                  2-188
19-1309                  11-2
                         2-241;
19-1827                  2-243;
                         2-244
                         2-222;
19-1829                  2-261;
                         2-262;
                         2-263
19-1832                  2-265
19-1834                  2-227
19-1835                  2-264
19-1838                  2-266
19-2101 et seq.          Ch. 13
19-2417                  28-31
19-2901 et seq.          2-201
19-5406                  19-110
20-318                   15-194
21-608                   12-77
25-1093 to 25-10,110     22-6
Ch. 28                   Ch. 20
28-401 et seq.           19-3
28-520                   21-9
28-521                   21-9
28-523                   Ch. 13;
                         21-5
28-801                   20-5
28-806                   20-6
28-1004 et seq.          Ch. 6;
                         6-1
28-1228                  21-4
28-1241 et seq.          21-4
28-1241                  12-57
28-1409                  20-7
28-1410                  20-7
28-1421                  11-4
29-424                   18-108
29-426                   18-108
29-4001 to 29-4013       20-42
29-4001.01               20-42
29-4002                  20-41
Ch. 32                   Ch. 9
32-401 to 32- 402        9-17
32-403                   9-2
32-404                   9-16
32-568                   2-42
32-601 et seq.           9-18
32-802                   9-18
35-1309.01               12-17
48-2101 et seq.          27-197
51-201 et seq.           Ch. 16
51-209                   16-4
51-215                   16-7
Ch. 53                   Ch. 4
53-103                   4-1
53-124                   4-34
53-124.11                4-39
53-125                   4-31.1
53-134                   4-3
53-148                   4-35
53-160                   4-1
53-168.06                4-31.1;
                         4-6
53-179                   4-12
53-180                   4-10
53-180.01                4-11
53-184                   4-13
53-186                   4-13;
                         21-22
53-187                   4-16
53-1,101                 4-4
53-1,102                 4-4
54-617 to 54-624         6-0
Ch. 60                   18-1
60-101 et seq.           Ch. 18
60-1,113.04              18-113
60-3,113                 18-106
60-3,113.02              18-112
60-3,113.03              18-112
60-3,113.05              18-112
60-3,113.06              18-110;
                         18-111
60-496                   18-8
60-601 et seq.           Ch. 18
60-677 et seq.           Ch. 18
60-680(1)(b)             18-2;
                         18-3
60-680(1)(h)             Ch. 7
60-6,111                 18-10
60-6,112                 18-9
60-6,113                 18-9
60-6,119                 18-33
60-6,152                 18-18
60-6,166                 18-87
60-6,167                 18-86
60-6,178                 18-19
60-6,182                 18-86
60-6,186                 18-12
60-6,190                 18-12
60-6,219                 18-75
60-6,220                 18-75
60-6,250                 18-13
60-6,314 et seq.         Ch. 7
60-6,315(4)              7-7
60-6,316                 7-12
60-6,317(1)              7-12
60-6,317(3)              7-6
60-6,318(1)              7-4
60-6,318(2)              7-3
60-2401.01               18-108
71-1626 et seq.          Ch. 14
71-4402                  6-68
71-4601 et seq.          Ch. 17
71-6401 et seq.          Ch. 8;
                         27-257
71-6403                  8-16
71-1908 to 71-1923       20-42
Ch. 77                   Ch. 11
77-27,142 to 77-27,148   11-31;
                         11-32
Ch. 79                   20-42
79-318                   1-20
79-703                   1-20
81-520.01                12-173
81-520.01 et seq.        12-171;
                         13-2
81-829.50                2-96
81-1438 et seq.          Ch. 2;
                         2-267
81-1534 et seq.          Ch. 13
81-1440                  2-269
81-1441                  2-271
81-1443                  2-272
81-1444                  2-273;
                         2-274
81-2101 et seq.          Ch. 10
81-2104(5)               10-57
81-2, 173                6-117
84-1411                  2-29
                         
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
2000     1-24-1977   12-64
2006     2-28-1977   12-20;
                     12-21
                     16-1—
2011     4-25-1977   16-6;
                     16-21—
                     16-28
2024     7-25-1977   28-13
2022     8-8-1977    2-157—
                     2-169
2040     10-24-1977  2-140;
                     2-144
2045     11-14-1977  13-47
2050     2-27-1978   8-22
2051     2-27-1978   18-106—
                     18-113
                     2-181—
                     2-183;
2080     10-9-1978   2-185;
                     2-192—
                     2-200
2081     11-13-1978  30-142;
                     30-144
                     30-61—
                     30-83;
2043     11-14-1978  30-91—
                     30-101;
                     30-111—
                     30-123
2090     3-26-1979   30-136—
                     30-144
                     12-58—
                     12-62;
                     12-64;  
                     12-76;
2092     4-9-1979    12-77;
                     12-79;
                     12-80;
                     12-83—
                     12-86
2102     7-9-1979    12-58—
                     12-60
2113     12-10-1979  30-136—
                     30-144
2122     1-28-1980   18-94
                     15-191—
                     15-193 ;
                     15-195;
2123     3-10-1980   15-196;
                     15-211—
                     15-216 ;
                     15-218—
                     15-220
2125     3-24-1980   9-3
2131     4-28-1980   13-47
                     8-17;
                     8-18;
2135     6-9-1980    8-18.5;
                     8-19;
                     8-21
2137     6-9-1980    12-36—
                     12-42
2146     9-22-1980   12-2
2147     9-22-1980   12-166—
                     12-171
2153     12-8-1980   3-76—
                     3-83
2154     12-8-1980   3-56—
                     3-61
                     6-0;
                     6-1;
2162     3-23-1981   6-4—
                     6-9;
                     6-101—
                     6-108
2191     11-9-1981   8-2
2192     12-7-1981   9-3
2199     4-12-1982   20-7
2200     4-26-1982   4-12
                     11-41;
2245     4-11-1983   11-43—
                     11-45
2295     10-24-1983  26-38—
                     26-40
2297     11-14-1983  4-32
2299     12-12-1983  9-3
2306     2-17-1984   5-51—
                     5-53
2356     6-10-1984   8-3
2346     3-11-1985   12-80;
                     12-81
2353     4-22-1985   30-137
2355     6-10-1985   B-1
                     8-2;
                     8-4;
                     8-17;
2356     6-10-1985   8-18;
                     8-18.5;
                     8-19;
                     8-51;
                     8-52
                     28-76;
2377     8-26-1985   28-77;
                     28-77.1;
                     28-79
2386     10-14-1985  18-95;
                     18-96
                     2-222—
                     2-229;
2394     12-16-1985  2-241—
                     2-250;
                     2-261—
                     2-266
2401     1-27-1986   12-36—
                     12-43
                     8-17;
2412     4-14-1986   8-20;
                     8-28
2424     6-9-1986    4-31
2430     8-11-1986   2-26
2442     11-24-1986  2-265
2452     3-9-1987    30-137
2466     6-8-1987    26-38—
                     26-40
2468     6-8-1987    28-77.1
2483     10-13-1987  26-1
2487     11-9-1987   4-40
2488     11-9-1987   11-4
2490     11-23-1987  30-137
2495     2-8-1988    2-265
                     12-77;
                     12-79;
2498     2-22-1988   12-80;
                     12-82;
                     12-84
2507     5-9-1988    20-8
2509     5-23-1988   30-136;
                     30-138
2514     8-22-1988   6-115;
                     6-116
2522     9-12-1988   21-21
2524     11-14-1988  4-32
2525     11-14-1988  4-39
2527     11-18-1988  30-137
2537     2-27-1989   12-77
2535     4-10-1989   8-61—
                     8-66
2536     4-10-1989   8-71—
                     8-78
2539     4-10-1989   8-81—
                     8-86
                     8-17;
2554     6-26-1989   8-18;
                     8-18.5
2566     9-11-1989   8-63
2603     12-10-1990  30-137
2610     3-11-1991   30-70
2619     7-8-1991    8-29
2626     8-12-1991   2-165
                     6-16;
                     6-17;
                     6-19;
                     6-20;
2629     9-9-1991    6-31—
                     6-46;
                     6-51—
                     6-55;
                     6-66—
                     6-75
2636     10-15-1991  4-12
2641     11-12-1991  30-137
2642     11-12-1991  11-61—
                     11-70
2643     11-12-1991  11-31
2644     11-12-1991  4-32
                     8-17;
2646     11-25-1991  8-18;
                     8-18.5
2648     12-9-1991   11-81—
                     11-111
2649     12-9-1991   9-3
2677     5-4-1992    9-3
2682     5-11-1992   11-81
2684     5-11-1992   8-18;
                     8-18.5
2812     - -         B-1
2864     5-11-1992   8-17
2707     9-14-1992   8-18;
                     8-18.5
2708     9-14-1992   8-18;
                     8-18.5
2711     9-28-1992   8-18;
                     8-18.5
2717     11-9-1992   30-137
                     28-134;
2732     3-8-1993    28-136—
                     28-138
2733     3-8-1993    18-97—
                     18-100
2742     4-12-1993   12-36
2746     4-12-1993   12-42
                     8-17;
2739     4-26-1993   8-18;
                     8-18.5
2744     4-26-1993   12-61;
                     12-65
                     6-0;
2753     5-1-1993    6-31;
                     6-38;
                     6-39
2763     8-23-1993   8-18;
                     8-18.5
                     28-26—
2778     9-27-1993   28-31;
                     28-33;
                     28-34
2787     11-8-1993   9-3
2788     1-10-1994   8-23;
                     28-32
2791     1-10-1994   30-137
2797     7-11-1994   8-88—
                     8-96
2845     5-8-1995    28-77.1
                     27-26—
                     27-29;
                     27-31—
                     27-37;
                     27-47—
                     27-60;
                     27-70—
                     27-74;
                     27-97—
                     27-122;
                     27-133—
                     27-137 ;
                     27-139—
2867     12-11-1995  27-141;
                     27-152—
                     27-154 ;
                     27-165—
                     27-185;
                     27-196—
                     27-200 ;
                     27-202—
                     27-208;
                     27-219—
                     27-234 ;
                     27-245;
                     27-246;
                     27-257;
                     27-258
                     10-1—
                     10-5;
                     10-15—
                     10-17;
                     10-28—
2868     12-11-1995  10-32;
                     10-34;
                     10-35;
                     10-46;
                     10-57;
                     10-58
2870     1-8-1996    20-9
                     12-59;
                     12-61;
2874     3-11-1996   12-77;
                     12-79;
                     12-81
2875     3-11-1996   27-170—
                     27-172
2884     4-8-1996    20-21—
                     20-30
2896     6-24-1996   28-77.1
2901     8-12-1996   27-257;
                     27-258
2902     8-12-1996   10-57;
                     10-58
2904     8-12-1996   10-35
                     8-17;
2905     8-12-1996   8-18;
                     8-18.5
2914     9-23-1996   12-36;
                     12-42
2920     11-12-1996  10-57;
                     10-58
2921     11-12-1996  8-18
                     27-27;
                     27-135;
2934     1-27-1997   27-166—
                     27-168;
                     27-198
2953     5-27-1997   31-2
2980     2-23-1998   27-49;
                     27-221
2981     2-23-1998   26-39;
                     26-40
2987     4-27-1998   29-6
2981     5-27-1998   26-38
3008     1-25-1999   28-29;
                     28-31
                     16-23;
3016     4-26-1999   16-24;
                     16-28
                     6-9;
3020     7-12-1999   6-19;
                     6-20;
                     6-52
3038     12-13-1999  20-7
                     8-17;
3077     1-24-2000   8-18;
                     8-18.5
3078     1-24-2000   10-57;
                     10-58
3079     1-24-2000   12-36
3080     1-24-2000   27-86;
                     27-87
3081     1-24-2000   27-257;
                     27-258
3087     2-14-2000   9-3
3093     2-28-2000   8-18.5
3102     3-27-2000   12-77
                     12-172—
3141     3-12-2001   12-175 ;
                     12-179
                     8-16—
3148     3-26-2001   8-18;
                     8-18.5
3162     8-13-2001   1-20
3163     8-13-2001   1-12
3171     8-13-2001   20-10
3172     8-13-2001   20-11
3182     9-10-2001   18-12
3187     11-26-2001  9-3
                     19-1—
                     19-26;
3193     2-25-2002   19-40—
                     19-43;
                     19-50—
                     19-54
3194     2-25-2002   18-131;
                     18-132
3214     5-28-2002   19-42;
                     19-52
                     6-0;
                     6-3;
3199     6-10-2002   6-9;
                     6-17;
                     6-18;
                     6-31
3215     6-10-2002   8-18.5
3238     12-9-2002   8-88—
                     8-96
                     6-34;
3242     12-9-2002   6-38;
                     6-39;
                     6-39.1
3256     3-10-2003   18-106—
                     18-113
3264     3-24-2003   27-199
3271     4-14-2003   2-267—
                     2-275
3275     5-12-2003   18-12
                     28-76;
                     28-77;
3279     7-14-2003   28-77.1;
                     28-80;
                     28-81
                     12-60—
                     12-62;
                     12-64;
3307     3-8-2004    12-65;
                     12-76;
                     12-77;
                     12-79—
                     12-86
3319     6-14-2004   2-26
                     8-17;
                     8-18;
3332     9-27-2004   8-18.5;
                     8-63;
                     8-64
3335     9-27-2004   10-57;
                     10-58
                     27-85;
3336     9-27-2004   27-85.1;
                     27-86;
                     27-87
3337     9-27-2004   27-196
3334     10-11-2004  8-18.6
3359     4-11-2005   8-18
3360     5-9-2005    12-60;
                     12-77
3333     5-23-2005   8-18.5
3362     5-23-2005   20-12
3376     10-24-2005  8-18.5
3377     10-24-2005  8-18.6
3379     10-24-2005  10-57;
                     10-58
                     27-85;
3380     10-24-2005  27-85.1;
                     27-86;
                     27-87
3381     10-24-2005  27-196;
                     27-196.1
                     19-1—
                     19-4;
                     19-40—
3387     10-24-2005  19-43;
                     19-50—
                     19-54;
                     19-90—
                     19-97
                     8-17;
3378     11-14-2005  8-18;
                     8-63;
                     8-64
3386     11-14-2005  18-76
3388     11-14-2005  26-38—
                     26-40
3395     12-12-2005  2-26
                     27.5-1—
                     27.5-3;
                     27.5-22;
                     27.5-23;
                     27.5-41—
                     27.5-43;
                     27.5-61—
3409     7-24-2006   27.5-63;
                     27.5-81—
                     27.5-86;
                     27.5-101—
                     27.5-105;
                     27.5-121—
                     27.5-125;
                     27.5-141—
                     27.5-147
3446     10-8-2007   1-20
3458     3-24-2008   27-73
3459     3-24-2008   30-137
                     3-17—
                     3-19;
                     3-26;
3456     4-14-2008   3-28—
                     3-32;
                     3-35;
                     3-37
3460     4-14-2008   12-22—
                     12-24
3461     4-14-2008   9-3;
                     9-19
                     12-2;
                     12-36;
                     12-36.1;
3471     7-14-2008   12-37—
                     12-43;
                     12-166;
                     12-167;
                     12-170
3472     7-28-2008   12-16;
                     12-17
3478     8-11-2008   11-121—
                     11-127
3487     11-10-2008  11-150
3486     11-24-2008  20-31—
                     20-33
3494     3-9-2009    4-32;
                     4-40
                     6-39—
                     6-42;
                     6-52;
3496     3-9-2009    6-55;
                     6-105;
                     6-106;
                     6-116
3497     3-9-2009    17-45;
                     17-58
3498     3-9-2009    27-29
                     8-64;
                     8-73;
3499     3-9-2009    8-83;
                     8-91;
                     8-95
                     11-1;
                     11-3;
3500     3-9-2009    11-4;
                     11-41;
                     11-63;
                     11-93
                     12-22;
3501     3-9-2009    12-80;
                     12-175
3502     3-9-2009    13-64
3503     3-9-2009    22-17
                     23-1—
                     23-5;
3504     3-9-2009    23-21—
                     23-31;
                     23-37;
                     23-52
                     27-29;
                     27-32;
                     27-49;
                     27-73;
                     27-121;
                     27-136;
                     27-137;
3505     3-9-2009    27-140;
                     27-141;
                     27-167;
                     27-170—
                     27-172 ;
                     27-200;
                     27-203;
                     27-221;
                     27-229
3511     3-9-2009    2-26;
                     2-29
3512     3-9-2009    26-40
3513     3-9-2009    12-77
3515     5-11-2009   8-18.5
                     8-17;
                     8-18;
                     8-131—
3516     5-11-2009   8-135;
                     8-137—
                     8-144;
                     8-151—
                     8-163
                     27-196;
                     27-196.1;
3517     5-11-2009   27-198;
                     27-221;
                     27-275—
                     27-281
3518     5-11-2009   8-18.6
3519     5-11-2009   10-57;
                     10-58
                     27-85;
                     27-85.1;
3520     5-11-2009   27-86;
                     27-87;
                     27-265—
                     27-271
3521     6-6-2009    30-137
3527     6-8-2009    8-137;
                     27-198
                     6-0;
                     6-6.1;
                     6-6.2;
                     6-9;
3524     7-27-2009   6-21;
                     6-36;
                     6-52;
                     6-55;
                     6-68
3531     9-14-2009   20-7
3537     10-26-2009  26-2
3543     11-23-2009  9-3
3549     11-23-2009  26-2
                     12-172—
3546     12-14-2009  12-175;
                     12-179
3548     12-14-2009  20-34
3554     12-14-2009  30-137
3550     1-11-2010   18-140;
                     18-141
3553     1-11-2010   2.5-1—
                     2.5-21
3562     3-8-2010    27.5-3;
                     27.5-122
3564     3-22-2010   23-3;
                     23-22
3567     3-22-2010   2-95
3570     3-22-2010   2-68
3572     4-26-2010   23-53—
                     23-59
3574     5-10-2010   23-52—
                     23-54
3577     6-28-2010   4-12
3580     7-26-2010   21-22
                     8-134;
3585     9-13-2010   8-138;
                     8-160
                     23-77—
3595     11-22-2010  23-86;
                     19-100—
                     19-107
3604     1-24-2011   2-107
3605     1-24-2011   20-41—
                     20-45
3612     2-28-2011   27-87
                     2-222;
                     2-248;
3601     4-25-2011   2-250;
                     2-261;
                     2-263—
                     2-265
3616     5-23-2011   26-40
3619     - -         A-1;
                     20-11
3620     6-27-2011   2-94
3621     6-27-2011   12-38;
                     12-173
3622     6-27-2011   28-170—
                     28-175
3636     9-12-2011   28-1
3634     9-26-2011   14-5
3648     11-14-2011  9-3
3649     11-14-2011  20-13
3651     11-28-2011  8-46
                     8-16—
                     8-18;
                     8-132;
                     8-137;
3652     11-28-2011  8-138;
                     8-140—
                     8-142;
                     8-144;
                     8-152;
                     8-160
3653     11-28-2011  8-18.5
3654     11-28-2011  8-18.6
                     8-63;
3655     11-28-2011  8-81—
                     8-83
                     8-134.1;
                     8-134.2;
3656     11-28-2011  8-137;
                     8-138;
                     8-140;
                     8-162
3657     11-28-2011  10-57;
                     10-58
                     12-2;
                     12-36;
                     12-36.1;
3658     11-28-2011  12-37—
                     12-43;
                     12-166;
                     12-167;
                     12-170
                     27-27;
                     27-29;
                     27-31;
                     27-32;
                     27-36;
                     27-49;
3659     11-28-2011  27-57;
                     27-135—
                     27-137 ;
                     27-139—
                     27-141 ;
                     27-167;
                     27-171;
                     27-172
                     27-85;
                     27-85.1;
                     27-86;
                     27-87;
3660     11-28-2011  27-167;
                     27-169—
                     27-172 ;
                     27-174;
                     27-269;
                     27-270
                     27-196;
                     27-196.1;
                     27-198;
                     27-202;
3661     11-28-2011  27-203;
                     27-205;
                     27-221;
                     27-229;
                     27-280
3661     11-28-2011  27-275—
                     27-279
3664     3-12-2012   2-202—
                     2-207
3666     3-12-2012   30-137
                     6-0;
3679     8-27-2012   6-4;
                     6-17;
                     6-18
3680     8-27-2012   4-12
3681     9-10-2012   2-29
3686     9-24-2012   6-118—
                     6-140
3694     12-10-2012  18-133—
                     18-136
3696     1-11-2013   27-166
3697     1-22-2013   20-7
3703     2-11-2013   2-143
3704     3-11-2013   B-1
3708     3-11-2013   A-1
3710     3-11-2013   2-144
3711     3-11-2013   23-77—
                     23-86
3712     3-11-2013   28-170—
                     28-175
3706     3-25-2013   6-22
3707     3-25-2013   30-137
3714     4-8-2013    A-1
3716     4-22-2013   A-1
3715     5-13-2013   A-1
                     8-132;
3721     5-28-2013   8-144;
                     8-160
3723     6-10-2013   20-7;
                     20-8
3728     6-24-2013   8-46
3729     7-8-2013    A-1
3734     9-23-2013   8-161;
                     8-163
3736     9-23-2013   12-173
                     15-192;
3738     10-14-2013  15-195;
                     15-196;
                     15-220
3739     10-14-2013  4-12
                     13-32;
3745     11-12-2013  13-35;
                     13-48;
                     13-64
3750     1-13-2014   6-56—
                     6-61
3756     2-24-2014   9-3
3759     3-24-2014   5-36—
                     5-40
3760     3-24-2014   23-22
3763     3-24-2014   2-263
3761     4-14-2014   A-1
3762     4-14-2014   A-1
3757     4-28-2014   A-1
                     2-137;
3766     6-9-2014    2-142;
                     2-143
3773     8-11-2014   A-1
3774     8-11-2014   A-1
3775     8-11-2014   A-1
3776     8-11-2014   A-1
3777     8-11-2014   B-1
3781     10-13-2014  A-1
3780     11-24-2014  B-1
3786     11-24-2014  18-76
3785     12-8-2014   2-95
3790     12-8-2014   8-17;
                     8-18
3791     12-8-2014   8-18.6
                     12-2;
3792     12-8-2014   12-36;
                     12-36.1;
                     12-170
3793     12-8-2014   27-196;
                     27-196.1
                     27-85;
3794     12-8-2014   27-85.1;
                     27-86;
                     27-87
3795     12-8-2014   10-57;
                     10-58
3800     12-8-2014   11-141—
                     11-144
3797     1-26-2015   30-137
3802     3-9-2015    A-1
3806     4-13-2015   A-1
3807     4-13-2015   2-26;
                     2-29
3808     5-11-2015   12-60
3809     5-11-2015   19-27
3810     5-26-2015   20-7
3811     6-8-2015    A-1
3821     9-24-2015   28-171;
                     28-172
3822     11-9-2015   6-1
3823     11-9-2015   12-59;
                     12-60
3824     11-9-2015   A-1
3825     11-9-2015   A-1
3826     11-9-2015   B-1
3829     12-14-2015  11-121
3840     2-8-2016    A-1
3846     4-11-2016   A-1
3848     6-13-2016   B-1
3849     6-13-2016   A-1
3850     6-13-2016   22-1—
                     22-11
3851     6-13-2016   23-77—
                     23-86
3853     7-11-2016   A-1
3844     8-8-2016    28-176—
                     28-183
3858     10-10-2016  A-1
3863     11-28-2016  23-60
3862     12-12-2016  30-137
3869     3-13-2017   26-40
3873     4-24-2017   B-1
3878     8-14-2017   10-57;
                     10-58
3882     9-11-2017   A-1
3881     9-25-2017   24-1—
                     24-5
3884     10-9-2017   8-41
3886     10-9-2017   A-1
3888     12-11-2017  A-1
                     6-0;
3894     1-22-2018   6-23;
                     6-47
3899     2-12-2018   A-1
3923     2-26-2018   A-1
3889     3-26-2018   21-31—
                     21-37
3902     4-9-2018    A-1
3911     9-10-2018   A-1
3912     9-24-2018   26-52—
                     26-55
3914     9-24-2018   30-137
3924     11-26-2018  A-1
3921     1-14-2019   28-151—
                     28-156
3927     2-11-2019   2-26;
                     2-29
3943     5-7-2019    2-30
3949     6-18-2019   19-42
3952     7-16-2019   A-1
3964     9-3-2019    6-18
3977     12-3-2019   2-28
3978     12-3-2019   2-208
3981     12-3-2019   9-3
3984     12-3-2019   A-1
3988     2-18-2020   A-1
3987     3-3-2020    A-1
3989     3-3-2020    A-1
3992     3-17-2020   14-11
3990     4-21-2020   A-1
3991     4-21-2020   A-1
3995     6-2-2020    A-1
3999     7-7-2020    2-96
4002     3-11-2020   29.5-1—
                     29.5-29
4016     3-11-2020   18-106—
                     18-113
4000     7-21-2020   A-1
4001     8-4-2020    A-1
4004     9-1-2020    A-1
                     2-187;
                     2-221;
                     4-31.1;
                     7-6;
                     9-2;
                     11-42;
                     12-57;
4006     10-6-2020   18-18;
                     18-19;
                     18-33;
                     18-75;
                     18-86;
                     18-87;
                     26-51;
                     27.5-21
4011     10-6-2020   A-1
4007     10-20-2020  6-117
4008     10-20-2020  9-17;
                     9-18
4009     10-20-2020  15-194
4012     11-3-2020   A-1
4013     11-3-2020   A-1
4014     11-3-2020   A-1
4015     11-3-2020   A-1
4019     11-17-2020  6-22
4027     3-2-2021    A-1
4029     4-20-2021   19-83
                     12-57—
                     12-62;
                     12-64;
4030     5-4-2021    12-65; 
                     12-76;
                     12-77;
                     12-79—
                     12-86
                     12-2;
4031     5-4-2021    12-36;
                     12-36.1;
                     12-170
4032     5-4-2021    8-16—
                     8-18
4033     5-4-2021    8-18.6
4034     5-4-2021    27-196;
                     27-196.1
4035     5-4-2021    27-85—
                     27-87
4039     7-6-2021    20-14
4041     7-20-2021   20-15
4042     7-20-2021   7-2
4048     9-7-2021    28-7;
                     28-15
                     12-57—
                     12-65;
4050     9-21-2021   12-76—
                     12-77;
                     12-79—
                     12-86
4053     10-5-2021   A-1
4054     10-5-2021   A-1
4055     10-5-2021   A-1
4058     10-19-2021  20-16—
                     20-20.1
                     27-27;
4060     10-19-2021  27-28;
                     27-34
4066     12-21-2021  9-3
4067     1-18-2022   20-9
4069     2-1-2022    12-172;
                     12-176
4071     2-1-2022    2-29
4075     2-15-2022   20-2
4082     3-1-2022    6-1
4083     3-1-2022    20-15—
                     20.20.1
                     18-31;
                     18-34;
                     18-35;
                     18-37;
                     18-51—
                     18-53;
4091     5-3-2022    18-65—
                     18-70;
                     18-74;
                     18-90—
                     18-93;
                     18-100;
                     18-136
4092     5-3-2022    20-16;
                     20-20.1
4094     5-3-2022    28-77;
                     28-77.1
4095     5-3-2022    8-18
4096     5-3-2022    12-36.1
4098     6-7-2022    Repeals 14-6
4104     8-16-2022   A-1
4105     8-16-2022   B-1
4108     10-4-2022   A-1
4111     12-6-2022   9-3
4113     12-20-2022  11-141—
                     11-144
4121     5-2-2023    23-35—
                     23-41
                     23-1,
                     23-3,
                     23-4,
4122     5-2-2023    23-21,
                     23-22,
                     23-24,
                     23-25
                     19-8,
                     19-14,
4130     10-3-2023   19-23,
                     19-42,
                     19-52,
                     19-95
4131     10-3-2023   29.5-9
4138     12-19-2023  30-137
4147     3-5-2024    B-1
4152     4-16-2024   18-95
4154     5-21-2024   A-1
4155     5-21-2024   A-1
4156     5-21-2024   18-76
4169     12-17-2024  19-108—
                     19-118
4173     12-17-2024  10-57,
                     10-58
4171     1-21-2025   19-23,
                     19-42
                     29.5-9,
4172     1-21-2025   29.5-10,
                     29.5-28
                    
 
