BENKELMAN, NEBRASKA
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2025 S-4 Supplement contains:
Local legislation current through Ord. 2024-852, passed 12-16-2024
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street, Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Internet: www.amlegal.com
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
11.   CITY STANDARDS
CHAPTER 10: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Interpretation
   
10.03   Application to future ordinances
   
10.04   Captions
   
10.05   Definitions
   
10.06   Rules of interpretation
   
10.07   Severability
   
10.08   Reference to other sections
   
10.09   Reference to offices
   
10.10   Errors and omissions
   
10.11   Official time
   
10.12   Reasonable time
   
10.13   Ordinances repealed
   
10.14   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.15   Repeal or modification of ordinance
   
10.16   Section histories; statutory references
 
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01 TITLE OF CODE.
   This codification of ordinances shall be designated as “the City of
Benkelman Code of Ordinances” and may be so cited.
§ 10.02 INTERPRETATION.
   Unless otherwise provided herein, or by law or implication required, the
same rules of construction, definition, and application shall govern the
interpretation of this code as those governing the interpretation of state law.
§ 10.03 APPLICATION TO FUTURE ORDINANCES.
   All provisions of Title I compatible with future legislation shall apply to
ordinances hereafter adopted amending or supplementing this code unless
otherwise specifically provided.
§ 10.04 CAPTIONS.
   Headings and captions used in this code other than the title, chapter, and
section numbers are employed for reference purposes only and shall not be
deemed a part of the text of any section.
§ 10.05 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   General rule. Words and phrases shall be taken in their plain, or
ordinary and usual sense. However, technical words and phrases having a
peculiar and appropriate meaning in law shall be understood according to their
technical import.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this code, the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      CITY, MUNICIPAL CORPORATION, or MUNICIPALITY. The City of Benkelman,
Nebraska.
      CITY COUNCIL or GOVERNING BODY. The City Council of the City of
Benkelman.
      CODE, THIS CODE, or THIS CODE OF ORDINANCES. This city code as modified
by amendment, revision, and adoption of new titles, chapters, or sections.
      COUNTY. Dundy County Nebraska.
      MAY. The act referred to is permissive.
      MONTH. A calendar month.
      OATH. Includes an affirmation in all cases in which, by law, an
affirmation may be substituted for an oath, and in such cases the words SWEAR
and SWORN shall be equivalent to the words AFFIRM and AFFIRMED.
      OFFICER, OFFICE, EMPLOYEE, COMMISSION, or DEPARTMENT. An officer, office,
employee, commission, or department of this city unless the context clearly
requires otherwise.
      PERSON. Includes bodies politic and corporate, societies, communities,
the public generally, individuals, partnerships, limited liability companies,
joint-stock companies, and associations.
(Neb. RS 49-801(16))
      PRECEDING or FOLLOWING. Next before or next after, respectively.
      SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory.
      SIGNATURE or SUBSCRIPTION. Includes a mark when the person cannot write.
      STATE. The State of Nebraska.
      SUBCHAPTER. A division of a chapter, designated in this code by a heading
in the chapter analysis and a capitalized heading in the body of the chapter,
setting apart a group of sections related by the subject matter of the heading.
Not all chapters have SUBCHAPTERS.
      WRITTEN. Any representation of words, letters, or figures, whether by
printing or otherwise.
      YEAR. A calendar year, unless otherwise expressed.
§ 10.06 RULES OF INTERPRETATION.
   The construction of all ordinances of this city shall be by the following
rules, unless that construction is plainly repugnant to the intent of the Mayor
and City Council or of the context of the same ordinance.
   (A)   AND or OR. Either conjunction shall include the other as if written
“and/or”, if the sense requires it.
   (B)   Acts by assistants. When a statute or ordinance requires an act to be
done which, by law, an agent or deputy as well may do as the principal, the
requisition shall be satisfied by the performance of the act by an authorized
agent or deputy.
   (C)   Gender; singular and plural; tenses. Words denoting the masculine
gender shall be deemed to include the feminine and neuter genders; words in the
singular shall include the plural, and words in the plural shall include the
singular; the use of a verb in the present tense shall include the future, if
applicable.
   (D)   General term. A general term following specific enumeration of terms
is not to be limited to the class enumerated unless expressly so limited.
§ 10.07 SEVERABILITY.
   If any provision of this code as now or later amended or its application to
any person or circumstance is held invalid, the invalidity does not affect
other provisions that can be given effect without the invalid provision or
application.
§ 10.08 REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   Whenever a section refers to another section hereof, that reference shall
extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently amended, revised,
recodified, or renumbered unless the subject matter is materially altered by
the amendment or revision.
§ 10.09 REFERENCE TO OFFICES.
   Reference to a public office or officer shall be deemed to apply to any
office, officer, or employee of this city exercising the powers, duties, or
functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any transfer of
functions or change in the official title of the functionary.
§ 10.10 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error is discovered, consisting of the misspelling of any
words; the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention of
the provisions affected; the use of a word or words to which no meaning can be
attached; or the use of a word or words when another word or words was clearly
intended to express the intent, the spelling shall be corrected and the word or
words supplied, omitted, or substituted as will conform with the manifest
intention, and the provisions shall have the same effect as though the correct
words were contained in the text as originally published. No alteration shall
be made or permitted if any question exists regarding the nature or extent of
the error.
§ 10.11 OFFICIAL TIME.
   The official time, as established by applicable state/federal laws, shall be
the official time within this city for the transaction of all city business.
§ 10.12 REASONABLE TIME.
   (A)   In all cases where an ordinance requires an act to be done in a
reasonable time or requires reasonable notice to be given, REASONABLE TIME OR
NOTICE shall be deemed to mean the time which is necessary for a prompt
performance of the act or the giving of the notice.
   (B)   The time within which an act is to be done, as herein provided, shall
be computed by excluding the first day and including the last. If the last day
is Sunday, it shall be excluded.
§ 10.13 ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   This code contains all of the provisions of a general nature pertaining to
the subjects enumerated and embraced in this code. All prior ordinances
pertaining to the subjects treated by this code are repealed, except that
nothing shall affect any rights acquired under, actions involving, or fines,
penalties, forfeitures, or liabilities incurred pursuant to those ordinances
prior to repeal.
§ 10.14 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not embraced in this code, including ordinances
specified in this section, shall remain in full force and effect unless
repealed expressly or by necessary implication:
   (A)   Vacating or setting the boundaries of streets, alleys, or other public
places;
   (B)   Annexing or detaching territory;
   (C)   Granting or accepting easements, plats, or dedication of land to
public use;
   (D)   Providing for the acquisition or conveyance of real or personal
property;
   (E)   Authorizing or directing public improvements to be made;
   (F)   Levying taxes or special assessments;
   (G)   Appropriating money;
   (H)   Granting franchises or special licenses; or
   (I)   Providing for the issuance of bonds or other instruments of
indebtedness.
§ 10.15 REPEAL OR MODIFICATION OF ORDINANCE.
   (A)   Whenever any ordinance or part of an ordinance is repealed or modified
by a subsequent ordinance, the ordinance or part of an ordinance thus repealed
or modified shall continue in force until the publication of the ordinance
repealing or modifying it to give effect thereto.
   (B)   No suit, proceedings, right, liability, fine, forfeiture, or penalty
instituted, created, given, secured, or accrued under any ordinance previous to
its repeal shall in any way be affected, released, or discharged, but may be
prosecuted, enjoyed, and recovered as fully as if the ordinance had continued
in force, unless it is otherwise expressly provided.
   (C)   When any ordinance repealing a former ordinance, clause, or provision
is itself repealed, the repeal shall not be construed to revive the former
ordinance, clause, or provision, unless it is expressly provided.
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-614
§ 10.16 SECTION HISTORIES; STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   A statutory cite included in the history indicates that the text of
the section reads substantially the same as the statute. Example: (Neb. RS 18-
132)
   (B)   A statutory cite set forth as a “statutory reference” following the
text of the section indicates that the reader should refer to that statute for
further information. Example:
      § 39.01 PUBLIC RECORDS AVAILABLE.
      This municipality shall make available to any person for inspection or
      copying all public records, unless otherwise exempted by state law.
      Statutory reference:
         Inspection of public records, see Neb. RS 84-712 et seq.
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who violates any of the provisions of this city code,
unless otherwise specifically provided herein, shall be deemed guilty of an
offense and, upon conviction thereof, shall be fined in any sum not exceeding
$500. A new violation shall be deemed to have been committed every 24 hours of
failure to comply with the provisions of this code.
   (B)   (1)   Whenever a nuisance exists as defined in Title IX of this code,
the city may proceed by a suit in equity to enjoin and abate the same, in the
manner provided by law.
      (2)   Whenever, in any action, it is established that a nuisance exists,
the court may, together with the fine or penalty imposed, enter an order of
abatement as a part of the judgment in the case.
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-505, 18-1720, 18-1722
CHAPTER 11: CITY STANDARDS
Section
   
11.01   Municipal limits defined
   
11.02   Original plats
   
11.03   Corporate seal
   
11.04   Corporate limits
§ 11.01 MUNICIPAL LIMITS DEFINED.
   All additions, lots, lands, subdivisions, and parcels of ground included
within the official municipal map, and plat on file at the office of the County
Register of Deeds, having been by act or ordinance of the governing body or by
law duly annexed to or made a part of this municipality, or having been by the
act, authority, acquiescence, consent, platting, and dedication of their
respective owners, created either as the original town site or as additions to
the municipality are hereby declared to be within the corporate limits of the
municipality. Lawfully constituted additions or changes in said municipal
limits shall be indicated upon said maps and plat by the Municipal Engineer
after such addition or change has been completed in accordance with the
ordinances of this municipality and the laws of the state.
(Prior Code, § 11-101)
§ 11.02 ORIGINAL PLATS.
   Each and all plats, lots, blocks, additions, subdivisions, outlots, and
parcels of ground included within the corporate limits of the municipality, and
not vacated of record prior to the enactment of this chapter, including the
original plat of the municipality, are hereby accepted, approved, and confirmed
as valid, and each and all of said lots, blocks, additions, subdivisions, and
outlots as heretofore platted and recorded in the office of the County Register
of Deeds, and not heretofore vacated, and all other parcels of ground, included
within said corporate limits, are hereby declared to be within said
municipality and an integral part thereof.
(Prior Code, § 11-102)
§ 11.03 CORPORATE SEAL.
   The official corporate seal of the municipality shall be kept in the office
of the City Clerk, and shall bear the following inscription, “Seal, City of
Benkelman, Dundy County, Nebraska”. The City Clerk shall affix an impression of
the said official seal to all warrants, licenses, permits, ordinances, and all
other official papers issued by order of the governing body and countersigned
by the City Clerk.
(Prior Code, § 1-401)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-502
§ 11.04 CORPORATE LIMITS.
   All the additions, lots, lands, and parcels of land included within the
hereinafter described limits, having been by act or ordinance of the
Chairperson and Board of Trustees of the original City of Benkelman, Nebraska,
or the Mayor and Council of this city, duly annexed to or made a part of such
city, or having by act, authority, consent, platting, and dedication of their
respective owners, created either as the original town site or as additions to
the city, are hereby declared as follows.
   (A)   Original town site. Commencing at the northwest corner of the
southeast quarter of Section 18 Township One, North, of Range 37, west of the
6th P.M., thence due south 200 rods to a point 40 rods south of the southwest
corner of the southeast quarter of said section, thence to a point 200 rods due
east, thence due north 200 rods, thence due west 200 rods to the point of
beginning. (Includes original town, First and Second Addition, Bargees
Addition, and Smith’s Addition.)
   (B)   Addition 1. Commencing at a point 660 feet south of the corner of the
northeast quarter of Section 19, Township One, North, of Range 37, west of the
6th P.M., thence running east 350 feet, thence running south 280 feet, to
intersect north line of public highway, thence along the north line of public
highway, in a southwesterly direction to intersect the quarter section line,
thence north 405 feet to place of beginning. Said last named quarter section
line of said Section 19 being a western boundary line of the city in said
section. (Pierce Villa Addition.)
   (C)   Addition 2. Commencing at the northwest corner of the southwest
quarter of Section 17, Township One, North, of Range 37, west of the 6th P.M.,
thence running east along the quarter section line a distance of 1,331.8 feet,
thence running south at right angles a distance of 1,868.5 feet to intersect
the state highway, thence running in a southwesterly direction along the north
line of said state highway a distance of 1,061 feet to a point in line of the
alley running east of Blocks 26, 31, 40, and 42 in the Second Addition to the
city according to the recorded plat of said Addition, thence running north
along the east line of said alley to a point opposite the northeast corner of
Lot 10, Block 26 in the Second Addition to the city according to the recorded
plat thereof, thence running west at right angles to intersect the west line of
said Section 17; thence running north on the west line of said section to the
place of beginning. (Hiddleston’s Addition.)
   (D)   Addition 3. Commencing at the point where the north line of Highway
No. 61 intersects with the half section line running north and south through
Section 19, Township One, North, Range 37, west of the 6th P.M., thence running
north on said half section line a distance of 435.4 feet, thence running due
west at right angles, a distance of 248 feet; thence running due south at right
angles, to intersect with the north line of the right-of-way of said Highway
No. 61, thence in a southeasterly direction along the north line of said right-
of-way to the place of beginning. (Pursley and Behlke Addition.)
   (E)   Addition 4. Commencing at the southwest corner of Block 4 of Outlot
One of the Second Addition to the city, as platted and surveyed, thence west
along the north boundary of Kansas Street of said city to the southwest corner
of the northwest quarter of the southeast quarter of Section 18, Township One,
North, Range 37, west of the 6th P.M., thence north at right angles a distance
of 740 feet, thence east, 1,265 feet to the southwest corner of Block 2, Outlot
One of the Second Addition to the city, thence south along the west line of
said Outlot to the place of beginning.
   (F)   Addition 5. Commencing at a point on the north property line of
Montana Street, in the city, 150 feet east of the west property line of Block
18, Hiddleston Addition, in the city, and at the intersection of said lines,
from thence due north 121.5 feet to the right-of-way of U.S. Highway No. 34 as
the same now exists, thence 136.3 feet in an easterly direction along said
right-of-way at an angle of 91 degrees and 44 minutes to left to a point
directly north of the east line of Hill Street, if extended north, thence due
south along the east line of Hill Street, if extended north, a distance of
565.5 feet to a point where the east line of Hill Street, if extended north,
would intersect with the south line of Idaho Street, if extended east, thence
due west along the south property line of Idaho Street a distance of 240 feet
to the northeast corner of Block 17, Hiddleston Addition, in the city, from
thence due north, at right angles across Idaho Street and along the east
property line of Block 18 of said Hiddleston Addition, a distance of 434 feet
to the place of beginning, being a part of the northwest quarter (NWJ4) of
Section 17, in Township One, North, Range 37, west of the 6th P.M., in the
county.
   (G)   Addition 6. A part of the east half of Section 18, Township One,
North, Range 37, west of the 6th P.M., and more particularly described as
follows: beginning at the center of Section 18; thence east along the South
Line of the southwest quarter of the northeast quarter a distance of 36.8 feet
to a point on the west line of Lot 26, Block 3 of Smith’s Addition; thence
north along the west line of Lot 26 a distance of 34.54 feet to the northwest
corner of Lot 26; thence east along the north line of Lot 26 a distance of 160
feet to the center line of Smith Street extended; thence south along the center
line of Smith Street extended a distance of 40.44 feet; thence east along the
north line of Lot 1, Block 8 of Smith’s Addition a distance of 94 feet to the
northeast corner of Lot 1; thence north along the west line of high school
property a distance of 165 feet to the northwest corner of high school property
thence due west 90 degrees left from previous course, a distance of 290.4 feet
to a point of the west line of the southwest quarter of the northeast quarter
of Section 18; thence due south along the west line of the southwest quarter of
the northeast quarter a distance of 159.24 feet to the point of beginning.
   (H)   Addition 7. A tract of land generally described as “Skyline Addition”
being part of the southeast quarter of the southwest quarter of Section 18,
Township One, North, Range 37, west of the 6th P.M., more particularly
described as follows: refer to the northwest corner of Barger’s Addition to the
city: go thence 20 feet west to the point of beginning; go thence due south 300
feet along the east line of the southeast quarter of the southwest quarter of
Section 18, Township One, North, Range 37, west of the 6th P.M.; go thence due
west along the south line of Block 9, Barger’s Addition extended west, a
distance of 625 feet, more or less, to the east line of Highway No. 34 right-
of-way; go thence 85 degrees 55 minutes right for a distance of 202 feet;
thence continue northerly on a 2,739.79 foot radius curve to the right (initial
tangent of which forms an angle of 2 degrees 19 minutes right from last
described course) a distance of 593.2 feet; go thence northerly, north 15
degrees 25 minutes east, for a distance of 960.9 feet to a point on the north
line of the southwest quarter of Section 18; go thence east along the quarter
section line a distance of 352.7 feet to the center of said Section 18; go
thence south along the east line of the southwest quarter of said Section 18 a
distance of 1,416.3 feet to a point which is 20 feet west of the northwest
corner of Block 9, Barger’s Addition, the point of beginning.
(Prior Code, § 1-501)
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   ORGANIZATION
      
31.   ORDINANCES AND RESOLUTIONS
      
32.   FISCAL MANAGEMENT
      
33.   INITIATIVE AND REFERENDUM
      
34.   FIRE DEPARTMENT
      
35.   POLICE DEPARTMENT
CHAPTER 30: ORGANIZATION
Section
Elected Officials
   
30.001   Elected officials; City Mayor; selection and duties
   
30.002   Acting president
   
30.003   Selection and duties
   
30.004   Organization and qualifications of City Council
   
30.005   Vacancy
   
30.006   Restrictions on other employment or elective office
   
30.007   Vacancy due to unexcused absences
   
30.008   Compensation; municipal officials
   
30.009   Compensation; conflict of interest involving contracts
Appointed Officials
   
30.020   Appointment; removal
   
30.021   Merger of offices
   
30.022   Clerk-Treasurer position created
   
30.023   City Clerk
   
30.024   City Treasurer
   
30.025   Municipal Attorney
   
30.026   Municipal Police Chief
   
30.027   Municipal police officers
   
30.028   Municipal Fire Chief
   
30.029   Municipal Engineer
   
30.030   Special engineer
   
30.031   City Superintendent
   
30.032   Municipal Landfill Superintendent
   
30.033   Bonds and oaths
   
30.034   Oath of office; municipal officials
Meetings
   
30.045   Public meetings
   
30.046   Governing body
   
30.047   Order of business
   
30.048   Change in office
   
30.049   Organizational meetings
   
30.050   Definitions
   
30.051   Closed sessions
   
30.052   Emergency meetings
   
30.053   Public participation
   
30.054   Video conferencing, when allowed
   
30.055   Notice
   
30.056   Telephone conference calls; when allowed
   
30.057   Consent agenda
Elections
   
30.070   General municipal
   
30.071   Council members
   
30.072   Voter qualifications
   
30.073   Election wards
   
30.074   Exit polls
   
30.075   Petition, write-in, and other candidates for general election ballot:
procedures
   
30.076   Recall procedure
   
30.077   Special elections
Commissions and Boards
   
30.090   Standing committees
   
30.091   Planning Commission
   
30.092   Board of Health
   
30.093   Housing Authority Board
   
30.094   Housing Authority; continued existence as housing agency
   
30.095   Housing Authority; operation and management
   
30.096   Housing Authority; rules and regulations
   
30.097   Housing authority; reports
   
30.098   Joint housing authority
   
30.099   Tree Board
   
30.100   Community redevelopment authority
Health and Sanitation
   
30.115   Health regulations
   
30.116   Enforcement official
   
30.117   County Health Board
 
   
30.999   Penalty
ELECTED OFFICIALS
§ 30.001 ELECTED OFFICIALS; CITY MAYOR; SELECTION AND DUTIES.
   The Mayor of the municipality shall have the general and immediate control
over all property, and officials, whether elected or appointed, of the
municipality. He or she shall preside at all meetings of the City Council and
shall have the right to vote only when his or her vote shall be decisive on any
pending matter. His or her signature shall appear on the City Clerk’s minutes
of all meetings, and he or she must sign all resolutions which have been
passed, and warrants for the payment of money when ordered by the City Council.
He or she shall have the power to veto or sign any ordinance passed by the City
Council; provided, any ordinance vetoed by the Mayor may be passed over his or
her veto by a two- thirds vote by the members of the City Council. If the Mayor
neglects or refuses to sign any ordinance and returns it to the Council with
his or her objections in writing at the next regular Council meeting, the same
shall become a law without his or her signature. He or she shall from time to
time communicate to the Council such information and recommendations as, in his
or her opinion, may improve the municipality. He or she may require at
reasonable intervals any municipal official to exhibit his or her accounts and
make reports to the Council on any subject pertaining to his or her office. He
or she shall have the power to remit fines or pardon any offense arising under
the ordinances of the municipality. He or she may remove at any time an
appointed police officer of the municipality. His or her territorial authority
shall extend over all places within five miles of the corporate limits of the
municipality for the enforcement of any health ordinance, and one-half mile in
all matters vested in him or her except taxation. He or she shall also have
such other duties as the City Council may by resolution confer upon him or her,
or in any other matters which the laws of the state repose in him or her. He or
she shall be elected at the municipal election, and shall serve a four-year
term of office. The Mayor shall be a resident and registered voter of the
municipality.
(Prior Code, § 1-101) (Ord. 558, passed 1-21-1991)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-108.02, 17-110 through 17-117
§ 30.002 ACTING PRESIDENT.
   The City Council shall elect one of its own body each year who shall be
styled the President of the Council, and who shall preside at all meetings of
the City Council in the absence of the Mayor. In the absence of the Mayor and
the President of the Council, the City Council shall elect one of its own body
to occupy his or her place temporarily, who shall be styled Acting President of
the Council. Both the President of the Council and the Acting President of the
Council, when occupying the position of the Mayor, shall have the same
privileges as the other members of the City Council, and all acts of the
President of the Council or Acting President of the Council, while so acting,
shall be as binding upon the City Council and upon the municipality as if done
by the elected Mayor.
(Prior Code, § 1-102)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-148
§ 30.003 SELECTION AND DUTIES.
   The members of the City Council shall be elected and serve for a four-year
term. The City Council shall be the legislative division of the municipal
government, and shall perform such duties and have such powers as may be
authorized by law. The City Council shall maintain the peace, regulate
business, protect the public health and safety, and assess such taxes and fees
as are necessary and appropriate in the exercise of these functions.
(Prior Code, § 1-103)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-103, 17-104
§ 30.004 ORGANIZATION AND QUALIFICATIONS OF CITY COUNCIL.
   City Council members of this municipality shall take office and commence
their duties on the first regular meeting in December following their election.
The newly elected Council members who have qualified as prescribed by law,
together with the members of the City Council holding over, shall assemble in a
regular meeting at the hour and place hereinafter prescribed and perfect the
reorganization of the City Council as herein provided, and all appointive
offices in which the terms of incumbents are expired shall be filled by
appointment. After the said meeting has been called to order, the City Clerk
shall report to the City Council the names of all City Council members-elect
who have qualified for their respective offices, and this report shall be
spread upon the minutes of the meeting preceding the roll call. Each ward of
the municipality shall be represented by at least two Council members. No
person shall be eligible to be elected unless he or she is a registered voter
of the city and an actual resident of the ward for which he or she is
qualified, and should any City Council member move from the ward from which he
or she was elected, his or her office shall thereby become vacant.
(Prior Code, § 1-104) (Ord. 559, passed 1-21-1991)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-104
§ 30.005 VACANCY.
   (A)   Every elective office shall be vacant upon the happening of any of the
events specified in Neb. RS 32-560 except as provided in Neb. RS 32-561.
(Neb. RS 32-560)
   (B)   In the case of any vacancy in the office of Mayor, or in case of his
or her disability or absence, the President of the Council shall exercise the
office of Mayor for the unexpired term until such vacancy is filled or such
disability is removed, or in case of temporary absence, until the Mayor
returns. If the President of the Council assumes the office of Mayor for the
unexpired term, there shall be a vacancy on the Council.
(Neb. RS 32-568(4))
   (C)   (1)   Except as otherwise provided in divisions (B), (D), or (E) of
this section, vacancies in city elected offices shall be filled by the Mayor
and City Council for the balance of the unexpired term. Notice of a vacancy,
except a vacancy resulting from the death of the incumbent, shall be in writing
and presented to the Council at a regular or special meeting and shall appear
as a part of the minutes of such meeting. The Council shall at once give public
notice of the vacancy by causing to be published in a newspaper of general
circulation within the city or by posting in three public places in the city
the office vacated and the length of the unexpired term.
      (2)   The Mayor shall, within four weeks after the meeting at which such
notice of vacancy has been presented or upon the death of the incumbent, call a
special meeting of the Council or place the issue of filling such vacancy on
the agenda at the next regular meeting, at which time the Mayor shall submit
the name of a qualified registered voter to fill the vacancy for the balance of
the unexpired term. The Council shall vote upon such nominee, and if a majority
votes in favor of such nominee, the vacancy shall be declared filled. If the
nominee fails to receive a majority of the votes, the nomination shall be
rejected and the Mayor shall, at the next regular or special meeting, submit
the name of another qualified registered voter to fill the vacancy. If the
subsequent nominee fails to receive a majority of the votes, the Mayor shall
continue at such meeting to submit the names of qualified registered voters in
nomination and the Council shall continue to vote upon such nominations until
the vacancy is filled. The Mayor shall cast his or her vote for or against the
nominee in the case of a tie vote of the Council. All Council members present
shall cast a ballot for or against the nominee. Any member of the Council who
has been appointed to fill a vacancy on the Council shall have the same rights,
including voting, as if such person were elected.
   (D)   The Mayor and Council may, in lieu of filling a vacancy in a city
elected office as provided in division (C) above, call a special city election
to fill such vacancy.
   (E)   If vacancies exist in the offices of a majority of the members of the
City Council, the Secretary of State shall conduct a special city election to
fill such vacancies.
(Neb. RS 32-569)
(Prior Code, § 1-105) (Ord. 562, passed 1- -1991; Ord. 697, passed 6-17-2002)
§ 30.006 RESTRICTIONS ON OTHER EMPLOYMENT OR ELECTIVE OFFICE.
   (A)   The Mayor and members of the Council shall hold no other elective or
appointive office or employment with the city.
   (B)   For purposes of this section, ELECTIVE OFFICE means any office which
has candidates nominated or elected at the time of a state-wide primary
election, any office which has candidates nominated at the time of a state-wide
primary election and elected at the time of a state-wide general election, any
office which has candidates elected at the time of a state-wide general
election, any office which has candidates nominated or elected at a city or
village election, and any office created by an act of the legislature which has
candidates elected at an election and includes an office which is filled at an
election held in conjunction with the annual meeting of a public body created
by an act of the legislature. HIGH ELECTIVE OFFICE means a member of the
legislature, an elective office described in Article IV, §§ 1 or 20, or Article
VII, §§ 3 or 10, of the Constitution of Nebraska, or a county, city, or school
district elective office.
   (C)   No candidate for member of the legislature or an elective office
described in Article IV, §§ 1 or 20, or Article VII, §§ 3 or 10, of the
Constitution of Nebraska shall be eligible to file as a candidate, to petition
on the ballot as a candidate, to accept a nomination by a political party or by
party convention, caucus, or committee to fill a vacancy, or to be a declared
write-in candidate for more than one elective office to be filled at the same
election except for the position of delegate to a county, state, or national
political party convention. No candidate for any other high elective office
shall be eligible to file as a candidate, to petition on the ballot as a
candidate, to accept a nomination by a political party or by party convention,
caucus, or committee to fill a vacancy, or to be declared a write-in candidate
for more than one high elective office to be filled at the same election.
   (D)   Except as provided in division (E) or (G) below, no person shall be
precluded from being elected or appointed to or holding an elective office for
the reason that he or she has been elected or appointed to or holds another
elective office.
   (E)   No person serving as a member of the legislature or in an elective
office described in Article IV, §§ 1 or 20, or Article VII, §§ 3 or 10, of the
Constitution of Nebraska shall simultaneously serve in any other elective
office, except that such a person may simultaneously serve in another elective
office which is filled at an election held in conjunction with the annual
meeting of a public body.
   (F)   Whenever an incumbent serving as a member of the legislature or in an
elective office described in Article IV, §§ 1 or 20, or Article VII, §§ 3 or
10, of the Constitution of Nebraska assumes another elective office, except an
elective office filled at an election held in conjunction with the annual
meeting of a public body, the office first held by the incumbent shall be
deemed vacant.
   (G)   No person serving in a high elective office shall simultaneously serve
in any other high elective office.
   (H)   Notwithstanding divisions (E) through (G) above, any person holding
more than one high elective office upon September 13, 1997, shall be entitled
to serve the remainder of all terms for which he or she was elected or
appointed.
(Prior Code, § 1-107) (Ord. 560, passed 1-21-1991; Ord. 649, passed 7-20-1998)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-108.02, 32-109, 32-603, 32-604
§ 30.007 VACANCY DUE TO UNEXCUSED ABSENCES.
   (A)   In addition to the events listed in Neb. RS 32-560 and any other
reasons for a vacancy provided by law, after notice and a hearing, a vacancy on
the City Council shall exist if a member is absent from more than five
consecutive regular meetings of the Council unless the absences are excused by
a majority vote of the remaining members.
(Neb. RS 19-3101)
   (B)   The City Council shall take a vote on whether to excuse a member’s
absence from a meeting upon either:
      (1)   A written request from the member submitted to the City Clerk; or
      (2)   A motion of any other Council member.
   (C)   If a Council member has been absent from six consecutive regular
meetings and none of the absences have been excused by a majority vote of the
remaining members, the City Clerk shall include this as an item on the agenda
for the next regular meeting. At that meeting, the Council shall set a date for
a hearing and direct the City Clerk to give the member notice of the hearing by
personal service or first-class mail to the member’s last-known address.
   (D)   At the hearing, the Council member shall have the right to present
information on why one or more of the absences should be excused. If the
Council does not excuse one or more of the member’s absences by a majority vote
at the conclusion of the hearing, there shall be a vacancy on the Council.
(Prior Code, § 1-108) (Ord. 713, passed 1-19-2004)
§ 30.008 COMPENSATION; MUNICIPAL OFFICIALS.
   The compensation of any elective official of the municipality shall not be
increased or diminished during the term for which he or she shall have been
elected except when there has been a merger of offices; provided, the
compensation of the members of the governing body, a board, or commission may
be increased or diminished at the beginning of the full term of any member
whether or not the terms of one or more members commence and end at different
times. No elected official may be rehired at a greater salary if he or she
resigns and desires to be rehired during the unexpired term of office. He or
she may be rehired after the term of office during which he or she resigned at
a greater salary. All salaries shall be set by ordinance of the governing body
and will be available for public inspection at the office of the City Clerk.
(Prior Code, § 1-1001)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-108.02, 17-209.02, 17-612
§ 30.009 COMPENSATION; CONFLICT OF INTEREST INVOLVING CONTRACTS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      BUSINESS ASSOCIATION. 
         (a)   A business:
            1.   In which the individual is a partner, limited liability
company member, director, or officer; or
            2.   In which the individual or a member of the individual’s
immediate family is a stockholder of closed corporation stock worth $1,000 or
more at fair market value or which represents more than a 5% equity interest or
is a stockholder of publicly traded stock worth $10,000 or more at fair market
value or which represents more than 10% equity interest.
         (b)   An individual who occupies a confidential professional
relationship protected by law shall be exempt from this definition. This
definition shall not apply to publicly traded stock under a trading account if
the filer reports the name and address of the stockbroker.
(Neb. RS 49-1408)
      IMMEDIATE FAMILY. A child residing in an individual’s household, a spouse
of an individual, or an individual claimed by that individual or that
individual’s spouse as a dependent for federal income tax purposes.
(Neb. RS 49-1425)
      OFFICER.
         (a)   Includes:
            1.   A member of any board or commission of the municipality which
spends and administers its own funds, who is dealing with a contract made by
such board or commission; or
            2.   Any elected municipal official.
         (b)   OFFICER does not mean volunteer firefighters or ambulance
drivers with respect to their duties as firefighters or ambulance drivers.
   (B)   (1)   Except as provided in Neb. RS 49-1499.04 or 70-624.04, no
officer may have an interest in any contract to which his or her governing
body, or anyone for its benefit, is a party. The existence of such an interest
in any contract shall render the contract voidable by decree of a court of
competent jurisdiction as to any person who entered into the contract or took
assignment of such contract with actual knowledge of the prohibited conflict.
An action to have a contract declared void under this section may be brought by
the County Attorney, the governing body, or any resident within the
jurisdiction of the governing body, and shall be brought within one year after
the contract is signed or assigned. The decree may provide for the
reimbursement of any person for the reasonable value of all money, goods,
material, labor, or services furnished under the contract, to the extent that
the governing body has benefitted thereby.
      (2)   The prohibition in this division (B) shall apply only when the
officer or his or her parent, spouse, or child:
         (a)   Has a business association with the business involved in the
contract; or
         (b)   Will receive a direct pecuniary fee or commission as a result of
the contract.
   (C)   Division (B) above does not apply if the contract is an agenda item
approved at a meeting of the governing body and the interested officer:
      (1)   Makes a declaration on the record to the governing body responsible
for approving the contract regarding the nature and extent of his or her
interest prior to official consideration of the contract;
      (2)   Does not vote on the matters of granting the contract, making
payments pursuant to the contract, or accepting performance of work under the
contract, or similar matters relating to the contract, except that if the
number of members of the governing body declaring an interest in the contract
would prevent the body with all members present from securing a quorum on the
issue, then all members may vote on the matters; and
      (3)   Does not act for the governing body which is a party to the
contract as to inspection or performance under the contract in which he or she
has an interest.
   (D)   An officer who:
      (1)   Has no business association with the business involved in the
contract; or
      (2)   Will not receive a direct pecuniary fee or commission as a result
of the contract shall not be deemed to have an interest within the meaning of
this section.
   (E)   The receiving of deposits, cashing of checks, and buying and selling
of warrants and bonds of indebtedness of any such governing body by a financial
institution shall not be considered a contract for purposes of this section.
The ownership of less than 5% of the outstanding shares of a corporation shall
not constitute an interest within the meaning of this section.
   (F)   If an officer’s parent, spouse, or child is an employee of the
officer’s governing body, the officer may vote on all issues of the contract
which are generally applicable to:
      (1)   All employees; or
      (2)   All employees within a classification and do not single out his or
her parent, spouse, or child for special action.
   (G)   Neb. RS 49-14,102 shall not apply to contracts covered by this
section.
(Neb. RS 49-14,103.01)
   (H)   (1)   The person charged with keeping records for the governing body
shall maintain separately from other records a ledger containing the
information listed in divisions (H)(1)(a) through (H)(1)(e) below about every
contract entered into by the governing body in which an officer of the body has
an interest and for which disclosure is made pursuant to division (C) above.
Such information shall be kept in the ledger for five years from the date of
the officer’s last day in office and shall include the:
         (a)   Names of the contracting parties;
         (b)   Nature of the interest of the officer in question;
         (c)   Date that the contract was approved by the governing body;
         (d)   Amount of the contract; and
         (e)   Basic terms of the contract.
      (2)   The information supplied relative to the contract shall be provided
no later than ten days after the contract has been signed by both parties. The
ledger kept pursuant to this division (H) shall be available for public
inspection during the normal working hours of the office in which it is kept.
(Neb. RS 49-14,103.02)
   (I)   An open account established for the benefit of any governing body with
a business in which an officer has an interest shall be deemed a contract
subject to this section. The statement required to be filed by division (H)
above shall be filed within ten days after such account is opened. Thereafter,
the person charged with keeping records for the governing body shall maintain a
running account of amounts purchased on the open account. Purchases made from
petty cash or a petty cash fund shall not be subject to this section. (Ref 49-
14,103.03)
   (J)   Notwithstanding divisions (A) through (I) above, the governing body
may prohibit contracts over a specific dollar amount in which an officer of the
governing body may have an interest.
(Neb. RS 49-14,103.05)
   (K)   The governing body may exempt from divisions (A) through (I) above,
contracts involving $100 or less in which an officer of such body may have an
interest.
(Neb. RS 49-14,103.06)
(Prior Code, § 1-1002) (Ord. 469, passed 8-16-1982; Ord. 505, passed 12-19-
1983; Ord. 702, passed 10-21-2002)
APPOINTED OFFICIALS
§ 30.020 APPOINTMENT; REMOVAL.
   (A)   The Mayor, with the consent of the City Council, may appoint such
officers as shall be required by ordinance or otherwise required by law. The
Mayor, by and with the consent of the City Council, shall appoint such a number
of regular police officers as may be necessary. The City Council may establish
and provide for the appointment of members of a law enforcement reserve force
as provided by law.
   (B)   All police officers and other appointed officials may be removed at
any time by the Mayor, except that if the municipality has a Municipal Water
Commissioner, he or she may at any time, for sufficient cause, be removed from
office by a two-thirds vote of the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 1-201)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-107, 17-541, 81-1438
§ 30.021 MERGER OF OFFICES.
   The governing body of the municipality may, in its discretion, by ordinance
combine and merge any elective or appointive office, or employment, except the
Mayor or a City Council member with any other elective or appointive office so
that one or more of such offices may be held by the officer or employee at the
same time; provided, the offices so merged, and combined shall always be
construed to be separate, and the effect of the combination or merger shall be
limited to a consolidation of official duties only; and provided further, the
salary of the officer holding the merged offices shall not be in excess of the
maximum amount provided by law for the salary of the offices so combined.
(Prior Code, § 1-202)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-108.02
§ 30.022 CLERK-TREASURER POSITION CREATED.
   (A)   The appointive offices of City Clerk and City Treasurer are hereby
combined and merged, in accordance with authority granted to the City Council
by §
30.021.
   (B)   The offices so merged and combined shall always be construed to be
separate, and the effect of the combination or merger shall be limited to a
consolidation of official duties only.
   (C)   The salary of the officer holding the merged offices shall not be in
excess of the maximum amount provided by law for the salary of the offices so
combined.
(Prior Code, § 1-203)
§ 30.023 CITY CLERK.
   (A)   The City Clerk shall attend the meetings of the governing body and
keep a correct journal of the proceedings of that body. He or she shall keep a
record of all outstanding bonds against the municipality and when any bonds are
sold, purchased, paid, or canceled, said record shall show the fact. He or she
shall make, at the end of the fiscal year, a report of the business of the
municipality transacted through his or her office for the year. That record
shall describe particularly the bonds issued and sold during the year, and the
terms of the sale with each and every item, and expense thereof. He or she
shall file all official bonds after the same shall have been properly executed
and approved. He or she shall make the proper certificate of passage which
shall be attached to original copies of all bond ordinances hereafter enacted
by the governing body.
   (B)   The City Clerk shall issue, and sign all licenses, permits, and
occupation tax receipts authorized by law, and required by the municipal
ordinances. He or she shall collect all occupation taxes and license money
except where some other municipal officer is specifically charged with that
duty. He or she shall keep a register of all licenses granted in the
municipality and the purpose for which they have been issued.
   (C)   The City Clerk shall permit no records, public papers, or other
documents of the municipality kept and preserved in his or her office to be
taken therefrom, except by such officers of the municipality as may be entitled
to the use of the same, but only upon their leaving a receipt therefor. He or
she shall keep all the records of his or her office, including a record of all
licenses issued by him or her in a blank book with a proper index. He or she
shall include as part of his or her records all petitions under which the
governing body shall order public work to be done at the expense of the
property fronting thereon, together with references to all resolutions and
ordinances relating to the same. He or she shall endorse the date and hour of
filing upon every paper or document so filed in his or her office. All such
filings made by him or her shall be properly docketed. Included in his or her
records shall be all standard codes, amendments thereto, and other documents
incorporated by reference, and arranged in triplicate in a manner convenient
for reference. He or she shall keep and preserve the proceedings of the
governing body in two separate and distinct record books. The minute records
shall contain a record of all the miscellaneous and informal doings of the
governing body. The minute record shall not include the passage and approval of
ordinances, except such resolutions incorporating by reference, the ordinance
record into the minute record. The ordinance record shall contain the formal
proceedings of the governing body in the matter of passing, approving,
publishing, posting, and certifying of ordinances. After the formalities for
the legal enactment of an ordinance have been completed, the City Clerk shall
record and spread at large in the ordinance record his or her ordinance minutes
on printed forms. In all cases hereafter where single ordinances are introduced
for the consideration of the governing body, the City Clerk shall cause to be
introduced an appropriate resolution incorporating by reference the ordinance
record into the minute record. He or she shall keep an accurate and complete
account of the appropriation of the several funds, draw, sign, and attest all
warrants ordered for the payment of money on the particular fund from which the
same is payable. At the end of each month, he or she shall then make a report
of the amounts appropriated to the various funds, and the amount of the
warrants drawn thereon. Nothing herein shall be construed to prevent any
citizen, official, or other person from examining any public records at all
reasonable times.
   (D)   The City Clerk shall deliver all warrants, ordinances, and resolutions
under his or her charge to the Mayor for his or her signature. He or she shall
also deliver to officers, employees, and committees all resolutions and
communications which are directed at said officers, employees, or committees.
With the seal of the municipality, he or she shall duly attest the Mayor’s
signature to all ordinances, deeds, and papers required to be attested to when
ordered to do so by the governing body. Within 30 days after any meeting of the
governing body, unless otherwise directed, the City Clerk shall prepare and
publish the substance of the proceedings in a legal newspaper of general
circulation in the municipality, and which was duly designated as such by the
governing body; provided, the charge for such publication shall not exceed the
rates provided by the statutes of the state. Said publication shall be charged
against the General Fund. He or she shall then keep in a book with a proper
index, copies of all notices required to be published or posted by the City
Clerk by order of the governing body, or under the ordinances of the
municipality. To each of the file copies of said notices shall be attached the
printer’s affidavit of publication, if the said notices are required to be
published, or the City Clerk’s certificate under seal where the same are
required to be posted only.
   (E)   The City Clerk shall receive all objections to creation of paving
districts, and other street improvements. He or she shall receive the claims of
any person against the municipality, and in the event that the said claim is
disallowed in part or in whole, the City Clerk shall notify such claimant, his
or her agent, or attorney by letter within five days after such disallowance,
and the City Clerk shall then prepare transcripts on appeals of any
disallowance of a claim in all proper cases.
   (F)   The City Clerk may charge a reasonable fee for certified copies of any
record in his or her office as set by resolution of the governing body. He or
she shall destroy municipal records under the direction of the State Records
Board pursuant to Neb. RS §§ 84-1201 through 84-1220; provided, the governing
body shall not have the authority to destroy the minutes of the City Clerk, the
permanent ordinances and resolution books, or any other records classified as
permanent by the State Records Board.
(Prior Code, § 1-204)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-605, 19-1102, 19-1104, 84-712, 84-1201
through 84-1220
§ 30.024 CITY TREASURER.
   (A)   The City Treasurer shall be the custodian of all money belonging to
the city. He or she shall keep a separate account of each fund or appropriation
and the debts and credits belonging thereto. He or she shall give every person
paying money into the treasury a receipt therefor, specifying the date of
payment and on what account paid. He or she shall also file copies of such
receipts with his or her monthly reports. The City Treasurer shall, at the end
of every month, and as often as may be required, render an account to the City
Council, under oath, showing the state of the treasury at the date of such
account and the balance of money in the treasury. He or she shall also
accompany such accounts with a statement of all receipts and disbursements,
together with all warrants redeemed and paid by him or her, which warrants,
with any and all vouchers held by him or her, shall be filed with his or her
account in the City Clerk’s office. If the City Treasurer neglects or fails,
for the space of ten days from the end of each month, to render his or her
account, the office shall be declared vacant and the City Council shall fill
the vacancy by appointment until the next election for municipal officers.
(Neb. RS 17-606)
   (B)   (1)   All warrants upon the City Treasurer shall be paid in the order
of their presentation therefor and as otherwise provided in Neb. RS 77-2201
through 77-2215.
(Neb. RS 77-2201)
      (2)   The City Treasurer shall keep a warrant register in the form
required by Neb. RS 77-2202.
      (3)   The City Treasurer shall make duplicate receipts for all sums which
shall be paid into his or her office, which receipts shall show the source from
which such funds are derived, and shall, by distinct lines and columns, show
the amount received to the credit of each separate fund, and whether the same
was paid in cash, in warrants, or otherwise. The Treasurer shall deliver one of
the duplicates to the person making the payment and retain the other in his or
her office.
(Neb. RS 77-2209)
      (4)   The City Treasurer shall daily, as money is received, foot the
several columns of the cash book and of the register, and carry the amounts
forward, and at the close of each year, in case the amount of money received by
the Treasurer is insufficient to pay the warrants registered, he or she shall
close the account for that year in the register and shall carry forward the
excess.
(Neb. RS 77-2210)
   (C)   (1)   The City Treasurer shall prepare and publish annually within 60
days following the close of the municipal fiscal year a statement of the
receipts and expenditures by funds of the city for the preceding fiscal year.
(Neb. RS 19-1101)
      (2)   Publication shall be made in one legal newspaper of general
circulation in the city. If no legal newspaper is published in the city, then
such publication shall be made in one legal newspaper published or of general
circulation within the county in which the city is located.
(Neb. RS 19-1103)
   (D)   The City Treasurer shall keep all money belonging to the city separate
and distinct from his or her own money. He or she shall invest and collect all
money owned by or owed to the city as directed by the City Council. He or she
shall maintain depository evidence that all municipal money is, in the name of
the city, in a solvent and going financial institution of a type authorized by
state law for deposit of municipal funds. He or she shall cancel all bonds,
coupons, warrants, and other evidences of debt against the city, whenever paid
by him or her, by writing or stamping on the face thereof, “Paid by the City
Treasurer”, with the date of payment written or stamped thereon. He or she
shall collect all special taxes, allocate special assessments to the several
owners, and obtain from the County Treasurer a monthly report as to the
collection of delinquent taxes.
(Prior Code, § 1-205) (Ord. 698, passed 6-17-2002)
§ 30.025 MUNICIPAL ATTORNEY.
   The Municipal Attorney is the municipality’s legal advisor, and as such he
or she shall commence, prosecute, and defend all suits on behalf of the
municipality. When requested by the governing body, he or she shall attend
meetings of the governing body, and shall advise any municipal official in all
matters of law in which the interests of the municipality may be involved. He
or she shall draft such ordinances, bonds, contracts, and other writings as may
be required in the administration of the affairs of the municipality. He or she
shall examine all bonds, contracts, and documents on which the governing body
will be required to act, and attach thereto a brief statement in writing to all
such instruments and documents as to whether, or not, the document is in legal,
and proper form. He or she shall prepare complaints, attend, and prosecute
violations of the municipal ordinances when directed to do so by the governing
body. Without direction, he or she shall appear and prosecute all cases for
violation of the municipal ordinances that have been appealed to, and are
pending in any higher court. He or she shall also examine, when requested to do
so by the governing body, the ordinance records and advise and assist the City
Clerk as much as may be necessary to the end that each procedural step will be
taken in the passage of each ordinance to ensure that they will be valid, and
subsisting local laws in so far as their passage and approval are concerned.
The governing body shall have the right to compensate the Municipal Attorney
for legal services on such terms as the governing body and the Municipal
Attorney may agree, and to employ any additional legal assistance as may be
necessary out of the funds of the municipality.
(Prior Code, § 1-208)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-610
§ 30.026 MUNICIPAL POLICE CHIEF.
   The Municipal Police Chief shall direct the police work of the municipality
and shall be responsible for the maintenance of law and order. He or she shall
act as Health Inspector and Building Inspector, except in the event the
municipality appoints another person. He or she shall file the necessary
complaints in cases arising out of violations of municipal ordinances, and
shall make all necessary reports required by the municipal ordinances or the
laws of the state.
(Prior Code, § 1-209)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-107, 17-121
§ 30.027 MUNICIPAL POLICE OFFICERS.
   The municipal police, whether regular or special, shall have the power to
arrest all offenders against the laws of the state or the municipality, by day
or by night, and keep the said offenders in the municipal jail or some other
place to prevent their escape until trial can be held before the proper
official of the state, or the municipality. They shall have full power and
authority to call on any person whenever necessary to assist them in performing
public duties, and failure, neglect, or refusal to render such assistance shall
be deemed a misdemeanor punishable upon conviction by a fine. Every municipal
police officer shall be expected to be conversant and knowledgeable with the
municipal and state laws and no law enforcement official shall have any
interest in any establishment having a liquor license. Municipal police
officers shall have the duty to file such complaints and reports as may be
required by the municipal ordinances and the laws of the state. Any municipal
police officer who shall willfully fail, neglect, or refuse to make an arrest,
or who purposely and willfully fails to make a complaint after an arrest is
made, shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction shall be
fined. It shall be unlawful for the governing body to retain any municipal
police officer in that position after he or she shall have been duly convicted
of the willful violation of any law of the United States of America, the state,
or any ordinance of the municipality, except minor traffic violations. It shall
be the duty of every municipal police officer making a lawful arrest to search
all persons in the presence of some other person, whenever possible, and shall
carefully keep and produce to the proper judicial official upon the trial
everything found upon the person of such prisoners. All personal effects so
taken from prisoners aforesaid shall be restored to them upon their release.
Suitable uniforms and badges shall be furnished to the municipal police by the
municipality. Any member who shall lose or destroy the same shall be required
to pay the replacement costs, and in the event that any member shall leave the
force, he or she shall immediately deliver his or her badge to the Police
Chief. The governing body may from time to time provide the municipal police
with such uniforms, equipment, and transportation as may be essential in the
performance of their official duties.
(Prior Code, § 1-210)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-118, 17-124
§ 30.028 MUNICIPAL FIRE CHIEF.
   The Municipal Fire Chief shall be elected by the members of the Fire
Department. He or she shall enforce all laws and ordinances covering the
prevention of fires; the storage and use of explosives and flammable
substances; the installation of fire alarm systems; the maintenance of fire
extinguishing equipment; the regulation of fire escapes; and the inspection of
all premises requiring adequate fire escapes. He or she shall within two days
investigate the cause, origin, and circumstances of fires arising within his or
her jurisdiction. He or she shall, on or before April 1 and October 1 of each
year, cause the Secretary to file with the City Clerk and the Clerk of the
District Court a certified copy of the rolls of all members in good standing in
their respective companies in order to obtain the exemptions provided by law.
He or she shall have the power during the time of a fire, and for a period of
36 hours thereafter, to arrest any suspected arsonist or any person for
hindering the Department’s efforts, conducting himself or herself in a noisy
and disorderly manner, or who shall refuse to obey any lawful order by the Fire
Chief or Assistant Fire Chief. The Fire Chief or his or her assistant in charge
of operations at a fire may command the services of any person present at any
fire in extinguishing the same or in the removal and protection of property.
Failure to obey such an order shall be a misdemeanor punishable by a fine. The
Fire Chief shall have the right to enter at all reasonable hours into
buildings, and upon all premises within his or her jurisdiction for the purpose
of examining the same for fire hazards and related dangers.
(Prior Code, § 1-211)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-147, 17-505, 35-102, 35-108, 81-506, 81-
512
§ 30.029 MUNICIPAL ENGINEER.
   The Municipal Engineer shall make all surveys, estimates, and calculations
necessary to be made for the establishment of any public utilities, and the
costs of labor and materials therefor. He or she shall accurately make all
plats, sections, and maps as may be necessary under the direction of the
governing body. Upon request, he or she shall estimate the costs of labor and
material, and make all surveys, estimates, and calculations necessary for the
establishment of grades, bridges, or culverts and for the building,
constructing, or repairing of any public improvement of the municipality. Upon
the request of the governing body, he or she shall inspect all works of public
improvement, and if found to be properly done, shall accept the same and report
his or her acceptance to the governing body. He or she shall estimate the cost
of all proposed municipal utilities and public improvements, together with any
extensions thereof, which the governing body may propose to construct or
improve. He or she shall also perform such other duties in the line of his or
her work as may be requested by the governing body.
(Prior Code, § 1-212)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-150, 17-568, 17-919, 18-3301
§ 30.030 SPECIAL ENGINEER.
   The governing body may employ a special engineer to make or assist the
Municipal Engineer in making any particular estimate, survey, or other work.
The special engineer shall make a record of the minutes of his or her surveys
and all other work done for the municipality. He or she shall, when directed by
the governing body, accurately make all plats, sections, profiles, and maps as
may be necessary in the judgment of the governing body. He or she shall, upon
request of the governing body, make estimates of the costs of labor and
material which may be done or furnished by contract with the municipality, and
make all surveys, estimates, and calculations necessary for the establishment
of grades, bridges, or culverts and for the building, constructing, or
repairing of any public improvement of the municipality. All records of the
special engineer shall be public records which shall belong to the
municipality, and shall be turned over to his or her successor. He or she
shall, when directed by the governing body, inspect all works of public
improvement, and if found to be properly done, shall accept the same, and
report his or her acceptance to the governing body. He or she shall estimate
the cost of all proposed municipal utilities and public improvements, together
with any extensions thereof which the governing body may propose to construct
or improve.
(Prior Code, § 1-213)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-568, 17-919, 18-3301
§ 30.031 CITY SUPERINTENDENT.
   (A)   A City Superintendent shall be appointed in the event that there is
more than one municipal utility and the governing body determines that it is in
the best interest of the municipality to appoint one official to have the
immediate control over all the said municipal utilities and municipal streets.
The City Superintendent may be removed for good cause by the Mayor, with the
advice and consent of the Council. Any vacancy occurring in the said office by
death, resignation, or removal may be filled in the manner hereinbefore
provided for the appointment of all municipal officials.
   (B)   The City Superintendent’s duties over the following departments shall
be as stated herein.
      (1)   Water Department. He or she shall have general supervision and
control over the municipal water system, and shall be primarily responsible for
its economic operation and prudent management. Included in the said water
system shall be the water plant, the pump house, all machinery, and appliances
used in connection with producing and distributing water to inhabitants of the
municipality. All actions, decisions, and procedures of the City Superintendent
shall be subject to the general directives and control of the governing body.
The City Superintendent shall have the general control and supervisory
authority over all employees of the water system which the governing body may
from time to time hire to operate and maintain the said system. Unless some
other official is specifically designated, he or she shall collect all money
received by the municipality on account of the said system of waterworks, and
shall faithfully account for, and pay over to, the Municipal Treasurer all such
money collected in the name of the municipality and receive a receipt from the
Municipal Treasurer for the depository evidence of his or her faithful
discharge of this duty. This receipt shall then be filed with the City Clerk,
and the second copy shall be kept by the Superintendent. He or she shall make a
detailed report to the governing body at least once every six months of the
condition of the said water system, of all mains, pipes, hydrants, reservoirs,
and machinery, and such improvements, repairs, and extensions thereof as he or
she may think proper. The report shall show the amount of receipts and
expenditures on account thereof for the preceding six months. No money shall be
expended for improvements, repairs, or extensions of the said waterworks system
except upon the recommendation of the Superintendent. The City Superintendent
shall provide a bond conditioned upon the faithful discharge of his or her
duties which shall amount to not less than the amount set by resolution of the
governing body and on file in the office of the City Clerk. He or she shall
perform such additional duties as may be prescribed by the governing body.
      (2)   Sewer Department. The City Superintendent shall have the immediate
control and supervision over all the employees and property that make up the
municipal sewer system, subject to the general control, and directives of the
governing body. He or she shall at least every six months, make a detailed
report to the governing body on the condition of the sewer system, and shall
direct their attention to such improvements, repairs, extensions, additions,
and additional employees as he or she may believe are needed along with an
estimate of the cost thereof. He or she shall have such other duties as the
governing body may delegate to him or her. He or she shall issue permits for
all connections to the municipal sewer system, and inspect and supervise all
repairs made to the said system.
      (3)   Electric Department. The City Superintendent shall have the
immediate control and supervision over all employees and property that make up
the municipal electric system, subject to the general control and directives of
the governing body. He or she shall at least every six months make a detailed
report to the governing body on the condition of the electrical system, and
shall direct their attention to such improvements, repairs, extensions,
additions, and additional employees as he or she may believe are needed along
with an estimate of the cost thereof. He or she shall have such other duties as
the governing body may delegate to him or her.
      (4)   Street Department. The City Superintendent shall, subject to the
orders and directives of the governing body, have general charge, direction,
and control of all work on the streets, sidewalks, culverts, and bridges of the
municipality, and shall perform such other duties as the governing body may
require. It shall be his or her responsibility to see that gutters and drains
therein function properly, and that the same are kept in good repair. He or she
shall, at the request of the governing body, make a detailed report to the
governing body on the condition of the streets, sidewalks, culverts, alleys,
and bridges of the municipality, and shall direct its attention to such
improvements, repairs, extensions, additions, and additional employees as he or
she may believe are needed to maintain a satisfactory street system in the
municipality along with an estimate of the cost thereof. He or she shall issue
such permits and assume such other duties as the governing body may direct.
(Prior Code, § 1-214)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-119, 17-541, 17-543
§ 30.032 MUNICIPAL LANDFILL SUPERINTENDENT.
   The Municipal Landfill Superintendent shall have the immediate control and
supervision of the municipal landfill, and of all dumping of garbage, refuse,
waste, and rubbish thereon, subject to the general control and directives of
the governing body. He or she shall at least every six months, make a detailed
report to the governing body on the condition of the landfill, and shall direct
its attention to such improvements, additions, and additional employees as he
or she may believe are needed along with an estimate of the cost thereof. He or
she shall issue dumping permits if the governing body should require them and
shall inspect and supervise all work done to improve or extend the landfill. He
or she shall have such other duties as the governing body may delegate to him
or her. He or she may be removed at any time by the Mayor, with the advice and
consent of the Council.
(Prior Code, § 1-215)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-107
§ 30.033 BONDS AND OATHS.
   Official bonds of the municipality shall be in form, joint and several, and
shall be made payable to the municipality in such penalty as the governing body
may set by resolution; provided, the penalty amount on any bond shall not fall
below the legal minimum, when one has been set by the state, for each
particular official. All official bonds of the municipal officials shall be
executed by the principal named in such bonds and by at least two sufficient
sureties who shall be freeholders of the county, or by the official as
principal and by a guaranty, surety, fidelity, or bonding company; provided no
municipal official, while still in his or her official term of office, shall be
accepted as surety on any other official’s bond, contractor’s bond, license
bond, or appeal bond under any circumstances. Only companies that are legally
authorized to transact business in the state shall be eligible for suretyship
on the bond of an official of the municipality. All said bonds shall obligate
the principal, and sureties for the faithful discharge of all duties required
by law of such principal, and shall inure to the benefit of the municipality
and any persons who may be injured by a breach of the conditions of such bonds.
No bond shall be deemed to be given or complete until the approval of the
governing body, and all sureties are endorsed in writing on the said instrument
by the Mayor and City Clerk pursuant to the said approval of the governing
body. The premium on any official bond required to be given may be paid out of
the General Fund, or other proper municipal fund, upon a resolution to that
effect by the governing body at the beginning of any municipal year. All
official bonds, meeting the conditions herein, shall be filed with the City
Clerk for his or her official records, and it shall be the duty of the City
Clerk to furnish a certified copy of any bond so filed upon the payment of a
fee which shall be set by resolution of the governing body. In the event that
the sureties on the official bond of any officer of the municipality, in the
opinion of the governing body, become insufficient, the governing body may, by
resolution, fix a reasonable time within which the said officer may give a new
bond or additional sureties as directed. In the event that the officer should
fail, refuse, or neglect to give a new bond, or additional sureties to the
satisfaction and approval of the governing body, then the office shall, by such
failure, refusal, or neglect, become vacant, and it shall be the duty of the
governing body to appoint a competent and qualified person to fill the said
office. Any official who is re-elected to office shall be required to file a
new bond after each election.
(Prior Code, § 1-301)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 11-103 through 11-118, 17-604
§ 30.034 OATH OF OFFICE; MUNICIPAL OFFICIALS.
   All officials of the municipality, whether elected or appointed, except when
a different oath is specifically provided herein, shall, before entering upon
their respective duties, take and subscribe the following oath which shall be
endorsed upon their respective bonds:
   “I                                      , do solemnly swear that I will
support the Constitution of the United States and the Constitution of the State
of Nebraska, against all enemies, foreign and domestic; that I will bear true
faith and allegiance to the same; that I take this obligation freely, and
without mental reservation, or for the purpose of evasion; and that I will
faithfully and impartially perform the duties of the office of
                   , according to law, and to the best of my ability. And I do
further swear that I do not advocate, nor am I a member of any political party
or organization that advocates the overthrow of the government of the United
States or of this State by force, or violence; and that during such time as I
am in this position I will not advocate, nor become a member of any political
party or organization that advocates the overthrow of the government of the
United States or of this State by force or violence. So help me God.”
(Prior Code, § 1-302)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 11-101
MEETINGS
§ 30.045 PUBLIC MEETINGS.
   All public meetings as defined by law shall be held in a municipal public
building which shall be open to attendance by the public. All meetings shall be
held in the public building in which the governing body usually holds such
meetings unless the publicized notice hereinafter required shall designate some
other public building or other specified place. The advance publicized notice
of all public convened meetings shall be simultaneously transmitted to all
members of the governing body and to the public by a method designated by the
governing body or by the Mayor if the governing body has not designated a
method. Such notice shall contain the time and specific place for each meeting
and either an enumeration of the agenda subjects known at the time of the
notice, or a statement that such an agenda kept continually current shall be
readily available for public inspection at the office of the City Clerk. Except
for items of an emergency nature, the agenda shall not be enlarged later than
24 hours before the scheduled commencement of the meeting. The governing body
shall have the right to modify the agenda to include items of an emergency
nature only at such public meetings. The minutes of the City Clerk shall
include the record of the manner and advance time by which the advance
publicized notice was given, a statement of how the availability of an agenda
of the then known subjects was communicated, the time and specific place of the
meetings, and the names of each member of the governing body present or absent
at each convened meeting. The minutes of the governing body shall be a public
record open to inspection by the public upon request at any reasonable time at
the office of the City Clerk. Any official action on any question or motion
duly moved and seconded shall be taken only by roll call vote of the governing
body in open session. The record of the City Clerk shall show how each member
voted, or that the member was absent and did not vote.
(Prior Code, § 1-601) (Ord. 496, passed 12-19-1983)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 84-1408, 84-1409, 84-1411, 84-1413
§ 30.046 GOVERNING BODY.
   (A)   The meetings of the governing body shall be held in the meeting place
of the municipality. Regular meetings shall be held on the third Monday of each
month at the hour of 6:30 p.m. Special meetings may be called by the Mayor, or
by three members of the City Council, the object of which shall be submitted to
the Council in writing.
   (B)   The call and object, as well as the disposition thereof, shall be
entered upon the journal by the City Clerk. No other business shall be
transacted at such meeting unless all members of the City Council are present
and consent thereto. On filing the call for a special meeting, the City Clerk
shall notify the members of the Council of the special meeting, stating the
time and its purpose. Notice of a special meeting need not be given to a
Council member known to be out of the state, or physically unable to be
present.
   (C)   A majority of all the members elected to the City Council shall
constitute a quorum for the transaction of any business, but a fewer number may
adjourn from time to time and compel the attendance of absent members;
provided, that on the request of any two members, whether a quorum is present
or not, all absent members shall be sent for and compelled to attend. At the
hour appointed for the meeting, the City Clerk shall proceed to call the roll
of members and announce whether a quorum is present. If a quorum is present,
the Council shall be called to order by the Mayor, if present, or if absent, by
the President of the Council.
   (D)   In the absence of both the Mayor and the President of the Council, the
City Council shall elect a President pro tempore. Unless a greater vote is
required by law, an affirmative vote of at least one-half of the elected
members shall be required for the transaction of any business.
(Prior Code, § 1-602) (Ord. 495A, passed 11-22-1983; Ord. 507, passed 6-18-
1984; Ord. 612, passed 2-19-1996)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-105, 17-106
§ 30.047 ORDER OF BUSINESS.
   All meetings of the governing body shall be open to the public. Promptly at
the hour set by law on the day of each regular meeting, the members of the
governing body, the City Clerk, the Mayor, and such other municipal officials
that may be required shall take their regular stations in the meeting place,
and the business of the municipality shall be taken up for consideration, and
disposition in the manner prescribed by the official agenda on file at the
office of the City Clerk.
(Prior Code, § 1-603)
§ 30.048 CHANGE IN OFFICE.
   The change in office shall be made as follows: the Mayor and Council shall
meet at 7:30 p.m. on the third Monday in December each year and the outgoing
members of the Council shall present their reports, and upon the old Council
having completed its business up to the said time, the outgoing members of the
Council shall surrender their offices to the incoming members, and the outgoing
officers shall thereupon each surrender to his or her successor in office all
property, records, papers, and moneys, belonging to the same.
(Prior Code, § 1-604) (Ord. 486, passed 12-20-1982)
§ 30.049 ORGANIZATIONAL MEETINGS.
   The newly elected Council shall convene at the regular place of meeting in
the city on the third Monday in December in each year immediately after the
prior Council adjourns and proceed to organize themselves for the ensuing year.
The Mayor elected for the new municipal year shall call the meeting to order.
The Council shall proceed to examine the credentials of its members and
elective officers of the city to see that each has been duly and properly
elected, and to see that such oaths and bonds have been given as are required.
After ascertaining that all members are duly qualified, the Council shall then
elect one of its own body who shall be styled as “President of the Council”.
The Mayor shall then nominate his or her candidates for appointive offices. He
or she shall then proceed with the regular order of business. It is hereby made
the duty of each and every member of the Council, or his or her successor in
office, and of each officer elected to any office, to qualify prior to the
third Monday in December following his or her election. All appointive officers
shall qualify within two weeks following their appointments. Qualification for
each officer who is not required to give bond shall consist in his or her
subscribing and taking an oath to support the Constitution of the United
States, the Constitution of the State of Nebraska, the laws of the
municipality, and to perform faithfully and impartially the duties of his or
her office, said oath to be filed in the office of the City Clerk. Each officer
who is required to give a bond shall file the required bond in the office of
the City Clerk with sufficient sureties, conditioned on the faithful discharge
of the duties of his or her office, with the oath endorsed thereon.
(Prior Code, § 1-605) (Ord. 486, passed 12-20-1982)
§ 30.050 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   MEETINGS. All regular, special, or called meetings, formal or informal, of a
public body for the purposes of briefing, discussion of public business,
formation of tentative policy, or the taking of any action.
(Prior Code, § 1-606 )
   PUBLIC BODY. The governing body of the municipality, all independent boards,
commissions, bureaus, committees, councils, subunits, or any other bodies, now
or hereafter created by Constitution, statute, ordinance, or otherwise pursuant
to law, and advisory committees of the bodies listed above. This section shall
not apply to subcommittees of such bodies unless a quorum of the public body
attends a subcommittee meeting or unless such subcommittees are holding
hearings, making policy, or taking formal action on behalf of their parent
body.
(Prior Code, § 1-607)
(Ord. 496, passed 12-19-1983; Ord. 598, passed 3-20-1995)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 84-1409(1), 84-1409(2)
§ 30.051 CLOSED SESSIONS.
   (A)   Any public body may hold a closed session by the affirmative vote of a
majority of its voting members if a closed session is clearly necessary for the
protection of the public interest or for the prevention of needless injury to
the reputation of an individual and if such individual has not requested a
public meeting. Closed sessions may be held for, but shall not be limited to,
such reasons as:
      (1)   Strategy sessions with respect to collective bargaining, real
estate purchases, pending litigation, or litigation which is imminent as
evidenced by communication of a claim or threat of litigation to or by the
public body;
      (2)   Discussion regarding deployment of security personnel or devices;
      (3)   Investigative proceedings regarding allegations of criminal
misconduct; or
      (4)   Evaluation of the job performance of a person when necessary to
prevent needless injury to the reputation of a person and if such person has
not requested a public meeting. Nothing in this section shall permit a closed
meeting for discussion of the appointment or election of a new member to any
public body.
   (B)   The vote to hold a closed session shall be taken in open session. The
vote of each member on the question of holding a closed session, the reason for
the closed session, and the time when the closed session commenced and
concluded shall be recorded in the minutes. The public body holding such a
closed session shall restrict its consideration of matters during the closed
portions to only those purposes set forth in the minutes as the reason for the
closed session. The meeting shall be reconvened in open session before any
formal action may be taken. For purposes of this section, FORMAL ACTION shall
mean a collective decision or a collective commitment or promise to make a
decision on any question, motion, proposal, resolution, order, or ordinance or
formation of a position or policy but shall not include negotiating guidance
given by members of the public body to legal counsel or other negotiators in
closed sessions authorized under division (A)(1) above.
   (C)   Any member of the public body shall have the right to challenge the
continuation of a closed session if the member determines that the session has
exceeded the reason stated in the original motion to hold a closed session or
if the member contends that the closed session is neither clearly necessary for
the protection of the public interest or the prevention of needless injury to
the reputation of an individual. Such challenge shall be overruled only by a
majority vote of the members of the public body. Such challenge and its
disposition shall be recorded in the minutes.
   (D)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to require that a meeting
be closed to the public. No person or public body shall fail to invite a
portion of its members to a meeting and no public body shall designate itself a
subcommittee of the whole body for the purpose of circumventing the provisions
of this subchapter. No closed session, informal meeting, chance meeting, social
gathering, or electronic communication shall be used for the purpose of
circumventing the provisions of this section.
   (E)   The provisions of this section shall not apply to chance meetings, or
to attendance at or travel to conventions or workshops of members of a public
body at which there is no meeting of the body then intentionally convened and
there is no vote or other action taken regarding any matter over which the
public body has supervision, control, jurisdiction, or advisory power.
(Prior Code, § 1-608) (Ord. 496, passed 12-19-1983; Ord. 598, passed 3-20-1995)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 84-1410
§ 30.052 EMERGENCY MEETINGS.
   When it is necessary to hold an emergency meeting without reasonable advance
public notice, the nature of the emergency shall be stated in the minutes and
any formal action taken in such meeting shall pertain only to the emergency.
Such emergency meetings may be held by means of electronic or telecommunication
equipment. The provisions of §
30.045 shall be complied with in conducting emergency meetings. Complete
minutes of such emergency meetings specifying the nature of the emergency and
any formal action taken at the meeting shall be made available to the public by
no later than the end of the next regular business day.
(Prior Code, § 1-609) (Ord. 496, passed 12-19-1983)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 84-1411
§ 30.053 PUBLIC PARTICIPATION.
   (A)   Subject to the provisions of this subchapter, the public shall have
the right to attend and the right to speak at meetings of public bodies, and
all or any part of a meeting of a public body, except for closed sessions
called pursuant to §
30.051, may be videotaped, televised, photographed, broadcast, or recorded by
any person in attendance by means of a tape recorder, camera, video equipment,
or any other means of pictorial or sonic reproduction or in writing.
   (B)   It shall not be a violation of this section for any public body to
make and enforce reasonable rules and regulations regarding the conduct of
persons attending, speaking at, videotaping, televising, photographing,
broadcasting, or recording its meetings. A body may not be required to allow
citizens to speak at each meeting, but it may not forbid public participation
at all meetings.
   (C)   No public body shall require members of the public to identify
themselves as a condition for admission to the meeting. The body may require
any member of the public desiring to address the body to identify himself or
herself.
   (D)   No public body shall, for the purpose of circumventing the provisions
of this subchapter, hold a meeting in a place known by the body to be too small
to accommodate the anticipated audience.
   (E)   No public body shall be deemed in violation of this section if it
holds its meeting in its traditional meeting place which is located in this
state.
   (F)   No public body shall be deemed in violation of this section if it
holds a meeting outside of this state if, but only if, a member entity of the
public body is located outside of this state and the other requirements of Neb.
RS 84-1412 are met.
   (G)   The public body shall, upon request, make a reasonable effort to
accommodate the public’s right to hear the discussion and testimony presented
at the meeting.
   (H)   Public bodies shall make available at the meeting, for examination and
copying by members of the public, at least one copy of all reproducible written
material to be discussed at an open meeting.
(Prior Code, § 1-610) (Ord. 496, passed 12-19-1983; Ord. 703, passed 10-21-
2002)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 84-1412
§ 30.054 VIDEO CONFERENCING, WHEN ALLOWED.
   (A)   A meeting of an organization created under the Interlocal Cooperation
Act, being Neb. RS 13-801 through 13-827 or the Municipal Cooperative Financing
Act, being Neb. RS 18-2401 through 18-2485 or of the governing body of a risk
management pool or advisory committee organized in accordance with the
Intergovernmental Risk Management Act, being Neb. RS 44-4301 through 44-4339
may be held by means of videoconferencing if:
      (1)   Reasonable advance publicized notice is given;
      (2)   Reasonable arrangements are made to accommodate the public’s right
to attend, hear, and speak at the meeting, including seating, recordation by
audio or visual recording devices, and a reasonable opportunity for input such
as public comment or questions to at least the same extent as would be provided
if video conferencing was not used;
      (3)   At least one copy of all documents being considered is available to
the public at each site of the video conference;
      (4)   At least one member of the governing body or advisory committee is
present at each site of the video conference; and
      (5)   No more than one-half of the governing body’s or advisory
committee’s meetings in a calendar year are held by video conference. Video
conferencing shall not be used to circumvent any of the public government
purposes established in this subchapter.
   (B)   For purposes of this section, VIDEO CONFERENCING shall mean conducting
a meeting involving participants at two or more locations through the use of
audio-video equipment which allows participants at each location to hear and
see each meeting participant at each other location, including public input.
Interaction between meeting participants shall be possible at all meeting
locations.
(Prior Code, § 1-611) (Ord. 634, passed 9-15-1997)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 84-1409, 84-1411
§ 30.055 NOTICE.
   Notice of regular meetings of the governing body shall be published once in
the Benkelman Post and News Chronicle on the publication date next preceding
the regular meeting, but not less than three calendar days prior to the meeting
date. Notice of special meetings shall be published once in the Benkelman Post
and News Chronicle one to 14 days prior to the meeting date or by posting
notice of such special meeting in three public places in the city, to include
the City Office and the Post Office, at least 24 hours prior to such meeting.
In counting calendar days, the first day of posting or publication shall be
counted but the day of the meeting shall not be counted.
(Prior Code, § 1-612) (Ord. 670, passed 1-18-1999; Ord. 2013-789, passed 9-16-
2013)
§ 30.056 TELEPHONE CONFERENCE CALLS; WHEN ALLOWED.
   (A)   A meeting of the governing body of a joint entity formed under the
Interlocal Cooperation Act or of the governing body of a risk management pool
or its advisory committees organized in accordance with the Intergovernmental
Risk Management Act may be held by telephone conference call if:
      (1)   The territory represented by the member public agencies of the
entity or pool covers more than one county;
      (2)   Reasonable advance publicized notice is given which identifies each
telephone conference location at which a member of the entity’s or pool’s
governing body will be present;
      (3)   All telephone conference meeting sites identified in the notice are
located within public buildings used by members of the entity or pool or at a
place which will accommodate the anticipated audience;
      (4)   Reasonable arrangements are made to accommodate the public’s right
to attend, hear, and speak at the meeting, including seating, recordation by
audio recording devices, and a reasonable opportunity for input such as public
comment or questions to at least the same extent as would be provided if a
telephone conference call was not used;
      (5)   At least one copy of all documents being considered is available to
the public at each site of the telephone conference call;
      (6)   At least one member of the governing body of the entity or pool is
present at each site of the telephone conference call identified in the public
notice;
      (7)   The telephone conference call lasts no more than one hour; and
      (8)   No more than one-half of the entity’s or pool’s meetings in a
calendar year are held by telephone conference call.
   (B)   Nothing in this section shall prevent the participation of
consultants, members of the press, and other nonmembers of the governing body
at sites not identified in the public notice. Telephone conference calls shall
not be used to circumvent any of the public government purposes established in
Neb. RS 84-1408 through 84-1414.
(Prior Code, § 1-613) (Ord. 691, passed 10-15-2001)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 84-1411(3)
§ 30.057 CONSENT AGENDA.
   (A)   There is hereby established a consent agenda procedure for the
transaction of certain routine business at meetings of the governing body. The
intent of this procedure is to expedite the conduct of routine business at such
meetings to allow more time to be devoted to substantive issues by condensing
the time necessary to process routine items, but yet allowing an opportunity
for full discussion in consideration of said items if appropriate.
   (B)   The procedure to be followed is as follows.
      (1)   Items considered by the City Clerk to be routine and non-
controversial in nature may be placed on the agenda for regular and special
meetings of the governing body under the heading of “consent agenda”. Such
items shall be clearly worded to indicate action to be taken by the governing
body.
      (2)   At the meeting, the Mayor will review those items placed on the
consent agenda and ask if any member of the City Council or public in
attendance wishes to have an item removed from the consent agenda and placed on
the regular agenda. All such requests are not debatable and will be complied
with without discussion.
      (3)   After items have been removed from the consent agenda as requested
by a member of the City Council or public in attendance, the City Council will
then consider adoption of the remaining actions recommended and specified in
the consent agenda by a single motion and vote of the City Council.
      (4)   All items listed on the consent agenda shall be recorded in the
minutes individually and in their proper form, and the vote recorded adopting
the recommended and specified action on the consent agenda shall be shown as
the vote on each such item in the minutes.
(Ord. 2019-819, passed 9-16-2019)
ELECTIONS
§ 30.070 GENERAL MUNICIPAL.
   The general municipal election shall be held in accordance with the
provisions of Neb. RS Chapter 32. The governing body has determined, by
ordinance duly adopted, to hold the municipal election in conjunction with the
state-wide primary, held on the first Tuesday after the second Monday in May of
each even numbered year. Prior to February 1 of the year, in which the first
such joint election takes place, the governing body shall receive the consent
in writing of the County Board to so hold the election and such authorization
shall be prescribed according to state law. The County Clerk shall have charge
of the election and shall have the authority to deputize the City Clerk for
municipal election purposes.
(Prior Code, § 1-801)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 32-505
§ 30.071 COUNCIL MEMBERS.
   Council members shall be elected from the municipality at large unless the
residents of the municipality have voted to elect its Council members by wards.
Council members shall serve for a term of four years and shall be a resident
and qualified elector. If the election of Council members takes place by wards,
each nominee for Council member shall be a resident and qualified elector of
the ward for which he or she is a candidate, and only residents of that ward
may sign the candidate’s nomination petitions.
(Prior Code, § 1-802)
§ 30.072 VOTER QUALIFICATIONS.
   ELECTORS shall mean every person of the constitutionally prescribed age or
upwards, who shall have the right to vote for all officers to be elected to
public office, and upon all questions and proposals, lawfully submitted to the
voters at any and all elections authorized or provided for by the Constitution
or the laws of the state, except school elections; provided, no person shall be
qualified to vote at any election unless such person shall be a resident of the
state and shall have been properly registered with the election official of the
county.
(Prior Code, § 1-803)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 32-102
§ 30.073 ELECTION WARDS.
   The municipality shall redistrict as often as necessary using the most
recent federal census to ensure that each ward is substantially equal in
population. The municipality shall stand divided into the following wards as
set forth herein.
   (A)   Dividing line. Commencing at the point of intersection of the south
city limit line and the centerline of Chief Street projected south; thence
north on the said centerline of Chief Street to the point of intersection with
the centerline of First Street; thence east on the centerline of First Street
238.5 feet to a point; thence north to the north lot line of Lot 5 Block 44,
Second Addition to the city; thence west on said lot line a distance of 88.5
feet to the centerline of the alley in said block; thence north on said
centerline to the point of intersection with the centerline of Second Avenue;
thence west on said centerline to the point of intersection with the centerline
of D Street Northwest; thence north on said centerline to the point of
intersection with the north city limit line.
   (B)   First Ward. All of the territory lying east and north of the dividing
line herein above described shall be known and designated as the First Ward,
which said Ward shall have a polling place to be selected and designated as
provided by law.
   (C)   Second Ward. All of the territory lying west and south of the dividing
line herein above described shall be known and designated as the Second Ward,
which said Ward shall have a polling place to be selected and designated as
provided by law.
(Prior Code, § 1-804)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-102
§ 30.074 EXIT POLLS.
   No person shall conduct any exit poll, public opinion poll, or any other
interview with voters on election day seeking to determine voter preference
within 20 feet of the entrance of any polling place room or, if inside the
polling place building, within 100 feet of any voting booth.
(Prior Code, § 1-806) (Ord. 519, passed 10-21-1985) Penalty, see §
30.999
§ 30.075 PETITION, WRITE-IN, AND OTHER CANDIDATES FOR GENERAL ELECTION BALLOT:
PROCEDURES.
   (A)   (1)   Any registered voter who was not a candidate in the primary
election may have his or her name placed on the general election ballot for a
partisan office by filing petitions as prescribed in this section and Neb. RS
32-621 or by nomination by political party convention or committee.
      (2)   Any candidate who was defeated in the primary election and any
registered voter who was not a candidate in the primary election may have his
or her name placed on the general election ballot if a vacancy exists on the
ballot under Neb. RS 32-625(2) and the candidate files for the office by
petition as prescribed in this section or files as a write-in candidate as
prescribed in Neb. RS 32-615.
(Neb. RS 32-616)
   (B)   Petitions for nomination shall conform to the requirements of Neb. RS
32-628. Petitions shall state the office to be filled and the name and address
of the candidate. Petitions for partisan office shall also indicate the party
affiliation of the candidate. Petitions shall be signed by registered voters
residing in the ward in which the officer is to be elected, if candidates are
chosen by ward, or residing in the municipality, if candidates are not chosen
by ward, and shall be filed with the filing officer in the same manner as
provided for candidate filing forms in Neb. RS 32-607. Petition signers and
circulators shall conform to the requirements of Neb. RS 32-629 and 32-630. No
petition for nomination shall be filed unless there is attached thereto a
receipt showing payment of the filing fee required pursuant to Neb. RS 32-608.
The petitions shall be filed by September 1 in the year of the general
election.
(Neb. RS 32-617)
   (C)   The number of signatures of registered voters needed to place the name
of a candidate upon the nonpartisan ballot for the general election shall be as
follows:
      (1)   For each partisan office to be filled by the registered voters of
the entire state, at least 4,000, and at least 750 signatures shall be obtained
in each congressional district in the state;
      (2)   For each partisan office to be filled by the registered voters of a
county, at least 20% of the total number of registered voters voting for
Governor or President of the United States at the immediately preceding general
election within the county, not to exceed 2,000, except that the number of
signatures shall not be required to exceed 25% of the total number of
registered voters voting for the office at the immediately preceding general
election; and
      (3)   For each partisan office to be filled by the registered voters of a
political subdivision other than a county, at least 20% of the total number of
registered voters voting for Governor or President of the United States at the
immediately preceding general election within the political subdivision, not to
exceed 2,000.
(Neb. RS 32-618)
(Prior Code, § 1-807) (Ord. 650, passed 7-20-1998; Ord. 714, passed 1-19-2004)
§ 30.076 RECALL PROCEDURE.
   (A)   For purposes of this section, FILING CLERK means the Election
Commissioner or County Clerk.
(Neb. RS 32-1301)
   (B)   (1)   The Mayor, a member of the City Council, and any other elected
official of the city may be removed from office by recall pursuant to Neb. RS
32-1301 through 32-1309
      (2)   The recall procedure and special election provisions of such
sections shall apply to members of the City Council who are elected by ward.
Only registered voters of such member’s ward may sign a recall petition or vote
at the recall election. The recall election shall be held within the member’s
ward. When a member of the City Council is nominated by ward in the primary
election and elected at large in the general election, the recall provisions
shall apply to the registered voters at the general election.
(Neb. RS 32-1302)
   (C)   (1)   A petition demanding that the question of removing the Mayor, a
member of the City Council, or any other elected official of the city be
submitted to the registered voters shall be signed by registered voters equal
in number to at least 35% of the total vote cast for that office in the last
general election, except that for an office for which more than one candidate
is chosen, the petition shall be signed by registered voters equal in number to
at least 35% of the number of votes cast for the person receiving the most
votes for such office in the last general election. The signatures shall be
affixed to petition papers and shall be considered part of the petition.
      (2)   Petition circulators shall conform to the requirements of Neb. RS
32-630.
      (3)   The petition papers shall be procured from the filing clerk. Prior
to the issuance of such petition papers, a recall petition filing form shall be
signed and filed with the filing clerk by at least 1 registered voter. Such
voter or voters shall be deemed to be the principal circulator or circulators
of the recall petition. The filing form shall state the name and office of the
official sought to be removed, shall include in concise language of 60 words or
less the reason or reasons for which recall is sought, and shall request that
the filing clerk issue initial petition papers to the principal circulator for
circulation. The filing clerk shall notify the official sought to be removed by
any method specified in Neb. RS 25-505.01 or, if notification cannot be made
with reasonable diligence by any of the methods specified in Neb. RS 25-505.01,
by leaving a copy of the filing form at the official's usual place of residence
and mailing a copy by first-class mail to the official's last-known address. If
the official chooses, he or she may submit a defense statement in concise
language of 60 words or less for inclusion on the petition. Any such defense
statement shall be submitted to the filing clerk within 20 days after the
official receives the copy of the filing form. The filing clerk shall prepare
the petition papers within five business days after receipt of the defense
statement. The principal circulator or circulators shall gather the petition
papers within 20 days after being notified by the filing clerk that the
petition papers are available. The filing clerk shall notify the principal
circulator or circulators that the necessary signatures must be gathered within
30 days from the date of issuing the petitions.
      (4)   The filing clerk, upon issuing the initial petition papers or any
subsequent petition papers, shall enter in a record, to be kept in his or her
office, the name of the principal circulator or circulators to whom the papers
were issued, the date of issuance, and the number of papers issued. The filing
clerk shall certify on the papers the name of the principal circulator or
circulators to whom the papers were issued and the date they were issued. No
petition paper shall be accepted as part of the petition unless it bears such
certificate. The principal circulator or circulators who check out petitions
from the filing clerk may distribute such petitions to persons who may act as
circulators of such petitions.
      (5)   Petition signers shall conform to the requirements of Neb. RS 32-
629 and 32-630. Each signer of a recall petition shall be a registered voter
and qualified by his or her place of residence to vote for the office in
question.
(Neb. RS 32-1303)
   (D)   Each petition paper shall conform to the requirements of Neb. RS 32-
1304.
   (E)   (1)   The principal circulator or circulators shall file, as one
instrument, all petition papers comprising a recall petition for signature
verification with the filing clerk within 30 days after the filing clerk issues
the initial petition papers to the principal circulator or circulators.
      (2)   Within 15 days after the filing of the petition, the filing clerk
shall ascertain whether or not the petition is signed by the requisite number
of registered voters. No new signatures may be added after the initial filing
of the petition papers. No signatures may be removed unless the filing clerk
receives an affidavit signed by the person requesting his or her signature be
removed before the petitions are filed with the filing clerk for signature
verification. If the petition is found to be sufficient, the filing clerk shall
attach to the petition a certificate showing the result of such examination. If
the requisite number of signatures has not been gathered, the filing clerk
shall file the petition in his or her office without prejudice to the filing of
a new petition for the same purpose.
(Neb. RS 32-1305)
   (F)   If the recall petition is found to be sufficient, the filing clerk
shall notify the official whose removal is sought and the City Council that
sufficient signatures have been gathered. If the official does not resign
within five days after receiving the notice, the Council shall order an
election to be held not less than 30 nor more than 45 days after the expiration
of the five-day period, except that if any other election is to be held in the
city within 90 days of the expiration of the five-day period, the Council shall
provide for the holding of the removal election on the same day. After the
Council sets the date for the recall election, the recall election shall be
held regardless of whether the official whose removal is sought resigns before
the recall election is held.
(Neb. RS 32-1306)
   (G)   The form of the official ballot at a recall election shall conform to
the requirements of Neb. RS 32-1307.
   (H)   (1)   If a majority of the votes cast at a recall election are against
the removal of the official named on the ballot or the election results in a
tie, the official shall continue in office for the remainder of his or her term
but may be subject to further recall attempts as provided in division (I)
below.
      (2)   If a majority of the votes cast at a recall election are for the
removal of the official named on the ballot, he or she shall, regardless of any
technical defects in the recall petition, be deemed removed from office unless
a recount is ordered. If the official is deemed removed, the removal shall
result in a vacancy in the office which shall be filled as otherwise provided
in this section and state law.
      (3)   If the election results show a margin of votes equal to 1% or less
between the removal or retention of the official in question, the Secretary of
State, Election Commissioner, or County Clerk shall order a recount of the
votes cast unless the official named on the ballot files a written statement
with the Election Commissioner or County Clerk that he or she does not want a
recount.
      (4)   If there are vacancies in the offices of a majority or more of the
members of the City Council at one time due to the recall of such members, a
special election to fill such vacancies shall be conducted as expeditiously as
possible by the Secretary of State, Election Commissioner, or County Clerk.
      (5)   No official who is removed at a recall election or who resigns
after the initiation of the recall process shall be appointed to fill the
vacancy resulting from his or her removal or the removal of any other member of
the same governing body during the remainder of his or her term of office.
(Neb. RS 32-1308)
   (I)   No recall petition filing form shall be filed against an elected
official within 12 months after a recall election has failed to remove him or
her from office or within six months after the beginning of his or her term of
office or within six months prior to the incumbent filing deadline for the
office.
(Neb. RS 32-1309)
(Prior Code, § 1-808) (Ord. 687, passed 9-17-2001; Ord. 716, passed 1-19-2004;
Ord. 735, passed 8-16-2004)
§ 30.077 SPECIAL ELECTIONS.
   (A)   (1)   Except as provided in Neb. RS 77-3444, any issue to be submitted
to the registered voters at a special election by the city shall be certified
by the City Clerk to the Election Commissioner or County Clerk at least 50 days
prior to the election. A special election may be held by mail as provided in
Neb. RS 32-952 through 32-959. Any other special election shall be subject to
division (B) below.
      (2)   In lieu of submitting the issue at a special election, the city may
submit the issue at a state- wide primary or general election or at any
scheduled county election, except that no such issue shall be submitted at a
state-wide election or scheduled county election unless the issue to be
submitted has been certified by the City Clerk to the Election Commissioner or
County Clerk by March 1 for the primary election and by September 1 for the
general election.
      (3)   After the Election Commissioner or County Clerk has received the
certification of the issue to be submitted, he or she shall be responsible for
all matters relating to the submission of the issue to the registered voters,
except that the City Clerk shall be responsible for the publication or posting
of any required special notice of the submission of such issue other than the
notice required to be given of the state-wide election issues. The Election
Commissioner or County Clerk shall prepare the ballots and issue absentee
ballots and shall also conduct the submission of the issue, including the
receiving and counting of ballots on the issue. The election returns shall be
made to the Election Commissioner or County Clerk. The ballots, including
absentee ballots, shall be counted and canvassed at the same time and in the
same manner as the other ballots. Upon completion of the canvass of the vote by
the County Canvassing Board, the Election Commissioner or County Clerk shall
certify the election results to the City Council. The canvass by the County
Canvassing Board shall have the same force and effect as if made by the City
Council.
(Neb. RS 32-559)
   (B)   Any special election under the Election Act, being Neb. RS 32-101
through 32-1551 shall be held on the first Tuesday following the second Monday
of the selected month unless otherwise specifically provided. No special
election shall be held under the Election Act, being Neb. RS 32-101 through 32-
1551 in April, May, June, October, November, or December of an even-numbered
year unless it is held in conjunction with the state-wide primary or general
election.
(Neb. RS 32-405)
(Prior Code, § 1-809) (Ord. 734, passed 8-16-2004)
COMMISSIONS AND BOARDS
§ 30.090 STANDING COMMITTEES.
   At the organizational meeting of the City Council, the Mayor shall appoint
members of such standing committees as the City Council may by ordinance or
resolution create. The membership of such standing committees may be changed at
any time by the Mayor. The Mayor shall be a member ex officio of each standing
committee. The members of the standing committees shall serve a term of office
of one year, unless re-appointed.
(Prior Code,§ 2-101)
§ 30.091 PLANNING COMMISSION.
   (A)   The Planning Commission shall consist of seven regular members who
shall represent, insofar as is possible, the different professions or
occupations in the municipality and shall be appointed by the Mayor, by and
with the approval of a majority vote of the members elected to the City
Council. Two of the regular members may be residents of the area over which the
municipality is authorized to exercise extraterritorial zoning and subdivision
regulation. When there is a sufficient number of residents in the area over
which the municipality exercises extraterritorial zoning and subdivision
regulation, one regular member of the Commission shall be a resident from such
area. If it is determined by the City Council that a sufficient number of
residents reside in the area subject to extraterritorial zoning and subdivision
regulation, and no such resident is a regular member of the Commission, the
first available vacancy on the Commission shall be filled by the appointment of
such an individual. For purposes of this section, a sufficient number of
residents shall mean 500 residents. The term of each regular member shall be
three years, except that three regular members of the first Commission shall
serve for terms of one year, three for terms of two years, and three for terms
of three years. All regular members shall hold office until their successors
are appointed. Any member may, after a public hearing before the City Council,
be removed by the Mayor, with the consent of a majority vote of the members
elected to the City Council, for inefficiency, neglect of duty, or malfeasance
in office, or other good and sufficient cause. Vacancies occurring otherwise
than through the expiration of term shall be filled for the unexpired portion
of the term by the Mayor.
   (B)   All regular members of the Commission shall serve without compensation
and shall hold no other municipal office except when appointed to serve on the
Board of Adjustment as provided in Neb. RS 19-908. All members of the
Commission may be required, in the discretion of the City Council, to give bond
in a sum set by resolution of the Council, and conditioned upon the faithful
performance of their duties. The Commission shall elect its Chairperson and a
Secretary from its members and create and fill such other of its offices as it
may determine. The term of the Chairperson and the Secretary shall be one year,
and they shall be eligible for reelection. No member of the Commission shall
serve in the capacity of both the Chairperson and Secretary of the Commission.
It shall be the duty of the Secretary to keep the full and correct minutes and
records of all meetings and to file them with the City Clerk where they shall
be available for public inspection during office hours. The Commission shall be
funded by the City Council from time to time out of the General Fund. The
expenditures of the Commission, exclusive of gifts, shall be within the amounts
appropriated for that purpose by the City Council; and no expenditures nor
agreements for expenditures shall be valid in excess of such amounts. A number
of Commissioners equal to a majority of the number of regular members appointed
to the Commission shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of any
business. The Commission shall hold at least one regular meeting in each
calendar quarter, except the City Council may require the Commission to meet
more frequently and the Chairperson of the Commission may call for a meeting
when necessary to deal with business pending before the Commission. Special
meetings may also be held upon the call of any three members of the Commission.
The Commission shall adopt rules and regulations for the transaction of
business and shall keep a record of its resolutions, transactions, findings,
and determinations, which shall be a public record. The Commission shall make
and adopt plans for the physical development of the municipality, including any
areas outside its boundaries which, in the Commission’s judgment, bear relation
to the planning of the municipality, and shall carry out the other duties and
exercise the powers specified in Neb. RS 19-929. All actions by the Commission
shall be subject to the review and supervision of the Mayor and City Council.
The Commission shall make its recommendations to the City Council so that they
are received by the City Council within 60 days after the Commission begins
consideration of a matter relating to the comprehensive development plan,
capital improvements, building codes, subdivision development, the annexation
of territory, or zoning. The Commission shall be responsible for making such
reports and performing such other duties as the City Council may from time to
time designate.
   (C)   The Mayor, with the approval of a majority vote of the elected members
of the City Council, shall appoint one alternate member to the Commission. The
alternate member shall serve without compensation and shall hold no other
municipal office. The term of the alternate member shall be three years, and he
or she shall hold office until his or her successor is appointed and approved.
The alternate member may be removed from office in the same manner as a regular
member. If the alternate member position becomes vacant other than through the
expiration of the term, the vacancy shall be filled for the unexpired portion
of the term by the Mayor with the approval of a majority vote of the elected
members of the City Council. The alternate member may attend any meeting and
may serve as a voting and participating member of the Commission at any time
when less than the full number of regular Commission members is present and
capable of voting.
(Prior Code, § 2-201) (Ord. 602, passed 3-20-1995; Ord. 661, passed 8-17-1998;
Ord. 2022-833, passed 4-18-2022)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 19-924 through 19-929
§ 30.092 BOARD OF HEALTH.
   (A)   The governing body shall appoint a Board of Health which shall consist
of four members. The members of the Board shall include the Mayor, who shall
serve as Chairperson, the President of the City Council, and two other members.
One member shall be a physician or health care provider, if one can be found
who is willing to serve. Such physician or health care provider, if appointed,
shall be the Board’s medical advisor. If the Mayor has appointed a Chief of
Police, the Chief of Police shall serve on the Board as Secretary and
quarantine officer. The members of the Board shall serve, without compensation,
a one-year term of office, unless reappointed, and shall reorganize at the
first meeting in December of each year. No member of the Board of Health shall
hold more than one Board of Health position.
   (B)   The Secretary shall keep full and correct minutes and records of all
meetings and file the same with the City Clerk where they shall be available
for public inspection during office hours. The Board of Health shall be funded
by the governing body from time to time out of the General Fund. A majority of
the Board shall constitute a quorum for the purpose of doing business. The
Board shall meet at such times as the governing body may designate. Special
meetings may be held upon the call of the Chairperson or any two members of the
Board.
   (C)   The Board shall enact rules and regulations, which shall have the full
force and effect of law, to safeguard the health of the people of the
municipality. The Board shall enforce the rules and regulations and provide
fines and punishments for any violations thereof. It may regulate, suppress,
and prevent the occurrence of nuisances and enforce all laws of the state and
ordinances of the municipality relating to nuisances and to matters of
sanitation which affect the health and safety of the people. The Board shall
regularly inspect such premises and businesses as the governing body may
direct. All members of the Board shall be responsible for making such reports
and performing such other duties as the governing body may from time to time
designate.
(Prior Code,§ 2-202) (Ord. 728, passed 6-21-2004)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-121
§ 30.093 HOUSING AUTHORITY BOARD.
   (A)   The governing body shall appoint five persons who shall constitute the
Housing Authority and such persons shall be called the Commissioners. One
Commissioner shall be appointed each year. Each Commissioner shall serve a
five-year term of office or until his or her successor is duly appointed;
provided, that all vacancies shall be filled for the unexpired terms. The
governing body may appoint one of its members to serve as one of the five
members of such Housing Authority for such term as the governing body may
determine. No person shall serve as a Commissioner unless he or she resides
within the area of operation of that Housing Authority. A certificate of the
appointment or reappointment of any Commissioner shall be filed with the City
Clerk and such certificate shall be conclusive evidence of the proper
appointment of such Commissioner. A Commissioner shall receive no compensation
for his or her services, but he or she shall be entitled to the necessary
expenses, including travel expenses, incurred in discharge of his or her
duties. A majority of Commissioners shall constitute a quorum of the Authority
for the purpose of conducting its business, exercising its powers, and for all
other purposes. Action may be taken by the Authority upon the vote of the
majority of the Commissioners present unless in any case the bylaws of the
Authority shall require a larger number. The Commissioners shall elect a
Chairperson and Vice-Chairperson from among the Commissioners and shall have
the power to employ an executive director who shall serve as ex officio
Secretary of the Authority. The Authority may also employ legal counsel, or it
may call upon the chief law officer of the municipality, for such services as
it may require. It may employ technical experts and such other officers,
agents, and employees as it may require and shall determine their
qualifications, duties, compensations, and terms of office. The Authority may
delegate such other powers and duties to its agents or employees as it may deem
proper. During his or her tenure, and for one year thereafter, no Commissioner,
officer, or employee of the Municipal Housing Authority shall voluntarily
acquire any interest, direct or indirect, in any project or in any property
included or planned to be included in any project, or in any contract or
proposed contract relating to any housing project. If any such commissioner,
officer, or employee involuntarily acquires any such interest, or voluntarily
or involuntarily acquired any such interest prior to appointment or employment
as commissioner, officer, or employee, he or she shall immediately disclose his
or her interest in writing to the Authority, and such disclosure shall be
entered upon the minutes of the Authority, and he or she shall not participate
in any action by the Authority relating to the property or contract in which he
or she has any such interest; provided, that nothing herein shall apply to the
acquisition of any interest in notes or bonds of the Authority issued in
connection with any housing project, or to the execution of agreements by
banking institutions for deposit or handling of funds in connection with a
project or to act as trustee under any trust indenture, or to utility services,
the rates for which are fixed or controlled by a governmental agency. The Mayor
may remove a Commissioner for neglect of duty or misconduct in office in the
manner prescribed hereinafter. The Mayor shall send a notice of removal to such
Commissioner which notice shall contain a statement containing the charges
against him or her. Unless within ten days from the receipt of such notice,
such Commissioner files with the Clerk a request for a hearing before the
governing body, the Commissioner shall be deemed as removed from office. If a
request for a hearing is filed with the Clerk, the governing body of the
municipality shall hold a hearing at which the Commissioner shall have the
right to appear in person or by counsel and the governing body shall determine
whether the removal shall be disapproved or upheld. If the removal is
disapproved, the Commissioner shall continue to hold his or her position.
   (B)   The Housing Authority shall keep an accurate account of all its
activities and of all its receipts and disbursements and shall make a report to
the governing body on all such information.
(Prior Code, § 2-203) (Ord. 470, passed 8-16-1982)
§ 30.094 HOUSING AUTHORITY; CONTINUED EXISTENCE AS HOUSING AGENCY.
   (A)   The local Housing Authority established under prior state law and in
existence on January 1, 2000, shall have continued existence as a housing
agency under the state’s Housing Agency Act.
   (B)   The local housing agency shall conduct its operations consistent with
the state’s Housing Agency Act. All property, rights in land, buildings,
records, and equipment and any funds, money, revenue, receipts, or assets of
the authority belong to the agency as successor. All obligations, debts,
commitments, and liabilities of the authority are obligations, debts,
commitments, and liabilities of the successor agency.
   (C)   Any resolution by the authority and any action taken by the authority
prior to January 1, 2000, with regard to any project or program which is to be
completed within or to be conducted for a 12- month period following January 1,
2000, and which resolution or action is lawful under state law as it existed
prior to January 1, 2000, is a lawful resolution or action of the successor
agency and binding upon the successor agency and enforceable by or against the
agency notwithstanding that such resolution or action is inconsistent with, not
authorized by, or prohibited under the provisions of the state’s Housing Agency
Act.
   (D)   All Commissioners of the local Housing Agency and all officers, legal
counsel, technical experts, directors, and other appointees or employees of the
agency holding office or employment by virtue of any such prior law on January
1, 2000, shall be deemed to have been appointed or employed under the state’s
Housing Agency Act, being Neb. RS 71-1572 through 71-15,168.
(Prior Code, § 2-204) (Ord. 692, passed 10-15-2001)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 71-1576
§ 30.095 HOUSING AUTHORITY; OPERATION AND MANAGEMENT.
   The Authority shall at all times observe the following duties with respect
to rentals and tenant selection.
   (A)   It may rent or lease dwelling accommodations therein only to persons
of low income, elderly, or handicapped persons of low income, and displaced
persons in need.
   (B)   There shall be no discrimination in the eligibility or occupancy of
tenants on the basis of race, religion, color, creed, national origin, or
ancestry.
   (C)   The Authority shall not accept any person as a tenant in any dwelling
in the housing project if the applicant has an annual income which equals or
exceeds the amount which the Authority has conclusively determined to be
sufficient to enable one to secure, safe, sanitary, and uncongested dwelling
accommodations within the area served by the Authority and to provide an
adequate standard of living.
   (D)   The Authority may rent or lease to a tenant a dwelling consisting of a
number of rooms which is deemed necessary to provide safe and sanitary
accommodations to the occupants without overcrowding.
   (E)   The Authority shall fix income limits for occupancy and rents after
taking into consideration:
      (1)   The family size, composition, age, physical handicaps, and other
factors which might affect the rent-paying ability of the person; and
      (2)   The economic factors which affect the financial stability and
solvency of the project.
   (F)   The Authority may accept as a tenant any displaced person or persons
in need, regardless of income, but in no event shall such person or persons
remain as a tenant or tenants of the Authority for more than a period of six
months unless such persons also qualify as persons of low income, elderly, or
handicapped persons of low income.
   (G)   All persons of low income, elderly, or handicapped persons of low
income, or displaced persons in need, shall be entitled to the benefits of this
subchapter and the Authority may establish rules and regulations consistent
with the purposes of this subchapter concerning eligibility and occupancy of
the housing project or other such shelter.
   (H)   Nothing herein shall prohibit the right of the Authority to inquire
into the financial condition, family composition, medical, personal, and
employment history of any tenant or prospective tenant.
   (I)   The Authority shall prohibit subletting by tenants.
   (J)   The Authority may establish from time to time rules and regulations
consistent with federal and state laws and regulations and the purposes of this
subchapter concerning the termination of tenancy. Any tenant so terminated
shall be sent a written notice of termination setting out the reasons for such
termination and any tenant served with a notice shall be given the opportunity
to contest the termination in an appropriate hearing, except that tenants who
have created or maintained a threat constituting a serious and clear danger to
the health or safety of other tenants or Authority employees need not be given
such a hearing by the Authority. Such notice may provide that if the tenant
fails to pay his or her rent or comply with any covenant or condition of his or
her lease, or the rules and regulations of such Authority, or cure a violation
or default thereof, as the case may be, as specified in such notice, or follow
the procedure for a hearing as set forth in the notice, all within the time or
time set forth in such notice, the tenancy shall then be automatically
terminated and no other notice or notices need be given of such termination or
the intent to terminate the tenancy, and upon such termination, and without any
notice other than as provided for in this section, the Authority may file suit
against any tenant for recovery of possession of the premises and may recover
the same as provided by law.
   (K)   The Authority may establish from time to time rules and regulations
consistent with the purposes of this subchapter concerning personal property of
tenants and other persons located in projects of the Authority, and if such
personal property is not removed from a dwelling unit at the time of the
termination of the lease, at the time of vacation or abandonment of the
dwelling unit, or at the time of the death of any tenant, then the Authority
may remove the same and store such property at the tenant’s risk and expense.
In the event that possession of such personal property is not taken by the
tenant or other person authorized by law to take possession within 45 days
after such termination, vacation, or abandonment, and any storage removal
charges remain unpaid, then the Authority may, at its option, dispose of the
personal property in any manner which the Authority deems fit, except that any
proceeds from the disposal of such personal property shall be paid to the
General Fund of the body which created the Authority. No tenant or other person
shall have any cause of action against the Authority for such removal or
disposition of such personal property.
(Prior Code, § 2-205) (Ord. 472, passed 8-16-1982)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 71-1536
§ 30.096 HOUSING AUTHORITY; RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   (A)   The Housing Authority may establish from time to time rules and
regulations consistent with the purposes of this subchapter concerning the
priority of eligible applicants for occupancy.
   (B)   The Authority may give preferential treatment to applicants who are
servicemen or veterans, relatives of servicemen or veterans, to disabled
servicemen or veterans, the elderly or disabled, those in urgent need of
adequate housing or who have no adequate source of income; provided, that in
any such system of priority, displaced persons in need shall have a priority
ahead of all other persons; and provided, further, that no tenant in good
standing then in occupancy and qualified for continued occupancy shall have his
or her tenancy terminated in order to provide dwelling units for classes or
categories of applicants as the Authority may establish.
(Prior Code, § 2-206)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 71-1537
§ 30.097 HOUSING AUTHORITY; REPORTS.
   (A)   The Housing Authority shall keep an accurate account of all its
activities and of all its receipts and disbursements and shall make an annual
report at the second regular meeting in January of each year to the governing
body.
   (B)   Such report shall include all mortgages and other interests in real
property held by the Housing Authority, including options to purchase and land
sale contracts; a listing of all bond issues and their essential terms and
obligations; and all other financial obligations of the Housing Authority over
$50,000. Such reports shall be considered public records.
   (C)   If there has been no change from the last report in the status of any
of the items reported pursuant to this section, the Housing Authority may file
a statement to that effect in lieu of the report.
(Prior Code, § 2-207) (Ord. 473, passed 8-16-1982)
§ 30.098 JOINT HOUSING AUTHORITY.
   (A)   Any two or more cities, villages, or counties, or any combination
thereof, may, by resolution of their separate governing bodies, determine that
there is a need for a Joint Housing Authority to provide decent, safe, and
sanitary housing for persons of low income living in a multi-jurisdictional
area, and that this need would be more efficiently served by the establishment
of such Joint Housing Authority. Such Joint Housing Authority shall have
perpetual existence; except that any city, village, or county, as the case may
be, may withdraw from participation in the Joint Housing Authority by
resolution of its governing body only under the conditions set out in state
law. The area of operation of such Joint Housing Authority would be an area
equivalent to the total areas of operation which the housing authorities, if
created separately by the cities, villages, or counties establishing the Joint
Authority would have. The creation of subsequent housing authorities shall not
affect the area of operation or territorial jurisdiction of any existing
housing authority. Whenever a Joint Housing Authority is created, it shall bear
such name as the political subdivision or subdivisions creating it shall
choose, and such name shall include the words “Joint Housing Authority”.
   (B)   When it is determined by resolution of the governing bodies of two or
more cities, villages, or counties, or any combination thereof, that it is
expedient to create a Joint Housing Authority and to participate therein, the
governing bodies shall appoint persons who shall be residents of the area of
operations of the Authority and who shall constitute the Joint Housing
Authority, and such persons shall be called Commissioners. The Commissioners
shall be appointed as follows:
      (1)   When two political subdivisions constitute the participating
members in such Joint Authority, each shall appoint two persons to act as
Commissioners and such Commissioners shall elect a fifth person to act as a
Commissioner;
      (2)   When three political subdivisions constitute the participating
members in such Joint Authority, each shall appoint one person to act as a
Commissioner and such Commissioners shall elect a fourth and fifth person to
act as Commissioners;
      (3)   When four political subdivisions constitute the participating
members in such Joint Authority, each shall appoint one person to act as
Commissioner and such Commissioners shall elect a fifth person to act as a
Commissioner; and
      (4)   When five or more political subdivisions constitute the
participating members in the Joint Authority, each shall appoint one person to
act as Commissioner.
   (C)   Each Commissioner shall serve a term of five years from the date of
his or her appointment. All vacancies shall be filled for the unexpired term by
the entity originally appointing such Commissioner. Tenancy in a project
established by a Joint Housing Authority shall not preclude the appointment of
any person to serve as a Commissioner of such Joint Housing Authority. After a
Joint Housing Authority has been created, additional political subdivisions may
elect to participate as members of such Joint Housing Authority after
compliance with Neb. RS 71-1594, if the majority of existing Commissioners in
such Joint Housing Authority and all participating political subdivisions by
their respective governing bodies consent to such additional member. A Joint
Housing Authority having 12 or more Commissioners may, by resolution, establish
an Executive Committee of at least five but not more than seven Commissioners.
The Committee shall have such powers over the management and operation of such
Joint Housing Authority, as the Commissioners of such Joint Housing Authority
shall specify, and shall declare in the resolution. No person shall serve as a
Commissioner unless he or she resides within the area of operation of the Joint
Housing Authority involved.
(Prior Code, § 2-208) (Ord. 474, passed 8-16-1982)
§ 30.099 TREE BOARD.
   (A)   Creation and establishment of a City Tree Board. There is hereby
created and established a City Tree Board for the city, which shall consist of
five members, citizens and residents of this city, who shall be appointed by
the Mayor with the approval of the City Council.
   (B)   Term of office. The term of the five persons to be appointed by the
Mayor shall be three years except that the term of two of the members appointed
to the first Board shall be for only one year and the term of two members of
the first Board shall be for two years. In the event that a vacancy shall occur
during the term of any member, a successor shall be appointed for the unexpired
portion of the term.
   (C)   Compensation. Members of the Tree Board shall serve without
compensation.
   (D)   Duties and responsibilities. It shall be the responsibility of the
Tree Board to study, investigate, counsel and develop and/or update annually,
and administer a written plan for the care, replacement, maintenance, and
removal or disposition of trees and shrubs in parks, along streets, and in
other public areas. Such plan will be presented annually to the City Council
and upon their acceptance and approval shall constitute the official
comprehensive City Tree Plan for the city.
   (E)   Operation. The Tree Board shall choose its own officers, make its own
rules and regulations, and keep a journal of its proceedings. A majority of the
members shall be a quorum for the transaction of business.
   (F)   Review by the City Council. The City Council shall have the right to
review the conduct, acts, and decisions of the Tree Board. Any person may
appeal from any ruling or order of the Tree Board to the City Council who may
hear the matter and make the final decision.
(Prior Code, § 2-209) (Ord. 590, passed 5-16-1994)
§ 30.100 COMMUNITY REDEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY.
   (A)   There is hereby created the Community Redevelopment Authority of the
city, pursuant to Neb. RS 18-2102.01.
   (B)   The Community Redevelopment Authority of the city shall have all of
the powers set forth in Neb. RS 18-2101 through 18-2154 and any additional
powers granted by the legislature of the state from time to time for community
redevelopment authorities.
   (C)   The affairs of the Community Redevelopment Authority of the city shall
be administered by members of the Authority appointed by the Mayor of the city
or, if the Mayor shall fail to act within 90 days after the passage of this
section, the President or other presiding officer other than the Mayor of the
governing body, with the approval of the governing body of the city, shall
appoint five persons who shall constitute the Authority. The terms of office of
the members of a five-member Authority initially appointed shall be for one
year, two years, three years, four years, and five years, as designated by the
Mayor, President, other presiding officer, or City Manager in making the
respective appointments. As the terms of the members of the authority expire,
the Mayor, with the approval of the governing body of the city, shall appoint
or reappoint a member of the authority for a term of five years to succeed the
member whose term expires.
   (D)   The Community Redevelopment Authority of the city, at its
organizational meeting each year, shall elect a Chairperson, Vice-Chairperson
and shall have the power to employ counsel and a director and such other
officers and employees as may be desired.
(Prior Code, § 2-210) (Ord. 763, passed 8-20-2010; Ord. 766, passed 10-29-2010;
Ord. 2011-770, passed 2-21-2011)
HEALTH AND SANITATION
§ 30.115 HEALTH REGULATIONS.
   For the purpose of promoting the health and safety of the residents of the
municipality, the Board of Health shall, from time to time, adopt such rules
and regulations relative thereto and shall make such inspections, prescribe
such penalties, and make such reports as may be necessary toward that purpose.
(Prior Code, § 4-101)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-121
§ 30.116 ENFORCEMENT OFFICIAL.
   The Municipal Police Chief, as the Quarantine Officer, shall be the Chief
Health Officer of the municipality. It shall be his or her duty to notify the
governing body and the Board of Health of health nuisances within the
municipality and its zoning jurisdiction.
(Prior Code, § 4-102)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-208, 17-121
§ 30.117 COUNTY HEALTH BOARD.
   It shall be the duty of the Board of Health to work closely with the County
Health Board in protecting the health and welfare of the residents of the
municipality.
(Prior Code, § 4-104)
§ 30.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person who shall violate or refuse to comply with the enforcement
of any of the provisions of §§
30.090 to
30.098, set forth at full length herein or incorporated by reference, shall be
deemed guilty of an offense and, upon conviction thereof, shall be fined not
more than $100 for each offense. A new violation shall be deemed to have been
committed every 24 hours of such failure to comply.
(Prior Code, § 2-301)
   (C)   Any person who shall violate or refuse to comply with the enforcement
of any of the provisions of this chapter, set forth at full length herein or
incorporated by reference, shall be deemed guilty of an offense and, upon
conviction thereof, shall be fined not more than $100 for each offense. A new
violation shall be deemed to have been committed every 24 hours of such failure
to comply.
(Prior Code, § 1-1201)
CHAPTER 31: ORDINANCES AND RESOLUTIONS
Section
   
31.01   Ordinances, rules, and resolutions; grant of power
   
31.02   Introduction
   
31.03   Resolutions and motions: procedure
   
31.04   Style of ordinances
   
31.05   Title of ordinances
   
31.06   Ordinances, resolutions, orders, bylaws; reading; passage
   
31.07   Publication or posting of ordinances
   
31.08   Certificate of publication; when required
   
31.09   Amendments and revisions
   
31.10   Effective date; emergency ordinances
§ 31.01 ORDINANCES, RULES, AND RESOLUTIONS; GRANT OF POWER.
   The governing body may make all ordinances, bylaws, rules, regulations, and
resolutions, not inconsistent with the laws of the state, as may be expedient
for maintaining the peace, good government, and welfare of the municipality and
its trade, commerce, and manufactories.
(Prior Code, § 1-701) (Ord. 635, passed 9-15-1997)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-505
§ 31.02 INTRODUCTION.
   Ordinances shall be introduced by members of the governing body in one of
the following ways:
   (A)   With the recognition of the Mayor, a member may, in the presence and
hearing of a majority of the members elected to the governing body, read aloud
the substance of the proposed ordinance and file a copy with the City Clerk for
future consideration; or
   (B)   With the recognition of the Mayor, a member may present the proposed
ordinance to the Clerk who, in the presence and hearing of a majority of the
members elected to the governing body, shall read aloud the substance of the
ordinance and file it for future consideration.
(Prior Code, § 1-702) (Ord. 636, passed 9-15-1997)
§ 31.03 RESOLUTIONS AND MOTIONS: PROCEDURE.
   Resolutions and motions shall be introduced in one of the methods prescribed
for the introduction of ordinances. After their introduction, they shall be
fully and distinctly read one time in the presence and hearing of a majority of
the members elected to the Council. The issue raised by said resolutions or
motions shall be disposed of in accordance with the usage of parliamentary law
adopted for the guidance of the Council. A majority vote shall be required to
pass any resolution or motion. The vote on any resolution or motion shall be by
roll call vote.
(Prior Code, § 1-703)
§ 31.04 STYLE OF ORDINANCES.
   The style of all municipal ordinances shall be: “Be it ordained by the Mayor
and Council of the City of Benkelman, Nebraska:”
(Prior Code, § 1-704)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-613
§ 31.05 TITLE OF ORDINANCES.
   No ordinance shall contain a subject not clearly expressed in its title.
(Prior Code, § 1-705)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-614
§ 31.06 ORDINANCES, RESOLUTIONS, ORDERS, BYLAWS; READING; PASSAGE.
   Ordinances of a general or permanent nature shall be read by title on three
different days unless three-fourths of the governing body vote to suspend this
requirement, except that such requirement shall not be suspended for any
ordinance for the annexation of territory. In case such requirement is
suspended, the ordinance shall be read by title and then moved for final
passage. Three-fourths of the governing body may require a reading of any
ordinance in full before enactment under either procedure set out in this
section. All ordinances and resolutions or orders for the appropriation or
payment of money shall require for their passage or adoption the concurrence of
a majority of all members elected to the governing body. On the passage or
adoption of every bylaw or ordinance, and every resolution or order to enter
into a contract by the governing body, the yeas and nays shall be called and
recorded. To pass or adopt any bylaw, ordinance, or any such resolution or
order, a concurrence of a majority of the whole number of members elected to
the governing body shall be required. All appointments of the officers by the
governing body shall be made viva voce; and the concurrence of a like majority
shall be required, and the names of those, and for whom they voted, on the vote
resulting in an appointment, shall be recorded. The requirements of a roll call
or viva voce vote shall be satisfied by a municipality which utilizes an
electronic voting device which allows the yeas and nays of each member of the
governing body to be readily seen by the public.
(Prior Code, § 1-706) (Ord. 599, passed 3-20-1995; Ord. 628, passed 9-15-1997)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-614, 17-616
§ 31.07 PUBLICATION OR POSTING OF ORDINANCES.
   All ordinances of a general nature shall, before they take effect, be
published one time, within 15 days after they are passed, in some newspaper
published in the municipality or, if no paper is published in the municipality,
then by posting a written or printed copy in each of three public places in the
municipality, or in book or pamphlet form.
(Prior Code, § 1-707) (Ord. 494, passed 10-17-1983; Ord. 629, passed 9-15-1997)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-613
§ 31.08 CERTIFICATE OF PUBLICATION; WHEN REQUIRED.
   The passage, approval, and publication or posting of all ordinances shall be
sufficiently proven by a certificate under the seal of the municipality from
the City Clerk showing that the said ordinance was passed and approved, and
when, and in what paper the same was published, or when, and by whom and where
the same was posted; provided, when ordinances are printed in book or pamphlet
form, the same need not be otherwise published and said certification under
seal by the City Clerk is not required.
(Prior Code, § 1-708) (Ord. 495, passed 10-17-1983)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-613
§ 31.09 AMENDMENTS AND REVISIONS.
   No ordinance or section thereof shall be revised or amended unless the new
ordinance contains the entire ordinance or section as revised or amended and
the ordinance or section so amended is repealed, except that an ordinance
revising all the ordinances of the municipality and modifications to zoning or
building districts may be adopted as otherwise provided by law.
(Prior Code, § 1-709) (Ord. 630, passed 9-15-1997)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-614
§ 31.10 EFFECTIVE DATE; EMERGENCY ORDINANCES.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (B) below, an ordinance for the
government of the municipality which has been adopted by the governing body
without submission to the voters of the municipality shall not go into effect
until 15 days after the passage of the ordinance.
   (B)   In the case of riot, infectious or contagious diseases, or other
impending danger, failure of a public utility, or any other emergency requiring
its immediate operation, an ordinance shall take effect upon the proclamation
of the Mayor and the posting thereof in at least three of the most public
places in the municipality. Such emergency ordinance shall recite the
emergency, be passed by a three-fourths vote of the governing body, and be
entered of record on the City Clerk’s minutes.
(Prior Code, § 1-710) (Ord. 631, passed 9-15-1997)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-613, 19-3701
CHAPTER 32: FISCAL MANAGEMENT
Section
   
32.01   Fiscal year
   
32.02   Public funds defined
   
32.03   Proposed budget statement; contents; availability; correction
   
32.04   Revision of budget
   
32.05   Fiscal management; proposed budget statement; hearing; adoption:
certification of tax amount
   
32.06   Adopted budget statement; filing; certification of amount of tax
   
32.07   Expenditures prior to adoption of budget
   
32.08   Fiscal management; budget procedure
   
32.09   Fiscal management; appropriations
   
32.10   Property tax; certification of amount
   
32.11   Expenditures
   
32.12   Fiscal management; contracts and purchases; bidding and other
requirements
   
32.13   Annual audit
   
32.14   Fiscal management; claims
   
32.15   Fiscal management; warrants
   
32.16   Transfer of funds
   
32.17   Special assessment fund
   
32.18   Sinking funds
   
32.19   General Fund
   
32.20   Fiscal management; deposit of funds
   
32.21   Certificates of deposit; time deposits; conditions
   
32.22   Investment of funds
   
32.23   Bond issues
   
32.24   Property tax levy; maximum; authority to exceed
   
32.25   Fiscal management; property tax levy and request; authority to set
   
32.26   Credit cards and electronic funds transfers; authority to accept
   
32.27   Fiscal management; sales and use tax
§ 32.01 FISCAL YEAR.
   The fiscal year of the municipality and any public utility of the
municipality commences on October 1 and extends through the following September
30 except as provided in the Municipal Proprietary Function Act, being Neb. RS
18-2801 through 18-2808.
(Prior Code, § 1-901) (Ord. 613, passed 2-19-1996)
§ 32.02 PUBLIC FUNDS DEFINED.
   PUBLIC FUNDS shall mean all money, including non-tax money, used in the
operation and functions of governing bodies. For purposes of a county, city, or
village which has a lottery established under the state’s County and City
Lottery Act, being Neb. RS 9-601 through 9-653, only those net proceeds which
are actually received by the county, city, or village from a licensed lottery
operator shall be considered public funds, and public funds shall not include
amounts awarded as prizes.
(Prior Code, § 1-901.01) (Ord. 600, passed 3-20-1995)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 13-503
§ 32.03 PROPOSED BUDGET STATEMENT; CONTENTS; AVAILABILITY; CORRECTION.
   (A)   The governing body shall annually prepare a proposed budget statement
on forms prescribed and furnished by the Auditor of Public Accounts. The
proposed budget statement shall be made available to the public prior to
publication of the notice of the hearing on the proposed budget statement. A
proposed budget statement shall contain the following information, except as
provided by state law:
      (1)   For the immediately preceding fiscal year, the revenue from all
sources, including motor vehicle taxes, other than revenue received from
personal and real property taxation, allocated to the funds and separately
stated as to each such source: the unencumbered cash balance at the beginning
and end of the year; the amount received by taxation of personal and real
property; and the amount of actual expenditures;
      (2)   For the current fiscal year, actual and estimated revenue from all
sources, including motor vehicle taxes, allocated to the funds and separately
stated as to each such source: the actual unencumbered cash balance available
at the beginning of the year; the amount received from personal and real
property taxation; and the amount of actual and estimated expenditures,
whichever is applicable. Such statement shall contain the cash reserve for each
fiscal year and shall note whether or not such reserve is encumbered. Such cash
reserve projections shall be based upon the actual experience of prior years.
The cash reserve shall not exceed 50% of the total budget adopted exclusive of
capital outlay items;
      (3)   For the immediately ensuing fiscal year, an estimate of revenue
from all sources, including motor vehicle taxes, other than revenue to be
received from taxation of personal and real property, separately stated as to
each such source: the actual or estimated unencumbered cash balances, whichever
is applicable, to be available at the beginning of the year; the amounts
proposed to be expended during the year; and the amount of cash reserve, based
on actual experience of prior years, which cash reserve shall not exceed 50% of
the total budget adopted exclusive of capital outlay items;
      (4)   A statement setting out separately the amount sought to be raised
from the levy of a tax on the taxable value of real property:
         (a)   For the purpose of paying the principal or interest on bonds
issued by the governing body; and
         (b)   For all other purposes.
      (5)   A uniform summary of the proposed budget statement, including each
proprietary function fund included in a separate proprietary budget statement
prepared pursuant to the Municipal Proprietary Function Act, and a grand total
of all funds maintained by the governing body; and
      (6)   A list of the proprietary functions which are not included in the
budget statement. Such proprietary functions shall have a separate budget
statement which is approved by the governing body as provided in the Municipal
Proprietary Function Act, being Neb. RS 18-2801 through 18-2808.
   (B)   The actual or estimated unencumbered cash balance required to be
included in the budget statement by this section shall include deposits and
investments of the municipality as well as any funds held by the County
Treasurer for the municipality and shall be accurately stated on the proposed
budget statement.
   (C)   The municipality shall correct any material errors in the budget
statement detected by the Auditor of Public Accounts or by other sources.
(Neb. RS 13-504)
   (D)   The estimated expenditures plus the required cash reserve for the
ensuing fiscal year less all estimated and actual unencumbered balances at the
beginning of the year and less the estimated income from all sources, including
motor vehicle taxes, other than taxation of personal and real property, shall
equal the amount to be received from taxes, and such amount shall be shown on
the proposed budget statement pursuant to this section. The amount to be raised
from taxation of personal and real property, as determined above, plus the
estimated revenue from other sources, including motor vehicle taxes, and the
unencumbered balances shall equal the estimated expenditures, plus the
necessary required cash reserve, for the ensuing year.
(Prior Code, § 1-902) (Ord. 651, passed 7-20-1998; Ord. 690, passed 9-17-2001;
Ord. 718, passed 1-19-2004)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 13-505
§ 32.04 REVISION OF BUDGET.
   (A)   Unless otherwise provided by law, the governing body may propose to
revise the previously adopted budget statement and shall conduct a public
hearing on such proposal whenever during the current fiscal year it becomes
apparent to the governing body that:
      (1)   There are circumstances which could not reasonably have been
anticipated at the time the budget for the current year was adopted;
      (2)   The budget adopted violated Neb. RS 13-518 through 13-522, such
that the revenue of the current fiscal year for any fund thereof will be
insufficient, additional expenses will be necessarily incurred, or there is a
need to reduce the budget requirements to comply with Neb. RS 13-518 through
13-522; or
      (3)   The governing body has been notified by the Auditor of Public
Accounts of a mathematical or accounting error or noncompliance with the
state’s Budget Act.
   (B)   Notice of the time and place of the hearing shall be published at
least five days prior to the date set for hearing in a newspaper of general
circulation within the municipality. Such published notice shall set forth:
      (1)   The time and place of the hearing;
      (2)   The amount in dollars of additional or reduced money required and
for what purpose;
      (3)   A statement setting forth the nature of the unanticipated
circumstances and, if the budget requirements are to be increased, the reasons
why the previously adopted budget of expenditures cannot be reduced during the
remainder of the current year to meet the need for additional money in that
manner;
      (4)   A copy of the summary of the originally adopted budget previously
published; and
      (5)   A copy of the summary of the proposed revised budget.
   (C)   At such hearing, any taxpayer may appear or file a written statement
protesting any application for additional money. A written record shall be kept
of all such hearings.
   (D)   Upon conclusion of the public hearing on the proposed revised budget
and approval of the proposed revised budget by the governing body, the
governing body shall file with the County Clerk of the county or counties in
which such governing body is located, and with the Auditor of Public Accounts,
a copy of the revised budget, as adopted. The governing body may then issue
warrants in payment for expenditures authorized by the adopted revised budget.
Such warrants shall be referred to as registered warrants and shall be repaid
during the next fiscal year from funds derived from taxes levied therefor.
   (E)   Within 30 days after the adoption of the budget under Neb. RS 13-506,
a governing body may, or within 30 days after notification of an error by the
Auditor of Public Accounts, a governing body shall correct an adopted budget
which contains a clerical, mathematical, or accounting error which does not
affect the total amount budgeted by more than 1% or increase the amount
required from property taxes. No public hearing shall be required for such a
correction. After correction, the governing body shall file a copy of the
corrected budget with the County Clerk of the county or counties in which such
governing body is located and with the Auditor of Public Accounts. The
governing body may then issue warrants in payment for expenditures authorized
by the budget.
(Prior Code, § 1-902.01) (Ord. 720, passed 1-19-2004)
§ 32.05 FISCAL MANAGEMENT; PROPOSED BUDGET STATEMENT; HEARING; ADOPTION:
CERTIFICATION OF TAX AMOUNT.
   (A)   The governing body shall each year conduct a public hearing on its
proposed budget statement. Notice of the place and time of the hearing,
together with a summary of the proposed budget statement, shall be published at
least five days prior to the date set for the hearing in a newspaper of general
circulation within the municipality.
   (B)   After the hearing, the proposed budget statement shall be adopted, or
amended and adopted as amended, and a written record shall be kept of such
hearing. The amount to be received from personal and real property taxation
shall be certified to the Levying Board after the proposed budget statement is
adopted or is amended and adopted as amended. The certification of the amount
to be received from personal and real property taxation shall specify
separately:
      (1)   The amount to be applied to the payment of principal or interest on
bonds issued by the governing body; and
      (2)   The amount to be received for all other purposes.
   (C)   If the adopted budget statement reflects a change from that shown in
the published proposed budget statement, a summary of such changes shall be
published within 20 days after its adoption in the manner provided in this
section, but without provision for hearing, setting forth the items changed and
the reasons for such changes.
(Neb. RS 13-506)
   (D)   When a levy increase has been authorized by vote of the electors, the
adopted budget statement shall indicate the amount of the levy increase.
(Prior Code, § 1-903) (Ord. 652, passed 7-20-1998; Ord. 719, passed 1-19-2004)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 13-507
§ 32.06 ADOPTED BUDGET STATEMENT; FILING; CERTIFICATION OF AMOUNT OF TAX.
   (A)   After publication and hearing on the proposed budget statement and
within the time prescribed by law, the governing body shall file with and
certify to the Levying Board on or before September 20 of each year and file
with the Auditor of Public Accounts, a copy of the adopted budget statement,
together with the amount of the tax required to fund the adopted budget,
setting out separately the amount to be levied for the payment of principal or
interest on bonds issued by the governing body and the amount to be levied for
all other purposes. Proof of publication shall be attached to the statements.
   (B)   The governing body, in certifying the amount required, may make
allowance for delinquent taxes not exceeding 5% of the amount required plus the
actual percentage of delinquent taxes for the preceding tax year and for the
amount of estimated tax loss from any pending or anticipated litigation which
involves taxation and in which tax collections have been or can be withheld or
escrowed by court order. For purposes of this section, anticipated litigation
shall be limited to the anticipation of an action being filed by a taxpayer who
or which filed a similar action for the preceding year which is still pending.
Except for such allowances, the governing body shall not certify an amount of
tax more than 1% greater or lesser than the amount determined in the proposed
budget statement.
   (C)   The governing body may designate one of its members to perform any
duty or responsibility required of such body by this section.
(Prior Code, § 1-904) (Ord. 614, passed 2-19-1996; Ord. 653, passed 7-20-2000)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 13-508
§ 32.07 EXPENDITURES PRIOR TO ADOPTION OF BUDGET.
   (A)   On and after the first day of its fiscal year in 1993 and of each
succeeding year and until the adoption of the budget by the governing body in
September, the governing body may expend any balance of cash on hand for the
current expenses of the municipality. Except as provided in division (B) below,
such expenditures shall not exceed an amount equivalent to the total amount
expended under the last budget in the equivalent period of the prior budget
year. Such expenditures shall be charged against the appropriations for each
individual fund or purpose as provided in the budget when adopted.
   (B)   The restriction on expenditures in division (A) above may be exceeded
upon the express finding of the governing body that expenditures beyond the
amount authorized are necessary to enable the municipality to meet its
statutory duties and responsibilities. The finding and approval of the
expenditures in excess of the statutory authorization shall be adopted by the
governing body in open public session. Expenditures authorized by this section
shall be charged against appropriations for each individual fund or purpose as
provided in the budget when adopted, and nothing in this section shall be
construed to authorize expenditures by the municipality in excess of that
authorized by any other statutory provision.
(Prior Code, § 1-904.01) (Ord. 601, passed 3-20-1995)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 13-509.01, 13-509.02
§ 32.08 FISCAL MANAGEMENT; BUDGET PROCEDURE.
   The Manual of Instructions for City/Village: Budgets, prepared by the
Auditor of Public Accounts, State Capitol, Lincoln, Nebraska 68509 is
incorporated by reference for the purpose of proper budget preparation.
(Prior Code, § 1-905)
§ 32.09 FISCAL MANAGEMENT; APPROPRIATIONS.
   The governing body shall adopt a budget statement pursuant to the state’s
Budget Act, being Neb. RS 13-501 through 13-513, to be termed “The Annual
Appropriation Bill”, in which are appropriated such sums of money as may be
deemed necessary to defray all necessary expenses and liabilities of the city.
(Prior Code, § 1-906) (Ord. 615, passed 2-19-1996)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-706
§ 32.10 PROPERTY TAX; CERTIFICATION OF AMOUNT.
   The governing body shall, at the time and in the manner provided by law,
cause to be certified to the County Clerk the amount of tax to be levied upon
the taxable value of all the taxable property of the municipality which the
municipality requires for the purposes of the adopted budget statement for the
ensuing year, including all special assessments and taxes assessed as otherwise
provided. Subject to Neb. RS 77-3442, the maximum amount of tax which may be so
certified, assessed, and collected shall not require a tax levy in excess of
the amounts specified in Neb. RS 17-702.
(Prior Code, § 1-907) (Ord. 654, passed 7-20-2000)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-702
§ 32.11 EXPENDITURES.
   No municipal official shall have the power to appropriate, issue, or draw
any order or warrant on the Municipal Treasury for money, unless the same has
been appropriated or ordered by ordinance. No expenditure for any improvement
to be paid for out of the General Fund of the municipality shall exceed in any
one year the amount provided for that improvement in the adopted budget
statement.
(Prior Code, § 1-908)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-708
§ 32.12 FISCAL MANAGEMENT; CONTRACTS AND PURCHASES; BIDDING AND OTHER
REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Except as provided in Neb. RS 18-412.01 for a contract with a public
power district to operate, renew, replace, or add to the electric distribution,
transmission, or generation system of the municipality, no contract for
enlargement or general improvements, such as water extensions, sewers, public
heating system, bridges, work on streets, or any other work or improvement when
the cost of such enlargement or improvement is assessed to the property,
costing over $20,000, shall be made unless it is first approved by the
governing body.
   (B)   Except as provided in Neb. RS 18-412.01, before the governing body
makes any contract in excess of $20,000 for enlargement or general
improvements, such as water extensions, sewers, public heating system, bridges,
work on streets, or any other work or improvement when the cost of such
enlargement or improvement is assessed to the property, an estimate of the cost
shall be made by the Municipal Engineer and submitted to the governing body. In
advertising for bids as provided in divisions (C) and (E) below, the governing
body may publish the amount of the estimate.
   (C)   Advertisements for bids shall be required for any contract costing
over $20,000 entered into for enlargement or general improvements, such as
water extensions, sewers, public heating system, bridges, work on streets, or
any other work or improvement when the cost of such enlargement or improvement
is assessed to the property, or for the purchase of equipment used in the
construction of such enlargement or general improvements.
   (D)   A municipal electric utility may enter into a contract for the
enlargement or improvement of the electric system or for the purchase of
equipment used for such enlargement or improvement without advertising for bids
if the price is:
      (1)   Twenty thousand dollars or less;
      (2)   Forty thousand dollars or less and the municipal electric utility
has gross annual revenue from retail sales in excess of $1,000,000;
      (3)   Sixty thousand dollars or less and the municipal electric utility
has gross annual revenue from retail sales in excess of $5,000,000; or
      (4)   Eighty thousand dollars or less and the municipal electric utility
has gross annual revenue from retail sales in excess of $10,000,000.
   (E)   The advertisement provided for in division (C) above shall be
published at least seven days prior to the bid closing in a legal newspaper
published in or of general circulation in the municipality and, if there is no
legal newspaper published in or of general circulation in the municipality,
then in some newspaper of general circulation published in the county in which
the municipality is located, and if there is no legal newspaper of general
circulation published in the county in which the municipality is located, then
in a newspaper, designated by the County Board, having a general circulation
within the county where bids are required, and if no newspaper is published in
the municipality or county, or if no newspaper has general circulation in the
county, then by posting a written or printed copy thereof in each of three
public places in the municipality at least seven days prior to the bid closing.
In case of a public emergency resulting from infectious or contagious diseases,
destructive windstorms, floods, snow, war, or an exigency or pressing necessity
or unforeseen need calling for immediate action or remedy to prevent a serious
loss of, or serious injury or damage to, life, health, or property, estimates
of costs and advertising for bids may be waived in the emergency ordinance
authorized by Neb. RS 17-613 when adopted by a three-fourths vote of the
governing body and entered of record.
   (F)   If, after advertising for bids as provided in this section, the
governing body receives fewer than two bids on a contract or if the bids
received by the governing body contain a price which exceeds the estimated
cost, the Mayor and City Council may negotiate a contract in an attempt to
complete the proposed enlargement or general improvements at a cost
commensurate with the estimate given.
   (G)   If the materials are of such a nature that, in the opinion of the
manufacturer and with the concurrence of the governing body, no cost can be
estimated until the materials have been manufactured or assembled to the
specific qualifications of the purchasing municipality, the governing body may
authorize the manufacture and assemblage of such materials and may thereafter
approve the estimated cost expenditure when it is provided by the manufacturer.
   (H)   Any municipal bidding procedure may be waived by the governing body
when materials or equipment are purchased at the same price and from the same
seller as materials or equipment which have formerly been obtained pursuant to
the state bidding procedure in Neb. RS 81-145 through 81-162 or when the
contract is negotiated directly with a sheltered workshop pursuant to Neb. RS
48-1503.
   (I)   Notwithstanding any other provisions of law or a home rule charter, a
municipality which has established, by an interlocal agreement with any county,
a joint purchasing division or agency may purchase personal property without
competitive bidding if the price for the property has been established by the
Federal General Services Administration or the material division of the
Department of Administrative Services. For purposes of this division (I):
      (1)   PERSONAL PROPERTY includes, but is not limited to, supplies,
materials, and equipment used by or furnished to any officer, office,
department, institution, board, or other agency; and
      (2)   PURCHASING or PURCHASE means the obtaining of personal property by
sale, lease, or other contractual means.
(Prior Code, § 1-909) (Ord. 497, passed 12-19-1983; Ord. 659, passed 8-17-1998)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-568.01, 17-568.02, 18-1756
§ 32.13 ANNUAL AUDIT.
   (A)   The governing body shall cause an audit of the municipal accounts to
be made by a qualified accountant as expeditiously as possible following the
close of the fiscal year. The said audit shall be completed, and the annual
audit report made not later than six months after the close of the fiscal year.
The accountant making the audit shall submit not less than three copies of the
audit report to the governing body.
   (B)   All public utilities shall be audited separately, and the results of
such audits shall appear separately in the annual audit report. The audit shall
be in a form that is in general conformity with accepted accounting principles
and shall set forth the financial position for each fund of the municipality as
well as an opinion by the accountant with respect to the financial statements.
   (C)   Two copies of the annual audit report shall be filed with the City
Clerk, and shall become a part of the public records of the City Clerk’s
office, and will at all times thereafter, be open for public inspection. One
copy shall be filed with the Auditor of Public Accounts; provided, that all
villages of 400 population or less shall cause an audit once every three years.
(Prior Code, § 1-910)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 19-2901 through 19-2909
§ 32.14 FISCAL MANAGEMENT; CLAIMS.
   All claims against the municipality shall be presented to the governing body
in writing with a full account of the items, and no claim or demand shall be
audited or allowed unless presented as provided for in this section. No costs
shall be recovered against the municipality in any action brought against it
for an unliquidated claim which has not been presented to the governing body to
be audited, nor upon claims allowed in part, unless the recovery shall be for a
greater sum than the amount allowed, with the interest due. No order or warrant
shall be drawn in excess of 85% of the current levy for the purpose for which
it is drawn unless there shall be sufficient money in the municipal treasury
for the appropriate fund against which it is to be drawn; provided, that in the
event there exists obligated funds from the federal and/or state government for
the general purpose of such warrant, then such warrant may be drawn in excess
of 85%, but not more than 100%, of the current levy for the purpose for which
said warrant is drawn.
(Prior Code, § 1-911)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-714, 17-715
§ 32.15 FISCAL MANAGEMENT; WARRANTS.
   All warrants drawn upon the municipal treasury must be signed by the Mayor
and countersigned by the City Clerk, stating the particular fund to which the
warrant is chargeable, the person to whom it is payable, and the purpose of the
expenditure. No money shall be otherwise paid than upon warrants so drawn. Each
warrant shall specify the amount included in the adopted budget statement for
the fund upon which it is drawn, and the amount already expended of such fund.
(Prior Code, § 1-912)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-711
§ 32.16 TRANSFER OF FUNDS.
   The governing body may, whenever during the current fiscal year it becomes
apparent due to unforeseen emergencies that there is temporarily insufficient
money in a particular fund to meet the requirements of the adopted budget of
expenditures for that fund, by a majority vote transfer money from other funds
to such fund. No expenditure during any fiscal year shall be made in excess of
the amounts indicated in the adopted budget statement, except as authorized
herein. If, as the result of unforeseen circumstances, the revenue of the
current fiscal year shall be insufficient, the governing body may propose to
supplement the previously adopted budget statement and shall conduct a public
hearing at which time any taxpayer may appear, or file a written statement
protesting the application for additional money. A written record shall be kept
of all such hearings. Notice of a place and time for the said hearing shall be
published at least five days prior to the date set for the hearing in a
newspaper of general circulation in the municipality. The published notice
shall set forth the time and place of the proposed hearing, the amount of
additional money required, the purpose of the required money, a statement
setting forth the reasons why the adopted budget of expenditures cannot be
reduced to meet the need for additional money, and a copy of the summary of the
originally adopted budget previously published. Upon the conclusion of the
public hearing on the proposed supplemental budget, and the approval by the
governing body, the governing body shall file with the County Clerk and the
State Auditor a copy of the supplemental budget, and shall certify the amount
of additional tax to be levied. The governing body may then issue warrants in
payment for expenditures authorized by the adopted supplemental budget. The
said warrants shall be referred to as “registered warrants”, and shall be
repaid during the next fiscal year from funds derived from taxes levied
therefor.
(Prior Code, § 1-913)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 13-510, 13-511
§ 32.17 SPECIAL ASSESSMENT FUND.
   All money received on special tax assessments shall be held by the Municipal
Treasurer as a special fund to be applied to the payment of the improvement for
which the assessment was made, and such money shall be used for no other
purpose unless to reimburse the municipality for money expended for any such
improvement.
(Prior Code, § 1-914)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-710
§ 32.18 SINKING FUNDS.
   The governing body, subject to the limitations set forth herein, shall have
the power to levy a tax not to exceed that prescribed by state law upon the
assessed value of all taxable property within the municipality for a term not
to exceed that prescribed by state law in addition to the amount of tax which
may be annually levied for the purposes of the adopted budget statement of the
municipality, for the purpose of establishing a sinking fund for the
construction, purchase, improvement, extension, or repair of the approved uses
as authorized by state law. To initiate the said sinking fund, the governing
body shall declare its purpose by resolution to submit to the qualified
electors of the municipality the proposition to provide the improvement at the
next general municipal election. The resolution shall set forth the
improvement, the estimated cost, the amount of the annual levy, the number of
years required to provide the required revenue, the name of the sinking fund
proposed, and the proposition as it will appear on the ballot. Notice of the
said proposition shall be published in its entirety three times on successive
weeks before the day of the election in a legal newspaper of general
circulation in the municipality. The sinking fund may be established after the
election if a majority, or more of the legal votes were in favor of the
establishment of the fund. The governing body may then proceed to establish the
said fund in conformity with the provisions of the proposition and applicable
state law. The funds received by the Municipal Treasurer shall, as they
accumulate, be immediately invested with the written approval of the governing
body in the manner provided by state law. No sinking fund so established shall
be used for any purpose or purposes contrary to the purpose as it appeared on
the ballot unless the governing body is authorized to do so by 60% of the
qualified electors of the municipality voting at a general election favoring
such a change in the use of the sinking fund.
(Prior Code, § 1-915)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 19-1301 through 19-1304, 77-2337, 77-2339
§ 32.19 GENERAL FUND.
   All money not specifically appropriated in the annual appropriation bill
shall be deposited in and known as the General Fund.
(Prior Code, § 1-916)
§ 32.20 FISCAL MANAGEMENT; DEPOSIT OF FUNDS.
   (A)   The City Treasurer shall deposit, and at all times keep on deposit,
for safekeeping, in banks, capital stock financial institutions, or qualifying
mutual financial institutions of approved and responsible standing, all money
collected, received, or held by him or her as City Treasurer. Such deposits
shall be subject to all regulations imposed by law or adopted by the City
Council for the receiving and holding thereof. The fact that a stockholder,
director, or other officer of such bank, capital stock financial institution,
or qualifying mutual financial institution is also serving as Mayor, as a
member of the City Council, or as any other officer of the city shall not
disqualify such bank, capital stock financial institution, or qualifying mutual
financial institution from acting as a depository for such municipal funds.
   (B)   The City Council shall require from all banks, capital stock financial
institutions, or qualifying mutual financial institutions a bond in such penal
sum as may be the maximum amount on deposit at any time less the amount insured
by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation or, in lieu thereof, security
given as provided in the Public Funds Deposit Security Act, being Neb. RS 77-
2386 through 77-23,108 to secure the payment of all such deposits and
accretions. The City Council shall approve such bond or giving of security. The
City Treasurer shall not be liable for any loss of any money sustained by
reason of the failure of any such depository so designated and approved.
(Neb. RS 17-607)
   (C)   The insurance afforded to depositors in banks, capital stock financial
institutions, or qualifying mutual financial institutions through the Federal
Deposit Insurance Corporation shall be deemed and construed to be a surety bond
to the extent that the deposits are insured by such corporation, and for
deposits so insured, no other surety bond or other security shall be required.
(Neb. RS 77-2362)
   (D)   Neb. RS 77-2366 shall apply to deposits in capital stock financial
institutions. Neb. RS 77-2365.01 shall apply to deposits in qualifying mutual
financial institutions.
(Neb. RS 17-607, 77-2362)
(Prior Code, § 1-917) (Ord. 657, passed 8-17-1998; Ord. 723, passed 1-19-2004;
Ord. 731, passed 6-21-2004)
§ 32.21 CERTIFICATES OF DEPOSIT; TIME DEPOSITS; CONDITIONS.
   (A)   The Municipal Treasurer may, upon resolution of the Mayor and City
Council authorizing the same, purchase certificates of deposit from and make
time deposits in any bank or capital stock financial institution in the state
to the extent that such certificates of deposit or time deposits are insured by
the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation. Deposits may be made in excess of
the amounts so secured by the corporation, and the amount of the excess deposit
shall be secured by a bond or by security given in the manner provided in this
section. The provisions of Neb. RS 77-2366 shall apply to deposits in capital
stock financial institutions.
   (B)   For the security of the fund so deposited, the Municipal Treasurer
shall require each depository to give bond for the safekeeping and payment of
such deposits and the accretions thereof, which bond shall run to the
municipality and be approved by the Mayor. The bond shall be conditioned that
such a depository shall, at the end of every quarter, render to the Treasurer a
statement in duplicate, showing the several daily balances, the amount of money
of the municipality held by it during the quarter, the amount of the accretion
thereto, and how credited. The bond shall also be conditioned that the
depository shall generally do and perform whatever may be required by the
provisions of this section and all regulations imposed by law or adopted by the
governing body for the receiving and holding thereof and shall faithfully
discharge the trust reposed in the depository. The bond shall be as nearly as
practicable in the form provided in Neb. RS 77-2304. No person in any way
connected with any depository as an officer or stockholder shall be accepted as
a surety on any bond given by the depository of which he or she is an officer
or stockholder. The bond shall be deposited with the City Clerk.
   (C)   In lieu of the bond required by division (B) above, any bank or
capital stock financial institution making application to become a depository
may give security as provided in the Public Funds Deposit Security Act, being
Neb. RS 77-2386 through 77-23,108 to the City Clerk. The penal sum of such bond
shall be equal to or greater than the amount of the deposit in excess of that
portion of such deposit insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation.
   (D)   The Treasurer shall not have on deposit in any bank or capital stock
financial institution at any time more than the amount insured by the Federal
Deposit Insurance Corporation plus the maximum amount of the bond given by the
bank or capital stock financial institution if the bank or capital stock
financial institution gives a surety bond, nor in any bank or capital stock
financial institution giving a personal bond, more than the amount insured by
the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation plus one-half of the amount of the
bond of such bank or capital stock financial institution, and the amount so on
deposit any time with any such bank or capital stock financial institution
shall not in either case exceed the amount insured by the Federal Deposit
Insurance Corporation plus the paid-up capital stock and surplus of such bank
or capital stock financial institution. The Treasurer shall not be liable for
any loss sustained by reason of the failure of any such bonded depository whose
bond has been duly approved by the Mayor as provided in division (B) above or
which has, in lieu of a surety bond, given security as provided in division (C)
above.
(Prior Code, § 1-917.01) (Ord. 658, passed 8-17-1998)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-720, 16-714 through 16-716
§ 32.22 INVESTMENT OF FUNDS.
   The governing body may, by resolution, direct and authorize the Municipal
Treasurer to invest surplus funds in the outstanding bonds or registered
warrants of the municipality, and other approved bonds and obligations as
provided by law. The interest on such bonds or warrants shall be credited to
the fund out of which the said bonds or warrants were purchased.
(Prior Code, § 1-918)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-608, 17-609, 77-2341
§ 32.23 BOND ISSUES.
   The governing body may, after meeting all the requirements of state law,
issue bonds, fund bonds, and retire bonds for such purposes as may be permitted
by state law. The governing body shall have the authority to levy special
assessments for the payment of interest and principal on such bonds, and may
spread the payments up to the maximum number of years permitted by state law.
(Prior Code, § 1-919)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 10-209 through 10-411, 10-606 through 10-
617, 12-1001, 17-529.01, 17-529.08, 17-534, 17-905, 17-908, 17-911, 17-939, 17-
958, 17-968, 18-1801 through 18-1805, 23-343.13, 39-836
§ 32.24 PROPERTY TAX LEVY; MAXIMUM; AUTHORITY TO EXCEED.
   (A)   Property tax levies for the support of the city for fiscal years
beginning on or after July 1, 1998, shall be limited to the amounts set forth
in this division (A), except as provided in division (C) below. The city may
levy a maximum levy of $0.45 per $100 of taxable valuation of property subject
to the levy plus an additional $0.05 per $100 of taxable valuation to provide
financing for the city’s share of revenue required under an agreement or
agreements executed pursuant to the Interlocal Cooperation Act, being Neb. RS
13-801 through 13-827 or the Joint Public Agency Act, being Neb. RS 13-2501
through 13-2550. The maximum levy shall include amounts levied to pay for sums
to support a library pursuant to Neb. RS 51-201; museum pursuant to Neb. RS 51-
501; visiting community nurse, home health nurse, or home health agency
pursuant to Neb. RS 71-1637; or statue, memorial, or monument pursuant to Neb.
RS 80-202. Property tax levies for judgments, except judgments or orders from
the Commission of Industrial Relations, obtained against the city which require
or obligate the city to pay such judgment, to the extent such judgment is not
paid by liability insurance coverage of the city, for preexisting lease-
purchase contracts approved prior to July 1, 1998, for bonded indebtedness
approved according to law and secured by a levy on property, and for payments
by a public airport to retire interest-free loans from the Department of
Aeronautics in lieu of bonded indebtedness at a lower cost to the public
airport are not included in the levy limits established by this division (A).
The limitations on tax levies provided in this division (A) are to include all
other general or special levies provided by law. Notwithstanding other
provisions of law, the only exceptions to the limits in this division (A) are
those provided by or authorized by this section. Tax levies in excess of the
limitations in this section shall be considered unauthorized levies under Neb.
RS 77-1606 unless approved under division (C) below.
(Neb. RS 77-3442)
   (B)   (1)   All city airport authorities established under the Cities
Airport Authorities Act, being Neb. RS 3-501 through 3-514, community
redevelopment authorities established under the Community Development Law,
being Neb. RS 18-2101 through 18-2154, and off-street parking districts
established under the Off-Street Parking District Act, being Neb. RS 19-3301
through 19-3326 may be allocated property taxes as authorized by law which are
authorized by the city and are counted in the municipal levy limit provided by
division (A) above, except that such limitation shall not apply to property tax
levies for preexisting lease-purchase contracts approved prior to July 1, 1998,
for bonded indebtedness approved according to law and secured by a levy on
property, and for payments by a public airport to retire interest-free loans
from the Department of Aeronautics in lieu of bonded indebtedness at a lower
cost to the public airport. For off-street parking districts established under
the Off-Street Parking District Act, being Neb. RS 19-3301 through 19-3326, the
tax shall be counted in the allocation by the city proportionately, by dividing
the total taxable valuation of the taxable property within the district by the
total taxable valuation of the taxable property within the city multiplied by
the levy of the district. The City Council shall review and approve or
disapprove the levy request of the political subdivisions subject to this
division (B). The City Council may approve all or a portion of the levy request
and may approve a levy request that would allow a levy greater than that
permitted by law. The levy allocated by the city may be exceeded as provided in
division (C) below.
      (2)   On or before August 1, all political subdivisions subject to
municipal levy authority under this division (B) shall submit a preliminary
request for levy allocation to the City Council. The preliminary request of the
political subdivision shall be in the form of a resolution adopted by a
majority vote of members present of the political subdivision’s governing body.
The failure of a political subdivision to make a preliminary request shall
preclude such political subdivision from using procedures set forth in Neb. RS
77-3444 to exceed the final levy allocation as determined in this division (B).
      (3)   (a)   The City Council shall:
            1.   Adopt a resolution by a majority vote of members present which
determines a final allocation of levy authority to its political subdivisions;
and
            2.   Forward a copy of such resolution to the chairperson of the
governing body of each of its political subdivisions.
         (b)   No final levy allocation shall be changed after September 1
except by agreement between both the City Council and the governing body of the
political subdivision whose final levy allocation is at issue.
(Neb. RS 77-3443)
   (C)   (1)   The city may exceed the limits provided in division (A) above by
an amount not to exceed a maximum levy approved by a majority of registered
voters voting on the issue in a primary, general, or special election at which
the issue is placed before the registered voters. A vote to exceed the limits
must be approved prior to October 10 of the fiscal year which is to be the
first to exceed the limits.
      (2)   The City Council may call for the submission of the issue to the
voters:
         (a)   By passing a resolution calling for exceeding the limits by a
vote of at least two-thirds of the members of the City Council and delivering a
copy of the resolution to the County Clerk or Election Commissioner of every
county which contains all or part of the city; or
         (b)   Upon receipt of a petition by the County Clerk or Election
Commissioner of every county containing all or part of the city requesting an
election signed by at least 5% of the registered voters residing in the city.
      (3)   The resolution or petition shall include the amount of levy which
would be imposed in excess of the limits provided in division (A) above and the
duration of the excess levy authority. The excess levy authority shall not have
a duration greater than five years. Any resolution or petition calling for a
special election shall be filed with the County Clerk or Election Commissioner
no later than 30 days prior to the date of the election, and the time of
publication and providing a copy of the notice of election required in Neb. RS
32-802 shall be no later than 20 days prior to the election.
      (4)   The County Clerk or Election Commissioner shall place the issue on
the ballot at an election as called for in the resolution or petition which is
at least 30 days after receipt of the resolution or petition. The election
shall be held pursuant to the Election Act, being Neb. RS 32-101 through 32-
1551 . For petitions filed with the County Clerk or Election Commissioner on or
after May 1, 1998, the petition shall be in the form as provided in Neb. RS 32-
628 through 32-631.
      (5)   Any excess levy authority approved under this division (C) shall
terminate pursuant to its terms, on a vote of the City Council to terminate the
authority to levy more than the limits, at the end of the fourth fiscal year
following the first year in which the levy exceeded the limit, or as provided
in division (C)(8) below, whichever is earliest.
      (6)   The City Council may pass no more than one resolution calling for
an election pursuant to this division (C) during any one calendar year. Only
one election may be held in any one calendar year pursuant to a petition
initiated under this division (C). The ballot question may include any terms
and conditions set forth in the resolution or petition and shall include the
language specified in Neb. RS 77-3444.
      (7)   If a majority of the votes cast upon the ballot question are in
favor of such tax, the County Board shall authorize a tax in excess of the
limits in division (A) above, but such tax shall not exceed the amount stated
in the ballot question. If a majority of those voting on the ballot question
are opposed to such tax, the City Council shall not impose such tax.
      (8)   (a)   The city may rescind or modify a previously approved excess
levy authority prior to its expiration by a majority of registered voters
voting on the issue in a primary, general, or special election at which the
issue is placed before the registered voters. A vote to rescind or modify must
be approved prior to October 10 of the fiscal year for which it is to be
effective.
         (b)   The City Council may call for the submission of the issue to the
voters:
            1.   By passing a resolution calling for the rescission or
modification by a vote of at least two-thirds of the members of the City
Council and delivering a copy of the resolution to the County Clerk or Election
Commissioner of every county which contains all or part of the city; or
            2.   Upon request of a petition by the County Clerk or Election
Commissioner of every county containing all or part of the city requesting an
election signed by at least 5% of the registered voters residing in the city.
         (c)   The resolution or petition shall include the amount and the
duration of the previously approved excess levy authority and a statement that
either such excess levy authority will be rescinded or such excess levy
authority will be modified. If the excess levy authority will be modified, the
amount and duration of such modification shall be stated. The modification
shall not have a duration greater than five years. The County Clerk or Election
Commissioner shall place the issue on the ballot at an election as called for
in the resolution or petition which is at least 30 days after receipt of the
resolution or petition, and the time of publication and providing a copy of the
notice of election required in Neb. RS 32-802 shall be no later than 20 days
prior to the election. The election shall be held pursuant to the Election Act,
being Neb. RS 32-101 through 32-1551.
(Neb. RS 77-5444)
(Prior Code, § 1-920) (Ord. 655, passed 7-20-1998; Ord. 694, passed 11-19-2001;
Ord. 721, passed 1-19-2004)
§ 32.25 FISCAL MANAGEMENT; PROPERTY TAX LEVY AND REQUEST; AUTHORITY TO SET.
   (A)   The property tax request for the prior year shall be the property tax
request for the current year for purposes of the levy set by the County Board
of Equalization in Neb. RS 77-1601 unless the City Council passes by a majority
vote a resolution or ordinance setting the tax request at a different amount.
Such resolution or ordinance shall only be passed after a special public
hearing called for such purpose is held and after notice is published in a
newspaper of general circulation in the area of the municipality at least five
days prior to the hearing.
   (B)   The hearing notice shall contain the following information:
      (1)   The dollar amount of the prior year’s tax request and the property
tax rate that was necessary to fund that tax request;
      (2)   The property tax rate that would be necessary to fund last year’s
tax request if applied to the current year’s valuation; and
      (3)   The proposed dollar amount of the tax request for the current year
and the property tax rate that will be necessary to fund that tax request.
   (C)   Any resolution setting a tax request under this section shall be
certified and forwarded to the County Clerk prior to October 14 of the year for
which the tax request is to apply.
   (D)   Any tax levy which is not in compliance with this section and Neb. RS
77-1601 shall be construed as an unauthorized levy under Neb. RS 77-1606.
(Prior Code, § 1-921) (Ord. 656, passed 7-20-1998; Ord. 695, passed 11-19-2001)
Statutory provisions:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 77-1601.02
§ 32.26 CREDIT CARDS AND ELECTRONIC FUNDS TRANSFERS; AUTHORITY TO ACCEPT.
   (A)   The governing body may authorize municipal officials to accept credit
cards, charge cards, or debit cards, whether presented in person or
electronically, or electronic funds transfers as a method of cash payment of
any tax, levy, excise, duty, custom, toll, interest, penalty, fine, license,
fee, or assessment of whatever kind or nature, whether general or special, as
provided by Neb. RS 77-1702.
   (B)   The total amount of such taxes, levies, excises, duties, customs,
tolls, interest, penalties, fines, licenses, fees, or assessments of whatever
kind or nature, whether general or special, paid for by credit card, charge
card, debit card, or electronic funds transfer shall be collected by the
municipal official.
   (C)   With respect to a facility which it operates in a proprietary
capacity, the governing body may choose to accept credit cards, charge cards,
or debit cards, whether presented in person or electronically, or electronic
funds transfers as a means of cash payment and may adjust the price for
services to reflect the handling and payment costs.
   (D)   The municipal official shall obtain, for each transaction,
authorization for use of any credit card, charge card, or debit card used
pursuant to this section from the financial institution, vending service
company, credit card or charge card company, or third-party merchant bank
providing such service.
   (E)   The governing body may choose to participate in the state contract for
such payment services. If the governing body chooses not to participate in the
state contract, it may choose types of credit cards, charge cards, and debit
cards and may negotiate and contract independently or collectively as a
governmental entity with one or more financial institutions, vending service
companies, credit card, charge card, or debit card companies, or third-party
merchant banks for the provision of such services.
   (F)   When authorizing acceptance of credit card or charge card payments,
the governing body shall be authorized but not required to impose a surcharge
or convenience fee upon the person making a payment by credit card or charge
card so as to wholly or partially offset the amount of any discount or
administrative fees charged to the municipality, but the surcharge or
convenience fee shall not exceed the surcharge or convenience fee imposed by
the credit card or charge card companies or third-party merchant banks which
have contracted with the state or under division (E) above. The surcharge or
convenience fee shall be applied only when allowed by the operating rules and
regulations of the credit card or charge card involved or when authorized in
writing by the credit card or charge card company involved. When a person
elects to make a payment to the municipality by credit card or charge card and
such a surcharge or convenience fee is imposed, the payment of such surcharge
or convenience fee shall be deemed voluntary by such person and shall be in no
case refundable. If a payment is made electronically by credit card, charge
card, debit card, or electronic funds transfer as part of a system for
providing or retrieving information electronically, the municipal official
shall be authorized but not required to impose an additional surcharge or
convenience fee upon the person making a payment.
   (G)   For purposes of this section, ELECTRONIC FUNDS TRANSFER means the
movement of funds by non-paper means, usually through a payment system,
including, but not limited to, an automated clearinghouse or the Federal
Reserve’s Fedwire system.
(Prior Code, § 1-922) (Ord. 660, passed 8-17-1998; Ord. 722, passed 1-19-2004)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 13-609
§ 32.27 FISCAL MANAGEMENT; SALES AND USE TAX.
   (A)   Pursuant to the approval of the electors of the city, at the general
election held on November 4, 2008, there is hereby adopted a sales and use tax
to be effective on and after April 1, 2009, of 1.5% upon the same transactions
within the corporate limits of the city on which the state is authorized to
impose a tax pursuant to the provisions of Neb. RS 77-2701 et seq., as amended
from time to time.
   (B)   The administration of the sales and use tax imposed by this section,
the making of returns for the ascertainment and assessment, the provision for
tax claims and remedies, the laws governing consummation of sales, penalties,
and collection, and the disposition and distribution of the taxes so imposed
and collected shall be as provided by Neb. RS 77-2701 et seq., and including
Neb. RS 77-27,142 et seq., as amended, said latter statutes being known as the
Local Option Revenue Act, being Neb. RS 77-27,142 through 77-27,148, and
pursuant to the conditions contained in the ballot language, that being that
the purpose of the tax is to establish an Improvement Fund to assist in the
replacement and repair of streets and sidewalks, infrastructure consisting of
water and wastewater mains and lines, water source development, water wells and
storage, and public lighting of streets and highways within the city limits for
any of the aforementioned infrastructure improvements.
   (C)   The City Clerk shall mail a certified copy of this section, a
certified copy of a map of the city, clearly showing the boundaries of the city
and a certified copy of the election results to the state’s Department of
Revenue immediately after the passage of this section, and at least 120 days
prior to April 1, 2009.
   (D)   The sales and use tax imposed herein shall continue until a period of
15 years from the effective date has expired, and the state’s Tax Commissioner
shall be notified thereof pursuant to Neb. RS 77-27,143, as amended.
(Prior Code, § 1-923) (Ord. 753, passed 11-17-2008)
CHAPTER 33: INITIATIVE AND REFERENDUM
Section
   
33.01   Definitions
   
33.02   Petitions, ballots
   
33.03   Petition, form
   
33.04   Declaratory judgment
   
33.05   Signature sheets
   
33.06   Petitions, affidavit
   
33.07   Petitions, notification
   
33.08   Frequency of occurrence
   
33.09   Direct vote
   
33.10   Elections
   
33.11   Ballots
   
33.12   Initiative
   
33.13   Referendum limitations
   
33.14   Referendum, passage
   
33.15   Applicability
 
   
33.99   Penalty
§ 33.01 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   The powers of initiative and referendum are reserved to the qualified
electors of the municipality by state law. This chapter shall govern the use of
initiative to enact, and the use of referendum to amend or repeal measures
affecting the governance of the municipality.
   (b)   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      CIRCULATOR. Any person who solicits signatures for an initiative or
referendum petition.
      CLERK. The City Clerk or the municipal official in charge of elections.
      GOVERNING BODY. The legislative authority of the municipality.
      MEASURE. An ordinance, charter provision, or resolution which is within
the legislative authority of the governing body to pass, and which is not
excluded from the operation of referendum by the exceptions in §
33.13.
      MUNICIPALITY. The City of Benkelman, Nebraska.
      PETITION. A document authorized for circulation pursuant to §
33.02, or any copy of such document.
      PROSPECTIVE PETITION. A sample document containing the information
necessary for a completed petition, including a sample signature sheet, which
has not yet been authorized for circulation.
      QUALIFIED ELECTORS. All persons registered to vote, at the time the
prospective petition is filed, in the jurisdiction governed or to be governed
by any measure sought to be enacted by initiative, or altered or repealed by
referendum.
      SIGNATURE SHEET. A sheet of paper which is part of a petition and which
is signed by persons wishing to support the petition effort.
(Prior Code, § 1-1101)
§ 33.02 PETITIONS, BALLOTS.
   (A)   Before circulating an initiative or referendum petition, the
petitioner shall file with the Clerk a prospective petition. The Clerk shall
date the prospective petition immediately upon its receipt. The Clerk shall
verify that the prospective petition is in proper form and shall provide a
ballot title for the initiative or referendum proposal, as described below. If
the prospective petition is in proper form, the Clerk shall authorize the
circulation of the petition and such authorization shall be given within three
working days from the date the prospective petition was filed. If the form of
the prospective petition is incorrect, the Clerk shall, within three working
days from the date the prospective petition was filed, inform the petitioner of
necessary changes and request that those changes be made. When the requested
changes have been made and the revised prospective petition has been submitted
to the Clerk in proper form, the Clerk shall authorize the circulation of the
petition and such authorization shall be given within two working days from the
receipt of the properly revised petition. Verification by the Clerk that the
prospective petition is in proper form does not constitute an admission by the
Clerk, governing body, or municipality that the measure is subject to
referendum or limited referendum or that the measure may be enacted by
initiative.
   (B)   The ballot title of any measure to be initiated or referred shall
consist of:
      (1)   A briefly-worded caption by which the measure is commonly known or
which accurately summarizes the measure;
      (2)   A briefly-worded question which plainly states the purpose of the
measure, and is phrased so that an affirmative response to the question
corresponds to an affirmative vote on the measure; and
      (3)   A concise and impartial statement, of not more than 75 words, of
the chief purpose of the measure.
   (C)   The ballots used when voting on an initiative or referendum proposal
shall contain the entire ballot title. Proposals for initiative and referendum
shall be submitted on separate ballots and the ballots shall be printed in
lower case ten point type, except that the caption shall be in black face. All
initiative and referendum measures shall be submitted in a nonpartisan manner
without indicating or suggesting on the ballot that they have or have not been
approved or endorsed by any political party or organization. (Prior Code, § 1-
1102)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 18-2512, 18-2513
§ 33.03 PETITION, FORM.
   (A)   The forms designed by the Secretary of State to be used for initiative
and referendum petitions shall be made available to the public by the City
Clerk, and they shall serve as a guide for individuals preparing prospective
petitions. Substantial compliance with initiative and referendum forms is
required before authorization to circulate such petition shall be granted by
the City Clerk. Chief petitioners or circulators preparing prospective
petitions shall be responsible for making copies of the petition for
circulation after authorization for circulation has been granted.
(Neb. RS 18-2514)
   (B)   Each petition presented for signature must be identical to the
petition authorized for circulation by the City Clerk. Every petition shall
contain the name and place of residence of not more than three persons as chief
petitioners or sponsors of the measure. The chief petitioners or sponsors shall
be qualified electors of the municipality potentially affected by the
initiative or referendum proposal. Every petition shall contain the caption and
the statement specified to be part of the ballot title. When a special election
is being requested, such fact shall be stated on every petition.
(Prior Code, § 1-1103) (Ord. 736, passed 8-16-2004)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 18-2515
§ 33.04 DECLARATORY JUDGMENT.
   (A)   The city or any chief petitioner may seek a declaratory judgment
regarding any questions arising under this chapter, as it may be from time to
time amended, including, but not limited to, determining whether a measure is
subject to referendum or limited referendum or whether a measure may be enacted
by initiative. If a chief petitioner seeks a declaratory judgment, the city
shall be served by personal, residence, or certified mail service upon the
chief executive officer or City Clerk. If the city seeks a declaratory
judgment, only the chief petitioner or chief petitioners shall be required to
be served.
   (B)   Any action brought for declaratory judgment for purposes of
determining whether a measure is subject to limited referendum or referendum,
or whether a measure may be enacted by initiative, may be filed in the district
court at any time after the filing of a referendum or initiative petition with
the City Clerk for signature verification until 40 days from the date the City
Council received notification from the verifying official that the necessary
signatures have been obtained. If the city does not bring an action for
declaratory judgment to determine whether the measure is subject to limited
referendum or referendum, or whether the measure may be enacted by initiative,
until after it has received such notification, it shall be required to proceed
with the initiative or referendum election in accordance with the provisions of
this chapter. If the city does file such an action prior to receiving such
notification, it shall not be required to proceed to hold such election until a
final decision has been rendered in the action.
   (C)   Any action for a declaratory judgment shall be governed generally by
Neb. RS 25-21,149 through 25-21,164, except that only the city and each chief
petitioner shall be required to be made parties. The city, City Clerk, City
Council, or any of the city’s officers shall be entitled to rely on any order
rendered by the court in any such proceeding. Any action brought for
declaratory judgment pursuant to this section shall be given priority in
scheduling hearings and in disposition as determined by the court. When an
action is brought to determine whether the measure is subject to limited
referendum or referendum, or whether a measure may be enacted by initiative, a
decision shall be rendered by the court no later than five days prior to the
election.
   (D)   The provisions of this section relating to declaratory judgments shall
not be construed as limiting, but construed as supplemental and additional to
other rights and remedies conferred by law. (Prior Code, § 1-1103.01) (Ord.
736, passed 8-16-2004)
§ 33.05 SIGNATURE SHEETS.
   (A)   Every signature sheet shall:
      (1)   Contain the caption required in §
33.02(A);
      (2)   Be part of a complete and authorized petition when presented to
potential signatories;
      (3)   Provide space for signatories to write their names, residential
addresses, and the date of signing; and
      (4)   Contain a statement that anyone falsifying information on a
signature sheet shall be subject to penalties provided by law.
   (B)   No more than 25 signatures on each signature sheet shall be counted.
In order to be valid, a signature shall be that of an individual registered to
vote, at the time of signing, in the jurisdiction governed or to be governed by
the measure addressed in the petition. A signature shall include the
signatory’s full name, his or her residential address, and the date of signing.
No signatory shall use ditto marks as a means of affixing his or her address or
date on any petition. A spouse shall not use his or her spouse’s Christian or
given name along with his or her surname.
(Prior Code, § 1-1104)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 18-2516
§ 33.06 PETITIONS, AFFIDAVIT.
   (A)   Included in the contents of every petition shall be an affidavit, to
be signed by the circulator in the presence of a notary, which states that the
circulator is a qualified elector, that each person who signed the petition did
so in the presence of the circulator on the date indicated, and that the
circulator believes that each signatory was registered to vote in the affected
jurisdiction at the time he or she signed the petition and that the circulator
believes that each signatory has stated his or her name and address correctly.
   (B)   When a special election is being requested, such fact shall be stated
in the petition.
(Prior Code, § 1-1105)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 18-2517
§ 33.07 PETITIONS, NOTIFICATION.
   (A)   Signed petitions shall be filed with the Clerk for signature
verification. Upon the filing of a petition, and passage of a resolution by the
governing body, the municipality and the County Clerk or Election Commissioner
of the county in which such municipality is located may by mutual agreement
provide that the County Clerk or Election Commissioner shall ascertain whether
the petition is signed by the requisite number of voters. The municipality
shall reimburse the county for any costs incurred by the County Clerk or
Election Commissioner. When the verifying official has determined that 100% of
the necessary signatures required by this chapter have been obtained, he or she
shall notify the governing body of that fact and shall immediately forward to
the governing body a copy of the petition.
   (B)   In order for an initiative or referendum proposal to be submitted to
the governing body and the voters, the necessary signatures shall be on file
with the Clerk within six months from the date the prospective petition was
authorized for circulation. If the necessary signatures are not obtained by
such date, the petition shall be void.
(Prior Code, § 1-1106)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 18-2518
§ 33.08 FREQUENCY OF OCCURRENCE.
   The same measure, either in form or in essential substance, may not be
submitted to the people by initiative petition, either affirmatively or
negatively, more often than once every two years. No attempt to repeal or alter
an existing measure or portion of such measure by referendum petition may be
made within two years from the last attempt to do the same. Such prohibition
shall apply only when the subsequent attempt to repeal or alter is designed to
accomplish the same, or essentially the same purpose as the previous attempt.
(Prior Code, § 1-1107)
Statutory reference:  
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 18-2519
§ 33.09 DIRECT VOTE.
   The executive officer and governing body of the municipality may at any
time, by resolution, provide for the submission to a direct vote of the
electors of any measure pending before it, enacted by it, or enacted by the
electors under this chapter and may provide in such resolution that such
measure shall be submitted at a special election or the next regularly
scheduled primary or general election. Immediately upon the passage of any such
resolution for submission, the Clerk shall cause such measure to be submitted
to a direct vote of the electors, at the time specified in such resolution and
in the manner provided in this chapter for submission of measures upon
proposals and petitions filed by voters. Such matter shall become law if
approved by a majority of the votes cast.
(Prior Code, § 1-1108)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 18-2520
§ 33.10 ELECTIONS.
   The Clerk shall call elections under this chapter, either at a special
election or regularly scheduled primary or general election. He or she shall
cause notice of every such election to be printed in one or more newspapers of
general circulation in such municipality and also posted in the office of the
Clerk and three or more conspicuous places in such municipality at least 30
days prior to such election. The Clerk shall cause copies of measure initiated
or referred to be printed in pamphlet form, and furnish the same to the
electors of such municipality upon their application or order. Such notice
provided in this section shall designate where such copies may be obtained.
(Prior Code, § 1-1109)
Statutory reference;
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 18-2521
§ 33.11 BALLOTS.
   All ballots for use in special elections under this chapter shall be
prepared and furnished by the Clerk, unless the governing body contracts with
the county for such service, and shall be in the same form as provided by law
for election of the Executive Officer and governing body of such municipality.
When ordinances under such sections are submitted to the electors at a
regularly scheduled primary or general election they shall be placed upon the
official ballots as provided in this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 1-1110)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 18-2522
§ 33.12 INITIATIVE.
   (A)   The power of initiative allows citizens the right to enact measures
affecting the governance of the municipality. An initiative proposal shall not
have as its primary or sole purpose the repeal or modification of existing law
except if such repeal or modification is ancillary to and necessary for the
adoption and effective operation of the initiative measure.
   (B)   An initiative shall not be effective if the direct or indirect effect
of the passage of such initiative measure shall be to repeal or alter an
existing law, or portion thereof, which is not subject to referendum or subject
only to limited referendum pursuant to §
33.13.
   (C)   Whenever an initiative petition bearing signatures equal in number to
at least 15% of the qualified electors of a municipal subdivision has been
filed with the Clerk and verified, it shall be the duty of the governing body
to consider passage of the measure contained in the petition. If the governing
body fails to enact the measure without amendment, within 30 days from the date
it received notification, the Clerk shall cause the measure to be submitted to
a vote of the people at the next regularly scheduled primary or general
election held within the municipality.
   (D)   Whenever an initiative petition bearing signatures equal in number to
at least 20% of the qualified electors which requests that a special election
be called to submit the initiative measure to a vote of the people, has been
filed with the Clerk and verified, it shall be the duty of the governing body
to consider enactment of the measure contained in the petition. If the
governing body fails to enact the measure, without amendment, within 30 days
from the date it received notification, the Clerk shall cause the measure to be
submitted to a vote of the people at a special election called for such
purpose. The date of such election shall not be less than 30 nor more than 60
days from the date the governing body received notification pursuant to §
33.07.
   (E)   If a majority of voters voting on the initiative measure shall vote in
favor of such measure, it shall become a valid and binding measure of the
municipality. A measure adopted by such method shall not be amended or repealed
except by two-thirds majority of the members of the governing body. No such
attempt to amend or repeal shall be made within one year from the adoption of
the measure by the electors.
(Prior Code, § 1-1111)
§ 33.13 REFERENDUM LIMITATIONS.
   (A)   The power of referendum allows citizens the right to repeal or amend
existing measures, or portions thereof, affecting the governance of the
municipality.
(Neb. RS 18-2527)
   (B)   The following measures shall not be subject to referendum or limited
referendum:
      (1)   Measures necessary to carry out contractual obligations including,
but not limited to, those relating to the issuance of or provided for in bonds,
notes, warrants, or other evidences of indebtedness, for projects previously
approved by a measure which was, or is, subject to referendum or limited
referendum or previously approved by a measure adopted prior to July 17, 1982;
      (2)   Measures relating to any industrial development projects,
subsequent to measures giving initial approval to such projects;
      (3)   Measures adopting proposed budget statements following compliance
with procedures set forth in the state’s Budget Act, being Neb. RS 13-501
through 13-513;
      (4)   Measures relating to the immediate preservation of the public
peace, health, or safety which have been designated as urgent measures by
unanimous vote of those present and voting of the governing body and approved
by its Executive Officer;
      (5)   Measures relating to projects for which notice has been given as
provided for in division (E) below of this section for which a sufficient
referendum petition was not filed within the time limit stated in such notice
or which received voter approval after the filing of such petition;
      (6)   Resolutions directing the City Clerk to cause measures to be
submitted to a vote of the people at a special election as provided in Neb. RS
18-2524 and 18-2529;
      (7)   Resolutions ordering an earlier effective date for measures enacted
by initiative as provided in Neb. RS 18-2526;
      (8)   Measures relating to any facility or system adopted or enacted
pursuant to the Integrated Solid Waste Management Act, being Neb. RS 13-2001
through 13-2043 by the municipality and which are necessary to carry out
contractual obligations provided for in previously issued bonds, notes,
warrants, or other evidence of indebtedness;
      (9)   Measures that amend, supplement, change, modify, or repeal a zoning
regulation, restriction, or boundary and are subject to protest as provided in
Neb. RS 19-905;
      (10)   Measures relating to personnel issues, including, but not limited
to, establishment, modification, or elimination of any personnel position,
policy, salary, or benefit and any hiring, promotion, demotion, or termination
of personnel; and
      (11)   Measures relating to matters subject to the provisions of the
Municipal Natural Gas System Condemnation Act, being Neb. RS 19-4624 through
Neb. RS 19-4645.
   (C)   The following measures shall be subject to limited referendum:
      (1)   Measures in furtherance of a policy of the municipality or relating
to projects previously approved by a measure which was subject to referendum or
which was enacted by initiative or has been approved by the voters at an
election, except that such measures shall not be subject to referendum or
limited referendum for a period of one year after any such policy or project
was approved at a referendum election, enacted by initiative, or approved by
the voters at an election;
      (2)   Measures relating to the acquisition, construction, installation,
improvement, or enlargement, including the financing or refinancing of the
costs of public ways, public property, utility systems, and other capital
projects and measures giving initial approval for industrial development
projects;
      (3)   Measures setting utility system rates and charges, except for
measures necessary to carry out contractual obligations provided for in
previously issued bonds, notes, warrants, or other evidences of indebtedness,
and pay rates and salaries for municipal employees other than the members of
the governing body and the Executive Officer; and
      (4)   Measures relating to any facility or system adopted or enacted
pursuant to the Integrated Solid Waste Management Act by the municipality
except for measures necessary to carry out contractual obligations provided for
in previously issued bonds, notes, warrants, or other evidence of indebtedness.
   (D)   Measures subject to limited referendum shall ordinarily take effect 30
days after their passage by the governing body, including an override of any
veto, if necessary. Referendum petitions directed at measures subject to
limited referendum shall be filed for signature verification pursuant to Neb.
RS 18-2518 within 30 days after such measure’s passage by the governing body,
including an override of any veto, if necessary, or after notice is first
published pursuant to division (E)(3) below. If the necessary number of
signatures as provided in Neb. RS 18-2529 or 18-2530 has been obtained within
the time limitation, the effectiveness of the measure shall be suspended unless
approved by the voters.
   (E)   For any measure relating to the acquisition, construction,
installation, improvement, or enlargement of public ways, public property,
utility systems, or other capital projects or any measure relating to any
facility or system adopted or enacted pursuant to the Integrated Solid Waste
Management Act, the municipality may exempt all subsequent measures relating to
the same project from the referendum and limited referendum procedures provided
for in this chapter by the following procedure:
      (1)   By holding a public hearing on the project, the time and place of
such hearing being published at least once not less than five days prior to the
date set for hearing in a newspaper of general circulation within the
municipality;
      (2)   By passage of a measure approving the project, including an
override of a veto, if necessary, at a meeting held on any date subsequent to
the date of hearing; and
      (3)   After passage of such measure, including an override of a veto, if
necessary, by giving notice as follows:
         (a)   For those projects for which applicable statutes require an
ordinance or resolution of necessity, creating a district or otherwise
establishing the project, notice shall be given for such project by including
either as part of such ordinance or resolution or as part of any publicized
notice concerning such ordinance or resolution a statement that the project as
described in the ordinance or resolution is subject to limited referendum for a
period of 30 days after the first publication of such notice and that, after
such 30-day period, the project and measures related to it will not be subject
to any further right of referendum; and
         (b)   1.   For projects for which applicable statutes do not require
an ordinance or resolution of necessity, notice shall be given by publication
of a notice concerning such projects stating in general terms the nature of the
project and the engineer’s estimate of costs of such project and stating that
the project described in the notice is subject to limited referendum for a
period of 30 days after the first publication of such notice and that, after
such 30-day period, the project and measures related to it will not be subject
to any further right of referendum. The notice required by this division (E)(3)
shall be published in at least one newspaper of general circulation within the
municipality and shall be published not later than 15 days after passage by the
governing body, including an override of a veto, if necessary, of a measure
approving the project.
            2.   The right of the municipality to hold such a hearing prior to
the passage of the measure by the governing body and give such notice after
passage of such measure by the governing body to obtain exemption for any
particular project in a manner described in this division (E) is optional, and
the municipality shall not be required to hold such a hearing or give such
notice for any particular project.
   (F)   Nothing in divisions (B) and (E) above shall be construed as
subjecting to limited referendum any measure related to matters subject to the
provisions of the Municipal Natural Gas System Condemnation Act.
   (G)   All measures, except as provided in divisions (B), (C), and (E) above,
shall be subject to the referendum procedure at any time after such measure has
been passed by the governing body, including an override of a veto, if
necessary, or enacted by the voters by initiative.
(Prior Code, § 1-1112) (Ord. 689, passed 9-17-2001; Ord. 717, passed 1-19-2004)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 18-2528
§ 33.14 REFERENDUM, PASSAGE.
   (A)   Whenever a referendum petition bearing signatures equal in number to
at least 15% of the qualified electors of the municipality has been filed with
the Clerk and verified, it shall be the duty of the governing body to
reconsider the measure or portion of such measure which is the object of the
referendum. If the governing body fails to repeal or amend the measure or
portion thereof in the manner proposed by the referendum, the Clerk shall cause
the measure to be submitted to a vote of the people at the next regularly
scheduled primary or general election held within the municipality, within 30
days from the date the governing body receives notification.
   (B)   Whenever a referendum petition bearing signatures equal in number to
at least 20% of the qualified voters of the municipality which requests that a
special election be called to submit the referendum measure to a vote of the
people, has been filed with the Clerk and verified, it shall be the duty of the
governing body to reconsider the measure or portion of such measure which is
the object of the referendum. If the governing body fails to repeal or amend
the measure or portion thereof, in the manner proposed by the referendum, the
Clerk shall cause the measure to be submitted to a vote of the people at a
special election called for such purpose within 30 days from the date the
governing body received notification. The date of such special election shall
not be less than 30 nor more than 60 days from the date the governing body
received notification.
   (C)   If a majority of the electors voting on the referendum measure shall
vote in favor of such measure, the law subject to the referendum shall be
repealed or amended. A measure repealed or amended by referendum shall not be
reenacted or returned to its original form except by a two-thirds majority of
the members of the governing body. No such attempt to reenact or return the
measure to its original form shall be made within one year of the repeal or
amendment of the measure by the electors. If the referendum measure does not
receive a majority vote, the ordinance shall immediately become effective or
remain in effect.
(Prior Code, § 1-1113)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 18-2529 through 18-2531
§ 33.15 APPLICABILITY.
   (A)   The provisions of the statutes of the state relating to election
officers, voting places, election apparatus and blanks, preparation and form of
ballots, information to voters, delivery of ballots, calling of elections,
conduct of elections, manner of voting, counting of votes, records and
certificates of election, and recounts of votes, so far as applicable, shall
apply to voting on ordinances by the electors pursuant to this chapter.
   (B)   Nothing in this chapter shall apply to procedures for initiatives or
referendums provided in Neb. RS 18-412 and 18-412.02 relating to municipal
light and power plants, Neb. RS 70-504, 70-650.01, and 70-650.02, relating to
public power districts, and Neb. RS 80-203 through 80-205 relating to soldiers
and sailors monuments.
(Prior Code, § 1-1115)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 18-2536, 18-2537
§ 33.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Whoever knowingly or willfully makes a false affidavit or takes a
false oath regarding the qualifications of any person to sign petitions under
Neb. RS 18-2501 through 18-2531, shall be guilty of a Class I misdemeanor with
a limit of $300 on the fine.
   (B)   Whoever falsely makes or willfully destroys a petition or any part
thereof, or signs a false name thereto, or signs or files any petition knowing
the same or any part thereof to be falsely made, or suppresses any petition, or
any part thereof, which has been duly filed, pursuant to Neb. RS 18-2501
through 18-2531, shall be guilty of a Class I misdemeanor with a limit of $500
on the fine.
   (C)   Whoever signs any petition under Neb. RS 18-2501 through 18-2531,
knowing that he or she is not a registered voter in the place where such
petition is made, aids or abets any other person in doing any of the acts
mentioned in this section, bribes or gives or pays any money or thing of value
to any person directly or indirectly to induce him or her to sign such
petition, or engages in any deceptive practice intended to induce any person to
sign a petition, shall be guilty of a Class I misdemeanor with a limit of $300
on the fine.
   (D)   Any Clerk who willfully refuses to comply with the provisions of Neb.
RS 18-2501 through 18-2531, or who willfully causes unreasonable delay in the
execution of his or her duties under such sections, shall be guilty of a Class
I misdemeanor but imprisonment shall not be included as part of the punishment
and the fine shall not exceed $5,000.
(Prior Code, § 1-1114) (Ord. 504, passed 12-19-1983)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 18-2532 through 18-2535
CHAPTER 34: FIRE DEPARTMENT
Section
   
34.01   Operation and funding
   
34.02   Fire Chief
   
34.03   Membership
   
34.04   Records
§ 34.01 OPERATION AND FUNDING.
   (A)   The municipality operates the Municipal Fire Department through the
Municipal Fire Chief and firefighters. The governing body, for the purpose of
defraying the cost of the management, maintenance, and improving the Fire
Department, may each year levy a tax not exceeding the maximum limits
prescribed by state law, on the actual valuation of all real estate and
personal property within the municipality that is subject to taxation. The
revenue from the said tax shall be known as the Fire Department Fund. The Fund
shall be at all times in the possession of the Municipal Treasurer.
   (B)   In addition to the above, the Fire Department is authorized to enter
into agreement with the appropriate rural fire district for the mutual aid and
protection of the residents of both the municipality and rural fire district.
(Prior Code, § 3-301)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-147, 17-718, 17-953
§ 34.02 FIRE CHIEF.
   The Fire Chief shall manage the Fire Department and it shall be his or her
duty to inform the governing body when any of the fire engines, hose, ladders,
or other apparatus needs repair. Upon the written consent and directive of the
governing body, the Fire Chief shall cause the repair, improvement, or
maintenance of the said equipment and shall personally supervise and approve of
the same. It shall be the duty of the Fire Chief to come before the governing
body at the regular meeting in January of each year to give an annual report to
the governing body of the general condition and the proposed additions or
improvements recommended by him or her.
(Prior Code, § 3-302)
§ 34.03 MEMBERSHIP.
   (A)   The Fire Department shall consist of so many members as may be decided
by the City Council. The members may organize themselves in any way they may
decide, subject to the review of the City Council. The Fire Chief shall appoint
no more than 28 members for each Fire Department company subject to the review
and approval of the City Council. All vacancies shall be filled in this manner.
   (B)   All members of the Fire Department shall be subject to such rules and
regulations, and shall perform such duties, as may be prescribed or required of
them by the Fire Chief or the City Council. The members of the Fire Department
shall, during the time of a fire or great public danger, have and exercise the
powers and duties of police officers and shall have full power and authority to
arrest all persons guilty of any violation of the municipal code or the laws of
the state.
   (C)   Members of the Fire Department may hold meetings and engage in social
activities with the approval of the City Council. The Secretary shall, upon
request, keep a record of all meetings and shall make a report to the City
Council of all meetings and activities of the Fire Department.
   (D)   Members of the Fire Department shall be considered to be employees of
the city for the purpose of providing them with workers’ compensation and other
benefits. The City Council may compensate or reimburse any member of the Fire
Department for expenses incurred in carrying out his or her duties in an amount
set by resolution.
   (E)   The City Council shall purchase and maintain in force a policy of
group term life insurance to age 65 covering the lives of all of the city’s
active volunteer fire and rescue personnel, except that when any such person
serves more than one municipality or rural or suburban fire protection
district, the policy shall be purchased only by the first municipality or
district which he or she serves. The policy shall provide a minimum death
benefit of $10,000 for death from any cause and shall, at the option of the
insured, be convertible to a permanent form of life insurance at age 65. The
coverage of such policy shall terminate as to any individual who ceases to be
an active volunteer member of the Fire Department of the city.
(Neb. RS 35-108)
   (F)   For purposes of Neb. RS 33-139.01, volunteer firefighters and rescue
squad members testifying as witnesses in that capacity alone shall not be
deemed employees of the city.
(Neb. RS 33-139.01)
(Prior Code, § 3-303) (Ord. 637, passed 11-17-1997; Ord. 729, passed 6-21-2004)
§ 34.04 RECORDS.
   The Fire Chief shall keep or cause to be kept a record of all meetings of
the Fire Department, the attendance record of all members, a record of all
fires, and shall make a full report of such records to the Municipal Clerk each
year. The record of any fire shall include the cause, origin, circumstances,
property involved, and whether criminal conduct may have been involved. In the
event of sizable property damage, he or she shall include the information of
whether such losses were covered by insurance, and if so, in what amount. All
records shall be available to the public at any reasonable time.
(Prior Code, § 3-304)
CHAPTER 35: POLICE DEPARTMENT
Section
   
35.01   Duties
   
35.02   Arrest and enforcement; jurisdiction
§ 35.01 DUTIES.
   The Police Department shall consist of the Chief of Police and such further
number of regular police officers as may be duly ordered by resolution of the
Council. The Chief of Police shall, subject to the direction of the Mayor, have
control and management of all matters relating to the Police Department, its
officers and members, and shall have the custody and control of all property
and books belonging to the Department. The Department shall execute and enforce
all laws and also the orders of the Mayor. It shall be the duty of the
Department to protect the rights of persons and property. There shall be a
proper police force at all fires. The Department shall take notice of all
nuisances, impediments, obstructions, and defects in the streets, avenues,
alleys, business places, and residences of the municipality. The Department
shall execute, or cause to be executed, the processes issued and shall cause
all persons arrested to be brought before the proper court for trial as
speedily as possible. The Chief of Police and all regular and special police
officers shall become thoroughly conversant with the laws of the municipality,
and shall see that the same are strictly enforced and shall make sworn
complaints against any person or persons for violation of the same.
(Prior Code, § 3-401)
§ 35.02 ARREST AND ENFORCEMENT; JURISDICTION.
   (A)   Every municipal law enforcement officer has the power and authority to
enforce the laws of this state and the municipality or otherwise perform the
functions of that office anywhere within his or her primary jurisdiction.
PRIMARY JURISDICTION means the geographic area within territorial limits of the
municipality.
   (B)   Any municipal law enforcement officer who is within this state, but
beyond his or her primary jurisdiction, has the power and authority to enforce
the laws of this state or any legal ordinance of any city or incorporated
village or otherwise perform the functions of his or her office, including the
authority to arrest and detain suspects, as if enforcing the laws or performing
the functions within his or her primary jurisdiction in the following cases:
      (1)   Any municipal law enforcement officer, if in a fresh attempt to
apprehend a person suspected of committing a felony, may follow such person
into any other jurisdiction in this state and there arrest and detain such
person and return such person to the officer’s primary jurisdiction;
      (2)   Any municipal law enforcement officer, if in a fresh attempt to
apprehend a person suspected of committing a misdemeanor or a traffic
infraction, may follow such person anywhere in an area within 25 miles of the
boundaries of the officer’s primary jurisdiction and there arrest and detain
such person and return such person to the officer’s primary jurisdiction;
      (3)   Any municipal law enforcement officer has such enforcement and
arrest and detention authority when responding to a call in which a local,
state, or federal law enforcement officer is in need of assistance. A LAW
ENFORCEMENT OFFICER IN NEED OF ASSISTANCE shall mean:
         (a)   A law enforcement officer whose life is in danger; or
         (b)   A law enforcement officer who needs assistance in making an
arrest and the suspect:
            1.   Will not be apprehended unless immediately arrested;
            2.   May cause injury to himself or herself or others or damage to
property unless immediately arrested; or
            3.   May destroy or conceal evidence of the commission of a crime.
      (4)   If the municipality, under the provisions of the Interlocal
Cooperation Act, being Neb. RS 13-801 through 13-827 or the Joint Public Agency
Act, being Neb. RS 13-2501 through 13-2550, enters into a contract with any
other municipality or county for law enforcement services or joint law
enforcement services, law enforcement personnel may have such enforcement
authority within the jurisdiction of each of the participating political
subdivisions if provided for in the agreement. Unless otherwise provided in the
agreement, the municipality shall provide liability insurance coverage for its
own law enforcement personnel as provided in Neb. RS 13-1802.
   (C)   When probable cause exists to believe that a person is operating or in
the actual physical control of any motor vehicle, motorboat, or aircraft while
under the influence of alcoholic liquor or of any drug or otherwise in
violation of Neb. RS 28-1465, 28-1466, 28-1472, 37-1254.01, 37-1254.02, 60-
4,163, 60-4,164, 60-6,196, 60-6,197, 60-6,211.01, or 60-6,211.02, a municipal
law enforcement officer has the power and authority to do any of the following
or any combination thereof:
      (1)   Transport such person to a facility outside of the law enforcement
officer’s primary jurisdiction for appropriate chemical testing of the person;
      (2)   Administer outside of the law enforcement officer’s primary
jurisdiction any post-arrest test advisement to the person; or
      (3)   With respect to such person, perform other procedures or functions
outside of the law enforcement officer’s primary jurisdiction which are
directly and solely related to enforcing the laws that concern a person
operating or being in the actual physical control of any motor vehicle,
motorboat, or aircraft while under the influence of alcoholic liquor or of any
other drug or otherwise in violation of Neb. RS 28-1465, 28-1466, 28-1472, 37-
1254.01, 37-1254.02, 60-4,163, 60-4,164, 60-6,196, 60-6,197, 60-6,211.01, or
60-6,211.02.
(Neb. RS 29-215)
   (D)   If municipal law enforcement personnel are rendering aid in their law
enforcement capacity outside the limits of the municipality in the event of
disaster, emergency, or civil defense emergency or in connection with any
program of practice or training for such disaster, emergency, or civil defense
emergency when such program is conducted or participated in by the state’s
Emergency Management Agency or with any other related training program, the law
enforcement personnel have the power and authority to enforce the laws of this
state or any legal ordinances or resolutions of the local government where they
are rendering aid or otherwise perform the functions of their office, including
the authority to arrest and detain suspects, as if enforcing the laws or
performing the functions within their primary jurisdiction. The municipality
shall self insure or contract for insurance against any liability for personal
injuries or property damage that may be incurred by it or by its personnel as
the result of any movement made pursuant to this division (D).
(Neb. RS 81-829.65)
(Prior Code, § 3-402) (Ord. 603, passed 3-20-1995; Ord. 730, passed 6-21-2004)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   WATER
      
51.   SEWER
      
52.   ELECTRICITY
      
53.   GARBAGE
      
54.   UTILITIES GENERALLY
CHAPTER 50: WATER
Section
   
50.01   Operation and funding
   
50.02   Definitions
   
50.03   Customer’s application
   
50.04   Water contract
   
50.05   Installation procedure
   
50.06   Water and pipe specifications
   
50.07   Tap fee and installation charge
   
50.08   Repairs
   
50.09   Fees and collections
   
50.10   Minimum rates
   
50.11   Water bills
   
50.12   Lien
   
50.13   Single premises
   
50.14   Restricted use
   
50.15   Emergency restrictions on use of water
   
50.16   Fire hydrants
   
50.17   Pollution
   
50.18   Mandatory hook-up
   
50.19   Water service contracts
   
50.20   Inspection
   
50.21   Destruction of property
   
50.22   Complaints
   
50.23   Unsafe physical connection to water distribution system prohibited
   
50.24   Backflow prevention devices required
   
50.25   Private wells
   
50.26   Prohibiting of encroachment
   
50.27   Drinking water standards
 
   
50.99   Penalty
§ 50.01 OPERATION AND FUNDING.
   The municipality owns and operates the Municipal Water Department through
the City Superintendent. The governing body, for the purpose of defraying the
cost of the care, management, and maintenance of the Municipal Water
Department, may each year levy a tax not exceeding the maximum limit prescribed
by state law, on the actual valuation of all real estate and personal property
within the corporate limits that is subject to taxation. The revenue from the
said tax shall be known as the Water Fund and shall remain in the custody of
the Municipal Treasurer. The City Superintendent shall have the direct
management and control of the Municipal Water Department and shall faithfully
carry out the duties of his or her office. The City Superintendent shall have
the authority to adopt rules and regulations for the sanitary and efficient
management of the Water Department subject to the supervision and review of the
governing body. The governing body shall set the rates to be charged for
services rendered by ordinance and shall file a copy of the rates in the office
of the City Clerk for public inspection at any reasonable time.
(Prior Code, § 3-101)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-531, 17-534, 19-1305
§ 50.02 DEFINITIONS.
   The following definitions shall be applied throughout this chapter. Where no
definition is specified, the normal dictionary usage of the word shall apply.
   MAIN. Any pipe other than a supply or service pipe that is used for the
purpose of carrying water to, and dispersing the same in the municipality.
   SEPARATE PREMISES. More than one consumer procuring water from the same
service or supply pipe. The second premises may be a separate dwelling,
apartment, building, or structure used for a separate business.
   SERVICE PIPE. Any pipe extending from the shut-off, stop box, or curb cock
at or near the lot line to and beyond the property line of the consumer to the
location on the premises where the water is to be dispersed.
   SUPPLY PIPE. Any pipe tapped into a main and extending from there to a point
at or near the lot line of the consumer’s premises where the shut-off, stop
box, or curb cock is located.
(Prior Code, § 3-102)
§ 50.03 CUSTOMER’S APPLICATION.
   Every person or persons desiring to connect with the municipal water supply
must make application therefor to the City Clerk. The Clerk shall require a $30
deposit to be placed on file at the office of the City Clerk. The Clerk shall
then forward the application to the City Superintendent. Water may not be
supplied to any house or private service pipe except upon the order of the
Superintendent. Upon termination of water service, the customer’s deposit shall
be applied to any utility charges or other amounts owing to the city and the
remaining balance shall be refunded. The deposit shall be refunded after the
customer has maintained water service with the city for a continuous one-year
period for which all billings have been paid by the delinquent date.
(Prior Code, § 3-103) (Ord. 555, passed 4-16-1990; Ord. 592, passed 8-15-1994;
Ord. 680, passed 9-18-2000; Ord. 761, passed 6-15-2009; Ord. 2014-795, passed
4-21-2014)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-537
§ 50.04 WATER CONTRACT.
   The municipality, through its Water Department, shall furnish water to
persons within its corporate limits whose premises abut a street or alley in
which a commercial main now is or may hereafter be laid. The municipality may
furnish water to persons within its corporate limits whose premises do not abut
a street or alley in which a municipal commercial main is now or may hereafter
be laid and may also furnish water to persons whose premises are situated
outside the corporate limits of the municipality, as and when, according to
law, the governing body may see fit to do so. The rules, regulations, and water
rates hereinafter named in this chapter, shall be considered a part of every
application hereafter made for water service and shall be considered a part of
the contract between every consumer now or hereafter served. Without further
formality, the making of application on the part of any applicant or the use or
consumption of water service by present consumers thereof and the furnishing of
water service to said consumer shall constitute a contract between the consumer
and the municipality, to which said contract both parties are bound. If the
consumer shall violate any of the provisions of said contract or any reasonable
rules and regulations that the governing body may hereafter adopt, the City
Superintendent, or his or her agent, may cut off or disconnect the water
service from the building or premises or place of such violation. No further
connection for water service to said building, premises, or place shall again
be made except by order of said Superintendent or his or her agent.
(Prior Code, § 3-104) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.05 INSTALLATION PROCEDURE.
   (A)   The municipality shall install all water mains and supply lines from
the main to or near the customer’s property line, including installation of the
corporate cock, stop cock, and meter. The customer shall then be responsible
for installation of the service line from the lot line to the point of
disbursement.
   (B)   In making excavations in streets, alleys, or sidewalks for the purpose
of installing pipe, or making repairs, the paving, stones, and earth must be
removed and deposited in a manner that will occasion the least inconvenience to
the public and provide for adequate drainage. No person shall leave an
excavation made in the street, alley, or sidewalk open at any time without a
barricade, and during the night, warning lights. After service pipes are laid,
the streets, alleys, and sidewalks shall be restored to good condition. If the
excavation in any street, alley, or sidewalk is left open or unfinished for a
period of 24 hours or more, the City Superintendent shall have the duty to
finish or correct the work, and all expenses so incurred shall be charged to
the consumer. All installations or repairs to the service line shall require
inspection by the City Superintendent. It is the customer’s responsibility to
notify the Superintendent at the time the work is ready for each inspection.
All installation shall be done under the supervision and strictly in accordance
with the rules, regulations, and specifications prescribed for such
installation by the City Superintendent; provided that the said rules,
regulations, and specifications have been reviewed and approved by the
governing body.
(Prior Code, § 3-105) Penalty, see §
50.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-537
§ 50.06 WATER AND PIPE SPECIFICATIONS.
   (A)   All piping connected with the municipal water system and used in
private plumbing must be standard galvanized, wrought iron pipe, or equivalent,
and all workmanship and piping shall be of sufficient performance standard to
contain a water pressure of 150 pounds per square inch.
   (B)   All service pipes shall be laid in trenches four feet or more deep.
All backfill operations shall be as directed by the City Superintendent.
(Prior Code, § 3-106)
§ 50.07 TAP FEE AND INSTALLATION CHARGE.
   The expense of providing water service to the lot line shall be paid by the
customer which shall include a $50 tap fee for a three-fourths inch tap plus
the costs incurred by the municipality in installation of the supply line from
the main to the property line. In the event the customer requests a meter
larger than three-fourths inch, the customer shall, in addition to the above
charges, pay to the municipality the difference above the price of a three-
fourths inch meter. The consumer shall then pay the cost of installation and
pipe from the lot line to the place of disbursement.
(Prior Code, § 3-107)
§ 50.08 REPAIRS.
   Repairs to the service pipe shall be made by and at the expense of the
customer. All other repairs to the property of the Water Department shall be
made by the municipality at the expense of the customer. All water meters shall
be kept in repair by the municipality at the expense of the municipality. When
meters are worn out, they shall be replaced and reset by the municipality at
the expense of the municipality; provided, that if the customer permits or
allows a water meter to be damaged, injured, or destroyed through his or her
own recklessness, carelessness, or neglect so that the meter must be repaired
or replaced, the City Superintendent shall bill and collect from the customer
the cost of such meter repair or replacement in the same manner as water rent
is collected. Permitting a water meter to be damaged or destroyed by freezing
shall always be considered negligence on the part of the customer. All meters
shall be tested at the customer’s request at the expense of the customer any
reasonable number of times; provided, that if the test shows the water meter to
be running 2% or more fast, the expense of such test shall be borne by the
municipality. The municipality reserves the right to test any water service
meter at any time, and if said meter is found to be beyond repair, the
municipality shall always have the right to place a new meter on the customer’s
water service fixtures at municipal expense. Should a consumer’s meter fail to
register properly, the customer shall be charged for water during the time the
meter is out of repair on the basis of the monthly consumption during the same
month of the preceding year; provided, that if no such basis for comparison
exists, the customer shall be charged such amount as may be reasonably fixed by
the City Superintendent.
(Prior Code, § 3-108)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-542
§ 50.09 FEES AND COLLECTIONS.
   The governing body has the power and authority to fix the rates to be paid
by the water consumers for the use of water from the Water Department. All such
fees shall be on file for public inspection at the office of the City Clerk.
The City Clerk shall bill the consumers and collect all money received by the
municipality on the account of the Water Department. He or she shall faithfully
account for and pay to the Municipal Treasurer all revenue collected by him or
her, taking his or her receipt therefor in duplicate, filing one with the City
Clerk and keeping the other on file in the Water Department’s official records.
(Prior Code, § 3-109)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-540
§ 50.10 MINIMUM RATES.
   (A)   Domestic water service shall be delivered to consumers served by water
taps and services approved by the Utility Superintendent for the following
schedule of charges.
      (1)   All occupied single-family residential units shall pay the monthly
base rate for each water meter in service according to the following schedule.
 
Meter Size Monthly Base Rate
3/4 inch   $58.50
1 inch     $80.25
1-1/2 inch $106.25
2 inch     $197.00
3 inch     $288.00
 
      (2)   Apartments, housing units, and multi-family dwellings in which day
to day activities are conducted shall pay a base rate equal to $58.50 times the
number of units.
      (3)   In addition to the monthly base rate, each consumer shall pay $4.15
per 1,000 gallons, or any portion thereof, of water used.
      (4)   Where a consumer does not have a meter on their water tap or
service, the rate shall be $58.50 per month.
   (B)   The city, by resolution of the City Council, shall have authority by
contract with any person, association, or corporation to sell water beyond its
corporate limits when such water is available and such sale thereof will
benefit the city. The rates for such services shall not be less than those
rates herein above fixed. Temporary users of water shall pay an equitable rate
as fixed by the Utility Superintendent.
(Prior Code, § 3-110) (Ord. 2018-812, passed 5-21-2018; Ord. 2022-831, passed
6-27-2022; Ord. 2023-837, passed 6-19-2023)
§ 50.11 WATER BILLS.
   Water bills shall be due and payable monthly at the office of the City
Clerk. The City Superintendent shall read or cause to be read water meters
monthly during which service is used. The City Superintendent shall direct the
City Clerk to charge and collect from each customer for the amount of water
consumed since the last examination, together with any other charges, properly
itemized, due the Water Department. Bills shall be mailed on the first day of
each month following consumption and shall be payable by the tenth of each
month. Bills not paid by the tenth day of each month shall be deemed to be
delinquent. Upon being deemed to be delinquent, as herein defined, the City
Clerk shall give a written notice to the customer of such delinquency and shall
demand payment immediately. In the event that the bill is not paid within seven
days after the sending of said notice, it shall be discretionary with the
Superintendent to cut off service at any time; provided, if the delinquent
customer is a known welfare recipient, it shall be the duty of the City Clerk
to notify the customer and the County Welfare Department by certified mail of
the proposed termination. The City Superintendent shall assess an additional
service charge of $50 in the event that water is shut off for the nonpayment of
any water bill, to compensate the municipality for the additional hook-up
necessary to again provide water service to the delinquent customer.
(Prior Code, § 3-111)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-542, 19-2702
§ 50.12 LIEN.
   In addition to all other remedies, if a customer shall for any reason remain
indebted to the municipality for water service furnished, such amount due,
together with any rents and charges in arrears, shall be considered a
delinquent water rent which is hereby declared to be a lien upon the real
estate for which the same was used. The City Clerk shall notify in writing or
cause to be notified in writing, all owners of premises or their agents
whenever their tenants or lessees are 60 days or more delinquent in the payment
of water rent. It shall be the duty of the City Clerk on June 1 of each year to
report to the governing body a list of all unpaid accounts due for water
together with a description of the premises upon which the same was used. The
report shall be examined, and if approved by the governing body, shall be
certified by the City Clerk to the County Clerk to be collected as a special
tax in the manner provided by law.
(Prior Code, § 3-112)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-538
§ 50.13 SINGLE PREMISES.
   No consumer shall supply water to other families, or allow them to take
water from his or her premises, nor after water is supplied into a building
shall any person make or employ a plumber or other person to make a tap or
connection with the pipe upon the premises for alteration, extension, or
attachment without the written permission of the City Superintendent. It shall
further be unlawful for any person to tamper with any water meter or by means
of any contrivance or device to divert the water from the service pipe so that
the water will not pass through the meter or while passing through said meter
to cause the meter to register inaccurately.
(Prior Code, § 3-113) Penalty, see §
50.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-537
§ 50.14 RESTRICTED USE.
   The governing body or the City Superintendent may order a reduction in the
use of water or shut off the water on any premises in the event of a water
shortage due to fire or other good and sufficient cause. The municipality shall
not be liable for any damages caused by shutting off the supply of water of any
consumer while the system or any part thereof is undergoing repairs or when
there is a shortage of water due to circumstances over which the municipality
has no control.
(Prior Code, § 3-114)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-537
§ 50.15 EMERGENCY RESTRICTIONS ON USE OF WATER.
   (A)   In order to provide equal water service for all customers and a water
reserve for firefighting purposes, the city shall have the right to suspend/
ration the use of water for all recreational purposes, fountains, lawns,
playing fields, personal swimming pools, flower gardens and vegetable gardens,
or for any other purpose, whenever in the opinion of the Mayor or City Utility
Superintendent the public exigency may require it. The Mayor or City Utility
Superintendent is authorized and empowered to declare the existence of an
emergency relating to the available water supply of the municipal water system,
and to impose restrictions on the use of water during such emergency. Whenever
the Mayor or City Utility Superintendent shall determine that the remaining
available water supply is critically low, from whatever cause, the Mayor or
City Utility Superintendent may declare the existence of an emergency and
impose reasonable restrictions on the use of such water. It shall be unlawful
for any person to fail to observe any such restriction so imposed by the Mayor
or City Utility Superintendent, provided public announcement of such
restriction has been made.
   (B)   Unless announced otherwise, recreational use of water, including
watering lawns and gardens, shall be limited to the following:
      (1)   Water users having an even-numbered street address may water on
Mondays, Wednesday, and Friday with the exception of no watering from 10:00
a.m. to 6:00 p.m.;
      (2)   Water users having an odd-numbered street address may water on
Tuesdays, Thursdays, and Saturdays with the exception of no watering from 10:00
a.m. to 6:00 p.m.;
      (3)   Public entities such as: hospitals; schools; Rainbow Fountain Park;
court house; and city properties will water on the assigned day of its street
address exception of no watering from 10:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m.; and
      (4)   No watering on Sundays.
   (C)   The municipality may turn off the water supply to the premises of any
person who, after having been notified of the imposition of such emergency
restrictions on the use of water, disregards such restrictions, and such supply
of water shall not again be turned on until the cost for turning the water off
and turning the water on has been paid to the municipality. During emergency
water restriction periods, the charge for turning off and turning on the water
service and water service termination periods shall be as follows:
      (1)   First offense: the turn off and turn on charge shall be $25 each;
      (2)   Second offense: occurring within six months of the first offense,
the turn off and turn on charge shall be $50 each, and the water service will
be terminated for 24 hours; and
      (3)   Third and subsequent offense occurring within six months of the
first offense: the turn off and turn on charge shall be $100 each, and the
water service will be terminated for 48 hours following each offense.
(Prior Code, § 3-115) (Ord. 2016-806, passed 4-18-2016) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.16 FIRE HYDRANTS.
   All hydrants for the purpose of extinguishing fires are hereby declared to
be public hydrants, and it shall be unlawful for any person other than members
of the Municipal Fire Department under the orders of the Fire Chief, the
Assistant Fire Chief, or members of the Water Department to open or attempt to
open any of the hydrants and draw water from the same, or in any manner to
interfere with the hydrants without permission of the City Superintendent. The
municipality shall pay into the treasury of the municipality for the credit of
the Water Department, the sum of $25, per year, for each of the said hydrants.
(Prior Code, § 3-116) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.17 POLLUTION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to pollute or attempt to pollute any
stream or source of water for the supply of the Municipal Water Department.
(Prior Code, § 3-117) Penalty, see §
50.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-536
§ 50.18 MANDATORY HOOK-UP.
   All persons within 300 feet of a water main shall be required, upon notice
by the governing body, to hook-up with the municipal water system.
(Prior Code, § 3-118)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-539
§ 50.19 WATER SERVICE CONTRACTS.
   (A)   Contracts for water service are not transferable. Any person wishing
to change from one location to another shall make a new application and sign a
new contract.
   (B)   If any consumer shall move from the premises where service is
furnished, or if the said premises is destroyed by fire or other casualty, he
or she shall at once inform the City Superintendent who shall cause the water
service to be shut off at the said premises.
   (C)   If the consumer should fail to give such notice, he or she shall be
charged for all water used on the said premises until the City Superintendent
is otherwise advised of such circumstances.
(Prior Code, § 3-119)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-537
§ 50.20 INSPECTION.
   The City Superintendent, or his or her duly authorized agents, shall have
free access, at any reasonable time, to all parts of each premises and building
to, or in which, water is delivered for the purpose of examining the pipes,
fixtures, and other portions of the system to ascertain whether there is any
disrepair, unnecessary waste of water, cross-connections, backflow, or
backsiphonage hazards or any other condition which violates this municipal code
or any state or federal law or regulation affecting the municipal water system.
(Prior Code, § 3-120) (Ord. 666, passed 11-16-1998)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-537
§ 50.21 DESTRUCTION OF PROPERTY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to willfully or carelessly break,
injure, or deface any building, machinery, apparatus, fixture, attachment, or
appurtenance of the Municipal Water Department. No person may deposit anything
in a stop box or commit any act tending to obstruct or impair the intended use
of any of the above mentioned property without the written permission of the
City Superintendent.
(Prior Code, § 3-121) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.22 COMPLAINTS.
   Any consumer feeling himself or herself aggrieved by reason of any
controversy with the City Superintendent or City Clerk may appear before the
governing body and present his or her grievance. Any consumer who considers
himself or herself aggrieved by being required to pay the charge demanded for
the use of water, or for the resumption of water service after the same shall
have been shut off, shall pay such charge under protest, in which event the
City Clerk shall write on the receipt given such customer the words, “Paid
Under Protest”. Such consumer may then present his or her verified claim in the
manner provided for presenting claims to the governing body for a refund of the
amount so paid under protest. Such claims shall then be considered by the
governing body in the same manner as other claims against the municipality.
(Prior Code, § 3-122)
§ 50.23 UNSAFE PHYSICAL CONNECTION TO WATER DISTRIBUTION SYSTEM PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No customer or other person shall cause, allow, or create any physical
connection between the municipal water distribution system and any pipes,
pumps, hydrants, tanks, steam condensate returns, engine jackets, heat
exchangers, other water supplies or any other connection whereby potentially
unsafe or contaminating materials may be discharged or drawn into the municipal
water distribution system.
   (B)   At least one time every five years, customers of the municipal water
distribution and supply system shall be required to assess and report potential
cross-connection, backflow and backsiphonage hazards to the municipality on a
form supplied by the municipality to the customer. The customer shall take any
steps necessary for protection of public health and safety as determined by the
Utilities Superintendent.
   (C)   The municipality shall have the right to immediately discontinue water
service to any customer or location violating this section and shall not
restore such water service until the violation has been corrected.
(Prior Code, § 3-123) (Ord. 665, passed 11-16-1998) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.24 BACKFLOW PREVENTION DEVICES REQUIRED.
   (A)   A customer of the Municipal Water Department shall install and
maintain a properly located backflow prevention device at the customer’s
expense appropriate to the potential hazards set forth in Title 179, state’s
Department of Health Regulations, being 179 Neb. Admin Code, and approved by
the Utilities Superintendent.
   (B)   The customer shall make application to the Utilities Superintendent to
install a required backflow prevention device on a form provided by the
municipality. The application shall contain at a minimum the name and address
of the applicant, the type of potential hazard requiring protection, and the
type of backflow device to be installed including brand and model number.
   (C)   The Utilities Superintendent shall approve the application if such
installation will protect the municipal water distribution system from
potential backflow and backsiphonage hazards.
   (D)   The installation of the device shall be subject to all other sections
of this code dealing with the installation of plumbing.
   (E)   Such customer shall allow the municipality, at least one time
annually, at the municipality’s expense to test the backflow prevention device
through a state’s Department of Health Grade VI Certified Water Operator. If
the customer prefers, the customer may, at the customer’s expense, certify to
the municipality at least one time annually that the backflow prevention device
has been tested by a state’s Department of Health Grade VI Certified Water
Operator of the customer’s choosing. Such certification shall be made on a form
available at the office of the City Clerk.
   (F)   The municipality shall have the right to immediately discontinue water
service to any customer or location violating this section and shall not
restore such water service until the violation has been corrected.
   (G)   Any decision of the Utilities Superintendent may be appealed to the
governing body.
(Prior Code, § 3-124) (Ord. 664, passed 10-19-1998) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.25 PRIVATE WELLS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to drill or develop a private water well
in this city limits. All private water wells in the city must be registered
with the City Clerk and must be made available to the City Superintendent for
inspection at any reasonable time. Any private water well found to be
contaminating, or at risk of contaminating, the municipal water system or
supply may be ordered to be plugged by the City Council. The owner of the well
shall plug the well at his or her or her expense. Any private well which ceases
to be used shall be plugged by the owner.
(Prior Code, § 3-125) (Ord. 669, passed 1-18-1999) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.26 PROHIBITING OF ENCROACHMENT.
   (A)   Every well, infiltration line, and spring serving or intended to
provide water for the municipal water supply system insofar as possible, shall
be located, constructed, or modified in such a manner that neither underground
or surface contamination by any biological, chemical, or radioactive substance
or by the physical property of any substance from any cesspool, privy, septic
tank, sub-surface tile system, sewer, drain, pit below ground surface,
abandoned well, animal or avian wastes, or any other possible source of
pollution can adversely affect such water supply. The minimum recommended
horizontal distance in feet separating the well or spring from potential
sources of contamination should be as described below.
Category Feet
Category                                      Feet
Absorption or disposal field for waste        500
Cesspool                                      500
Chemical or petroleum product storage         500
Corral                                        500
Dump                                          500
Feed lot or feed lot runoff                   500
Non-potable water well                        1,000
Pit toilet                                    500
Sanitary landfill                             500
Sanitary sewer connection                     100
Sanitary sewer line                           50
Sanitary sewer line (permanently water tight) 100
Sanitary sewer manhole                        100
Septic tank                                   500
Sewage lagoon                                 1,000
Sewage treatment plant                        500
Sewage wet well                               500
 
   (B)   The reference for these distances is 179 Neb. Admin. Code § 007
(2019). These distances shall be kept current with the above mentioned Title
179.
   (C)   When surface runoff or underground movement from potential sources of
contamination may adversely affect the quality of water from such supplies, the
distance separating these potential sources of contamination and the well or
spring should be greater than that listed in the above schedule.
(Prior Code, § 3-126) (Ord. 733, passed 7-19-2004)
§ 50.27 DRINKING WATER STANDARDS.
   (A)   The City Council passed the ordinance codified herein in order to
comply with the Safe Drinking Water Act, state drinking water regulations, and
to protect the health of the consumers of water supplied by the city. The
specific purposes of this section are as follows:
      (1)   To require the installation of reverse osmosis units to improve the
quality of drinking water;
      (2)   To minimize arsenic and uranium in the drinking water supplied by
the city; and
      (3)   To provide for an operation, maintenance, and monitoring program
for reverse osmosis units installed as part of this section.
   (B)   This section applies to all consumers connected to the public water
system of the city and receiving water before it has been treated by the city’s
water treatment plant, now and in the future.
   (C)   The City Council is authorized to adopt this section pursuant to Neb.
RS 17-537 and 71-5301 through 71-5327. This section becomes effective
immediately upon adoption by the City Council.
   (D)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
       BUILDING. A combination of any materials, whether portable or fixed,
having a roof to form a structure for the shelter of persons, animals, or
property.
      CONSUMER. Any person, corporation, or other entity using or receiving
water from the public water system of the city, for any purposes, that has not
been treated by the city’s water treatment plant.
      OWNER OF THE PREMISES. Includes legal owners, their agents, or authorized
representatives.
      PERSON. A human being, partnerships, associations, corporations, legal
representatives, or trustees.
      POTABLE WATER. Any water supply intended or used for human consumption or
other domestic use.
      PREMISES. Any real property to which water is provided that has not been
treated by the city’s water treatment plant, including all improvements,
buildings, dwelling units, mobile and other structures located on it.
      SERVICE CONNECTION. The point of delivery in which the city connects to
the private supply line.
      STRUCTURE. Anything constructed or erected, the use of which requires a
fixed location on the ground or attached to something located on the ground.
      TAP. Any faucet, spigot, or fountain that supplies water for consumption
by drinking or cooking (including ice).
      TREATMENT UNIT. Includes any device installed by the city or its agent to
treat water as well as any associated equipment or devices, including separate
taps, storage tanks, and bypass valves.
      WATER SUPPLIER. The public water system of the city, its employees,
agents, and authorized representatives.
   (E)   The owner of the premises or consumer must allow the water supplier to
install a reverse osmosis unit and all ancillary equipment needed for the
proper operation of the treatment units. A treatment unit will be installed on
the primary tap used for drinking water and cooking water on the premises.
Treatment units will be installed during normal business hours by a properly
trained and certified person. All units will be installed in accordance with
state and local codes, if any, and in accordance with the manufacturer’s
specifications. Title to the treatment units remain with the water supplier.
While in effect, this section shall run with the land and shall be enforceable
on all parties having or acquiring any right, title, or interest in any
premises.
   (F)   The water supplier will maintain the treatment units. Maintenance may
include, but is not limited to:
      (1)   Any required repair to or replacement of any treatment unit;
      (2)   Any sampling of a treatment unit or the water a treatment unit is
treating; or
      (3)   Any action deemed necessary by the water supplier for the ongoing
proper operation of a treatment unit. All maintenance will be conducted by a
properly trained and certified person.
   (G)   The owner of the premises or consumer will provide the water supplier
access to the treatment units on a regular basis so that the water supplier can
maintain treatment units. The water supplier will periodically notify the owner
of the premises or consumer of the intention to provide maintenance on a
treatment unit. Notification will be provided in the monthly water bill.
Regular maintenance will be provided during normal business hours. Sampling
will occur quarterly for the target contaminants (uranium and arsenic) for two
years or until the applicable media/filter has been replaced twice (based on
manufacturer’s recommendations), whichever is greater. In the event that the
owner of the premises or consumer will not be able to provide access to a
treatment unit on the dates and times specified in the notification, the owner
of the premises or consumer will schedule an alternative time with the water
supplier.
   (H)   The owner of the premises or consumer must provide access to the
treatment units for emergency or unexpected repairs or replacements. Refusal to
allow entry may result in termination of service in accordance with division
(J) below. Consumers must visually inspect each treatment unit on a weekly
basis. In the event that a leak or other defect is detected, the owner of the
premises or consumer will notify the water supplier at (308)-423-2540, within
24 hours of noticing the leak or other defect, and follow all directions given
by the water supplier. The water supplier shall arrange to repair the leak or
other defect within two consecutive calendar days upon receipt of notice.
   (I)   The owner of the premises and consumer shall not adjust, modify,
repair, replace, remove, disconnect, bypass, or otherwise tamper with a
treatment unit. The owners of the premises and consumer shall pay the water
supplier for any costs incurred due to the owner of the premises or the
consumer adjusting, modifying, bypassing, tampering with, or removing a
treatment unit or any ancillary equipment.
   (J)   The water supplier may, without prior notice, suspend water service to
any premises when such suspension is necessary to prevent or stop an actual or
threatened imminent and substantial danger to the water supplier’s public water
supply. The water supplier may, without prior notice, suspend water service to
any premises when such suspension is necessary to prevent or stop an actual or
threatened imminent and substantial danger to the environment or to the health
or welfare of any person. As soon as practicable after the emergency suspension
of service, the water supplier will notify the owner of the premises or
consumer of the suspension. Notice will be provided in person or by certified
mail, return receipt requested. The water supplier will not reinstate service
until the actual or threatened danger has been eliminated and its cause
determined and corrected. The owner of the premises or consumer shall pay the
water supplier for any costs incurred for suspending service: responding to,
eliminating, determining the cause of, and correcting actual or threatened
dangers; and reinstating service, if the actual or threatened danger was caused
by persons other than the water supplier.
   (K)   The water supplier may terminate, after notice and opportunity for a
hearing, the water service of any consumer who:
      (1)   Fails or refuses to allow the installation of treatment units as
required by this section;
      (2)   Fails or refuses to allow the water supplier access to the premises
to conduct regular or emergency maintenance; or
      (3)   Adjusts, modifies, repairs, replaces, removes, disconnects,
bypasses, or otherwise tampers with a treatment unit without prior written
permission from the water supplier.
   (L)   Except in accordance with division (J) above, the water supplier will
notify the owner of the premises or consumer of the proposed termination of
water service at least 15 days before the proposed termination. Notice will be
provided in person or by certified mail, return receipt requested. The owner of
the premises or consumer may request a hearing on the proposed termination by
filing a written request for a hearing with the water supplier, not more than
five consecutive calendar days after receipt of notice of the proposed
termination.
   (M)   If water service is terminated, the water supplier will not reinstate
water service until the owner of the premises or consumer allows for the
installation of treatment units. The consumer or the owner of the premises must
enter into a written agreement to allow the water supplier access to the
premises to conduct regular or emergency maintenance. The owner of the premises
or consumer shall pay all costs incurred by the water supplier to reinstate
service.
   (N)   The owner of the premises or consumer may be charged up to the city’s
actual cost for the installation of a treatment unit. The owner of the premises
or consumer may be charged in equal increments every month for one year. The
owner of the premises or consumer may be charged for all costs incurred by the
water supplier to make any required modifications to existing plumbing in order
to install the treatment unit. The owner of the premises or consumer may be
charged in equal increments every month for one year.
   (O)   The owner of the premises or consumer may be charged a monthly
maintenance charge for as long as the treatment unit remains installed on the
premises.
   (P)   Any installation and maintenance charges collected by the water
supplier shall be deposited in the operating budget of the water supplier. Such
funds shall be used for the purchase of new treatment units and to help defray
the costs associated with purchasing, installing, maintaining, and removing the
treatment units. The city reserves the right to increase or decrease the
installation and maintenance charges as deemed appropriate through an amendment
to this section.
   (Q)   All owners of the premises or consumers of the water supplier shall
abide by the provisions of this section and any such rules, regulations, and
ordinances promulgated for the improvement and maintenance of the quality of
the water intended for human consumption supplied by the water supplier.
Failure to abide by the provision of this section may result in the termination
of service as described in divisions (J) or (K) above or in the imposition of
service charges.
   (R)   The water supplier may charge the owner of the premises, user, or
consumer $100 for failure to allow access for the installation of the treatment
unit. The water supplier may charge the owner of the unit or consumer $100 for
failure to allow access for the maintenance of the treatment unit.
   (S)   In the event that the consumer or owner of the premises, or other user
fails to allow access to the premises for the purpose of removing the treatment
unit, the water supplier may apply to the County District Court for an order
permitting entry onto the premises and for the removal of the treatment unit.
   (T)   (1)   The consumer, owner of the premises, and any other user shall
indemnify and hold harmless the water supplier for any injury or damage which
may occur as a result of:
         (a)   The installation, maintenance, operation, sampling, monitoring,
or removal of a treatment unit;
         (b)   The adjusting, modifying, repairing, replacing, removing,
disconnecting, bypassing, or otherwise tampering with a treatment unit; or
         (c)   The failure to inspect, detect, and report, in accordance with
this section, any leaks or other defects which could have reasonably been
detected by the required weekly inspection.
      (2)   The consumer or the owner of the premises shall be liable for any
damage to a treatment unit resulting from fire, theft, or impact.
(Prior Code, § 3-127) (Ord. 2012-780, passed 5-21-2012)
§ 50.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person violating §
50.25 shall, in addition to paying all damage caused to the municipal water
system and supply, pay a fine of $250 per day for each day that this section is
violated.
(Prior Code, § 3-125) (Ord. 669, passed 1-18-1999)
CHAPTER 51: SEWER
Section
   
51.01   Operation and funding
   
51.02   Definitions
   
51.03   Application for permit
   
51.04   Sewer contract
   
51.05   Service contracts
   
51.06   Installation procedure
   
51.07   Repairs and maintenance
   
51.08   Sewer use fees
   
51.09   Manholes
   
51.10   Lien
   
51.11   Complaints
   
51.12   Public sewers required; unlawful deposit of wastes
   
51.13   Unlawful discharge of untreated sewage
   
51.14   Cesspools, privies, and septic tanks prohibited
   
51.15   Mandatory hook-up
   
51.16   Private sewage disposal
   
51.17   Permit required, fee
   
51.18   Permit and inspections
   
51.19   Private sewer disposal system specifications
   
51.20   Maintenance
   
51.21   Additional requirements
   
51.22   Installation; permit required
   
51.23   Permit application fee
   
51.24   Installation and expense
   
51.25   Single premises
   
51.26   Use of existing sewers
   
51.27   Construction codes
   
51.28   Unlawful connection
   
51.29   Inspections
   
51.30   Excavations
   
51.31   Prohibited discharges; storm water, surface water, and the like
   
51.32   Flammable, toxic, corrosive, and obstructive substances
   
51.33   Specific prohibitions as determined by Superintendent
   
51.34   Rejection, pretreatment, control, or discharge rate, or use fee
surcharge
   
51.35   Grease, oil, and sand interceptors
   
51.36   Preliminary treatment or flow-equalizing facilities
   
51.37   Control manholes/sampling stations
   
51.38   Hazardous and prohibited substances
   
51.39   Sanitary supply system; destruction of property
   
51.40   Compliance required; inspections
   
51.41   Injury liability
   
51.42   Easements
   
51.43   Use charge system; purpose
   
51.44   Operation, Maintenance, and Replacement Fund
   
51.45   Classifications of users
   
51.46   Bills
   
51.47   Review of rates
 
   
51.99   Penalty
§ 51.01 OPERATION AND FUNDING.
   The municipality owns and operates the municipal sewer system through the
City Superintendent. The governing body, for the purpose of defraying the cost
of the management and maintenance of the municipal sewer system, may each year
levy a tax not exceeding the maximum limit prescribed by state law on the
actual valuation of all real estate and personal property within the corporate
limits that is subject to taxation. The revenue from the said tax shall be
known as the Sewer Maintenance Fund. The City Superintendent shall have the
direct management and control of the Sewer Department and shall faithfully
carry out the duties of his or her office. He or she shall have the authority
to adopt rules and regulations for the sanitary and efficient management of the
Department subject to the supervision and review of the governing body.
(Prior Code, § 3-201)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-149, 17-925.01
§ 51.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BOD (BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND). The quantity of oxygen in the biochemical
oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory procedures in five days
at 20°C, expressed in milligrams per liter (mg/l).
   BUILDING DRAIN. The part of the lowest horizontal piping of a drainage
system which receives the discharge from soil, waste, and other drainage pipes
inside the walls of the building and conveys it to the building sewer,
beginning five feet (1.5 meters) outside the inner face of the building wall.
   BUILDING SEWER. The extension from the building drain to the public sewer or
other place of disposal.
   COMBINED SEWER. A sewer receiving both surface runoff and sewage.
   GARBAGE. Solid wastes from the domestic and commercial preparation, cooking,
and dispensing of food, and from the handling, storage, and sale of produce.
   HEARING BOARD. The Board appointed according to provisions of this chapter.
(This section to be included only if optional article entitled “Hearing Boards”
is made a part of the ordinance.)
   INDUSTRIAL WASTES. The liquid wastes from industrial manufacturing
processes, trade, or business as distinct from sanitary sewage.
   NATURAL OUTLET. Any outlet into a watercourse, pond, ditch, lake, or other
body of surface or ground water.
   NORMAL DOMESTIC WASTEWATER. Wastewater that has a BOD concentration of not
more than 225 mg/l and a suspended solids concentration of not more than 225
mg/l.
   OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE. All expenditures during useful life of the
wastewater treatment works for material, labor, utilities, and other items
which are necessary for managing and maintaining the sewage works to achieve
the capacity and performance for which such works were designed and
constructed.
   PERSON. Any individual, firm, company, association, society, corporation, or
group.
   pH. The logarithm of the reciprocal of the weight of hydrogen ions in grams
per liter of solution.
   PROPERLY SHREDDED GARBAGE. The wastes from the preparation, cooking, and
dispensing of food that have been shredded to such a degree that all particles
will be carried freely under the flow conditions normally prevailing in public
sewers, with no particle greater than one-half inch in any dimension.
   PUBLIC SEWER. A sewer in which all owners of abutting properties have equal
rights, and is controlled by public authority.
   REPLACEMENT. Expenditures for obtaining and installing equipment,
accessories, or appurtenances which are necessary during the useful life of the
treatment works to maintain the capacity and performances for which such works
was designed and constructed. The term “operation and maintenance” includes
REPLACEMENTS.
   RESIDENTIAL CONTRIBUTOR. Any contributor to the city’s treatment works whose
lot, parcel of real estate, or building is used for domestic dwelling purposes
only.
   SANITARY SEWER. A sewer which carries sewage and to which storm, surface,
and ground waters are not intentionally admitted.
   SEWAGE. A combination of the water-carried wastes from residences, business
buildings, institutions, and industrial establishments together with such
ground, surface, and storm waters as may be present.
   SEWAGE TREATMENT PLANT. Any arrangement of devices and structures used for
treating sewage.
   SEWAGE WORKS. All facilities for collecting, pumping, treating, and
disposing of sewage.
   SEWER. A pipe or conduit for carrying sewage.
   SHALL. Is mandatory; the term MAY is permissive.
   SLUG. Any discharge of water, sewage, or industrial waste which in
concentration of any given constituent or in quantity of flow exceeds for any
period of duration longer than 15 minutes more than five times the average 24-
hour concentration or flows during normal operation.
   SS (SUSPENDED SOLIDS). Solids that either float on the surface or are
suspended in the water, sewage, or other liquids and which are removable by
laboratory filtering.
   STORM DRAIN or STORM SEWER. A sewer which carries storm and surface waters
and drainage, but excludes sewage and industrial wastes, other than unpolluted
cooling water.
   SUPERINTENDENT. The City Superintendent of the city or his or her authorized
deputy, agent, or representative.
   TREATMENT WORKS. Any devices and systems for the storage, recycling, and
reclamation of municipal sewage, domestic sewage, or liquid industrial wastes.
These include intercepting sewers, outfall sewers, sewage collection systems,
individual systems, pumping, power, and other equipment and their
appurtenances; extensions improvement, remodeling, additions, and alterations
thereof; elements essential to provide a reliable recycled supply such as
standby treatment units and clear well facilities; and any works, including
site acquisition of the land that will be an integral part of the treatment
process or is used for ultimate disposal of residues resulting from such
treatment (including land for composting sludge, temporary storage of such
compost, and land used for the storage of treated wastewater in land treatment
systems before land application); or any other method or system for preventing,
abating, storing, treating, separating, or disposing or municipal waste or
industrial waste, including waste in combined storm water and sanitary sewer
systems.
   USEFUL LIFE. The estimated period during which treatment works will be
operated.
   USERS CHARGE. The portion of the total wastewater service charge which is
levied in a proportional and adequate manner for the cost of operation,
maintenance, and replacement of the wastewater treatment works.
   WATER METER. A water volume measuring recording device, furnished and
installed by the city.
   WATERCOURSE. A natural or artificial channel for the passage of water either
continuously or intermittently.
(Prior Code, § 3-202) (Ord. 520, passed 11-18-1985; Ord. 530, passed 2-16-1987)
§ 51.03 APPLICATION FOR PERMIT.
   (A)   Any person wishing to connect with the municipal sewer system shall
make application therefor to the City Clerk. The Clerk shall require a $10
deposit to be placed on file at the office of the City Clerk. The Clerk shall
then forward the application to the City Superintendent. Sewer service may not
be supplied to any house or building except upon the order of the
Superintendent.
   (B)   Upon termination of sewer service, the customer’s deposit shall be
applied to any utility charges or other amounts owing to the city and the
remaining balance shall be refunded. The deposit shall be refunded after the
customer has maintained sewer service with the city for a continuous one-year
period for which all billings have been paid by the delinquent date.
(Prior Code, § 3-203) (Ord. 555, passed 4-16-1990; Ord. 592, passed 8-15-1994;
Ord. 680, passed 9-18-2000; Ord. 761, passed 6-15-2009; Ord. 2014-795, passed
4-21-2014)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-149
§ 51.04 SEWER CONTRACT.
   (A)   The municipality, through the Municipal Sewer Department, shall
furnish sewer services to persons within its corporate limits whose premises
abut a street or alley in which a commercial main is now or may hereafter be
laid. The municipality may also furnish sewer service to persons whose premises
are situated outside the corporate limits of the municipality, as and when,
according to law, the governing body may see fit to do so.
   (B)   The rules, regulations, and sewer rental rates hereinafter named in
this chapter shall be considered a part of every application hereafter made for
sewer service and shall be considered a part of the contract between every
customer now or hereafter served. Without further formality, the making of the
application on the part of any applicant or the use of sewer service by present
customers thereof shall constitute a contract between the customer and the
municipality to which said contract both parties are bound.
   (C)   If the customer shall violate any of the provisions of said contract
or any reasonable rules and regulations that the governing body may hereafter
adopt, the City Superintendent, or his or her agent, may cut off or disconnect
the sewer service from the building or premises of such violation. No further
connection for sewer service to said building or premises shall again be made
save or except by order of the Superintendent or his or her agent.
(Prior Code, § 3-204)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-901, 17-902
§ 51.05 SERVICE CONTRACTS.
   (A)   Contracts for sewer service are not transferable. Any person wishing
to change from one location to another shall make a new application and sign a
new contract.
   (B)   If any customer shall move from the premises where service is
furnished, or if the said premises is destroyed by fire or other casualty, he
or she shall at once inform the City Superintendent who shall cause the sewer
service to be shut off from the said premises.
   (C)   If the customer should fail to give notice, he or she shall be charged
for that period of time until the official in charge of sewers is otherwise
advised of such circumstances.
(Prior Code, § 3-207)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 18-503
§ 51.06 INSTALLATION PROCEDURE.
   (A)    The customer of the Sewer Department, upon approval of his or her
application, shall be responsible for procuring the necessary supplies and
labor necessary to bring the sewer service from the main onto the property to
be served, including actual tapping of the main. The municipality shall be
responsible for installation of all sewer mains.
   (B)   In making excavations in streets, alleys, or sidewalks for the purpose
of installing pipe or making repairs, the paving, stones, and earth must be
removed and deposited in a manner that will occasion the least inconvenience to
the public and provide for adequate drainage. No person shall leave an
excavation made in the street, alley, or sidewalk open at any time without a
barricade, and during the night, warning lights. After the house sewer is laid,
the public ways and property shall be restored to good condition. If the
excavation in the public ways and property is left open or unfinished for a
period of 24 hours or more, the City Superintendent may finish or correct the
work, and all expenses so incurred shall be charged to the owner, occupant, or
lessee of the property.
   (C)   All installations or repairs of pipes require inspection and
supervision by the City Superintendent at the time the work is ready for each
inspection. All installation shall be done under the supervision and strictly
in accordance with the rules, regulations, and specifications for such
installation prescribed by the City Superintendent; provided, that the said
rules, regulations, and specifications have been reviewed and approved by the
governing body.
(Prior Code, § 3-208) Penalty, see §
51.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 18-503
§ 51.07 REPAIRS AND MAINTENANCE.
   The municipality shall repair or replace, as the case may be, all pipe
constituting major sewer mains. It shall be the responsibility of the customer
to repair or replace all other sewer pipe and appurtenances from the main to
and including the customer’s property. All replacements and repairs made by the
customer shall be done in the manner and with the materials approved by the
City Superintendent; provided, that the same have been previously approved by
the governing body.
(Prior Code, § 3-210)
§ 51.08 SEWER USE FEES.
   Customers of the Municipal Sewer Department shall pay the following rates
for the use of sewer service. Rates shall be set by ordinance and shall be on
file at the office of the City Clerk for public inspection at any reasonable
time.
   (A)   All occupied single-family residential units shall pay $15.50 per
month plus a monthly fee equal to $2.60 per 1,000 gallons of the average
monthly water usage during the preceding months of November, December, January,
and February.
   (B)   Apartments, housing units, and multi-family dwellings shall pay a base
rate equal to $15.50 times the number of units per month plus a monthly fee
equal to $2.60 per 1,000 gallons of the average monthly water usage during the
preceding months of November, December, January, and February.
(Prior Code, § 3-211) (Ord. 681, passed 11-16-2000; Ord. 757, passed 1-19-2009;
Ord. 2012-777, passed 3-19-2012; Ord. 2022-832, passed 6-27-2022; Ord. 2023-
838, passed 6-19-2023)
§ 51.09 MANHOLES.
   Entrance into a manhole or opening for any purpose except by authorized
persons is hereby prohibited. It shall be unlawful to deposit or cause to be
deposited in any receptacle connected with the sewer system any substance which
is not the usual and natural waste carried by the sewer system.
(Prior Code, § 3-215) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.10 LIEN.
   In addition to all other remedies, if a customer shall for any reason remain
indebted to the municipality for sewer service furnished, such amount due,
together with any rents and charges in arrears shall be considered a delinquent
sewer rent which is hereby declared to be a lien upon the real estate for which
the same was furnished. The City Clerk shall notify in writing, or cause to be
notified in writing, all owners of premises or their agents whenever their
tenants or lessees are 60 days or more delinquent in the payment of sewer rent.
It shall be the duty of the City Clerk on June 1 of each year to report to the
governing body a list of all unpaid accounts due for sewer service together
with a description of the premises served. The report shall be examined, and if
approved by the governing body, shall be certified by the City Clerk to the
County Clerk to be collected as a special tax in the manner provided by law.
(Prior Code, § 3-217)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-925.01
§ 51.11 COMPLAINTS.
   Any consumer feeling himself or herself aggrieved by reason of any
controversy with the City Superintendent or City Clerk may appear before the
governing body and present his or her grievance. Any consumer who considers
himself or herself aggrieved by being required to pay the charge demanded for
the use of the sewer, or for the resumption of sewer service after the same
shall have been shut off, shall pay such charge under protest, in which event
the City Clerk shall write on the receipt given such customer the words, “Paid
Under Protest”. Such consumer may then present his or her verified claim in the
manner provided for presenting claims to the governing body for a refund of the
amount so paid under protest. Such claims shall then be considered by the
governing body in the same manner as other claims against the municipality.
(Prior Code, § 3-218)
§ 51.12 PUBLIC SEWERS REQUIRED; UNLAWFUL DEPOSIT OF WASTES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, deposit, or permit to be
deposited in any unsanitary manner on public or private property within the
city, or in any area under the jurisdiction of said city, any human or animal
excrement, garbage, or other objectionable waste.
(Prior Code, § 3-219) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.13 UNLAWFUL DISCHARGE OF UNTREATED SEWAGE.
   It shall be unlawful to discharge to any natural outlet within the city, or
in any area under the jurisdiction of said city, any sewage or other polluted
waters, except where suitable treatment has been provided in accordance with
subsequent provisions of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 3-220) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.14 CESSPOOLS, PRIVIES, AND SEPTIC TANKS PROHIBITED.
   Except as hereinafter provided, it shall be unlawful to construct or
maintain any privy, privy vault, septic tank, cesspool, or other facility
intended or used for the disposal of sewage.
(Prior Code, § 3-221) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.15 MANDATORY HOOK-UP.
   The owner of all houses, buildings, or properties used for human employment,
recreation, or other purposes, situated within the city and abutting on any
street, alley, or right-of-way in which there is now located or may in the
future be located a public sanitary or combined sewer of the city, is hereby
required at his or her expense to install suitable toilet facilities therein,
and to connect such facilities directly with the proper public sewer in
accordance with the provisions of this chapter, within seven days after date of
official notice to do so; provided, that said public sewer is within 150 feet
of the property line.
(Prior Code, § 3-222)
§ 51.16 PRIVATE SEWAGE DISPOSAL.
   (A)   Where a public sanitary or combined sewer is not available under the
provisions of §
51.15, the building sewer shall be connected to a private sewage disposal
system complying with the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   At such time as a public sewer becomes available to a property served
by a private sewage disposal system, as provided in §
51.20, a direction connection shall be made to the public sewer in compliance
with this chapter, and any septic tanks, cesspools, and similar private sewage
disposal facilities shall be abandoned and filed with suitable material.
(Prior Code, § 3-223)
§ 51.17 PERMIT REQUIRED, FEE.
   Before commencement of construction of a private sewage disposal system, the
owner shall first obtain a written permit signed by the city. The application
for such permit shall be made on a form furnished by the city, which the
applicant shall supplement by any plans, specifications, and other information
as are deemed necessary by the city. A permit and inspection fee of $50 shall
be paid to the city at the time the application is filed.
(Prior Code, § 3-224)
§ 51.18 PERMIT AND INSPECTIONS.
   A permit for a private sewage disposal system shall not become effective
until the installation is completed to the satisfaction of the City
Superintendent. He or she shall be allowed to inspect the work at any stage of
construction and, in any event, the applicant for the permit shall notify the
City Superintendent when the work is ready for final inspection, and before any
underground portions are covered. The inspection shall be made within 48 hours
of the receipt of notice by the City Superintendent.
(Prior Code, § 3-225)
§ 51.19 PRIVATE SEWER DISPOSAL SYSTEM SPECIFICATIONS.
   The type, capacities, location, and layout of a private sewage disposal
system shall comply with all recommendations of the state’s Department of
Public Health. No permit shall be issued for any private sewage disposal system
employing subsurface soil absorption facilities when the area of the lot is
less than 10,000 square feet (square meters). No septic tank or cesspool shall
be permitted to discharge to any natural outlet.
(Prior Code, § 3-226)
§ 51.20 MAINTENANCE.
   The owner shall operate and maintain the private sewage disposal facilities
in a sanitary manner at all times, at no expense to the city.
(Prior Code, § 3-227)
§ 51.21 ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   No statement contained in this chapter shall be construed to interfere
with any additional requirements that may be imposed by the Health Officer.
   (B)   When a public sewer becomes available, the building sewer shall be
connected to said sewer within 60 days and the private sewage disposal system
shall be cleaned of sludge and filled with clean bank-run gravel or dirt.
(Prior Code, § 3-228)
§ 51.22 INSTALLATION; PERMIT REQUIRED.
   No unauthorized person shall uncover, make any connections with or opening
into, use, alter, or disturb any public sewer or appurtenance thereof without
first obtaining a written permit from the City Superintendent.
(Prior Code, § 3-229) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.23 PERMIT APPLICATION FEE.
   There shall be two classes of building sewer permits: for residential and
commercial service; and for service to establishments producing industrial
wastes. In either case, the owner or his or her agent shall make application on
a special form furnished by the City Clerk. The permit application shall be
supplemented by any plans, specifications, or other information considered
pertinent in the judgment of the city. A permit and inspection fee of $50 for a
residential or commercial building sewer permit and $50 for an industrial
building sewer permit shall be paid to the City Clerk at the time the
application is filed.
(Prior Code, § 3-230)
§ 51.24 INSTALLATION AND EXPENSE.
   All costs and expense incidental to the installation and connection of the
building sewer shall be borne by the owner. The owner shall indemnify the city
from any loss or damage that may directly or indirectly be occasioned by the
installation of the building sewer.
(Prior Code, § 3-231)
§ 51.25 SINGLE PREMISES.
   A separate and independent building sewer shall be provided for every
building; except where one building stands at the rear of another on an
interior lot and no private sewer is available or can be constructed to the
rear building through an adjoining alley, court, yard, or driveway, the
building sewer from the front building may be extended to the rear building and
the whole considered as one building sewer.
(Prior Code, § 3-232)
§ 51.26 USE OF EXISTING SEWERS.
   Old building sewers may be used in connection with new buildings only when
they are found, on examination and test by the City Superintendent, to meet all
requirements of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 3-233)
§ 51.27 CONSTRUCTION CODES.
   (A)   The size, slope, alignment, materials of construction of a building
sewer, and the methods to be used in excavating, placing of the pipe, jointing,
testing, and backfilling the trench, shall all conform to the requirements of
the Building and Plumbing Code or other applicable rules and regulations of the
city. In the absence of code provisions or in amplification thereof, the
materials and procedures set forth in appropriate specifications of the
A.S.T.M. and W.P.C.F. Manual of Practice No. 9 shall apply.
   (B)   Whenever possible, the building sewer shall be brought to the building
at an elevation below the basement floor. In all buildings in which any
building drain is too low to permit gravity flow to the public sewer, sanitary
sewage carried by such building drain shall be lifted by an approved means and
discharged to the building sewer.
   (C)   The connection of the building sewer into the public sewer shall
conform to the requirements of the Building and Plumbing Code or other
applicable rules and regulations of the city, or the procedures set forth in
appropriate specifications of the A.S. T.M. and the W.P.C.F. Manual of Practice
No. 9. All such connections shall be made gastight and watertight. Any
deviation from the prescribed procedures and materials must be approved by the
City Superintendent before installation.
(Prior Code, § 3-234)
§ 51.28 UNLAWFUL CONNECTION.
   No person shall make connection of roof downspouts, interior and exterior
foundation drains, areaway drains, or other sources of surface runoff or ground
water to a building sewer or building drain which in turn is connected directly
or indirectly to a public sanitary sewer.
(Prior Code, § 3-235) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.29 INSPECTIONS.
   The applicant for the building sewer permit shall notify the City
Superintendent when the building sewer is ready for inspection and connection
to the public sewer. The connection shall be made under the supervision of the
City Superintendent or his or her representative.
(Prior Code, § 3-236)
§ 51.30 EXCAVATIONS.
   All excavations for building sewer installation shall be adequately guarded
with barricades and lights so as to protect the public from hazard. Streets,
sidewalks, parkways, and other public property disturbed in the course of the
work shall be restored in a manner satisfactory to the City Superintendent.
(Prior Code, § 3-237)
§ 51.31 PROHIBITED DISCHARGES; STORM WATER, SURFACE WATER, AND THE LIKE.
   (A)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any storm water,
surface water, ground water, roof runoff, subsurface drainage, including
interior and exterior foundation drains, uncontaminated cooling water, or
unpolluted industrial waters to any sanitary sewer.
   (B)   Storm water and all other unpolluted drainage shall be discharged to
such sewers as are specifically designated as combined sewers or storm sewers,
or to a natural outlet approved by the city. Industrial cooling water or
unpolluted process water may be discharged, on approval of the Mayor and
Council, to a storm sewer, combined sewer, or natural outlet.
(Prior Code, § 3-238) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.32 FLAMMABLE, TOXIC, CORROSIVE, AND OBSTRUCTIVE SUBSTANCES.
   (A)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any of the
following:
      (1)   Any gasoline, benzene, naphtha, fuel oil, or other flammable or
explosive liquid, solid, or gas;
      (2)   Any waters or wastes containing toxic or poisonous solids, liquids,
or gases in sufficient quantity, either singly or by interaction with other
wastes, to injure or interfere with any sewage treatment process, constitute a
hazard to humans or animals, create a public nuisance, or create any hazard in
the receiving waters of the sewage treatment plant, including, but not limited
to, cyanides in excess of two mg/l as CN in the wastes as discharged to the
public sewer;
      (3)   Any waters or wastes having a pH lower than 5.5, or having any
other corrosive property capable of causing damage or hazard to structures,
equipment, and personnel of the sewage works;
      (4)   Solid or viscous substances in quantities or of such size capable
of causing obstruction to the flow in sewers, or other interference with the
proper operation of the sewage works such as, but not limited to, ashes,
cinders, sand, mud, straw, shavings, metal, glass, rags, feathers, tar,
plastics, wood, unground garbage, whole blood, paunch manure, hair and
fleshings, entrails and paper dishes, cups, milk containers, and the like,
either whole or ground by garbage grinders; or
      (5)   Any waters or wastes having a five-day BOD greater than 300 parts
per million by weight, or containing more than 350 parts per million by weight
of suspended solids, or having an average daily flow greater than 2% of the
average sewage flow of the city shall be subject to the review of the City
Superintendent.
   (B)   Where necessary in the opinion of the City Superintendent, the owner
shall provide, at his or her expense, such preliminary treatment as may be
necessary to reduce the biochemical oxygen demand to 300 parts per million by
weight, or reduce the suspended solids to 350 parts per million by weight, or
control the quantities and rates of discharge of such waters or wastes. Plans,
specifications, and other pertinent information relating to proposed
preliminary treatment facilities shall be submitted for the approval of the
City Superintendent and no construction of such facilities shall be commenced
until said approvals are obtained in writing.
(Prior Code, § 3-239) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.33 SPECIFIC PROHIBITIONS AS DETERMINED BY SUPERINTENDENT.
   (A)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged the following
described substances, materials, waters, or wastes if it appears likely in the
opinion of the city that such wastes can harm either the sewers, sewage
treatment process, or equipment, have an adverse effect on the receiving
stream, or can otherwise endanger life, limb, public property, or constitute a
nuisance. In forming his or her opinion as to the acceptability of these
wastes, the City Superintendent will give consideration to such factors as the
quantities of subject wastes in relation to flows and velocities in the sewers,
materials of construction of the sewers, nature of the sewage treatment
process, capacity of the sewage treatment plant, and other pertinent factors.
   (B)   The substances prohibited are:
      (1)   Any liquid or vapor having a temperature higher than 150°F (65°C);
      (2)   Any water or waste containing fats, wax, grease, or oils, whether
emulsified or not, in excess of 100 mg/l or containing substances which may
solidify or become viscous at temperatures between 32° and 150°F (0 and 65°C);
      (3)   Any garbage that has not been properly shredded. The installation
and operation of any garbage grinder equipped with a motor three-fourths
horsepower (0.76 hp metric) or greater shall be subject to the review and
approval of the City Superintendent;
      (4)   Any waters or wastes containing strong acid iron pickling wastes,
or concentrated plating solutions whether neutralized or not;
      (5)   Any water or wastes containing iron, chromium, copper, zinc, and
similar objectionable or toxic substances; or wastes exerting an excessive
chlorine requirement, to such degree that any such material received in the
composite sewage at the sewage treatment works exceeds the limits established
by the NDEC for such materials;
      (6)   Any waters or wastes containing phenols or other taste- or odor-
producing substances, in such concentrations exceeding limits which may be
established by the Environmental Control as necessary, after treatment of the
composite sewage, to meet the requirements of state, federal, or other public
agencies of jurisdiction for such discharge to the receiving waters;
      (7)   Any radioactive wastes or isotopes of such half-life or
concentration as may exceed limits established by the Environmental Control in
compliance with applicable state or federal regulations;
      (8)   Any waters or wastes having a pH in excess of 9.0 M.P.L.;
      (9)   Materials which exert or cause:
         (a)   Unusual concentrations of inert suspended solids (such as, but
not limited to, Fuller’s earth, lime slurries, and lime residues) or of
dissolved solids (such as, but not limited to, sodium chloride or sodium
sulfate);
         (b)   Excessive discoloration (such as, but not limited to, dye wastes
and vegetable tanning solutions);
         (c)   Unusual BOD, chemical oxygen demand, or chlorine requirements in
such quantities as to constitute a significant load on the sewage treatment
works; and/or
         (d)   Unusual volume of flow or concentration of wastes constituting
“slugs” as defined herein.
      (10)   Waters or wastes containing substances which are not amenable to
treatment or reduction by the sewage treatment processes employed, or are
amenable to treatment only to such degree that the sewage treatment plant
effluent cannot meet the requirements of other agencies having jurisdiction
over discharge to the receiving waters.
(Prior Code, § 3-240) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.34 REJECTION, PRETREATMENT, CONTROL, OR DISCHARGE RATE, OR USE FEE
SURCHARGE.
   (A)   If any waters or wastes are discharged, or are proposed to be
discharged to the public sewers, which waters contain the substances or possess
the characteristics enumerated in §
51.33, and which in the judgment of the city may have a deleterious effect upon
the sewage works, processes, equipment, or receiving waters, or which otherwise
create a hazard to life to constitute a public nuisance, the City
Superintendent may:
      (1)   Reject the wastes;
      (2)   Require pretreatment to an acceptable condition for discharge to
the public sewers;
      (3)   Require control over the quantities and rates of discharge; and/or
      (4)   Require payment to cover the added cost of handling and treating
the wastes not covered by existing taxes or sewer charges under the provisions
of §
51.39.
   (B)   If the city permits the pretreatment or equalization of waste flows,
the design and installation of the plants and equipment shall be subject to the
review and approval of the city, and subject to the requirements of all
applicable codes, ordinances, and laws.
(Prior Code, § 3-241)
§ 51.35 GREASE, OIL, AND SAND INTERCEPTORS.
   Grease, oil, and sand interceptors shall be provided when, in the opinion of
the city, they are necessary for the proper handling of liquid wastes
containing grease in excessive amounts, or any flammable wastes, sand, or other
harmful ingredients; except that such interceptors shall not be required for
private living quarters or dwelling units. All interceptors shall be of a type
and capacity approved by the City Superintendent and shall be located as to be
readily and easily accessible for cleaning and inspection.
(Prior Code, § 3-242)
§ 51.36 PRELIMINARY TREATMENT OR FLOW-EQUALIZING FACILITIES.
   Where preliminary treatment or flow-equalizing facilities are provided for
any waters or wastes, they shall be maintained continuously in satisfactory and
effective operation by the owner at his or her expense.
(Prior Code, § 3-243)
§ 51.37 CONTROL MANHOLES/SAMPLING STATIONS.
   (A)   When required by the city, the owner of any property serviced by a
building sewer carrying industrial wastes shall install a suitable control
manhole, together with such necessary meters and other appurtenances in the
building sewer to facilitate observation, sampling, and measurement of the
wastes. Such manhole, when required, shall be accessibly and safely located,
and shall be constructed in accordance with plans approved by the city. The
manhole shall be installed by the owner at his or her expense, and shall be
maintained by him or her so as to be safe and accessible at all times.
(Prior Code, § 3-244)
   (B)   All measurements, tests, and analyses of the characteristics of waters
and wastes to which reference is made in this chapter, shall be determined in
accordance with the latest edition of Standard Methods for the Examination of
Water and Wastewater, published by the American Public Health Association, and
shall be determined at the control manhole provided, or upon suitable samples
taken at said control manhole. In the event no special manhole has been
required, the control manhole shall be considered to be the nearest downstream
manhole in the public sewer to the point at which the building sewer is
connected. Sampling shall be carried out by customarily accepted methods to
reflect the effect of constituents upon the sewage works and to determine the
existence of hazards to life, limb, and property. (The particular analyses
involved will determine whether a 24-hour composite of all outfalls of a
premises is appropriate or whether a grab sample or samples should be taken.
Normally, but not always, BOD and suspended solids analyses are obtained from
24-hour composites of all outfalls whereas pHs are determined from periodic
grab samples.)
(Prior Code, § 3-245)
§ 51.38 HAZARDOUS AND PROHIBITED SUBSTANCES.
   No statement contained in this chapter shall be construed as preventing any
special agreement or arrangement between the city and any industrial concern
whereby an industrial waste of unusual strength or character may be accepted by
the city for treatment, subject to payment therefor, by the industrial concern.
(Prior Code, § 3-246)
§ 51.39 SANITARY SUPPLY SYSTEM; DESTRUCTION OF PROPERTY.
   No person or persons shall maliciously, willfully, or negligently break,
damage, destroy, uncover, deface, or tamper with any structure, appurtenance,
or equipment which is part of the sewage works. Any person or persons violating
this provision shall be subject to immediate arrest under charge of disorderly
conduct.
(Prior Code, § 3-247) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.40 COMPLIANCE REQUIRED; INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   The City Superintendent and other duly authorized employees of the
city bearing proper credentials and identification shall be permitted to enter
all properties for the purposes of inspection, observation, measurement,
sampling, and testing in accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   The City Superintendent or his or her representatives shall have no
authority to inquire into any processes including metallurgical, chemical, oil,
refining, ceramic, paper, or other industries beyond that point having a direct
bearing on the kind and source of discharge to the sewers or waterways or
facilities for waste treatment.
(Prior Code, § 3-248)
§ 51.41 INJURY LIABILITY.
   While performing the necessary work on private properties referred to in §
51.40, the City Superintendent or duly authorized employees of the city shall
observe all safety rules applicable to the premises established by the company
and the company shall be held harmless for injury or death to the city
employees and the city shall indemnify the company against loss or damage to
its property by city employees and against liability claims and demands for
personal injury or property damage asserted against the company and growing out
of the gauging and sampling operation, except as such may be caused by
negligence or failure of the company to maintain safe conditions as required in
§
51.37.
(Prior Code, § 3-249)
§ 51.42 EASEMENTS.
   The City Superintendent and other duly authorized employees of the city
bearing proper credentials and identification shall be permitted to enter all
private properties through which the city holds a duly negotiated easement for
the purposes of, but not limited to, inspection, observation, measurement,
sampling, repair, and maintenance of any portion of the sewage works lying
within said easement. All entry and subsequent work, if any, on said easement,
shall be done in full accordance with the terms of the duly negotiated easement
pertaining to the private property involved.
(Prior Code, § 3-250)
§ 51.43 USE CHARGE SYSTEM; PURPOSE.
   It is determined and declared to be necessary and conducive to the
protection of the public health, safety, welfare, and convenience of the city
to collect charges from all users who contribute wastewater to the city
treatment works. The proceeds of such charges so derived will be used for the
purpose of operating, maintaining, and retiring the debt for such public
wastewater treatment works.
(Prior Code, § 3-252)
§ 51.44 OPERATION, MAINTENANCE, AND REPLACEMENT FUND.
   (A)   The user charge system shall generate adequate annual revenues to pay
costs of annual operation and maintenance, including replacement and costs
associated with debt retirement of bonded capital associated with financing the
treatment works, the city may by ordinance designate to be paid by the user fee
system. That portion of the total user charge which is designated for operation
and maintenance, including replacement of the treatment works, shall be
established by this section.
   (B)   The portion of the total user charge collected which is designated for
operation and maintenance, including replacement purposes as established in §
51.45, shall be deposited in a separate non-lapsing fund known as Operation,
Maintenance, and Replacement Fund, and will be kept in two primary accounts as
follows:
      (1)   An account designated for the specific purpose of defraying
operation and maintenance cost excluding replacement of the treatment works
(Operation and Maintenance Account); and
      (2)   An account designated for the specific purpose of ensuring
replacement needs over the useful life of this treatment works (Replacement
Account).
   (C)   Deposits in the replacement account shall be made at least annually
for the operation, maintenance, and replacement revenue in the amount of $900
annually.
   (D)   Fiscal year-end balances in the operation and maintenance account and
the replacement account shall be carried over to the same accounts in the
subsequent fiscal year, and shall be used for no other purposes than those
designated for these accounts. The user charge rate(s) shall be adjusted such
that the moneys transferred from other sources to meet temporary shortages in
the operation, maintenance, and replacement, will be returned to their
respective accounts within the fiscal year following the fiscal year in which
the monies were borrowed.
(Prior Code, § 3-253)
§ 51.45 CLASSIFICATIONS OF USERS.
   (A)   The following classes of users and charges to those users are hereby
established: Class 1: all users single-family contributors, small
nonresidential users, and institutional users which contribute less than or
equal to normal domestic sewage, estimated to be 10,000 gallons, $3 per month
minimum, plus a fee of ($0.20) per 1,000 over the 10,000 gallons.
   (B)   For those users who contribute wastewater, the strength of which is
greater than the normal domestic sewage, a surcharge in addition to the normal
charge will be collected. The surcharge for operation and maintenance,
including replacement, will be determined by the responsible operating
personnel and approved by the Council.
   (C)   Any user which discharges any toxic pollutants which cause an increase
in the cost of managing the effluent or sludge from the city’s wastewater
treatment works, or any user which discharges any substance which singly or by
interaction with other substances causes identifiable increases in the cost of
operation, maintenance, or replacement of the treatment works, shall pay for
such increased costs. The charge to each such user will be as determined by the
responsible plant operating personnel and approved by the Mayor and Council.
(Prior Code, § 3-254) (Ord. 577, passed 1-18-1993)
§ 51.46 BILLS.
   (A)   All users shall be billed monthly. Payments are due when the billing
is made. Any payment not received within 30 days after billing is made shall be
delinquent.
   (B)   When any bill is 30 days in default, rendition of water and/or sewer
service to such premises shall be discontinued until such bill is paid
following due notice and opportunity for hearing.
(Prior Code, § 3-255)
§ 51.47 REVIEW OF RATES.
   (A)   The Council will review the user charge system at least every two
years and revise user charge rates as necessary to ensure that the system
generates adequate revenue to pay the costs of operation and maintenance,
including replacement, and that the system continues to provide for the
proportional distribution of operation and maintenance including replacement
cost among users and user classes.
   (B)   The city will notify each user at least annually, in conjunction with
a regular bill, of the rate being charged for operation and maintenance,
including replacement, of the treatment works.
(Prior Code, § 3-256)
§ 51.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person found to be violating any provision of this chapter, except
§
51.40, shall be served by the city with written notice stating the nature of
the violation and providing a reasonable time limit for the satisfactory
correction thereof. The offender shall, within the period of time stated in
such notice, permanently cease all violations.
   (B)   Any person who shall continue any violation beyond the time limit
provided for in this section shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, on
conviction thereof, shall be fined in the amount not exceeding $100 for each
violation. Each 24-hour period in which any such violation shall continue shall
be deemed a separate offense.
   (C)   Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall
become liable to the city for any expense, loss, or damage occasioned the city
by reason of such violation.
(Prior Code, § 3-251)
CHAPTER 52: ELECTRICITY
Section
   
52.01   Ownership
   
52.02   Contracts and terms
   
52.03   Consumer’s application and deposit
   
52.04   Electrical service contracts
   
52.05   Installation expense
   
52.06   Meters
   
52.07   Fees and collections
   
52.08   Rates, adjustments, and service
   
52.09   Delinquent payments; reconnection fees
   
52.10   Restricted use
   
52.11   Building moving
   
52.12   Meter in disrepair
   
52.13   Complaints
   
52.14   Trimming trees
   
52.15   Inspections
   
52.16   Destruction of property
   
52.17   Franchise fee for electric companies
   
52.18   Franchise fee for energy providers
§ 52.01 OWNERSHIP.
   The municipality owns and operates the municipal electrical system through
the City Superintendent. The governing body, for the purpose of defraying the
cost of the care, management, and maintenance of the municipal electrical
system, may each year levy a tax not exceeding the maximum limit prescribed by
state law, on the actual valuation of all real estate and personal property
within the corporate limits that is subject to taxation. The revenue from the
said tax shall be known as the Electrical Fund and shall remain in the custody
of the Municipal Treasurer. The City Superintendent shall have the direct
management and control of the municipal electrical system and shall faithfully
carry out the duties of his or her office. He or she shall have the authority
to adopt rules and regulations for the safe and efficient management of the
electrical system subject to the supervision and review of the governing body.
The governing body shall by ordinance set the rates to be charged for services
rendered and shall file the same in the office of the City Clerk for public
inspection at any reasonable time.
(Prior Code, § 3-801)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-902 through 17-904, 17-906, 17-909
§ 52.02 CONTRACTS AND TERMS.
   (A)   The municipality, through its Electrical Department, shall furnish
electric current for light and power purposes to persons whose premises abut on
any supply wire of the distribution system and may furnish electric current to
such other persons within or without its corporate limits, as and when,
according to law, the governing body may see fit to do so. The rules,
regulations, and rates for electric service, hereinafter named in this chapter,
shall be considered a part of every application hereafter made for electric
service and shall be considered a part of the contract between every consumer
now served by the Electrical Department.
   (B)   Without further formality, the making of application on the part of
any applicant or the use or consumption of electric energy by present customers
and the furnishing of electric service to said applicant or customer shall
constitute a contract between applicant or customer and the municipality, to
which both parties are bound. If customer should violate any of the provisions
of said contract or any reasonable rules and regulations that the Electrical
Department may hereafter adopt, the City Superintendent, or his or her agent,
shall cut off or disconnect the electric service from the building or place of
such violation and no further connection of electric service for such building
or place shall again be made save or except by order of the Superintendent or
his or her agent.
(Prior Code, § 3-802)
§ 52.03 CONSUMER’S APPLICATION AND DEPOSIT.
   (A)   Any person desiring municipal electrical service shall make
application therefor to the City Clerk. The Clerk shall require a $260 deposit
to be placed on file at the office of the City Clerk. The Clerk shall then
forward the application to the City Superintendent. Electricity may not be
supplied to any house or building except upon the order of the Superintendent.
   (B)   Upon termination or disconnection of electrical service, the
customer’s deposit shall be applied to any utility charges or other amounts
owing to the city and the remaining balance shall be refunded.
   (C)   The deposit shall be refunded after the customer has maintained
electric service with the city for a continuous one-year period for which all
billings have been paid by the delinquent date.
(Prior Code, § 3-803) (Ord. 555, passed 4-16-1990; Ord. 592, passed 8-15-1994;
Ord. 680, passed 9-18-2000; Ord. 726, passed 3-15-2004; Ord. 761, passed 6-15-
2009; Ord. 2014-795, passed 4-21-2014)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-902, 19-2701
§ 52.04 ELECTRICAL SERVICE CONTRACTS.
   Contracts for electrical service are not transferable. Any person wishing to
change from one location to another shall make a new application and sign a new
contract. If any consumer shall sell, dispose, or remove from the premises
where service is furnished in his or her name, or if the said premises is
destroyed by fire or other casualty, he or she shall at once inform the City
Superintendent who shall cause the electrical service to be shut off from the
said premises. If the consumer should fail to give such notice, he or she shall
be charged for all electricity used on the said premises until the City
Superintendent is otherwise advised of such circumstances.
(Prior Code, § 3-804)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-902
§ 52.05 INSTALLATION EXPENSE.
   The expense of installation and equipment up to the house or building to be
served shall be paid by the municipality. The municipality shall install the
meter but the consumer shall compensate the municipality for the cost of said
meter. The expense of installation and wiring from the meter to the points of
distribution shall be the responsibility of the consumer. Maintenance and
replacement expense shall be apportioned in the same manner.
(Prior Code, § 3-805)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-902
§ 52.06 METERS.
   All electrical meters shall be read at least one time each month during
which electrical service is used between the nineteenth day and the first day
of the succeeding month.
(Prior Code, § 3-806)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 19-1404
§ 52.07 FEES AND COLLECTIONS.
   The governing body has the power and authority to fix the rates to be paid
by electrical consumers for the use of electricity. All rates shall be on file
for public inspection at the office of the City Clerk. The Clerk shall bill the
consumers and collect all money received by the municipality on the account of
the municipal electrical system. He or she shall faithfully account for and pay
over the same to the Municipal Treasurer all revenue collected by him or her,
taking his or her receipt therefor in duplicate, filing one with the Electrical
Department and keeping the other on file in his or her official records.
(Prior Code, § 3-807)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-902
§ 52.08 RATES, ADJUSTMENTS, AND SERVICE.
   The schedule of rates to be paid by the customer for electric energy and
service furnished by the combined utilities system of the city is hereby
established as follows.
   (A)   Uniform provisions. The following provisions shall be effective for
all rates included in this section.
      (1)   Rates. All charges imposed through this section shall be effective
with billings rendered after December 2024.
      (2)   Charges. All bills shall be based upon the appropriate customer
charge per month, plus the applicable charges for power and energy consumed.
      (3)   Production cost adjustment. All rates are subject to the production
cost adjustment clause as set forth in division (A)(2).
      (4)   Term of payment. All bills are due and payable on the tenth day of
each month. A penalty of $10 plus 5% of the bill will be charged on all
delinquent bills.
   (B)   Rates.
      (1)   Residential.
 
Residential Service   Base Rate
Customer charge/month $15.75
First 700kW/month/kWh $0.1261
Balance (per kWh)     $0.11418
 
         (a)   Availability. All domestic single-family non-commercial usage
customers with mixed domestic and nondomestic or multiple-dwelling usages at
the same meter location whose usage exceeds 5,000 kWh per month for three
consecutive months shall be transferred to the applicable business rate. Three-
phase service is not available for residential service under this rate.
         (b)   Minimum bill. The minimum bill of the customer shall be the
customer charge.
      (2)   Commercial.
 
Commercial Service       Base Rate
Customer charge/month    $26
First 1,000 kW/month/kWh $0.12749
Balance (per kWh)        $0.11572
 
         (a)   Availability. For non-residential meters with less than 25
kilowatts of demand or less than 10,000 kilowatt-hours of usage for three
consecutive months. A customer may request to be billed under the general
service demand rate however they will remain on the GS-D rate for at least 12
months before they can be transferred back to the GS rate if applicable. Three-
phase service is not available at this rate. A customer may take three-phase
service under the general service demand rate or the large power primary rate.
         (b)   Minimum bill. The minimum bill of the customer shall be the
customer charge.
      (3)   Commercial service - demand.
 
Commercial Service - Demand Base Rate
Customer charge/month       $63.50
Demand charge ($/kW)        $19.55
Energy charge ($/kWh)       $0.07275
 
         (a)   Availability. All urban or rural business usage with peak
demands of greater than 25 kilowatts or 10,000 kilowatt-hours of usage for
three consecutive months. However, at the discretion of the city, any customer
whose demand falls between 25-100 kW may be charged at the commercial service
rate, contingent upon application by customer and agreement by city that an
instance of economic hardship (as defined by the city) would occur under the
commercial service-demand rate.
         (b)   Minimum bill. The minimum bill of the customer shall be the
customer charge.
         (c)   Municipal wholesale rate:energy charge ($/kWh): $0.013385
      (4)   Large power primary (LPP).
 
Large Power Primary   Base Rate
Customer charge/month $341.75
Demand charge ($/kW)  $22.80
Energy charge ($/kWh) $0.08146
 
         (a)   Availability. All urban or rural non-residential accounts taking
service at three-phase and primary voltage of 600 volts and greater (typically
4,160 v) with installed metered capability to provide power to peak demands
greater than 400 kilowatts or energy usage of greater than 100,000 kilowatt-
hours per month.
         (b)   Minimum bill.
            1.   The minimum bill shall be the customer charge+the energy
charge+the demand charge+the power factor+the PCA charges.
            2.   Where the demand charge shall be determined by the higher of:
The highest metered peak in kW for the billing period times the demand charge
or 65% of the highest metered peak demand in the preceding summer months of
June, July, August, and September times the demand charge.
   (C)   Production cost adjustment (PCA) clause. All rates are subject to a
production cost adjustment (PCA) as may be set from time to time by the City
Council. The power cost adjustment (PCA) clause may be invoked, for periods of
no longer than 12 months in cases when significant revenue changes are
necessary because of substantial increases/decreases in the cost of power and/
or other emergencies that are estimated to be greater than a 10% deviation in
FY power costs budgeted. In some cases, the city's wholesale provider of
electric power may bill an adjustment clause for a period of time and these
costs may be passed on with losses using the PCA clause.
   (D)   Power factor correction. All rates with a demand charge included
herein are subject to adjustment for power factors of less than 95% lagging. If
the power factor, by meter or test, is found to be less than 95%, at or near
peak monthly demand, the billing demand shall be increased by the ratio of 95
divided by the measured power factor. In order to allow the customer
appropriate time to correct a low power factor, the penalty correction shall be
advisory for the first three bills rendered after the date of the letter from
the city to the customer that the power factor determination has been made and
the customer is responsible for making corrections to avoid being charged the
power factor penalty.
   (E)   Service quality. Customers operating equipment having highly
fluctuating or large instantaneous demands, or which require electric service
quality exceeding customary industry standards, shall be required to provide
adequate corrective and/or protective equipment, isolating transformers, or
other equipment as necessary so as to not unduly interfere with or be affected
by customary service to other customers. Such special service conditions shall
be subject to such additional monthly charges as the utility deems necessary
and appropriate.
   (F)   Discrimination prohibited. No service shall be provided under any
other rate than as provided in this section, except by written contract.
   (G)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      kW. Peak kilowatt demand
      kWh. Kilowatt hour consumption.
   (H)   Service policies. All rates and services included hereinabove are
subject to the standard service policies of the Benkelman Utilities.
   (I)   Taxes. In the event of the imposition of any new tax or the increase
of any existing tax, or any increase in payments in lieu thereof: by any lawful
authority; the electric rates established by this section may be increased by
the amount of such tax or charge.
(Prior Code, § 3-808) (Ord. 2016-805, passed 3-21-2016; Ord. 2023-843, passed
11-20-2023; Ord. 2024- 847, passed 11-18-2024)
§ 52.09 DELINQUENT PAYMENTS; RECONNECTION FEES.
   Electrical fees shall be due and payable monthly at the office of the City
Clerk. If said fees are not paid on or before the tenth of the month in which
they are due they shall be deemed to be delinquent. Upon being deemed to be
delinquent the Municipal Clerk shall give written notice to the customer of
such delinquency and shall demand payment immediately and upon failure of such
payment the customer’s electrical service shall be disconnected in accordance
with the procedure in §
54.02. The customer’s electrical service shall not be reconnected until all
back fees and charges are paid, including a reconnect fee of $50. Provided, if
the delinquent customer is a known public assistance recipient, it shall be the
duty of the Municipal Clerk to notify the customer and also the Department of
Health and Human Services by certified mail of the proposed termination of
service. The owner of the premise will in all cases be held primarily
responsible and will be required to pay for electricity at such premise.
(Prior Code, § 3-809) (Ord. 671, passed 4-19-1999; Ord. 2024-844, passed 3-18-
2024)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-902, 19-2702
§ 52.10 RESTRICTED USE.
   The municipal electrical system does not guarantee the delivery of electric
current over the lines of the distribution system except when it has sufficient
power, current, equipment, and machinery to do so. The City Superintendent has
the power and authority to disconnect or discontinue such service for any good
and sufficient reason without liability. The municipality shall use due care
and reasonable diligence to provide and supply uninterrupted service to
consumers, but shall not be liable for damages resulting from interruption of
service due to causes over which the municipality has no control and the
municipality expressly reserves the right to discontinue or disconnect any
consumer’s service without preliminary notice.
(Prior Code, § 3-810)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-902
§ 52.11 BUILDING MOVING.
   Should any house or building moving occur or be necessary and it becomes
necessary in said work to remove or disturb any of the property or wires of the
municipal electrical system, the same should not be done except upon written
permission received from the City Superintendent, who shall then order paid in
advance the actual cost of moving the said wires and such cost shall be paid by
the applicant prior to the moving of the building or house. All expense of
removing, changing, and replacing the said wires or apparatus of the electrical
system shall be paid out of the deposit made prior to moving and any surplus
remaining after all expenses are paid shall be returned to the applicant;
provided, that if in the course of moving the said building or house it becomes
apparent that additional expense will be incurred, such additional deposit as
deemed necessary may be demanded.
(Prior Code, § 3-811)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 19-1404
§ 52.12 METER IN DISREPAIR.
   (A)   In the event that any customer’s meter falls out of repair or fails to
register properly, the City Superintendent shall charge such customer the same
amount billed one year previous to such disrepair.
   (B)   In the event that there is no such basis for comparison, the City
Superintendent shall charge the customer such amount as he or she deems is fair
both to the customer and the municipality.
(Prior Code, § 3-812)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 19-1404
§ 52.13 COMPLAINTS.
   (A)   Any consumer feeling himself or herself aggrieved by reason of any
controversy with the City Superintendent or City Clerk may appear before the
governing body and present his or her grievance.
   (B)   Any consumer who considers himself or herself aggrieved by being
required to pay the charge demanded for the use of electricity, or for the
resumption of electric service after the same shall have been shut off, shall
pay such charge under protest, in which event the City Clerk shall write on the
receipt given such customer the words, “Paid Under Protest”. Such consumer may
then present his or her verified claim in the manner provided for presenting
claims to the governing body for a refund of the amount so paid under protest.
Such claims shall then be considered by the governing body in the same manner
as other claims against the municipality.
(Prior Code, § 3-813)
§ 52.14 TRIMMING TREES.
   (A)   Any person desiring to cut or remove trees or branches thereof in
close proximity to the lines of the municipal electrical system shall, before
doing the said work, give reasonable written notice to the City Superintendent
and shall follow any and all rules and regulations which he or she may
prescribe for doing such work.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person felling or removing such trees or
branches to disrupt or damage the lines without first giving proper notice and
receiving permission in writing to do so.
   (C)   Whenever it becomes necessary to protect the lines or property of the
electrical system, the governing body shall have the power to order cut and
remove any overhanging branches or limbs of trees so that the lines will be
free and safe.
(Prior Code, § 3-814) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 52.15 INSPECTIONS.
   The City Superintendent or his or her duly authorized agents shall have free
access at any reasonable time to each premises and building to or in which
electricity is supplied; provided, that in the event of an emergency, such
inspections may take place at any time.
(Prior Code, § 3-815)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-902
Cross reference:
   Electric utility modification inspections, see §
54.04
§ 52.16 DESTRUCTION OF PROPERTY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to willfully or carelessly break,
injure, or deface any building, machinery, apparatus, fixture, attachment, or
appurtenance of the municipal electrical system.
(Prior Code, § 3-816) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 28-512
§ 52.17 FRANCHISE FEE FOR ELECTRIC COMPANIES.
   (A)   Commencing October 1, 2017, the beginning of the current fiscal year,
there is hereby levied upon every person, firm, partnership, corporation,
municipality, or association engaged in the business of offering or providing
electricity to the public in the city a franchise fee of 7% on the gross
receipts resulting from the sale of electricity.
   (B)   On or before the last day of each month, said company providing
electricity shall pay to the General Fund of the city 7% of the gross receipts
as provided in division (A) above from the preceding month as a franchise fee.
All late payments not paid within one month after the passage of the ordinance
codified herein shall draw interest at the rate of 1% per month. After default
for six months, a penalty of 5% shall be added in addition to the interest
charges.
   (C)   All companies providing electricity on the last day of each month
shall submit to the City Treasurer a full, complete, and detailed statement of
the income and gross receipts from the sale of electricity. All such businesses
shall at any reasonable times during business hours permit the city, through
its officers, agents, or representatives, to inspect the books and records of
any such business for the purpose of verifying such report or reports.
   (D)   The franchise fee levied and provided for by this section shall be
paid to the City Treasurer, who shall, upon payment thereof, give a receipt,
properly dated, and specifying the person paying the same, and the amount
thereof, and the time for which the same takes effect. The Treasurer shall keep
a record of the receipts so issued.
   (E)   It is hereby made the duty of any person, firm, partnership,
corporation, and municipality or association desiring to exercise, conduct, or
engage in any franchise within the provisions of this chapter, to pay to the
City Treasurer the amounts specified for the franchise fee, as provided for in
this chapter. The amount of the franchise fee shall be due and payable to the
City Treasurer immediately after such person shall begin business in any
franchise within the provisions of this chapter.
   (F)   The City Attorney may bring suit in the name of the city against any
person, corporation, firm, partnership, municipality, or association in any
court of competent jurisdiction for the amount of such fee levied by this
chapter upon the failure of such person, corporation, firm, partnership,
municipality, or association to pay the same as provided.
(Prior Code, § 3-817) (Ord. 2017-808, passed 8-21-2017)
§ 52.18 FRANCHISE FEE FOR ENERGY PROVIDERS.
   (A)   The city (hereinafter referred to as the “municipality”) hereby
establishes a franchise fee on every natural gas company and every other
person, firm, or corporation, their successors and assigns, owning, operating,
controlling, leasing, or managing a natural gas plant or system and/or
generating, manufacturing, selling, distributing or transporting natural gas
(hereinafter referred to, collectively, as “energy providers”, each
individually, an “energy provider”). Energy providers shall collect from their
customers located within the corporate limits of the municipality as depicted
on the map (as defined below) and pay to the municipality an amount equal to
$0.0081 per therm for natural gas delivered to customers by the energy
providers within the present or future limits of the municipality.
   (B)   The amount paid by energy providers shall be in lieu of, and energy
providers shall be exempt from, all other fees, charges, taxes, or assessments
which the municipality may impose for the privilege of doing business within
the municipality, including, without limitation, excise taxes, occupation
taxes, licensing fees, or right-of-way permit fees, and in the event the
municipality imposes any such fee, charge, tax, or assessment, the payment to
be made by energy providers in accordance with this section shall be reduced in
an amount equal to any such fee, charge, tax, or assessment imposed upon the
energy providers. Ad valorem property taxes imposed generally upon all real and
personal property within the municipality shall not be deemed to affect energy
providers’ obligations under this section.
   (C)   Energy providers shall report and pay any amount payable under this
section on a calendar basis. Such payment shall be made no more than 30 days
following the close of the period for which payment is due. Initial and final
payments shall be prorated for the portions of the periods at the beginning and
end of any franchise granted by the city, to an energy provider.
   (D)   Energy providers shall list the franchise fee collected from customers
as a separate item on bills for utility service issued to their customers. If
at any time the Public Service Commission or other authority having proper
jurisdiction prohibits such recovery, energy providers will no longer be
obligated to collect and pay the franchise fee until an alternate lawful
franchise fee can be negotiated and implemented. In addition, with prior
approval of city, energy providers may reduce the franchise fee payable for
natural gas delivered to a specific customer when such reduction is required to
attract or retain the business of that customer.
   (E)   Within ten days of the date of this ordinance, the municipality shall
provide the energy providers with a map of its corporate limits (the “map”).
The map shall be of sufficient detail to assist energy providers in determining
whether their customers reside within the municipality’s corporate limits. The
map shall serve as the sole basis for determining energy provider’s obligation
hereunder to collect and pay the franchise fee from customers; provided,
however, that if the municipality’s corporate limits are changed by annexation
or otherwise, it shall be the municipality’s sole responsibility to update the
map so that such changes are included therein and provide the updated map to
the energy providers. An energy provider’s obligation to collect and pay the
[fee or tax type] from customers within an annexed area shall not commence
until the later of 60 days after such energy provider’s receipt from the
municipality of an updated map including such annexed area, or such time after
such energy provider’s receipt from the municipality of an updated map
including such annexed area as is reasonably necessary for such energy provider
to identify the customers in the annexed area obligated to pay the franchise
fee.
   (F)   The city shall provide copies of annexation ordinances to energy
providers on a timely basis to ensure appropriate franchise fee collection from
customers within the corporate limits of the city as set forth in division (D)
above.
   (G)   The municipality shall have access to and the right to examine, during
normal business hours, energy provider’s books, receipts, files, records, and
documents as is reasonably necessary to verify the accuracy of payments due
hereunder; provided, that the municipality shall not exercise such right more
than twice per calendar year. If it is determined that a mistake was made in
the payment of any franchise fee required hereunder, such mistake shall be
corrected promptly upon discovery such that any underpayment by an energy
provider shall be paid within 30 days of recalculation of the amount due, and
any overpayment by an energy provider shall be deducted from the next payment
of such franchise fee due by such energy provider to the municipality;
provided, that neither party shall have the obligation to correct a mistake
that is discovered more than one year after the occurrence thereof.
(Ord. 2019-815, passed 1-21-2019)
CHAPTER 53: GARBAGE
Section
General Provisions
   
53.01   Definitions
   
53.02   Hazardous items and items requiring special handling or disposal
   
53.03   Rules and regulations
   
53.04   Private collection services prohibited
   
53.05   Disposal of hazardous waste or waste requiring special handling
   
53.06   Lien
   
53.07   Single premises
   
53.08   Mandatory service
   
53.09   Fees and collections
   
53.10   Disposal of trash in another’s waste container prohibited
Garbage Disposal
   
53.25   Definitions
   
53.26   Garbage, trash, and waste
   
53.27   Dead animal disposal
   
53.28   Powers of Superintendent
Landfill
   
53.40   Operation and funding
   
53.41   State regulation
 
   
53.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Nuisances, see
Ch. 91
   Property maintenance, see
Ch. 93
   Utilities generally, see
Ch. 54
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 53.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   HAZARDOUS WASTE. Any solid waste which because of its quantity,
concentration, or physical, chemical, or infectious characteristics may cause
or significantly contribute to an increase in mortality or an increase in
serious irreversible, or incapacitating reversible, illness or pose a
substantial present or potential hazard to human health or the environment when
improperly treated, stored, transported, disposed of, or otherwise managed, as
further defined in N.A.C. Title 128. HAZARDOUS WASTE shall not include
household hazardous wastes exempt from regulations under the Environmental
Protect Act.
   SOLID WASTE. All garbage, trash, rubbish, or refuse commonly generated by
residential, commercial, industrial, institutional, or governmental activities,
including solids, liquids, semi-solid, or contained gaseous material.
   YARD WASTE, LEAD-ACID BATTERIES, WASTE OIL, WASTE TIRES NOT PROPERLY
PROCESSED, HOUSEHOLD APPLIANCES, UNREGULATED HAZARDOUS WASTE, AND CONSTRUCTION
AND DEMOLITION WASTE. Defined according to N.A.C. Title 132.
(Prior Code, § 3-901)
§ 53.02 HAZARDOUS ITEMS AND ITEMS REQUIRING SPECIAL HANDLING OR DISPOSAL.
   (A)   No person shall put out to be collected by the municipal solid waste
collector any of the following items:
      (1)   Yard waste;
      (2)   Hazardous wastes and unregulated hazardous wastes, except household
wastes which are exempt from the regulations of the Environmental Protection
Act, being Neb. RS 81-1501 through 81-1532;
      (3)   Waste tires not properly processed;
      (4)   Waste oil;
      (5)   Lead-acid batteries;
      (6)   Household appliances;
      (7)   Trees, tree branches, and untreated wood; and
      (8)   Clean brick, rock, concrete, asphalt, and soil.
   (B)   Any receptacle containing any such items shall not be collected by the
municipal solid waste collection. Any such items shall be disposed of by the
owner thereof only as permitted under the state’s Integrated Solid Waste
Management Act, being Neb. RS 13-2001 through 13-2043 or any amendments
thereof.
(Prior Code, § 3-902) Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.03 RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   The municipality, directly or through an independent contractor, shall
provide for collection of solid waste not prohibited by the section, which has
been properly prepared and placed for removal and transport it to a licensed
landfill where it shall be disposed of in a sanitary fashion. Waste material
shall be placed in metal containers or cans or durable rubber or plastic
containers of not more than 30 gallons capacity and fitted with screen or other
suitable covers in a plastic container, securely tied, which is adequate to
contain the weight of its contents. No container or cans shall weigh more than
100 pounds when full. Any larger or heavier removal may be removed by the
employees of the city upon the payment of a fair and reasonable charge based
upon the size and type of the item or items removed which charge shall be
additional to that proved by §
53.09. All containers, cans, or items to be removed shall be located in the
alley behind and adjacent to the premises served, or in such other place as may
be designated by the City Superintendent so as to be easily accessible to
loading crews. The City Superintendent shall have the authority to designate
the location of containers upon premises where there is no alley, and all times
for collection and shall have the authority to fix charges for the removal of
large or heavy objects, which charges shall be paid to the City Clerk and to
make such other reasonable rules for solid waste collection and disposal as may
be necessary or convenient.
(Prior Code, § 3-903)
§ 53.04 PRIVATE COLLECTION SERVICES PROHIBITED.
   No person, firm, or corporation who is not under contract with the city
shall collect or dispose of nonhazardous solid waste within the city, except
waste not collected by the city as defined in §
53.03.
(Prior Code, § 3-904) Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.05 DISPOSAL OF HAZARDOUS WASTE OR WASTE REQUIRING SPECIAL HANDLING.
   Any person, firm, or corporation within the city who generates or creates
hazardous waste or waste requiring special handling or disposal as specified in
§§
53.03 or
91.03 shall be responsible for the transportation and disposal of the same. All
such handling and disposal shall in all respects comply with state and federal
laws and regulations pertaining to the specific type of waste generated.
(Prior Code, § 3-905)
§ 53.06 LIEN.
   In addition to all other remedies, if a customer shall for any reason remain
indebted to the municipality for solid waste collection service furnished, such
amount due, together with any charges in arrears, shall be considered
delinquent and are hereby declared to be a lien upon the real estate for which
the same was furnished. The City Clerk shall notify in writing or cause to be
notified in writing, all owners of premises or their agents whenever their
tenants or lessees are 60 days or more delinquent in the payment of solid waste
collection fees. It shall be the duty of the City Clerk on June 1 of each year
to report to the governing body a list of all unpaid accounts due for solid
waste collection together with a description of the premises for which the same
was furnished. The report shall be examined, and if approved by the governing
body, shall be certified by the City Clerk to the County Clerk to be collected
as a special tax in the manner provided by law.
(Prior Code, § 3-906)
§ 53.07 SINGLE PREMISES.
   No person shall accept from any other person any of such other person’s
disposable solid waste to be commingled with and disposed of as a part of the
accepting person’s solid waste. All solid waste which is to be picked up by the
city or its contractor for each residence and for each commercial,
institutional, or governmental building shall be only the solid waste which is
generated at that site and shall not include any items left for disposal by
another person.
(Prior Code, § 3-907) Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.08 MANDATORY SERVICE.
   Every occupied residence and every commercial, institutional, and
governmental building in which day-to-day activities are conducted within the
municipal limits of the city shall be served by the city’s solid waste
collection and disposal service and shall be subject to the assessment and
payment of charges for such service as set from time to time by the governing
body. The city may also agree to provide service to persons who do not live
within the city limits but who are served by municipal utility services of any
kind or who are within such close distance to the city limits as to make such
service economical and practical for the city and its contracted hauler.
(Prior Code, § 3-908)
§ 53.09 FEES AND COLLECTIONS.
   (A)   The governing body has the power and authority to fix by ordinance the
rates to be paid for residential and nonresidential solid waste collection and
disposal by the Municipal Sanitation Department, provided, that solid waste
collection by the Municipal Sanitation Department of multi- dwellings and
mobile home parks be charged to the owner of the said multi-dwellings and
mobile home parks. The City Clerk shall bill all customers of the Municipal
Sanitation Department and collect all money received by the municipality on the
account of the Sanitation Department. The Clerk shall faithfully account for
and pay to the Municipal Treasurer all revenue collected by him or her taking
the Treasurer’s receipts therefor, in duplicate, filing one in the Clerk’s
office and keeping the other on file in the Sanitation Department’s official
records.
(Neb. RS 17-540)
   (B)   Customers shall pay the following rates.
      (1)   Residential. All occupied single-family residential units shall pay
$25 per month for once per week collection of solid waste from a 65 gallon
toter to be furnished by the city. Volume in excess of 65 gallons per week
shall be paid at the rate of $15 per 65 gallons or part thereof.
      (2)   Nonresidential. All occupied multi-dwellings, non-single-family
residential units, and commercial units in which day-to-day activities are
conducted shall pay $25 per month for once per week collection of a 65 gallon
toter or $100 per month for once per week collection of a two yard dumpster, as
selected by the customer. Toters and dumpsters shall be furnished by the city.
Each additional weekly collection shall be $45 per pickup for dumpsters. Each
additional weekly collection for toters shall be $15 per pickup and there may
not be more than three collections per week. Volume in excess of the customer’s
regular weekly collection shall be paid at a rate of $45 per pickup for a
dumpster customer and $15 for a toter customer per dumpster or toter capacity
or part thereof.
   (C)   All customers out of the city limits shall pay an additional $15 per
month for once per week collection of solid waste, if approved by the city for
solid waste collection.
   (D)   Rates for collection of large and heavy objects shall be charged as
provided in §
53.04.
(Prior Code, § 3-910) (Ord. 2018-811, passed 1-15-2018; Ord. 2022-834, passed
9-19-2022)
§ 53.10 DISPOSAL OF TRASH IN ANOTHER’S WASTE CONTAINER PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to deposit waste material of any kind in
any waste container not belonging to such person or to dispose of such waste
material by leaving the same on any public or private property unless such
property is designated for disposal or collection of such waste.
(Prior Code, § 3-911) Penalty, see §
53.99
GARBAGE DISPOSAL
§ 53.25 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   GARBAGE. Kitchen refuse, decayed waste, dead animals, or anything that may
decompose and become offensive to the public health.
   RUBBISH or TRASH. Discarded machinery, chips, pieces of wood, sticks, dead
trees, branches, bottles, broken glass, crockery, tin cans, boxes, papers,
rags, or any other litter or debris that is not an immediate hazard to the
health of the residents of the municipality.
   USER. A family unit or a business.
   WASTE. Cinders, ashes, plaster, brick, stone, sawdust, or sand.
(Prior Code, § 4-201) (Ord. 461, passed 11-16-1981; Ord. 512, passed 5-20-1985;
Ord. 546, passed 10-18-1989)
§ 53.26 GARBAGE, TRASH, AND WASTE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to keep in, on, or about any dwelling,
building, or premises, or any other place in the municipality, decayed
vegetable or animal substance, garbage, or refuse matter of any kind that may
be injurious to the public health or offensive to the residents of the
municipality unless the same is kept in receptacles not exceeding a 30-gallon
capacity and as nearly air-tight as may be practical. It shall be unlawful to
throw or sweep into the streets, alleys, parks, or other public grounds any
dirt, paper, nails, pieces of glass, refuse, waste, or rubbish of any kind. No
person may permit garbage, rubbish, waste, or refuse to collect and all persons
shall remove the same from their property within 24 hours after being notified
to do so by the Municipal Police Chief, who shall represent the Board of
Health. Any person having garbage, rubbish, waste, or refuse that is subject to
decay or fermentation within a short period of time shall be required to place
the same in a standard garbage can with a tight cover, or a durable plastic
container that is securely tied at its opening. All garbage and waste rubbish
collected by the municipality pursuant to §§
53.01 to
53.10 shall be removed at least once a week in residential premises and twice a
week in commercial premises. All other garbage, rubbish, waste, and refuse
shall be removed by the property owner at least monthly.
(Prior Code, § 4-202) (Ord. 461, passed 11-16-1981; Ord. 512, passed 5-20-1985;
Ord. 246, passed 10-18-1989; Ord. 584, passed 8-30-1993) Penalty, see §
53.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 19-2106
§ 53.27 DEAD ANIMAL DISPOSAL.
   All dead animals shall be immediately removed by the owner of such animals;
and if the owner of such animal cannot be found within two hours after
discovering the same, then such animal shall be removed by the municipality at
the expense of the owner. Dead animals shall be disposed of pursuant to §
53.06.
(Prior Code, § 4-203) (Ord. 461, passed 11-16-1981; Ord. 512, passed 5-20-1985;
Ord. 546, passed 10-18-1989; Ord. 584, passed 8-30-1993) Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.28 POWERS OF SUPERINTENDENT.
   (A)   The City Superintendent is hereby authorized to make such rules and
regulations deemed necessary to govern time of collection of garbage and trash,
the exact location of containers therefor, and such other rules and regulations
governing the accumulation and disposal of garbage and trash as the City
Superintendent deems necessary.
   (B)   The City Superintendent is hereby authorized to make reasonable rules
and regulations for the operation and maintenance of the municipal landfill in
order to maintain the landfill in an orderly, safe, and sanitary condition.
Such rules and regulations shall be plainly posted on the landfill premises.
(Prior Code, § 4-205) (Ord. 461, passed 11-16-1981; Ord. 512, passed 5-20-1985;
Ord. 546, passed 10-18-1989)
LANDFILL
§ 53.40 OPERATION AND FUNDING.
   The municipality owns and operates the municipal landfill through the City
Superintendent. The governing body, for the purpose of defraying the cost of
the care, management, and maintenance of the municipal landfill may each year
levy a tax not to exceed the maximum limit prescribed by state law, on the
actual valuation of all real estate and personal property within the corporate
limits that is subject to taxation. The revenue from the said tax shall be
known as the Landfill Fund and shall remain in the custody of the Municipal
Treasurer. The City Superintendent shall have the direct management and control
of the municipal landfill and shall faithfully carry out the duties of his or
her position. The City Superintendent shall have the authority to adopt rules
and regulations for the sanitary and efficient management of the landfill
subject to the supervision and review of the governing body. The governing body
shall provide by ordinance for the management and operation of the landfill and
shall set the rates to be charged for services rendered by ordinance and file
the same in the office of the City Clerk for public inspection at any
reasonable time.
(Prior Code, § 3-701)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 19-2101 through 19-2106
§ 53.41 STATE REGULATION.
   The municipality shall each year apply for a license to operate the
municipal landfill. Application shall be made to the Department of
Environmental Control on forms provided by the Department. No fee shall be
charged for such licensing. Each license so issued shall expire on October 1,
following the date of issuance. It shall be the duty of the City Superintendent
to comply with the rules and regulations prescribed by the Department of
Environmental Control for the use and operation of the municipal landfill.
(Prior Code, § 3-702)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 71-4101 through 71-4104
§ 53.99 PENALTY.
 
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person violating §
53.07 shall upon conviction be fined $100 for each violation.
(Prior Code, § 3-907)
   (C)   Any person violating §
53.10 shall upon conviction be guilty of a misdemeanor and subject to a fine of
up to $500.
(Prior Code, § 3-911)
   (D)   Any person who shall violate or refuse to comply with the enforcement
of any of §§
53.25 to
53.28, set forth at full length herein or incorporated by reference shall be
deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be fined not
more than $100 for each offense. A new violation shall be deemed to have been
committed every 24 hours of such failure to comply.
(Prior Code, § 4-206)
(Ord. 461, passed 11-16-1981; Ord. 512, passed 5-20-1985; Ord. 546, passed 10-
18-1989)
CHAPTER 54: UTILITIES GENERALLY
Section
   
54.01   Diversion of services; civil action
   
54.02   Discontinuance of service, notice procedure
   
54.03   Diversion of services, meter tampering, unauthorized reconnection
prohibited; evidence
   
54.04   Inspections
 
   
54.99   Penalty
§ 54.01 DIVERSION OF SERVICES; CIVIL ACTION.
   (A)   For purposes of this section, the definitions found in Neb. RS 25-
21,275 shall apply.
   (B)   (1)   The municipality may bring a civil action for damages against
any person who commits, authorizes, solicits, aids, abets, or attempts:
         (a)   Bypassing;
         (b)   Tampering; or
         (c)   Unauthorized metering when such act results in damages to a
municipal utility.
      (2)   The municipality may bring a civil action for damages pursuant to
this section against any person receiving the benefit of utility service
through means of bypassing, tampering, or unauthorized metering.
      (3)   In any civil action brought pursuant to this section, the
municipality shall be entitled, upon proof of willful or intentional bypassing,
tampering, or unauthorized metering to recover as damages:
         (a)   The amount of actual damage or loss if the amount of the damage
or loss is susceptible of reasonable calculation; or
         (b)   Liquidated damages of $750 if the amount of actual damage or
loss is not susceptible of reasonable calculation.
      (4)   In addition to damage or loss under (B)(3)(a) or (B)(3)(b) above,
the municipality may recover all reasonable expenses and costs incurred on
account of the bypassing, tampering, or unauthorized metering including, but
not limited to, disconnection, reconnection, service calls, equipment, costs of
the suit, and reasonable attorneys’ fees in cases within the scope of Neb. RS
25- 1801.
(Neb. RS 25-21,276)
   (C)   (1)   There shall be a rebuttable presumption that a tenant or
occupant at any premises where bypassing, tampering, or unauthorized metering
is proven to exist caused or had knowledge of such bypassing, tampering, or
unauthorized metering if the tenant or occupant:
         (a)   Had access to the part of the utility supply system on the
premises where the bypassing, tampering, or unauthorized metering is proven to
exist; and
         (b)   Was responsible or partially responsible for payment, either
directly or indirectly, to the utility or to any other person for utility
services to the premises.
      (2)   There shall be a rebuttable presumption that a customer at any
premises where bypassing, tampering, or unauthorized metering is proven to
exist caused or had knowledge of such bypassing, tampering, or unauthorized
metering if the customer controlled access to the part of the utility supply
system on the premises where the bypassing, tampering, or unauthorized metering
was proven to exist.
   (D)   The remedies provided by this section shall be deemed to be
supplemental and additional to powers conferred by existing laws. The remedies
provided in this section are in addition to and not in limitation of any other
civil or criminal statutory or common-law remedies.
(Prior Code, § 3-1001) (Ord. 498, passed 12-19-1983; Ord. 725, passed 1-19-
2004)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 25-21,277, 25-21,278
§ 54.02 DISCONTINUANCE OF SERVICE, NOTICE PROCEDURE.
   (A)   The municipality shall have the right to discontinue utility services
and remove its properties if the charges for such services are not paid within
seven days after the date that the charges become delinquent. Before any
termination, the municipality shall first give notice by first-class mail or in
person to any domestic subscriber whose service is proposed to be terminated.
If notice is given by first-class mail, such mail shall be conspicuously marked
as to its importance. Service shall not be discontinued for at least seven
days, weekends and holidays excluded, after notice is sent or given. As to any
subscriber who has previously been identified as a welfare recipient to the
municipality by the Department of Health and Human Services, such notice shall
be by certified mail and notice of such proposed termination shall be given to
the Department of Health and Human Services.
   (B)   The notice shall contain the following information:
      (1)   The reason for the proposed disconnection;
      (2)   A statement of the intention to disconnect unless the domestic
subscriber either pays the bill or reaches an agreement with the municipality
regarding payment of the bill;
      (3)   The date upon which service will be disconnected if the domestic
subscriber does not take appropriate action;
      (4)   The name, address, and telephone number of the employee or
department to whom the domestic subscriber may address an inquiry or complaint;
      (5)   The domestic subscriber’s right, prior to the disconnection date,
to request a conference regarding any dispute over such proposed disconnection;
      (6)   A statement that the municipality may not disconnect service
pending the conclusion of the conference;
      (7)   A statement to the effect that disconnection may be postponed or
prevented upon presentation of a duly licensed physician’s certificate which
shall certify that the domestic subscriber or a resident within such
subscriber’s household has an existing illness or handicap which would cause
such subscriber or resident to suffer an immediate and serious health hazard by
the disconnection of the municipality’s service to that household. Such
certificate shall be filed with the municipality within five days of receiving
notice under this section and will prevent the disconnection of the
municipality’s service for a period of 30 days from such filing. Only one
postponement of disconnection shall be allowed under this division (B)(7) for
each incidence of nonpayment of any past-due account;
      (8)   The cost that will be borne by the domestic subscriber for
restoration of service;
      (9)   A statement that the domestic subscriber may arrange with the
municipality for an installment payment plan;
      (10)   A statement to the effect that those domestic subscribers who are
welfare recipients may qualify for assistance in payment of their utility bill
and that they should contact their caseworker in that regard; and
      (11)   Any additional information not inconsistent with this section
which has received prior approval from the governing body.
   (C)   A domestic subscriber may dispute the proposed discontinuance of
service by notifying the municipality with a written statement that sets forth
the reasons for the dispute and the relief requested. If a statement has been
made by the subscriber, a conference shall be held before the municipality may
discontinue services.
   (D)   The procedures adopted by the governing body for resolving utility
bills, three copies of which are on file in the office of the City Clerk, are
hereby incorporated by reference in addition to any amendments thereto and are
made a part of this section as though set out in full.
   (E)   This section shall not apply to any disconnections or interruptions of
services made necessary by the municipality for reasons of repair or
maintenance or to protect the health or safety of the domestic subscriber or of
the general public.
(Prior Code, § 3-1002) (Ord. 564, passed 1-21-1991; Ord. 727, passed 6-21-2004)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 70-1602 et seq.
§ 54.03 DIVERSION OF SERVICES, METER TAMPERING, UNAUTHORIZED RECONNECTION
PROHIBITED; EVIDENCE.
   (A)    It is an offense for any person:
      (1)   To connect any instrument, device, or contrivance with any wire
supplying or intended to supply electricity or electric current or to connect
any pipe or conduit supplying water, without the knowledge and consent of the
municipality, in such manner that any portion thereof may be supplied to any
instrument by or at which electricity, electric current, or water may be
consumed without passing through the meter made or provided for measuring or
registering the amount or quantity thereof passing through it;
      (2)   To knowingly use or knowingly permit the use of electricity,
electric current, or water obtained unlawfully pursuant to this section;
      (3)   To reconnect electrical or water service without the knowledge and
consent of the municipality if the service has been disconnected pursuant to
Neb. RS 70-1601 through 70-1615; or
      (4)   To willfully injure, alter, or by any instrument, device, or
contrivance in any manner interfere with or obstruct the action or operation of
any meter made or provided for measuring or registering the amount or quantity
of electricity, electric current, or water passing through it, without the
knowledge and consent of the municipality.
   (B)   Proof of the existence of any wire, pipe, or conduit connection or
reconnection or of any injury, alteration, interference, or obstruction of a
meter is prima facie evidence of the guilt of the person in possession of the
premises where such connection, reconnection, injury, alteration, interference,
or obstruction is proved to exist.
(Prior Code, § 3-1003) (Ord. 616, passed 2-19-1996; Ord. 724, passed 1-19-2004)
Penalty, see §
54.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 28-515.02
§ 54.04 INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   Any and all new electrical services and additions to or modification
of existing electrical systems shall require a permit from the State of
Nebraska, Electrical Division, routine maintenance, which includes the repair
or replacement of existing electrical apparatus and equipment of the same size
and type, for which no changes or modifications in wiring are made, is exempt
from this section.
   (B)   In the event that utility services have been turned off for a period
of six months or longer, an inspection of the property shall be required by the
State of Nebraska, Electrical Division in order for utility services to resume.
(Ord. 2023-839, passed 4-17-2023)
Cross reference:
   Electric utility inspections, see §
52.15
§ 54.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who shall violate or refuse to comply with the enforcement of any
of the provisions of this chapter, set forth at full length herein or
incorporated by reference, shall be deemed guilty of an offense and, upon
conviction thereof, shall be fined not more than $100 for each offense. A new
violation shall be deemed to have been committed every 24 hours of such failure
to comply.
(Prior Code, § 3-1101)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
      
71.   RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
      
72.   PARKING REGULATIONS
      
73.   TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
CHAPTER 70: TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
70.01   Definitions
   
70.02   Truck routes
   
70.03   One-way traffic
   
70.04   Designation of traffic lanes
   
70.05   Designation of arterial streets
   
70.06   Turning generally
   
70.07   Right-of-way
   
70.08   Right-of-way; emergency vehicles
   
70.09   Position of vehicle on highway
   
70.10   Crosswalks
   
70.11   Signs and signals
   
70.12   Stop signs
   
70.13   Bicycles, skateboards, scooters, roller skates, and inline skates;
operation
Prohibitions and Enforcement
   
70.25   Littering
   
70.26   Defacing or interfering with signs
   
70.27   Unauthorized display of signs
   
70.28   Backing
   
70.29   Unnecessary stopping
   
70.30   Passing; intersections
   
70.31   Passing; hindrance
   
70.32   Driving abreast
   
70.33   Following distance
   
70.34   Following fire apparatus
   
70.35   Crowding; front seat
   
70.36   Riding outside vehicle
   
70.37   Driving in sidewalk space
   
70.38   Unnecessary noise
   
70.39   Mufflers
   
70.40   Wrongful taking motor vehicles
   
70.41   Emergency regulations
   
70.42   Police
   
70.43   Refusal to obey police
   
70.44   Traffic officers
   
70.45   Radar device prohibited
   
70.46   Drunken driving
 
   
70.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 70.01 DEFINITIONS.
   The words and phrases used in this chapter, pertaining to motor vehicles and
traffic regulations, shall be construed as defined in Neb. RS Chapter 39, as
now existing or hereafter amended. If not defined in the designated statute,
the word or phrase shall have its common meaning.
(Neb. RS Ch. 60)
   ALLEY. A highway intended to provide access to the rear or side of lots or
buildings in urban districts and not intended for the purpose of through
vehicular traffic.
(Neb. RS 60-607)
   ARTERIAL STREET. A street designated as such by resolution of the governing
body.
(Neb. RS 60-609)
   AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLE. Vehicles of the Fire Department and of the
Police Department of the municipality and ambulances.
(Neb. RS 60-610)
   BUSINESS DISTRICT. Includes that portion of the municipality embraced
within, and the area of public streets enumerated as follows: Chief Street from
northwest 2nd Avenue to Railroad Street; East B Street from 1st Avenue to
Railroad Street; West B Street from 1st Avenue to southwest 3rd Avenue; 1st
Avenue from West B Street to East B Street; Southwest 2nd Avenue from West B
Street to Railroad Street; and Southwest 3rd Avenue from West B Street to
Railroad Street.
   CURB. The lateral boundaries of that portion of a street designated for the
use of vehicles whether marked by curb stones or not so marked.
   DRIVE. To ride, lead, pull, push, propel, or operate a vehicle.
   DRIVER. Every person who drives or is in the actual physical control of a
vehicle.
(Neb. RS 60-642)
   HIGHWAY. The entire width between the boundary limits of any street, avenue,
or way which is publicly maintained and open for public vehicular traffic.
(Neb. RS 60-624)
   INTERSECTION or STREET INTERSECTION. The space occupied by two streets at
the point where they cross each other, bounded by the lot lines extended and
shall include the sidewalk space as well as the roadway.
(Neb. RS 60-627)
   MOTOR VEHICLES. Every land vehicle which is self-propelled and not operated
upon rails, except self-propelled invalid chairs.
(Neb. RS 60-638)
   MUFFLER. A device consisting of a series of chamber or baffle plates, or
other mechanical design for the purpose of receiving exhaust gas from an
internal combustion engine, and effective in reducing noise.
   OFFICIAL TRAFFIC SIGNS OR DEVICES. All signs, markings, and devices, other
than mechanical or electrical signals, not inconsistent with this chapter,
placed or erected by authority of the governing body for the purpose of
directing, warning, or regulating traffic.
(Neb. RS 60-670)
   OPERATOR. Every person who drives or is in actual physical control of a
vehicle.
(Neb. RS 60-642)
   OWNER. A person who holds the legal title of a vehicle, a mortgagor entitled
to the possession of the vehicle, and the vendee of an agreement for the
conditional sale or lease thereof with the right of purchase upon the
performance of the condition stated in the agreement and with an immediate
right to possession vested in the conditional vendee or lessee.
(Neb. RS 60-644)
   PARK, PARKED, and PARKING. Any vehicle waiting or standing in any street or
alley, except when such vehicle is waiting in compliance with the direction of
a traffic officer, traffic sign or signal, or driving emergencies, and except
when actually engaged in loading or unloading merchandise or passengers.
(Neb. RS 60-645)
   PERSON. Every natural person, firm, corporation, co-partnership, or
association.
(Neb. RS 60-476)
   POLICE OFFICER or TRAFFIC OFFICER. Every officer of the Police Department of
the municipality or any officer authorized to direct or regulate traffic or
make arrests for the violation of traffic regulation.
(Neb. RS 60-646)
   PRIVATE DRIVEWAY. Every road or driveway not open to the use of the public
for purposes of vehicular travel.
(Neb. RS 60-649)
   RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT. Include all parts of the municipality not included in
the Business District.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. The privilege of the immediate use of the roadway of one
vehicle or pedestrian over another vehicle or pedestrian.
(Neb. RS 60-655)
   SIDEWALK. The portion of a street between the curb lines and the adjacent
property lines intended for pedestrian use.
(Neb. RS 60-662)
   STOP. To cause complete cessation of movement.
(Neb. RS 60-667)
   STREET. The entire width between the boundary limits of any street, avenue,
or way which is publicly maintained and open for public vehicular traffic.
(Neb. RS 60-642)
   VEHICLE. Every device in, upon, or by which any person or property is or may
be transported or drawn upon a street, except devices moved by human power or
used exclusively on stationary rails or tracks.
(Neb. RS 60-676)
(Prior Code, § 5-101)
§ 70.02 TRUCK ROUTES.
   (A)   The governing body may, by resolution, designate certain streets in
the municipality that trucks shall travel upon, and it shall be unlawful for
persons operating such trucks to travel on other streets than those designated
for trucks, unless to pick up or deliver goods, wares, or merchandise, and in
that event, the operator of such truck shall return to such truck routes as
soon as possible in traveling through, or about the municipality.
   (B)   The governing body shall cause notices to be posted or shall erect
signs indicating the streets so designated as truck routes.
(Prior Code, § 5-201) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.03 ONE-WAY TRAFFIC.
   The governing body may, by resolution, provide for one-way travel in any
street or alley located in the municipality and shall provide for appropriate
signs and markings when said streets have been so designated by resolution.
(Prior Code, § 5-202)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 39-680
§ 70.04 DESIGNATION OF TRAFFIC LANES.
   The governing body may, by resolution, mark lanes for traffic on street
pavements at such places as it may deem advisable.
(Prior Code, § 5-203)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 60-680
§ 70.05 DESIGNATION OF ARTERIAL STREETS.
   The governing body may, by resolution, designate any street or portion
thereof as an arterial street and shall provide for appropriate signs or
markings when such street has been so designated.
(Prior Code, § 5-204)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 60-680
§ 70.06 TURNING GENERALLY.
   (A)   Vehicles turning to the right into an intersecting street shall
approach such intersection in the lane of traffic nearest to the right hand
side of the highway and must turn the corner as near the right hand curb as
possible to keep between the curb to the right and the center of the
intersection of the two streets.
   (B)   The driver of a vehicle intending to turn to the left shall approach
such centerline of the highway, and in turning shall pass as near as possible
to the center of the intersection, passing as closely as practicable to the
right thereof before turning such vehicle to the left. For the purposes of this
section, the CENTER OF THE INTERSECTION shall mean the meeting point of the
medial lines of the highways intersecting one another.
(Prior Code, § 5-206)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 39-6,159
§ 70.07 RIGHT-OF-WAY.
   (A)   When two vehicles approach, or enter an intersection at approximately
the same time, the driver of the vehicle on the left shall yield the right-of-
way to the vehicle on the right when the paths of such vehicles intersect and
there is danger of a collision, unless otherwise directed by a municipal police
officer stationed at the intersection. The driver of a vehicle intending to
turn to the left within an intersection, or into an alley, private road, or
driveway shall yield the right-of-way to any vehicle approaching from the
opposite direction which is within the intersection or so close thereto as to
constitute an immediate hazard.
   (B)   The driver of a vehicle on any street shall yield the right-of-way to
a pedestrian crossing such street within any clearly marked crosswalk, or at
any regular pedestrian crossing at the end of a block where the movement of
traffic is being regulated by traffic officers or traffic direction devices.
Every pedestrian crossing a street at any point other than a pedestrian
crossing, crosswalk, or intersection shall yield the right-of-way to vehicles
upon the street. The driver of a vehicle entering a municipal street from a
private road or drive shall yield the right-of-way to all vehicles approaching
on such streets. The driver of a vehicle upon a street shall yield the right-
of-way to authorized emergency vehicles when the latter are operated upon
official business and the drivers thereof make proper use of visual or audible
signals.
(Prior Code, § 5-207)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 60-6,146 through 60-6,154
§ 70.08 RIGHT-OF-WAY; EMERGENCY VEHICLES.
   Upon the approach of any authorized emergency vehicle, every vehicle within
one block of the route of such emergency vehicle shall immediately stop, except
at the time they are on or crossing a street intersection, in which event, such
vehicle shall drive clear of the street intersection and then stop. Every
vehicle along the route of such emergency vehicle shall immediately move to a
position as near the right hand curb as possible and remain there until such
authorized emergency vehicle or vehicles have passed; provided, said vehicles
are operated on official business and the drivers thereof make use of proper
visual or audible signals.
(Prior Code, § 5-208)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 60-6,151
§ 70.09 POSITION OF VEHICLE ON HIGHWAY.
   Upon all highways of sufficient width, one-way streets excepted, the driver
of a vehicle shall drive the same on the right half of the roadway. In passing
or meeting other vehicles, drivers shall give each other at least one-half of
the main traveled portion of the roadway.
(Prior Code, § 5-209)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 60-6,131
§ 70.10 CROSSWALKS.
   The governing body may, by resolution, establish and maintain, by
appropriate devices, markers, or lines upon the street, crosswalks, at
intersections where there is particular danger to pedestrians crossing the
street, and at such other places as it may deem necessary.
(Prior Code, § 5-210)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 60-680
§ 70.11 SIGNS AND SIGNALS.
   (A)   The governing body may, by resolution, provide for the placing of stop
signs, or other signs, signals, standards, or mechanical devices, in any street
or alley under the municipality’s jurisdiction for the purpose of regulating or
prohibiting traffic thereon.
   (B)   Such resolution shall describe the portion of the street or alley
wherein traffic is to be regulated or prohibited; the regulation or
prohibition; the location where such sign, signal, standard, or mechanical
device shall be placed; and the hours when such regulation or prohibition shall
be effective.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person to fail, neglect, or refuse to
comply with such regulation or prohibition.
(Prior Code, § 5-211) Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 39-697, 60-6,119 through 60-6,121
§ 70.12 STOP SIGNS.
   (A)   Every person operating any vehicle shall, upon approaching any stop
sign erected in accordance with the resolution prescribed heretofore, cause
such vehicle to come to a complete stop before entering or crossing any street,
highway, or railroad crossing.
   (B)   The vehicle operator shall stop at a marked stop line or, if there is
no stop line, before entering the crosswalk; but if neither is indicated, then
as near the right-of-way line of the intersecting roadway as possible.
(Prior Code, § 5-212)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 39-697, 60-6,119 through 60-6,121
§ 70.13 BICYCLES, SKATEBOARDS, SCOOTERS, ROLLER SKATES, AND INLINE SKATES;
OPERATION.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate or ride a bicycle,
skateboard, scooter, roller skates, or inline skates within the municipality in
any of the following places:
      (1)   Between the hours of 8:00 a.m. and 6:00 p.m. Monday through
Saturday on any sidewalk or curb in that part of the Business District of the
municipality described as: on or adjacent to Chief Street between the south
line of 7th Avenue and the north line of Railroad Street;
      (2)   On any public property, such as sidewalks, driveways, parks, or
parking lots, where signs are posted prohibiting such use; and
      (3)   On private property where a sign prohibiting such use has been
posted by the owner, lessee, or person in charge of the property.
   (B)   Bicyclists and operators of skateboards, roller skates, inline skates,
or scooters shall yield the right-of-way to pedestrians using public sidewalks
anywhere in the municipality, and shall not otherwise endanger or interfere
with pedestrian traffic on public sidewalks.
   (C)   For a first offense, a written warning shall be issued to the offender
and no fine shall be imposed. If the offender is under the age of 18 years, a
parent or guardian of the offender shall be notified and shall be handed or
mailed a copy of the written warning.
(Prior Code, § 5-213) (Ord. 700, passed 10-21-2002) Penalty, see §
70.99
PROHIBITIONS AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 70.25 LITTERING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to drop, or cause to be left, upon any
municipal highway, street, or alley, except at places designated by the
governing body, any rubbish, debris, or waste, and any person so doing shall be
guilty of littering.
(Prior Code, § 5-301) Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 39-311
§ 70.26 DEFACING OR INTERFERING WITH SIGNS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to willfully deface, injure, remove,
obstruct, or interfere with any official traffic sign or signal.
(Prior Code, § 5-302) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.27 UNAUTHORIZED DISPLAY OF SIGNS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to maintain or display upon, or in view
of any street, any unofficial sign, signal, or device which purports to be, is
an imitation of, or resembles an official traffic sign or signal which attempts
to direct the movement of traffic, or which hides from view, or interferes with
the effectiveness of any official sign or signal. Every such prohibited sign,
signal, or device is hereby declared to be a public nuisance, and any police
officer is hereby empowered to remove the same, or cause it to be removed,
without notice.
(Prior Code, § 5-303) Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 60-6,127
§ 70.28 BACKING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to back a motor vehicle on the municipal
streets except to park in or to remove the vehicle from a permitted parking
position, to move the vehicle from a driveway, or to back to the curb for
unloading where such unloading is permitted; provided, a vehicle shall be
backed only when such movement can be made in safety and in no case shall the
distance of the backing exceed one and one-half lengths of the vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 5-305) Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 60-6,169, 60-680
§ 70.29 UNNECESSARY STOPPING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to stop any vehicle on any public street
or alley, other than in permitted parking areas, except when such a stop is
necessary for emergency situations, to comply with traffic-control devices and
regulations, or to yield the right-of-way to pedestrians or to other vehicles.
(Prior Code, § 5-306) Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 60-6,166, 60-680
§ 70.30 PASSING; INTERSECTIONS.
   The driver of a vehicle shall not overtake and pass another vehicle
proceeding in the same direction, while traversing a street intersection, if
such passing requires such overtaking vehicle to drive to the left of the
center of the street.
(Prior Code, § 5-307) Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 60-6,136
§ 70.31 PASSING; HINDRANCE.
   The driver of a vehicle about to be overtaken and passed by another vehicle
shall not increase the speed of his or her vehicle until completely passed by
the overtaking vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 5-308) Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 60-6,133
§ 70.32 DRIVING ABREAST.
   Two or more vehicles shall not be driven abreast except when passing, or
when traversing a multi- lane or one-way street; provided, motorcycles may be
driven no more than two abreast in a single lane.
(Prior Code, § 5-309) Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 60-6,139, 60-6,308
§ 70.33 FOLLOWING DISTANCE.
   The operator of a vehicle shall not follow another vehicle more closely than
is reasonable and prudent having due regard for the speed of the vehicles, and
the traffic and condition of the street.
(Prior Code, § 5-310) Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 60-6,140
§ 70.34 FOLLOWING FIRE APPARATUS.
   The driver of any vehicle shall not follow any fire apparatus traveling in
response to a fire alarm closer than 500 feet, or drive into or park such
vehicle within the block where fire apparatus has stopped in answer to a fire
alarm.
(Prior Code, § 5-311) Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 60-6,183
§ 70.35 CROWDING; FRONT SEAT.
   (A)   Front seat occupancy of any automobile while the same is in the
process of being started or in motion within the corporate limits shall be
limited to not more than three persons over the age of 12 years.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a motor vehicle upon
any street when such person has in his or her lap or in his or her embrace,
another person, package, or other encumbrance which prevents the free and
unhampered operation of such vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 5-312) Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 60-6,179
§ 70.36 RIDING OUTSIDE VEHICLE.
   No person shall permit any other person to ride on the running board, hood,
top, or fenders of any motor vehicle. Nor shall any person ride on the running
board, hood, top, or fenders of any motor vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 5-313) Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 60-6,179, 60-680
§ 70.37 DRIVING IN SIDEWALK SPACE.
   No motor vehicle or livestock shall be driven or ridden within any sidewalk
space, except a permanent or temporary driveway.
(Prior Code, § 5-314) Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 60-6,178
§ 70.38 UNNECESSARY NOISE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to create any unreasonably loud,
disturbing, and unnecessary noise of such character, intensity, and duration as
to be detrimental to the health and welfare of the municipality.
(Prior Code, § 5-315) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.39 MUFFLERS.
   Every motor vehicle operated within this municipality shall be provided with
a muffler in good working order to prevent excessive or unusual noise as
provided in the previous section. It shall be unlawful to use a “muffler cut-
out” on any motor vehicle upon any streets; provided, the provisions of this
section shall not apply to authorized emergency vehicles.
(Prior Code, § 5-316) Penalty, see § 70.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 60-6,286, 60-6,371
§ 70.40 WRONGFUL TAKING MOTOR VEHICLES.
   Whoever wrongfully takes any automobile or motorcycle from a garage, or any
other place where the same may have been lawfully placed, without the consent
of the owner, or who shall use any motor vehicle in bailment beyond that use
which was originally intended or agreed upon, with intent to wrongfully use the
automobile or motorcycle so taken, shall be guilty of wrongful taking of a
motor vehicle and shall be punished as provided by law.
(Prior Code, § 5-317) Penalty, see § 70.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 28-521
§ 70.41 EMERGENCY REGULATIONS.
   The Chief of Police is hereby empowered to make and enforce temporary
traffic regulations to cover emergencies.
(Prior Code, § 5-318)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 81-2005
§ 70.42 POLICE.
   (A)   The municipal police are hereby authorized, empowered, and ordered to
exercise all powers and duties, with relation to the management of street
traffic, and to direct, control, stop, restrict, regulate, and, when necessary,
temporarily divert, or exclude, in the interest of public safety, health, and
convenience, the movement of pedestrian, animal, and vehicular traffic of every
kind in streets, parks, and on bridges.
   (B)   The driver of any vehicle shall stop upon the signal of any police
officer.
(Prior Code, § 5-319)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 60-683
§ 70.43 REFUSAL TO OBEY POLICE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to refuse or fail to comply with any
lawful order, signal, or direction of a police officer.
(Prior Code, § 5-320) Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 60-680
§ 70.44 TRAFFIC OFFICERS.
   The governing body or the municipal police may at any time detail officers,
to be known as “traffic officers”, at street intersections. All traffic
officers shall be vested with the authority to regulate and control traffic at
the intersections to which they are assigned. It shall be their duty to direct
the movement of traffic and prevent congestion and accidents. It shall be
unlawful for any person to violate any order or signal of any such traffic
officer, notwithstanding the directive of a stop sign or signal device which
may have been placed at any such intersection.
(Prior Code, § 5-321) Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 60-680, 60-683
§ 70.45 RADAR DEVICE PROHIBITED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate or possess any radar
transmission device while operating a motor vehicle on any road, street,
highway, or interstate highway in this municipality; except that this section
shall not apply to any such device which has been lawfully licensed by the
Federal Communications Commission or is being used by law enforcement officials
in their official duties.
   (B)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      POSSESSION. To have a device defined above in a motor vehicle if such
device is not:
         (a)   Disconnected from all power sources; and
         (b)   In the rear trunk, which shall include the spare tire
compartment, or any other compartment which is not accessible to the driver or
any other person in the vehicle while such vehicle is in operation. If no such
compartment exists in a vehicle, then such device must be disconnected from all
power sources and be placed in a position not readily accessible to the driver
or any other person in the vehicle.
      RADAR TRANSMISSION DEVICE. Any mechanism designed to interfere with the
reception of radio microwaves in the electromagnetic spectrum, which
microwaves, commonly referred to as radar, are employed by law enforcement
officials to measure the speed of motor vehicles.
      TRANSCEIVER. An apparatus contained in a single housing, functioning
alternately as a radio transmitter and receiver.
(Prior Code, § 5-322) (Ord. 476, passed 8-16-1982) Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 60-6,275 through 60-6,274
§ 70.46 DRUNKEN DRIVING.
   (A)   (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate or be in actual
physical control of any motor vehicle while under the influence of alcoholic
liquor, or of any drug or when that person has 0.10% or more by weight of
alcohol in his or her body fluid as shown by chemical analysis of his or her
blood, breath, or urine.
      (2)   Any person who operates or has in his or her actual physical
control a motor vehicle upon a public highway, shall be deemed to have given
his or her consent to submit to a chemical test of his or her blood, breath, or
urine, for the purpose of determining the amount of alcohol content in his or
her body fluid.
   (B)   Any duly authorized law enforcement officer may require such person to
submit to said chemical test when such person has been arrested:
      (1)   For any offense arising out of acts alleged to have been committed
while the person was driving or in actual physical control of a motor vehicle
if the officer has reasonable grounds to believe that such person was under the
influence of alcoholic liquor at the time or the offense;
      (2)   For refusing to submit to a preliminary test of his or her breath
for alcohol content if the officer has reasonable grounds to believe that such
person has alcohol in his or her body; or
      (3)   When such preliminary breath test results indicate an alcohol
content of 0.10% or more by weight.
   (C)   Any person who refuses to submit to such preliminary breath test shall
be guilty of a misdemeanor.
      (1)   Any person who refuses to submit to a chemical blood, breath, or
urine test as required above or who shall operate or be in actual physical
control of any motor vehicle while under the influence of alcoholic liquor or
of any drug or while having 0.10% by weight of alcohol in his or her body
fluid, as shown by a chemical blood, breath, or urine test, shall be deemed
guilty of a misdemeanor.
      (2)   Upon the conviction of any person for the violation of this
section, there shall be assessed as part of the court costs, the fee charged by
any physician or any agency administering tests pursuant to a permit issued in
accordance with Neb. RS § 60-6,203, for the test administered and the analysis
thereof if such test was actually made.
(Prior Code, § 5-323) (Ord. 475, passed 8-16-1982; Ord. 503, passed 12-19-1983)
Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 60-6,212.07 through 60-6,212.13
§ 70.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person violating §
70.13 again, after a written warning, shall be fined not less than $25 nor more
than $100 for each offense.
(Prior Code, § 5-213) (Ord. 700, passed 10-21-2002)
CHAPTER 71: RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
Section
All-Terrain and Utility Vehicles
   
71.01   Definitions
   
71.02   Compliance required
   
71.03   General regulations
   
71.04   Registration and insurance
 
   
71.99   Penalty
ALL-TERRAIN AND UTILITY VEHICLES
§ 71.01 DEFINITIONS.
For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLE. Any motorized off highway vehicle which:
   (1)   Is 50 inches or less in width;
   (2)   Has a dry weight of 900 pounds or less;
   (3)   Travels on three or more low pressure tires;
   (4)   Is designed for operator use only with no passengers or as
specifically designed by the original manufacturer for the operator and one
passenger;
   (5)   Has a seat or saddle designed to be straddled by the operator; and
   (6)   Has handle bars or any other steering assembly for steering control.
STREET or HIGHWAY. The entire width between the boundary limits of any street,
road, avenue, boulevard, or way which is publicly maintained when any part
thereof is open to the use of the public for purposes of vehicular travel.
UTILITY VEHICLES. Any side by side vehicle (e.g., gator, mule, prowler) or golf
cart.
(Prior Code, § 5-501) (Ord. 760, passed 6-15-2009)
§ 71.02 COMPLIANCE REQUIRED.
An all-terrain vehicle or utility vehicle may be operated on the streets and
highways within the corporate limits of the city, only if the operator and the
vehicle comply with the provisions of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 5-502) (Ord. 760, passed 6-15-2009)
§ 71.03 GENERAL REGULATIONS.
An all-terrain vehicle or utility vehicle may be operated on the streets and
highways within the corporate limits of the city, only if such vehicle is
equipped with headlights, taillights/brake lights, an OEM muffler, and a
federally approved bicycle safety flag which extends not less than five feet
above ground attached to the rear of such vehicle. The bicycle safety flag
shall be triangular in shape with an area of not less than 30 square inches and
shall be day glow in color.
(Prior Code, § 5-503) (Ord. 760, passed 6-15-2009)
§ 71.04 REGISTRATION AND INSURANCE.
   (A)   In order to be authorized for operation on the streets and highways of
the city, an all-terrain vehicle or utility vehicle must be registered in the
office of the City Clerk. A registration number will be issued upon submitting
proof of the following:
      (1)   A certificate from the city officer indicating that the all-terrain
vehicle or utility vehicle has been inspected by an official or officials
designated by the Mayor and Council and that said vehicle complies, in full,
with the equipment requirements identified in §
71.03;
      (2)   Proof of liability insurance coverage for the all-terrain vehicle
or utility vehicle while operating such vehicle on a street or highway; and
      (3)   Payment of a $25 annual fee for registration of the vehicle. A $35
annual fee shall be required of dealers of all-terrain vehicles or utility
vehicles within the city. All such fees paid shall be credited to the Street
Fund of the city.
   (B)   Upon compliance with the registration requirements identified herein,
the City Clerk shall issue a registration number for the all-terrain vehicle or
utility vehicle being registered. Said registration number must be prominently
displayed upon the flag of said vehicle at all times while such vehicle is in
operation on the streets and highways of the city.
   (C)   Any person operating an all-terrain vehicle or utility vehicle as
authorized by this subchapter shall be at least 21 years old and shall possess
a valid driver’s license issued by the State of Nebraska or another state. The
individual operating the all-terrain vehicle or utility vehicle shall provide
proof of such insurance coverage, as required elsewhere in this subchapter, to
any peace officer requesting such proof within five days of the request being
made. No person shall operate an all-terrain vehicle or utility vehicle after
daylight hours on the streets or highways of the city, in violation of the
state rules of the road as established by the revised statutes of the state.
(Prior Code, § 5-504) (Ord. 760, passed 6-15-2009)
§ 71.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person who violates any provision of §§
71.01 to
71.04, specifically by operating an all- terrain vehicle or utility vehicle on
the streets and highways of the city in violation of any provision of §§
71.01 to
71.04, shall be punished by a fine of a $100 and, specifically shall be subject
to having the all-terrain vehicle or utility vehicle which was operated in
violation of §§
71.01 to
71.04 impounded for a period of 30 days.
(Prior Code, § 5-505) (Ord. 760, passed 6-15-2009)
CHAPTER 72: PARKING REGULATIONS
Section
   
72.01   Unattended vehicles
   
72.02   Parking generally
   
72.03   Parking locations designated
   
72.04   Parking areas
   
72.05   Obstructing alleys
   
72.06   Parking in alleys
   
72.07   Unloading in Business District
   
72.08   Parking in Business District
   
72.09   Fire hydrants and stations
   
72.10   Street intersections
   
72.11   Obstructing traffic
   
72.12   Parking near curbs
   
72.13   Painting curbs
   
72.14   Parking vehicles which are for sale
   
72.15   Parking regulations
   
72.16   Maximum time limit
   
72.17   Maintenance
   
72.18   Emergency vehicles
   
72.19   Handicapped or disabled persons on-street parking spaces
   
72.20   Handicapped or disabled persons off-street parking spaces
   
72.21   Definition of handicapped or disabled persons
   
72.22   Handicapped or disabled persons permit issuance
   
72.23   Handicapped or disabled persons vehicle permit issuance
   
72.24   Permit contents; duplicate permits
   
72.25   Permits; period valid; renewal; fee
   
72.26   Permits nontransferable
   
72.27   Removal of unauthorized vehicle
 
   
72.99   Penalty
§ 72.01 UNATTENDED VEHICLES.
No person having control or charge of a motor vehicle shall allow such vehicle
to stand unattended without first effectively setting the brakes thereon and,
when standing upon any grade, without turning the front wheels of such vehicle
to the curb or side of the street. The driver of a motor vehicle, when
traveling upon a down grade upon any street, shall not coast with the gears of
the vehicle in neutral. (Prior Code, § 5-401) Penalty, see §
72.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 60-6,168
§ 72.02 PARKING GENERALLY.
   No person shall park any vehicle, or approach the curb with a vehicle,
except when headed in the direction of the traffic. Vehicles, when parked,
shall stand parallel with and adjacent to the curb or edge of the roadway in
such manner as to have both right wheels within 12 inches of the curb or edge
of the roadway, and so as to leave at least four feet between the vehicle so
parked and any other parked vehicles, except where the governing body
designates that vehicles shall be parked at an angle so as to have the front
right wheel at the curb or edge of the roadway. Where stalls are designated
either on the curb or pavement, vehicles shall be parked within such stalls.
(Prior Code, § 5-402)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 60-680
§ 72.03 PARKING LOCATIONS DESIGNATED.
   The governing body may, by resolution, designate any street, or portion
thereof, where vehicles shall be parked parallel with and adjacent to the curb
or at an angle so as to have the right front wheel at the curb.
(Prior Code, § 5-403)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 60-680
§ 72.04 PARKING AREAS.
   (A)   The governing body may, by resolution, set aside any street, alley,
public way, or portion thereof where the parking of a particular kind or class
of vehicle shall be prohibited, or where the parking of any vehicle shall be
prohibited.
   (B)   No vehicle prohibited from parking thereon shall stand or be parked
adjacent to the curb of said street, alley, public way, or portion thereof,
longer than a period of time necessary to load and unload freight or
passengers.
(Prior Code, § 5-404) Penalty, see §
72.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 60-680
§ 72.05 OBSTRUCTING ALLEYS.
   No vehicle, while parked, shall have any portion thereof projecting into any
alley entrance.
(Prior Code, § 5-405) Penalty, see §
72.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 60-680
§ 72.06 PARKING IN ALLEYS.
   No vehicle shall be parked in any alley, except for the purpose of loading
or unloading during the time necessary to load or unload, which shall not
exceed the maximum limit of one-half hour. Every vehicle while loading or
unloading in any alley shall be parked in such manner as will cause the least
obstruction possible to traffic in such alley.
(Prior Code, § 5-406) Penalty, see §
72.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 60-680
§ 72.07 UNLOADING IN BUSINESS DISTRICT.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any truck with an overall
length of more than 20 feet to stop or park any such vehicle on a street within
the Business District, except to load or unload, and then only when loading or
unloading in an alley is impossible.
   (B)   Vehicles may stop or stand for a period of time not to exceed what is
reasonably necessary to load or unload. It shall be unlawful for the operator
of any truck, regardless of length, to park said vehicle within a street
intersection, on a crosswalk, in front of a private driveway, or on a sidewalk.
   (C)   The governing body may, by resolution, provide truck parking areas
adjoining, or adjacent to, the Business District, and when such parking areas
are provided, it shall be the duty of all truck operators to use such parking
areas for all parking purposes.
(Prior Code, § 5-407) Penalty, see §
72.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 60-680
§ 72.08 PARKING IN BUSINESS DISTRICT.
   It shall be unlawful for any vehicle to park in the Business District for
more than 30 minutes between the hours of 2:00 a.m. and 7:00 a.m.; provided,
this section shall not be applicable to emergencies and appropriate vehicles
applicable thereto.
(Prior Code, § 5-408) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.09 FIRE HYDRANTS AND STATIONS.
   No vehicle shall be parked within 15 feet in either direction of any fire
hydrant nor within 20 feet of the driveway entrance to any fire station.
(Prior Code, § 5-409)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 60-6,166
§ 72.10 STREET INTERSECTIONS.
   Except in compliance with traffic-control devices, no vehicle shall be
parked or left standing for any purpose, except momentarily to load or
discharge passengers, within 25 feet of the intersection or curb lines, or if
none, then within 15 feet of the intersection of property lines.
(Prior Code, § 5-410) Penalty, see §
72.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 60-6,166
§ 72.11 OBSTRUCTING TRAFFIC.
   No person shall, except in case of an accident or emergency, stop any
vehicle in any location where such stopping will obstruct any street,
intersection, or entrance to an alley or public or private drive.
(Prior Code, § 5-411) Penalty, see §
72.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 60-680
§ 72.12 PARKING NEAR CURBS.
   No vehicle shall park on any street with its left side to the curb, unless
said street has been designated to be a “one-way” street by the governing body.
Vehicles must not be parked at any curb in such a position as to prevent
another vehicle already parked at the curb from moving away.
(Prior Code, § 5-412) Penalty, see §
72.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 60-6,167
§ 72.13 PAINTING CURBS.
   It shall be the duty of the City Superintendent to cause the curb space to
be painted and keep the same painted as provided in this chapter. No person,
firm, or corporation shall paint the curb of any street, or in any manner set
aside, or attempt to prevent the parking of vehicles in any street, or part
thereof, except at such places where the parking of vehicles is prohibited by
the provisions of this chapter. The marking or designating of portions of
streets or alleys where the parking of vehicles is prohibited or limited shall
be done only by the municipality through its proper officers, at the direction
of the governing body.
(Prior Code, § 5-413) Penalty, see §
72.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 60-680
§ 72.14 PARKING VEHICLES WHICH ARE FOR SALE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to park upon any street, alley, or
public place within this municipality any vehicle displayed for sale.
(Prior Code, § 5-414) Penalty, see §
72.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 60-680
§ 72.15 PARKING REGULATIONS.
   The governing body may, by resolution, entirely prohibit, or fix a time
limit for, the parking and stopping of vehicles on any street, streets, or
district designated by such resolution, and the parking, or stopping, of any
vehicle in any such street, streets, or district, for a period of time longer
than fixed in such resolution shall constitute a violation of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 5-415)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 60-680
§ 72.16 MAXIMUM TIME LIMIT.
   The parking of a motor vehicle on a public street for over 48 consecutive
hours is unlawful, except where a different maximum time limit is posted.
(Prior Code, § 5-416) Penalty, see §
72.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 60-680
§ 72.17 MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   The municipal police may order any street or alley, or portion
thereof, vacated for street maintenance. Notice shall be given by personally
notifying the owner or operator of a vehicle parked on such street or alley, or
by posting appropriate signs along such streets or alleys. Such signs shall be
posted not less than four hours prior to the time that the vacation order is to
be effective.
   (B)   Any person parking a vehicle in violation of the section shall be
subject to the penalties provided in this chapter, and such vehicle may be
removed and parked, under the supervision of the municipal police, to a
suitable nearby location.
(Prior Code, § 5-417) Penalty, see §
72.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-557
§ 72.18 EMERGENCY VEHICLES.
   The provisions of this chapter regulating the movement, parking, and
standing of vehicles shall not apply to authorized emergency vehicles, while
the driver of such vehicle is operating the same in an emergency in the
necessary performance of public duties.
(Prior Code, § 5-418)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 60-6,114
§ 72.19 HANDICAPPED OR DISABLED PERSONS ON-STREET PARKING SPACES.
   (A)   The governing body may designate parking spaces for the exclusive use
of handicapped or disabled persons whose vehicles display the distinguishing
license plates issued to handicapped or disabled persons pursuant to Neb. RS
60-3,113, handicapped or disabled persons whose vehicles display a
distinguishing license plate issued to a handicapped or disabled person by
another state, such other handicapped or disabled persons or temporarily
handicapped or disabled persons, as certified by the municipality, whose motor
vehicles display the permit specified in state law, and such other motor
vehicles, as certified by the municipality, which display such permit. All such
permits shall be displayed by hanging the permit from the motor vehicle’s
rearview mirror so as to be clearly visible through the front windshield. The
permit shall be displayed on the dashboard only when there is no rearview
mirror.
   (B)   If the governing body so designates a parking space, it shall be
indicated by posting aboveground and immediately adjacent to and visible from
each space a sign which is in conformance with the Manual on Uniform Traffic
Control Devices. In addition to such sign, the space may also be indicated by
blue paint on the curb or edge of the paved portion of the street adjacent to
the space.
(Prior Code, § 5-419) (Ord. 678, passed 7-14-2000)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 18-1736, 18-1737
§ 72.20 HANDICAPPED OR DISABLED PERSONS OFF-STREET PARKING SPACES.
   The governing body and any person in lawful possession of any off-street
parking facility may designate stalls or spaces in such facility for the
exclusive use of handicapped or disabled persons whose vehicles display the
distinguishing license plates issued to such individuals pursuant to Neb. RS
60-311.14, such other handicapped or disabled persons or temporarily
handicapped or disabled persons, as certified by the governing body, whose
vehicles display the identification specified in §
72.24, and such other motor vehicles, as certified by the governing body, which
display such identification. Such designation shall be made by posting
immediately adjacent to and visible from each stall or space a sign which is in
conformance with the nineteenth edition of the Manual on Uniform Traffic
Control Devices for Streets and Highways issued by the Federal Highway
Administration.
(Prior Code, § 5-419.01)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 18-1737
§ 72.21 DEFINITION OF HANDICAPPED OR DISABLED PERSONS.
   For the purposes of this chapter, HANDICAPPED OR DISABLED PERSON shall mean
any individual with a severe visual or physical impairment which limits
personal mobility and results in an inability to travel unassisted more than
200 feet without the use of a wheelchair, crutch, walker, or prosthetic,
orthotic, or other assistant device, any individual whose personal mobility is
limited as a result of respiratory problems, and any individual who has
permanently lost all or substantially all the use of one or more limbs.
Temporarily handicapped or disabled person shall mean any handicapped or
disabled person whose personal mobility is expected to be limited in such a
manner for no longer than one year.
(Prior Code, § 5-419.02)
§ 72.22 HANDICAPPED OR DISABLED PERSONS PERMIT ISSUANCE.
   (A)   The City Clerk shall take an application from handicapped or disabled,
or temporarily handicapped or disabled, persons or their parent, legal
guardian, or foster parent for a permit which will entitle the holder thereof
or a person driving a motor vehicle for the purpose of transporting such holder
to park in those spaces provided for by this chapter. Persons applying for a
permit shall complete such forms as are provided to the City Clerk by the
Department of Motor Vehicles and shall demonstrate to the satisfaction of the
City Clerk that he or she is handicapped or disabled. The City Clerk may
require medical certificates and proof of a handicap or disability.
   (B)   The City Clerk shall issue a permit to approved applicants, and before
issuing such permit, shall enter all information required pursuant to §
72.24. The City Clerk shall submit to the Department of Motor Vehicles the
name, address, and license number of all persons receiving a permit pursuant to
this section.
(Prior Code, § 5-419.03)
§ 72.23 HANDICAPPED OR DISABLED PERSONS VEHICLE PERMIT ISSUANCE.
   (A)   The City Clerk shall take an application from any person for a motor
vehicle permit which will entitle the holder thereof or a person driving the
motor vehicle for the purpose of transporting handicapped or disabled persons,
or temporarily handicapped or disabled persons, to park in those spaces
provided by this chapter, if the motor vehicle is used primarily for the
transportation of such persons. Such parking permit shall be used only when the
motor vehicle for which it was issued is being used for the transportation of
handicapped or disabled persons or temporarily handicapped or disabled persons.
   (B)   Persons applying for permits pursuant to this section shall apply for
a permit for each motor vehicle used for the transportation of handicapped or
disabled persons or temporarily handicapped or disabled persons, shall complete
such forms as are provided by the Department of Motor Vehicles, and shall
demonstrate to the City Clerk that each such motor vehicle is used primarily
for the transportation of handicapped or disabled persons or temporarily
handicapped or disabled persons.
   (C)   The City Clerk shall issue a permit to approved applicants, and before
issuing such permit, shall enter all information required pursuant to §
72.24. The City Clerk shall submit to the Department of Motor Vehicles the
name, address, and license number of all persons receiving a permit pursuant to
this section.
(Prior Code, § 5-419.04)
§ 72.24 PERMIT CONTENTS; DUPLICATE PERMITS.
   (A)   The permit to be issued by the City Clerk shall be a card four inches
by four inches in size constructed so that it may be easily and conspicuously
displayed from a vehicle’s rearview mirror and on which is prominently
displayed the date of expiration, the internationally accepted wheelchair
symbol, which symbol is a representation of a person seated in a wheelchair
surrounded by a border six units wide by seven units high, and an identifying
number on the front of the card. The color of the permit issued to handicapped
or disabled persons or for the transportation of such persons shall be white on
blue. The permit issued to temporarily handicapped or disabled persons or for
the transportation of such persons shall be a special distinguishing color as
determined by the Department of Motor Vehicles. The name, address, phone
number, date of birth, and age of the handicapped or disabled or temporarily
handicapped or disabled person to whom issued shall appear on the reverse side.
The name, address, and phone number of the party to whom issued and the license
plate number of the motor vehicle for which the permit is issued shall appear
on the reverse side of the permit if such permit is issued for a motor vehicle
used primarily for the transportation of handicapped or disabled or temporarily
handicapped or disabled persons.
   (B)   No permit shall be issued to any person or for any motor vehicle if
any valid parking permit has been issued to such person or for such motor
vehicle if such permit has been suspended pursuant to §
72.26.
   (C)   A duplicate permit may be provided by the City Clerk without cost if
the original permit is destroyed, lost, or stolen. Such duplicate permit shall
be valid for the remainder of the period for which the original permit was
issued.
(Prior Code, § 5-419.05)
§ 72.25 PERMITS; PERIOD VALID; RENEWAL; FEE.
   (A)   All permits authorized under this chapter for handicapped or disabled
parking shall be issued for a period of three years from the date of issuance.
All temporarily handicapped or disabled parking permits authorized under this
chapter shall be issued for a period ending 90 days from the date of issuance
but may be renewed for up to three additional 90-day periods. For each
additional 90-day renewal period, there shall be submitted an additional
application with proof of a handicap or disability and the required permit fee.
   (B)   A permit fee of $3 shall be charged for each permit, $2.50 of which
shall be retained by the City Clerk and $0.50 shall be forwarded on a quarterly
basis to the Department of Motor Vehicles.
(Prior Code, § 5-419.06)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 18-1740
§ 72.26 PERMITS NONTRANSFERABLE.
   Permits issued under this chapter shall not be transferable, and shall be
used only by the party to whom issued or for the motor vehicle for which issued
and only for the purpose for which it is issued. Use by any other person, for
any other motor vehicle, or for any other purpose shall be cause for suspension
of such permit for a period of six months. At the expiration of such period, a
suspended permit may be renewed upon the payment of the permit fee.
(Prior Code, § 5-419.07)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 18-1741
§ 72.27 REMOVAL OF UNAUTHORIZED VEHICLE.
   (A)   The owner or person in lawful possession of an off-street parking
facility, after notifying the Police or Sheriff’s Department, and the
municipality providing on-street parking or owning, operating, or providing an
off-street parking facility, may cause the removal from a stall or space
designated exclusively for handicapped or disabled persons or temporarily
handicapped or disabled persons, of any vehicles not displaying proper
identification or the distinguishing license plates specified in this chapter
if there is posted immediately adjacent to and visible from such stall or space
a sign which clearly and conspicuously state the area so designated as a tow-in
zone.
   (B)   Anyone parking in any on-street parking space which has been
designated exclusively for handicapped or disabled persons or temporarily
handicapped or disabled persons or motor vehicles for the transportation of
such persons, or in any so exclusively designated parking space in any off-
street parking facility, without properly displaying the proper identification
or when the handicapped or disabled person to whom or for whom the license
plate or permit is issued is not being transported shall be guilty of a traffic
infraction as defined in Neb. RS 39-602, and shall be subject to the penalties
and procedures set forth in Neb. RS 39-6,112.
   (C)   In the case of a privately owned off-street parking facility, the
owner or person in lawful possession of such facility shall inform the
municipality of a violation of this section prior to taking any action pursuant
to this section.
(Prior Code, § 5-419.08)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 18-1736, 18-1737
§ 72.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who shall violate or refuse to comply with the enforcement of any
of the provisions of this chapter, set forth at full length herein or
incorporated by reference, shall be deemed guilty of an offense and, upon
conviction thereof, shall be fined not more than $100 for each offense. A new
violation shall be deemed to have been committed every 24 hours of such failure
to comply.
(Prior Code, § 5-601)
CHAPTER 73: TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
Schedule
      
I.   Turning regulations
      
II.   Speed limits
SCHEDULE I. TURNING REGULATIONS.
   No vehicle shall be turned so as to proceed in the opposite direction,
except at a street intersection; provided, “U” turns are prohibited on Chief
Street and its intersections with 1st Avenue, Southwest 2nd Avenue, and
Southwest 3rd Avenue. No vehicle shall be turned so as to proceed in the
opposite direction at any intersection where an automatic signal is in
operation, or where a sign is posted indicating that U-turns are prohibited.
(Prior Code, § 5-205)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 39-697
SCHEDULE II. SPEED LIMITS.
   Except as provided in division (B) below, no person shall operate a motor
vehicle on any street, alley, or other place at a rate of speed greater than 25
mph within the Business District, unless a different rate of speed is
specifically permitted by ordinance. In no instance shall a person drive a
vehicle on a highway at a speed greater than is reasonable and prudent under
the conditions. When a different maximum speed is set by ordinance, appropriate
signs shall be posted.
(Prior Code, § 5-304) (Ord. 528, passed 9-15-1986)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 60-6,185, 60-6,186, 60-6,190
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   ANIMALS
      
91.   NUISANCES
      
92.   FIRE PREVENTION
      
93.   PROPERTY MAINTENANCE
      
94.   PARKS AND RECREATION
CHAPTER 90: ANIMALS
Section
Dogs
   
90.01   License required
   
90.02   License tags
   
90.03   Wrongful licensing
   
90.04   Owner defined
   
90.05   Dangerous dogs
   
90.06   Collar requirement
   
90.07   Running at large
   
90.08   When capture is impossible
   
90.09   Interference with police
   
90.10   Killing or poisoning
   
90.11   Barking and offensive noises
   
90.12   Fighting
   
90.13   Liability of owner
   
90.14   Removal of tags
   
90.15   Definitions
   
90.16   Restraining dangerous dogs
   
90.17   Confinement of dangerous dogs
   
90.18   Failure to comply
   
90.19   Additional regulations
   
90.20   Impounding
   
90.21   Number of dogs allowed
Animals Generally
   
90.35   Running at large
   
90.36   Cruelty to animals
   
90.37   Killing and injuring animals
   
90.38   Enclosures
   
90.39   Fowl running at large
   
90.40   Permission required to own fowl
   
90.41   Impounding cats
   
90.42   Animals banned from the municipality; exception
   
90.43   Abatement
 
   
90.99   Penalty
DOGS
§ 90.01 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   Any person who shall own, keep, or harbor a dog over the age of six months
within the municipality shall, within 30 days after acquisition of the said
dog, acquire a license for each such dog annually by or before May 1 each year.
The said tax shall be delinquent from and after May 10; provided, the possessor
of any dog brought into or harbored within the corporate limits subsequent to
May 1 of any year, shall be liable for the payment of the dog tax levied herein
and such tax shall be delinquent if not paid within ten days thereafter.
Licenses shall be issued by the City Clerk upon the payment of a license fee of
$4 for all dogs. Said license shall not be transferable and no refund will be
allowed in case of death, sale, or other disposition of the licensed dog. The
owner shall state at the time the application is made and upon printed forms
provided for such purpose, his or her name and address and the name, breed,
color, and sex of each dog owned and kept by him or her. A certificate that the
dog has had a rabies shot, effective for the ensuing year of the license, shall
be presented when the license is applied for and no license or tag shall be
issued until the certificate is shown.
(Prior Code, § 6-101)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-526, 54-603, 71-4412
§ 90.02 LICENSE TAGS.
   Upon the payment of the license fee, the City Clerk shall issue to the owner
of a dog a license certificate and a metallic tag for each dog so licensed. The
metallic tags shall be properly attached to the collar or harness of all dogs
so licensed and shall entitle the owner to keep or harbor the said dog until
April 30 following such licensing. All license fees and collections shall be
immediately credited to the General Fund. It shall be the duty of the City
Clerk to issue tags of a suitable design that are different in appearance each
year.
(Prior Code, § 6-102)
§ 90.03 WRONGFUL LICENSING.
   It shall be unlawful for the owner, keeper, or harborer of any dog to permit
or allow such dog to wear any license, metallic tag, or other municipal
identification than that issued by the City Clerk for dogs, nor shall the
owner, keeper, or harborer wrongfully and knowingly license an unspayed female
dog with a license prescribed for a male or spayed female dog.
(Prior Code, § 6-103) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.04 OWNER DEFINED.
   Any person who shall harbor or permit any dog to be for ten days or more in
or about his or her house, store, or enclosure, or to remain to be fed, shall
be deemed the OWNER and POSSESSOR of such dog and shall be deemed to be liable
for all penalties herein prescribed.
(Prior Code, § 6-104)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 54-606, 71-4401
§ 90.05 DANGEROUS DOGS.
   It shall be the duty of the governing body, whenever in its opinion the
danger to the public safety from rabid dogs is great or imminent, to issue a
proclamation ordering all persons owning, keeping, or harboring any dog to
muzzle the same, or to confine it for a period of not less than 30 days or more
than 90 days from the date of such proclamation, or until such danger is
passed. The dogs may be harbored by any good and sufficient means in a house,
garage, or yard on the premises wherein the said owner may reside. Upon issuing
the proclamation it shall be the duty of all persons owning, keeping, or
harboring any dog to confine the same as herein provided.
(Prior Code, § 6-105)
§ 90.06 COLLAR REQUIREMENT.
   All dogs found running at large upon the streets and public grounds of the
municipality without a collar or harness are hereby declared a public nuisance.
Uncollared dogs found running at large shall be killed or impounded in the
municipal dog shelter by the municipal police.
(Prior Code, § 6-106) Penalty, see §
90.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 54-604         
§ 90.07 RUNNING AT LARGE.
   It shall be unlawful for the owner of any dog to allow such dog to run at
large at any time within the corporate limits of the municipality. It shall be
the duty of the municipal police to cause any dog found to be running at large
within the municipality to be taken up and impounded. RUNNING AT LARGE shall
mean any dog found off the premises of the owner, and not under control of the
owner or a responsible person, either by leash, cord, chain, wire, rope, cage,
or other suitable means of physical restraint.
(Prior Code, § 6-107) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.08 WHEN CAPTURE IS IMPOSSIBLE.
   The municipal police shall have the authority to kill any animals showing
vicious tendencies or characteristics of rabies which make capture impossible
because of the danger involved.
(Prior Code, § 6-108)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 54-605
§ 90.09 INTERFERENCE WITH POLICE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to hinder, delay, or interfere with any
municipal police officer who is performing any duty enjoined upon him or her by
the provisions of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 6-110) Penalty, see §
90.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 28-906
§ 90.10 KILLING OR POISONING.
   It shall be unlawful to kill or to administer, or cause to be administered,
poison of any sort to a dog, or in any manner to injure, maim, or destroy, or
in any manner attempt to injure, maim, or destroy any dog that is the property
of another person, or to place any poison or poisoned food where the same is
accessible to a dog; provided, that this section shall not apply to municipal
police officer acting within his or her power and duty.
(Prior Code, § 6-111) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.11 BARKING AND OFFENSIVE NOISES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to own, keep, or harbor any dog which by
loud, continued, or frequent barking, howling, or yelping shall annoy or
disturb any neighborhood, or person, or which habitually barks at or chases
pedestrians, drivers, or owners of horses or vehicles while they are on any
public sidewalks, streets, or alleys in the municipality.
(Prior Code, § 6-112) Penalty, see §
90.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-526
§ 90.12 FIGHTING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, by agreement or otherwise, to set dogs
to fighting, or by any gesture or word to encourage the same to fight.
(Prior Code, § 6-113) Penalty, see §
90.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-526
§ 90.13 LIABILITY OF OWNER.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to allow a dog owned, kept, or harbored
by him or her, or under his or her charge or control, to injure or destroy any
real or personal property of any description belonging to another person. The
owner or possessor of any such dog, in addition to the usual judgment upon
conviction, may be made to be liable to the persons so injured in an amount
equal to the value of the damage so sustained.
(Prior Code, § 6-114) Penalty, see §
90.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 54-601, 54-602
§ 90.14 REMOVAL OF TAGS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to remove or cause to be removed, the
collar, harness, or metallic tag from any licensed dog without the consent of
the owner, keeper, or possessor thereof.
(Prior Code, § 6-115) Penalty, see §
90.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-526
§ 90.15 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ANIMAL CONTROL AUTHORITY. An entity authorized to enforce the animal control
laws of the municipality.
   ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER. Any individual employed, appointed, or authorized by
an Animal Control Authority for the purpose of aiding in the enforcement of
this act or any other law or ordinance relating to the licensing of animals,
control of animals, or seizure and impoundment of animals and shall include any
state or local law enforcement or other employee whose duties in whole or in
part include assignments that involve the seizure and impoundment of any
animal.
   DANGEROUS DOG. Any dog that, according to the records of the Animal Control
Authority:
      (1)   Has killed or inflicted severe injury on a human being on public or
private property;
      (2)   Has killed a domestic animal without provocation while the dog was
off the owner’s property; or
      (3)   Has been previously determined to be a potentially dangerous dog by
an Animal Control Authority and the owner has received notice of such
determination and such dog again aggressively bites, attacks, or endangers the
safety of humans or domestic animals. A dog shall not be defined as a DANGEROUS
DOG if the threat, any injury that is not a severe injury, or the damage was
sustained by a person who, at the time, was committing a willful trespass as
defined in Neb. RS 20-203, 28-520, or 28-521 or any other tort upon the
property of the owner of the dog, who was tormenting, abusing, or assaulting
the dog, who has, in the past, been observed or reported to have tormented,
abused, or assaulted the dog, or who was committing or attempting to commit a
crime.
   DOMESTIC ANIMAL. A cat, a dog, or livestock.
   OWNER. Any person, firm, corporation, organization, political subdivision,
or department possessing, harboring, keeping, or having control or custody of a
dog.
   POTENTIALLY DANGEROUS DOG. Includes:
      (1)   Any dog that when unprovoked:
         (a)   Inflicts a nonsevere injury on a human or injures a domestic
animal either on public or private property; or
         (b)   Chases or approaches a person upon streets, sidewalks, or any
public grounds in a menacing fashion or apparent attitude of attack.
      (2)   Any specific dog with a known propensity, tendency, or disposition
to attack when unprovoked, to cause injury, or to threaten the safety of humans
or domestic animals.
   SEVERE INJURY. Any physical injury that results in disfiguring lacerations
requiring multiple sutures or cosmetic surgery or one or more broken bones or
that creates a potential danger to the life or health of the victim.
(Prior Code, § 6-116) (Ord. 552, passed 1-15-1990)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 54-617
§ 90.16 RESTRAINING DANGEROUS DOGS.
   No owner of a dangerous dog shall permit the dog to go beyond the property
of the owner unless the dog is restrained securely by a chain or leash.
(Prior Code, § 6-117) (Ord. 552, passed 1-15-1990)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 54-618
§ 90.17 CONFINEMENT OF DANGEROUS DOGS.
   (A)   While unattended on the owner’s property, a dangerous dog shall be
securely confined, in a humane manner, indoors or in a securely enclosed and
locked pen or structure suitably designed to prevent the entry of young
children and to prevent the dog from escaping.
   (B)   The pen or structure shall have secure sides and a secure top. If the
pen or structure has no bottom secured to the sides, the sides shall be
embedded into the ground. The pen or structure shall also protect the dog from
the elements.
   (C)   The owner of a dangerous dog shall post a warning sign on the property
where the dog is kept that is clearly visible and that informs persons that a
dangerous dog is on the property.
(Prior Code, § 6-118) (Ord. 552, passed 1-15-1990)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 54-619
§ 90.18 FAILURE TO COMPLY.
   (A)   (1)   Any dangerous dog may be immediately confiscated by an animal
control officer if the owner is in violation of this subchapter.
      (2)   The owner shall be responsible for the reasonable costs incurred by
the Animal Control Authority for the care of a dangerous dog confiscated by an
animal control officer or for the destruction of any dangerous dog if the
action by the Animal Control Authority is pursuant to law and if the owner
violated this subchapter.
   (B)   In addition to any other penalty, a court may order the Animal Control
Authority to dispose of a dangerous dog in an expeditious and humane manner.
(Prior Code, § 6-119) (Ord. 552, passed 1-15-1990)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 54-620
§ 90.19 ADDITIONAL REGULATIONS.
   Nothing in this subchapter shall be construed to restrict or prohibit any
governing body of the municipality from establishing and enforcing laws or
ordinances at least as stringent as the provisions of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 6-120) (Ord. 552, passed 1-15-1990)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 54-624
§ 90.20 IMPOUNDING.
   It shall be the duty of the Police Chief to capture, secure, and remove in a
humane manner to the Municipal Animal Shelter any dog violating any of the
provisions of this subchapter. The dogs so impounded shall be treated in a
humane manner and shall be provided with a sufficient supply of fresh food and
water each day. Each impounded dog shall be kept and maintained at the pound
for a period of not less than five days after public notice has been given
unless reclaimed earlier by the owner. Notice of impounding of all animals,
including any significant marks or identifications, shall be posted at the
office of the City Clerk within 24 hours after impoundment as public
notification of such impoundment. Any dog may be reclaimed by its owner during
the period of impoundment by payment of $5 for each day of impoundment and $10
for the first offense, as a general impoundment fee. Second time the dog is
found running at large and is impounded, the general impoundment fee will be
doubled. The owner shall be required to comply with the licensing and rabies
vaccination requirements within 72 hours after release or a citation will be
given. If the dog is not claimed at the end of the required waiting period
after public notice has been given, the Police Chief may dispose of the dog in
accordance with the applicable rules and regulations pertaining to the same;
provided, that if, in the judgment of the Police Chief, a suitable home can be
found for any such dog within the municipality, the said dog shall be turned
over to that person and the new owner shall then be required to pay all fees
and meet all licensing and vaccinating requirements provided in this
subchapter. The municipality shall acquire legal title to any unlicensed dog
impounded in the Animal Shelter for a period longer than the required waiting
period after giving notice. All dogs shall be destroyed and buried in the
summary and humane manner as prescribed by the Board of Health unless a
suitable home can be found for such dog.
(Prior Code, § 6-121) (Ord. 531, passed 2-16-1987)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-548, 71-4408
§ 90.21 NUMBER OF DOGS ALLOWED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to keep more than two dogs within the
municipality and it shall be unlawful for any owner or occupant of any property
to allow more than four dogs to be kept at a single property location for more
than three consecutive days. Dogs under six months of age shall not be counted
for purposes of this section.
(Prior Code, § 6-122) (Ord. 743, passed 9-19-2005) Penalty, see §
90.99
ANIMALS GENERALLY
§ 90.35 RUNNING AT LARGE.
   It shall be unlawful for the owner, keeper, or harborer of any animal, or
any person having the charge, custody, or control thereof, to permit a horse,
mule, cow, sheep, goat, swine, or other animal to be driven or run at large on
any of the public ways and property, or upon the property of another, or to be
tethered or staked out in such a manner so as to allow such animal to reach or
pass into any public way.
(Prior Code, § 6-201) Penalty, see §
90.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-547
§ 90.36 CRUELTY TO ANIMALS.
   No person shall cruelly or unnecessarily beat, overwork, or insufficiently
shelter or feed any animal within the municipality.
(Prior Code, § 6-202) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.37 KILLING AND INJURING ANIMALS.
   No person shall kill or injure any animal by the use of firearms, stones,
clubs, poisons, or any other manner unless the animal is vicious or dangerous
and cannot be captured without danger to the persons attempting to effect a
capture of the said animal.
(Prior Code, § 6-203) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.38 ENCLOSURES.
   All pens, cages, sheds, yards, or any other area or enclosure for the
confinement or animals and fowls not specifically barred within the corporate
limits shall be kept in a clean and orderly manner so as not to become a menace
or nuisance to the neighborhood in which the said enclosure is located.
(Prior Code, § 6-204)
§ 90.39 FOWL RUNNING AT LARGE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to allow poultry, chickens, turkeys,
geese, or any other fowls to run at large within the corporate limits, except
in enclosed places on private property.
(Prior Code, § 6-205) Penalty, see §
90.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-547
§ 90.40 PERMISSION REQUIRED TO OWN FOWL.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to keep on their private property any
animal or fowl unless, and until they have received the written consent of the
owners or lessees of the property immediately adjoining the private property
where such animals or fowl are to be kept, and all other property owners within
150 feet of the place where such animals or fowl are to be kept, which consent
shall be filed at the office of the City Clerk and shall be subject to
revocation by any of the said owners of lessees at any time. Said person shall
also apply to the City Clerk for a permit from the Council which shall also be
subject to revocation by the Council at any time.
(Prior Code, § 6-206) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.41 IMPOUNDING CATS.
   It shall be the duty of the Police Chief to capture, secure, and remove in a
humane manner to the municipal animal shelter any cat running at large. The
cats so impounded shall be treated in a humane manner and shall be provided
with a sufficient supply of fresh food and water each day. Each impounded cat
shall be kept and maintained in the pound for a period of not less than five
days after public notice has been given unless reclaimed earlier by the owner.
Notice of impounding of all animals, including any significant marks or
identifications, shall be posted at the office of the City Clerk within 24
hours after impoundment as public notification of such impoundment. Any cat may
be reclaimed by its owner during the period of impoundment by payment of $5 for
each day of impoundment and $10 for the first offense, as a general impoundment
fee. The second time the cat is found running at large and is impounded, the
general impoundment fee will be doubled. If the cat is not claimed at the end
of required waiting period after public notice has been given, the Police Chief
may dispose of the cat in accordance with the applicable rules and regulations
pertaining to the same; provided, that if, in the judgment of the Police Chief,
a suitable home can be found for any such cat within the municipality, the said
cat shall be turned over to that person and the new owner shall then be
required to pay all fees in this subchapter. The municipality shall acquire
legal title to any unlicensed cat impounded in the animal shelter for a period
longer than the required waiting period after giving notice. All cats shall be
destroyed and buried in the summary and humane manner as prescribed by the
Board of Health unless a suitable home can be found for such cat.
(Prior Code, § 6-207) (Ord. 539, passed 5-16-1988)
§ 90.42 ANIMALS BANNED FROM THE MUNICIPALITY; EXCEPTION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to keep or maintain within the corporate
limits any horse, mule, sheep, cow, goat, swine, or other livestock, except
livestock other than swine shall be permitted in numbers not exceeding three
head per acre in areas zoned for agricultural and industrial use.
(Prior Code, § 6-208) (Ord. 572, passed 6-15-1992) Penalty, see §
90.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-207
§ 90.43 ABATEMENT.
   (A)   Whenever a nuisance exists as defined in this chapter, the
municipality may proceed by a suit in equity to enjoin and abate the same, in
the manner provided by law.
   (B)   Whenever, in any action, it is established that a nuisance exists, the
court may together with the fine or penalty imposed, enter an order of
abatement as a part of the judgment in the case.
(Prior Code, § 6-402)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 18-1720, 18-1722
§ 90.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who shall violate or refuse to comply with the enforcement of any
of the provisions of this chapter, set forth at full length herein or
incorporated by reference, shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon
conviction thereof, shall be fined not more than $100 for each offense. A new
violation shall be deemed to have been committed every 24 hours of such failure
to comply.
(Prior Code, § 6-401)
CHAPTER 91: NUISANCES
Section
   
91.01   Purpose
   
91.02   Definitions
   
91.03   Abatement services and notice procedure for nuisances
   
91.04   Enforcement
   
91.05   Expenses
§ 91.01 PURPOSE.
   The city, by this chapter, defines its authority to define, regulate,
suppress, and prevent nuisances, and to declare what shall be a nuisance for
its jurisdiction and to provide services to abate same for the health and
sanitation of the city.
(Prior Code, § 4-301) (Ord. 754, passed 2-16-2009)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 18-1720
§ 91.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   NUISANCE. 
      (1)   A nuisance consists in doing any unlawful act, or omitting to
perform a duty, or suffering or permitting any condition or thing to be or
exist, which act, omission, condition, or thing:
         (a)   Injures or endangers the comfort, repose, health, or safety or
others;
         (b)   Offends decency;
         (c)   Is offensive to the senses;
         (d)   Unlawfully interferes with, obstructs, tends to obstruct, or
renders dangerous for passage any stream, public parkway, square, street, or
highway in the municipality;
         (e)   In any way renders other persons insecure in life or the use of
property;
         (f)   Essentially interferes with the comfortable enjoyment of life
and property; or
         (g)   Tends to depreciate the value of the property of others.
      (2)   NUISANCE includes, but is not limited to, the maintaining, using,
placing, depositing, leaving, or permitting any of the following specific acts,
omissions, places, conditions, and things of:
         (a)   Any odorous, putrid, unsound, or unwholesome grain, meat, hides,
skins, feathers, vegetable matter, or the whole or any part of any dead animal,
fish, or fowl;
         (b)   The emission of smoke, dust, fumes, gases, mists, odors, or
polluted air from any source that is injurious or dangerous to human health and
safety;
         (c)   Privies, vaults, cesspools, dumps, pits, or like places which
are not securely protected from flies or rats or other insects and rodents, or
which are foul or malodorous;
         (d)   Filthy, littered, or trash-covered cellars, house yards,
barnyards, stable-yards, factory- yards, mill yards, vacant areas in the rear
of stores, granaries, vacant lots, houses, buildings, or premises;
         (e)   Dead animals or dead animals buried within the corporate limits;
         (f)   Animal manure in any quantity which is not securely protected
from flies and the elements, or which is kept or handled in violation of any
ordinance of the municipality;
         (g)   Hauling any garbage, waste, or refuse matter through the
streets, alleys, and public ways except when the same is loaded and conveyed in
such a way where none of the contents shall be spilled;
         (h)   Liquid household waste, human excreta, garbage, butcher’s
trimmings and offal, pans of fish, or any waste vegetable or animal matter in
any quantity. Nothing herein contained shall prevent the temporary retention of
waste in receptacles nor the dumping of non-putrefying waste in a place and
manner approved by the municipality;
         (i)   Tin cans, bottles, glass, cans, ashes, small pieces of scrap
iron, wire metal articles, bric-a-brac, broken stone or cement, broken
crockery, broken glass, broken plaster, and all trash or abandoned material,
unless the same be kept in covered bins or galvanized iron receptacles;
         (j)   Trash, litter, rags, accumulations of barrels, boxes, crates,
packing crates, mattresses, bedding, excelsior, packing hay, straw or other
packing material, lumber not neatly piled, scrap iron, tin or other metal not
neatly piled, old automobiles or parts thereof, or any other waste materials
when any of the articles or materials create a condition in which flies or rats
or other insects or rodents may breed or multiply, or which may be a fire
danger, or which are so unsightly as to depreciate property values in the
vicinity;
         (k)   Any unsafe building, unsightly building, billboard, or other
structure, or any old abandoned or partially destroyed building or structure,
or any building or structure commenced and left unfinished, which buildings,
billboards, or other structures are a fire hazard, or a menace to the public
health or safety, or are so unsightly as to depreciate the value of property in
the vicinity;
         (l)   All places used or maintained as junk yards, or dumping grounds,
or for the wrecking and dissembling of automobiles, trucks, tractors, or
machinery of any kind, or for the storing or leaving of worn-out, wrecked, or
abandoned automobiles, trucks, tractors, or machinery of any kind, or of any of
the parts thereof, or for the storing or leaving of any machinery or equipment
used by contractors or builders or by other persons, which places are kept or
maintained so as to essentially interfere with the comfortable enjoyment of
life or property by others, or which are so unsightly as to tend to depreciate
property values in the vicinity thereof;
         (m)   Stockyards, granaries, mills, pig pens, cattle pens, chicken
pens, or any other place, building, or enclosure, in which animals or fowls of
any kind are confined or on which are stored tankage or any other animal or
vegetable matter, or on which any animal or vegetable matter including grain is
being processed, when the places in which the animals are confined, or the
premises on which the vegetable or animal matter is located are maintained and
kept in such a manner that foul and noxious odors are permitted to emanate
therefrom to the annoyance of inhabitants of the municipality or are maintained
and kept in such a manner as to be injurious to the public health;
         (n)   Dead or diseased trees within the right-of-way of streets within
the corporate limits of the city, or on private property within the one mile
zoning jurisdiction beyond the corporate limits;
(Neb. RS 17-555)
         (o)   Undrained lots which hold or may hold stagnant water or any
other nuisance;
         (p)   Any condition which allows the perpetuating of insects and
rodents;
         (q)   Storage, accumulation, keeping, placing, or allowing to remain,
trash, garbage, scrap and wrecked, worn-out, broken or inoperative, or
partially destroyed or disassembled personal or real property of any kind,
including any junk or abandoned motor vehicles, tractors, trailers, machinery,
and equipment;
         (r)   Any vehicle which is not properly registered, or is inoperable,
wrecked, junked, or partially dismantled and remaining longer than 30 days on
private property. This does not apply to a vehicle in an enclosed building, a
vehicle on the premises of a business enterprise operated in a lawful place and
manner, when necessary to the lawful operation of such business enterprise
(such as a licensed salvage dealer, motor vehicle dealer, or farm implement
dealer), or a vehicle in an appropriate storage place or depository maintained
in a lawful place and manner, and so long as the premises which said vehicle is
located is not a nuisance and is maintained in a healthful and safe condition;
         (s)   Lots, pieces of ground, and the adjoining streets and alleys
with growth of weeds or noxious growth; or
         (t)   All other things specifically designated as nuisances elsewhere
in the city code.
(Prior Code, § 4-302) (Ord. 754, passed 2-16-2009)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 18-1723
§ 91.03 ABATEMENT SERVICES AND NOTICE PROCEDURE FOR NUISANCES.
   (A)   Nuisance Officer. The city shall appoint an individual or organization
to identify and enforce abatement of nuisances within the city. Said individual
or organization shall be identified as the “Nuisance Officer” and said
appointment shall be identified by resolution of the city.
   (B)   Identifying nuisances.
      (1)   The city may identify suspected nuisances, in which case the City
Clerk shall, upon direction of the City Council, notify the Nuisance Officer of
the suspected location, person, or persons in violation of any provision of
this chapter and provide the address of such alleged nuisance.
      (2)   The city may request that the Nuisance Officer audit the city for
nuisances in the city as defined by the city code. The Nuisance Officer shall
then view the property or area for any violations of the nuisance of the city.
Nuisance Officer shall not go upon private property for said audit unless
granted permission by the resident/owner of suspected property.
   (C)   Confirming, documenting, and presenting nuisances.
      (1)   The Nuisance Officer shall identify and confirm that in his or her
opinion a nuisance exists as defined by federal, state, or city law.
      (2)   Upon confirming that a nuisance appears to exist, the Nuisance
Officer shall document said nuisance with photographs and other evidence
pertinent to the situation. The Nuisance Officer shall then present this
information to the city governing board at a regular or special meeting for its
confirmation that a nuisance exists as stated in §
91.04.
(Prior Code, § 4-303) (Ord. 754, passed 2-16-2009)
§ 91.04 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Enforcement procedures. If the nuisance, health, and/or sanitation
violation is brought to the governing body by the City Nuisance Officer, or the
Board of Health or upon the governing body’s own action, the governing body
then may declare by resolution a nuisance, health, and/or sanitation violation.
The nuisance, health, and/or sanitation ordinances may be enforced by:
      (1)   City administrative procedures;
      (2)   Penal prosecutions through the courts, and/or;
      (3)   By civil procedures in the courts. Any of these procedures, or any
combination of these procedures, may be used to enforce the nuisance, health,
and/or sanitation ordinances of the city.
   (B)   Administrative procedure. The city may proceed with abatement of the
nuisance, sanitation, and/or health violation with or without court involvement
after the following procedure is followed.
      (1)   After a nuisance is declared, the City Clerk notifies the Nuisance
Officer to serve notice upon the violators.
      (2)   The Nuisance Officer shall prepare and serve notice, which shall
describe the found nuisance, and state the required date of abatement and when
removal of the nuisance shall be accomplished. The notice shall also provide
information as to how the interested parties may request a hearing before the
governing body described in (B)(4) below.
      (3)   The notice shall be given to each owner or owner’s duly authorized
agent and to the occupant, if any, by personal service or certified mail. If
notice by personal service or certified mail is unsuccessful, said notice shall
be given by a single publication in a newspaper of general circulation in the
city or county in which the city is located, and by conspicuously posting the
notice on the lot or ground upon which the nuisance is to be abated and
removed. The date of service is determined by the later of certified mail
receipt, personal service, or publication date.
      (4)   The accused violator (owner/agent/occupant) may request in writing
a hearing before the governing body of the city within five days after notice
of violation is served or published. For tree nuisance violations, the period
for requesting a hearing is extended to 30 days after service.
      (5)   If no request for a hearing is received in the required time
period, the governing body may cause a hearing to be held. This option is at
the sole discretion of the governing body to be used in exceptional cases.
      (6)   If a hearing is requested, the City Clerk shall fix date of said
hearing to be no later than 15 days from receipt of the request for the
hearing. Notice of said hearing and with the date and time shall be served upon
the agent, owner, and occupant of the nuisance property by certified and
regular mail.
      (7)   The hearing shall be a “show cause” hearing in which the agent,
owner, or occupant of the nuisance property (objecting property) shall provide
evidence why the alleged condition should not be found to be a public nuisance
and remedied. This hearing shall be heard before a quorum of the governing
body. The presiding official of the governing body may conduct the hearing or
said presiding official may appoint another person as the hearing officer to
conduct the hearing (said hearing officer may be the City Attorney or the
Enforcement Officer). At the hearing the hearing officer shall mark and receive
evidence which was presented when the finding of a nuisance was made, relevant
evidence of the nuisance since that time, and evidence that the notices were
properly given. The objecting party shall then provide its evidence. The rules
of evidence are not required at said hearing, but all evidence must be relevant
to the particular nuisance being heard. Testimony shall be under oath as
administered by the hearing officer or any person so designated by the hearing
officer, and the person providing the testimony is subject to the laws of
perjury. Evidence may be submitted in writing by affidavit.
      (8)   No later than 14 days after the hearing and consideration of the
evidence, the Governing Board may by majority vote rescind the resolution of
violation. If the resolution of violation is not rescinded, it shall stand.
Furthermore, if the objector or its designated agent fails to appear at the
hearing or does not provide evidence, the nuisance shall stand. If the
resolution is not rescinded, the Governing Board may, by resolution, extend the
date that owner, occupant, lessee, or mortgagee shall abate and remedy the said
public nuisance, but in no case shall this time exceed 60 days. The findings of
the Governing Board shall be made no later than 14 days after the hearing and
notice of its finding shall be served upon the objecting party by regular U.S.
mail within five days of the finding. The finding of this hearing is final,
provided that an interested party or parties may appeal such decision to the
appropriate court for adjudication.
      (9)   If the Nuisance Officer determines the nuisance is not remedied and
abated within the time period designated, the city shall cause the abatement of
the nuisance.
      (10)   If an interested party properly appeals to an appropriate court,
the findings and orders of the city, the city’s actions shall be stayed during
and until such time that the legal proceedings are completed or dismissed. In
cases of appeal from an action of the city condemning real property as a
nuisance or as dangerous under the policy powers of the municipality, the
owners of the adjoining property may intervene in the action at any time before
trial.
(Neb. RS 19-710)
   (C)   Penal Court enforcement procedure. If the declared nuisance, health,
and/or sanitation violation is not abated within 15 days that the notice is
served upon the owner and/or occupant, and the City Clerk has not received a
request for hearing, the nuisance officer may cause issue of a citation for the
code violation.
      (1)   The citation shall be prosecuted to the appropriate court by the
City Attorney or other designated prosecutor for the city.
      (2)   A person or persons found guilty of these violations shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor and fined up to $500 per each offense.
      (3)   Each day that the nuisance as identified in the nuisance resolution
and notice is not abated shall be a separate offense and subject to a separate
fine.
   (D)   Civil Court procedure. The Governing Board may instruct, by
resolution, the City Attorney to file a civil action for the abatement of a
nuisance. Said civil suit may commence after 15 days from the time the notice
has been served as stated in §§
53.25 to 53.29, and may be filed and prosecuted at the same time any other
enforcement procedure has commenced, terminated, or is in progress.
(Prior Code, § 4-304) (Ord. 754, passed 2-16-2009)
§ 91.05 EXPENSES.
   (A)   When the city has effected the abatement of the nuisance, health, and/
or sanitation violation through either city employees or through contract with
a third party and has incurred expenses and costs thereof, the actual cost
thereof shall be charged to the owner, agent, occupant, or person in
possession, charge, or control of such property. The billing shall be
calculated at the actual cost of abating the nuisance plus a $25 administrative
fee.
   (B)   This billing shall be submitted to the last known address of the owner
of the nuisance property as found in the County Treasurer’s office by regular
U.S. mail.
   (C)   If said costs are not paid within two months after the work is done
and one month after the expenses and costs are submitted to the owner and/or
occupant, the city may levy and assess the expenses and costs upon the real
estate benefitted by the actions in the same manner as other special
assessments are levied and assessed, and the city may collect said assessments
in the same procedure as other special assessments are collected. The city may
also recover said expenses and costs of abating the nuisance, health, and/or
sanitation violations(s) in a civil action in the courts of the appropriate
county in the state.
(Prior Code, § 4-305) (Ord. 754, passed 2-16-2009)
CHAPTER 92: FIRE PREVENTION
Section
   
92.01   Fire Prevention Code
   
92.02   Fire Code enforcement
   
92.03   Lawful entry
   
92.04   Notice of violation
   
92.05   Fire limits defined
   
92.06   Construction requirements
   
92.07   Ironclads prohibited
   
92.08   Fires regulated
   
92.09   Open burning ban; waiver
 
   
92.99   Penalty
§ 92.01 FIRE PREVENTION CODE.
   (A)   Incorporated by reference into this code are the standards recommended
by the American Insurance Association, known as the Fire Prevention Code, 2018
Edition, and all subsequent amendments.
   (B)   This Code shall have the same force and effect as if set out verbatim
herein. Three copies of the Fire Prevention Code are on file with the City
Clerk and shall be available for public inspection at any reasonable time.
(Prior Code, § 7-201)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 18-132
§ 92.02 FIRE CODE ENFORCEMENT.
   It shall be the duty of all municipal officials to enforce the incorporated
Fire Code provisions and all infractions shall be immediately brought to the
attention of the Fire Chief.
(Prior Code, § 7-202)
§ 92.03 LAWFUL ENTRY.
   It shall be the duty of the owner, lessee, or occupant of any building or
structure, except the interiors of private dwellings, to allow the Fire Chief
to inspect, or cause to be inspected, as often as necessary the said structure
for the purpose of ascertaining and enumerating all conditions therein that are
likely to cause fire, or any other violations of the provisions of the
municipal ordinances affecting the hazard of fire.
(Prior Code, § 7-203)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 81-512
§ 92.04 NOTICE OF VIOLATION.
   It shall be the duty of the owner, lessee, or occupant of any building or
structure that was lawfully inspected as hereinbefore prescribed, and who
receives written or verbal notice of a violation of any of the provisions of
the municipal ordinances to correct the condition that violates the said
ordinance or ordinances within five days from the date of receipt of such
notice.
(Prior Code, § 7-204)
§ 92.05 FIRE LIMITS DEFINED.
   The following described territory in the municipality shall be and
constitute the fire limits: all of Blocks 1, 2, 7, 8 and 9; and all of Blocks 1
and 2 of the First Addition, all in the Original Town of Benkelman.
(Prior Code, § 7-205)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-550
§ 92.06 CONSTRUCTION REQUIREMENTS.
   Within the aforesaid fire limits, no structure shall be built, altered,
moved, or enlarged unless such structure will be enclosed with walls
constructed wholly of stone, well-burned brick, terra cotta, concrete, or other
such noncombustible materials as will satisfy the Fire Chief that the said
structure will be reasonably fire-proof.
(Prior Code, § 7-206)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-550
§ 92.07 IRONCLADS PROHIBITED.
   All buildings, sheds, and structures known as ironclads which are
constructed of wood and covered with sheet iron or tin attached to the frame
shall be considered and deemed to be constructed of combustible materials. Any
future construction of an ironclad building shall hereafter be prohibited.
(Prior Code, § 7-207) Penalty, see §
92.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-550
§ 92.08 FIRES REGULATED.
   It shall be lawful to build or set out certain fires; provided, that the
person building such fires shall have the substance to be burned in a fire-
proof trash burner or incinerator with a metal fire-proof screen of not more
than one inch mesh, and located at least 20 feet from any building. The
incinerator shall be built in such a way as to not permit the escape of burning
paper or other substance. If any person shall require a fire in the course of
his or her trade as a blacksmith or mechanic, such fire shall be built and
maintained in the manner prescribed by the Fire Chief. All fires shall be built
after 7:00 a.m. and completely extinguished by 8:00 p.m., except the aforesaid
fires used in the course of a trade which shall be allowed during such hours as
the Fire Chief shall prescribe. It shall be unlawful for any person to set fire
to, burn, or cause to be burned any garbage, animal matter, or vegetable
matter. The burning of straw, hay, leaves, or brush in the open air is hereby
permitted and allowed; provided, that the person setting out the same request
permission and receive an open burning permit in writing, signed by the local
Fire Chief, on a form provided by the State Fire Marshal; and provided further,
that any such burning shall be done while the said fire is attended by the
person setting out the same at all times, and further provided that the said
fire shall be located at least 20 feet from any building.
(Prior Code, § 7-208) (Ord. 480, passed 8-16-1982) Penalty, see §
92.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-549, 17-556, 81-520.01
§ 92.09 OPEN BURNING BAN; WAIVER.
   (A)   There shall be a state-wide open burning ban on all bonfires, outdoor
rubbish fires, and fires for the purpose of clearing land.
   (B)   The Fire Chief of the Municipal Fire Department or his or her designee
may waive an open burning ban under division (A) above for an area under his or
her jurisdiction by issuing an open burning permit to a person requesting
permission to conduct open burning. The permit issued by the Fire Chief or his
or her designee to a person desiring to conduct open burning shall be in
writing, signed by the Fire Chief or his or her designee, and on a form
provided by the State Fire Marshal.
   (C)   The Municipal Fire Chief or his or her designee may waive the open
burning ban in his or her jurisdiction when conditions are acceptable to the
Chief or his or her designee. Anyone burning in such jurisdiction when the open
burning ban has been waived shall notify the Fire Department of his or her
intention to burn.
   (D)   The Municipal Fire Chief may adopt and promulgate rules and
regulations listing the conditions acceptable for issuing a permit to conduct
open burning under division (B) above.
   (E)   The Municipal Fire Department may charge a fee, not to exceed $10, for
each such permit issued. This fee shall be remitted to the governing body for
inclusion in the general funds allocated to the Fire Department. Such funds
shall not reduce the tax requirements for the Fire Department. No such fee
shall be collected from any state or political subdivision to which such a
permit is issued to conduct open burning under division (B) above in the course
of such state’s or political subdivision’s official duties.
(Prior Code, § 7-209) (Ord. 479, passed 8-16-1982; Ord. 605, passed 3-20-1995)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 81-520.01
§ 92.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who shall violate or refuse to comply with the enforcement of any
of the provisions of this chapter, set forth at full length herein or
incorporated by reference, shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon
conviction thereof, shall be fined not more than $100 for each offense. A new
violation shall be deemed to have been committed every 24 hours of such failure
to comply.
(Prior Code, § 7-301)
CHAPTER 93: PROPERTY MAINTENANCE
Section
General Provisions
   
93.001   Definition
   
93.002   Maintenance and control
   
93.003   Trees
   
93.004   Sale and conveyance of real property
   
93.005   Sale and conveyance of personal property
   
93.006   Obstructions
   
93.007   Permitted obstructions
   
93.008   Weeds
   
93.009   Acquisition of real property
Sidewalks
   
93.020   Overhanging branches
   
93.021   Keeping sidewalks clean
   
93.022   Maintenance
   
93.023   Repairs
   
93.024   Construction by owner
   
93.025   Municipal construction
   
93.026   Construction bids
   
93.027   Construction by petition
   
93.028   Ramps
Streets
   
93.040   Names and numbers
   
93.041   Widening and opening
   
93.042   Excavation
   
93.043   Driving stakes
   
93.044   Mixing concrete
   
93.045   Harmful liquids
   
93.046   Construction notice
   
93.047   Pipe lines and wires
   
93.048   Construction assessment
   
93.049   Petition for improvements
   
93.050   Deferral from special assessments
   
93.051   Curb cutting
   
93.052   Vacating public ways
Trees
   
93.065   Definitions
   
93.066   Street tree species to be planted
   
93.067   Spacing
   
93.068   Distances and clearances for planting
   
93.069   Public tree care
   
93.070   Permits required
   
93.071   Compensatory payments
   
93.072   Tree topping
   
93.073   Clearance over streets and walkways
   
93.074   Dead or diseased tree removal
   
93.075   Removal of stumps
   
93.076   Access
   
93.077   Arborist license and bond
   
93.078   Abatement
Vacant Property
   
93.090   Findings
   
93.091   Purposes
   
93.092   Definitions
   
93.093   Applications
   
93.094   Requirements
   
93.095   Exemptions
   
93.096   Additional requirements; program administrator powers
   
93.097   Enforcement
   
93.098   Applicability
 
   
93.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 93.001 DEFINITION.
For the purpose of this chapter, the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   SIDEWALK SPACE. The portion of a street between curb lines and adjacent
property lines.
(Prior Code, § 8-101)
§ 93.002 MAINTENANCE AND CONTROL.
The governing body shall have the care, supervision, and control of all public
highways, bridges, streets, alleys, public squares, and commons within the
municipality, and shall cause the same to be kept open and in repair, and free
from nuisances.
(Prior Code, § 8-102)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-567
§ 93.003 TREES.
   (A)   No person, or persons, shall plant or allow to grow any tree within
the sidewalk space without first making a written or verbal application to, and
receiving a written permit from, the governing body. Any tree planted within
the sidewalk space after the adoption date of this section shall be deemed to
be unlawfully planted and growing and shall, at the discretion of the governing
body, be deemed to be a nuisance.
   (B)   When any such tree is declared to be a nuisance, the governing body
shall order, with proper notice, the tree removed at the expense of the owner
of the property adjacent to the sidewalk space upon which the tree has been
unlawfully planted.
   (C)   If the property owner fails or neglects to remove, or cause to be
removed, the said tree, the governing body shall order the same removed and
assess the expense of such removal against the property adjacent to the
sidewalk space wherein the tree is planted and growing. In the event the
property owner is a nonresident of the county in which the property lies, the
municipality shall, before levying any special assessment against that
property, send a copy of any notice required by law to be published by means of
certified mail, return receipt requested to the last known address of the
nonresident property owner. The last known address shall be that address listed
on the current tax rolls at the time such required notice was first published.
   (D)   No fee shall be charged for said permit, and nothing in this section
shall be construed to apply to any existing trees now growing within the
sidewalk space.
(Prior Code, § 8-103) Penalty, see §
93.999
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-557.01, 18-1720
§ 93.004 SALE AND CONVEYANCE OF REAL PROPERTY.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (F) below, the power of the city to
convey any real property owned by it, including land used for park purposes and
public squares, except real property used in the operation of public utilities,
shall be exercised by resolution, directing the sale at public auction or by
sealed bid of such property and the manner and terms thereof, except that such
property shall not be sold at public auction or by sealed bid when:
      (1)   Such property is being sold in compliance with the requirements of
federal or state grants or programs;
      (2)   Such property is being conveyed to another public agency; or
      (3)   Such property consists of streets and alleys.
   (B)   The City Council may establish a minimum price for real property at
which bidding shall begin or shall serve as a minimum for a sealed bid.
   (C)   After the passage of the resolution directing the sale, notice of all
proposed sales of property described in division (A) above and the terms
thereof shall be published once each week for three consecutive weeks in a
legal newspaper published in or of general circulation in the city.
   (D)   (1)   If within 30 days after the third publication of the notice a
remonstrance against such sale is signed by registered voters of the city equal
in number to 30% of the registered voters of the city voting at the last
regular municipal election held therein and is filed with the City Council,
such property shall not then, nor within one year thereafter, be sold. If the
date for filing the remonstrance falls upon a Saturday, Sunday, or legal
holiday, the signatures shall be collected within the 30-day period, but the
filing shall be considered timely if filed or postmarked on or before the next
business day.
      (2)   Upon the receipt of the remonstrance, the City Council, with the
aid and assistance of the Election Commissioner or County Clerk, shall
determine the validity and sufficiency of signatures on the remonstrance. The
City Council shall deliver the remonstrance to the Election Commissioner or
County Clerk by hand carrier, by use of law enforcement officials, or by
certified mail, return receipt requested.
      (3)   Upon receipt of the remonstrance, the Election Commissioner or
County Clerk shall issue to the City Council a written receipt that the
remonstrance is in the custody of the Election Commissioner or County Clerk.
The Election Commissioner or County Clerk shall compare the signature of each
person signing the remonstrance with the voter registration records to
determine if each signer was a registered voter on or before the date on which
the remonstrance was filed with the City Council. The Election Commissioner or
County Clerk shall also compare the signer’s printed name, street and number,
or voting precinct, and city or post office address with the voter registration
records to determine whether the signer was a registered voter. The signature
and address shall be presumed to be valid only if the Election Commissioner or
County Clerk determines that the printed name, street and number, or voting
precinct, and city or post office address matches the registration records and
that the registration was received on or before the date on which the
remonstrance was filed with the City Council. The determinations of the
Election Commissioner or County Clerk may be rebutted by any credible evidence
which the City Council finds sufficient. The express purpose of the comparison
of names and addresses with the voter registration records, in addition to
helping to determine the validity of the remonstrance, the sufficiency of the
remonstrance, and the qualifications of the signer, shall be to prevent fraud,
deception, and misrepresentation in the remonstrance process.
      (4)   Upon completion of the comparison of names and addresses with the
voter registration records, the Election Commissioner or County Clerk shall
prepare in writing a certification under seal setting forth the name and
address of each signer found not to be a registered voter and the signature
page number and line number where the name is found, and if the reason for the
invalidity of the signature or address is other than the non-registration of
the signer, the Election Commissioner or County Clerk shall set forth the
reason for the invalidity of the signature. If the Election Commissioner or
County Clerk determines that a signer has affixed his or her signature more
than once to the remonstrance and that only one person is registered by that
name, the Election Commissioner or County Clerk shall prepare in writing a
certification under seal setting forth the name of the duplicate signature and
shall count only the earliest dated signature.
      (5)   The Election Commissioner or County Clerk shall certify to the City
Council the number of valid signatures necessary to constitute a valid
remonstrance. The Election Commissioner or County Clerk shall deliver the
remonstrance and the certifications to the City Council within 40 days after
the receipt of the remonstrance from the City Council. The delivery shall be by
hand carrier, by use of law enforcement officials, or by certified mail, return
receipt requested. Not more than 20 signatures on one signature page shall be
counted.
      (6)   The City Council shall, within 30 days after the receipt of the
remonstrance and certifications from the Election Commissioner or County Clerk,
hold a public hearing to review the remonstrance and certifications and receive
testimony regarding them. The City Council shall, following the hearing, vote
on whether or not the remonstrance is valid and shall uphold the remonstrance
if sufficient valid signatures have been received.
   (E)   Real estate now owned or hereafter owned by the city may be conveyed
without consideration to the state for state armory sites or, if acquired for
state armory sites, shall be conveyed strictly in accordance with the
conditions of Neb. RS 18-1001 through 18-1006, following:
      (1)   Passage of the resolution directing a sale;
      (2)   Publishing of the notice of the proposed sale; and
      (3) Passing of the 30-day right-of-remonstrance period, the property
shall then be sold. Such sale shall be confirmed by passage of an ordinance
stating the name of the purchaser and terms of the sale.
(Neb. RS 17-503)
   (F)   Divisions (A) through (E) above shall not apply to the sale of real
property if the authorizing resolution directs the sale of real property, the
total fair market value of which is less than $5,000. Following passage of the
resolution directing the sale of the property, notice of the sale shall be
posted in three prominent places within the city for a period of not less than
seven days prior to the sale of the property. The notice shall give a general
description of the property offered for sale and state the terms and conditions
of sale. Confirmation of the sale by passage of an ordinance may be required.
(Prior Code, § 8-104) (Ord. 481, passed 8-16-1982; Ord. 617, passed 2-19-1996;
Ord. 732, passed 6-21-2004)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-503.01
§ 93.005 SALE AND CONVEYANCE OF PERSONAL PROPERTY.
   The power of the city to convey any personal property owned by it shall be
exercised by resolution directing the sale and the manner and terms thereof.
Following passage of the resolution directing the sale of the property, notice
of the sale shall be posted in three prominent places within the city for a
period of not less than seven days prior to the sale of the property. If the
fair market value of the property is greater than $5,000, notice of the sale
shall also be published once in a legal newspaper published in or of general
circulation in the city at least seven days prior to the sale of the property.
The notice shall give a general description of the property offered for sale
and state the terms and conditions of sale.
(Prior Code, § 8-104.01) (Ord. 732, passed 6-21-2004)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-503.02
§ 93.006 OBSTRUCTIONS.
   Trees and shrubs growing upon or near the lot line, or upon public ground
and interfering with the use or construction of any public improvements, shall
be deemed an obstruction under this subchapter. Said roots may be removed by
the municipality at the expense of the owner of the property upon which the
tree is located should the owner fail or neglect, after notice, to do so. It
shall be unlawful for any person, persons, firm, or corporation to obstruct, or
encumber, by fences, gates, buildings, structures, or otherwise, any of the
streets, alleys, or sidewalks.
(Prior Code, § 8-105) Penalty, see §
93.999
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-557.01
§ 93.007 PERMITTED OBSTRUCTIONS.
   Persons engaged in the erection, construction, reconstruction, wrecking, or
repairing of any building, or the construction or repair of a sidewalk along
any street, may occupy the public street space with such building material and
equipment as long as is necessary if such persons shall make application to and
receive a permit in writing from the City Superintendent to do so; provided, no
permit for the occupancy of the sidewalk space, and more than one-third of the
roadway of the public space adjacent to the real estate on which said building
is to be constructed, erected, reconstructed, wrecked, or repaired shall be
granted; and provided further, a suitable passageway for pedestrians shall be
maintained within the public space included in the permit which shall be
protected and lighted in the manner required by the City Superintendent issuing
the permit.
(Prior Code, § 8-106)
§ 93.008 WEEDS.
   It is hereby the duty of the City Superintendent or his or her duly
authorized agent to view and inspect the sidewalk space within the corporate
limits for growing weeds during the growing season, and if rank and noxious
weeds are found growing thereon, he or she shall notify the owner or occupant
thereof to cut down such weeds as close to the ground as can be practicably
done and keep the weeds cut thereon in like manner during the growing season
for weeds. In the event that the owner of the lot or parcel of land within the
municipality is a nonresident of the municipality or cannot be found therein,
the notice may be given to any person having the care, custody, or control of
such lot or parcel of land. In the event that there can be found no one within
the municipality to whom notice can be given, it shall be the duty of the City
Superintendent or his or her agent to post a copy of the notice on the premises
and then to cut or cause the weeds thereon to be cut as therein provided and
report the cost thereof in writing to the governing body. The cost shall then
be audited and paid by the municipality and the amount thereof shall be
assessed against the lot or parcel of land as a special tax thereon and shall
be collected as are other taxes of the municipality or may be recovered by
civil suit brought by the municipality against the owner of the parcel of land.
In the event the property owner is a nonresident of the county in which the
property lies, the municipality shall, before levying any special assessment
against that property, send a copy of any notice required by law to be
published by means of certified mail, return receipt requested, to the last
known address of the nonresident property owner. The last known address shall
be that address listed on the current tax rolls at the time such required
notice was first published.
(Prior Code, § 8-107)
§ 93.009 ACQUISITION OF REAL PROPERTY.
   (A)   Municipal property; acquisition of real property. When acquiring an
interest in real property by purchase or eminent domain, the municipality shall
do so only after the governing body has authorized the acquisition by action
taken in a public meeting after notice and public hearing.
(Neb. RS 18-1755) (Prior Code, § 8-108)
   (B)   Municipal property; acquisition of property; appraisal. The
municipality shall not purchase, lease-purchase, or acquire for consideration
real property having an estimated value of $100,000 or more unless an appraisal
of such property has been performed by a certified real estate appraiser.
(Neb. RS 13-403) (Prior Code, § 8-109)
   (C)   Municipal property; acquisition of property; construction; elections,
when required.
      (1)   The municipality is authorized and empowered to purchase, accept by
gift or devise, purchase real estate upon which to erect, and erect a building
or buildings for an auditorium, fire station, municipal building, or community
house for housing municipal enterprises and social and recreation purposes, and
other public buildings, and maintain, manage, and operate the same for the
benefit of the inhabitants of the municipality.
      (2)   Except as provided in division (C)(3) below, before any such
purchase can be made or building erected, the question shall be submitted to
the electors of the municipality at a general municipal election or at an
election duly called for that purpose, or as set forth in Neb. RS 17-954, and
be adopted by a majority of the electors voting on such question.
      (3)   If the funds to be used to finance the purchase or construction of
a building pursuant to this section are available other than through a bond
issue, then either:
         (a)   Notice of the proposed purchase or construction shall be
published in a newspaper of general circulation in the municipality and no
election shall be required to approve the purchase or construction unless,
within 30 days after the publication of the notice, a remonstrance against the
purchase or construction is signed by registered voters of the municipality
equal to 15% of the registered voters of the municipality voting at the last
regular municipal election held therein and is filed with the governing body.
If the date for filing the remonstrance falls upon a Saturday, Sunday, or legal
holiday, the signatures shall be considered timely if filed or postmarked on or
before the next business day. If a remonstrance with the necessary number of
qualified signatures is timely filed, the question shall be submitted to the
voters of the municipality at a general municipal election or a special
election duly called for that purpose. If the purchase or construction is not
approved, the property involved shall not then, nor within one year following
the election, be purchased or constructed; or
         (b)   The governing body may proceed without providing the notice and
right of remonstrance required in division (C)(3)(a) above if the property can
be purchased below the fair market value as determined by an appraisal, there
is a willing seller, and the purchase price is less than $25,000. The purchase
shall be approved by the governing body after notice and public hearing as
provided in Neb. RS 18-1755.
(Prior Code, § 8-110)
(Ord. 606, passed 3-20-1995; Ord. 607, passed 3-20-1995; Ord. 618, passed 2-19-
1996)
SIDEWALKS
§ 93.020 OVERHANGING BRANCHES.
   The owner or occupant of any lot, piece, or parcel of ground abutting or
adjacent to any street or sidewalk over which there extends the branches of
trees shall at all times keep the branches or limbs thereof trimmed to the
height of at least eight feet above the surface of said street or walk.
Whenever the limbs or branches of any tree or trees extend over streets or
sidewalks contrary to the provisions herein so as to interfere with the
lighting of the street from street lights, or with the convenience of the
public using said street or sidewalk, the governing body at any regular or
special meeting may pass a resolution ordering the owner or occupant to cut or
remove said obstructions within five days after having received a copy thereof
from the City Superintendent stating that the municipality will remove said
branches and charge the costs thereof to the owner or occupant as a special
assessment for improvements as herein provided, if said resolution is not
complied with. In the event the property owner is a nonresident of the county
in which the property lies, the municipality shall, before levying any special
assessment against that property, send a copy of any notice required by law to
be published by means of certified mail, return receipt requested, to the last
known address of the nonresident property owner. The last known address shall
be that address listed on the current tax rolls at the time such required
notice was first published.
(Prior Code, § 8-201)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-557.01
§ 93.021 KEEPING SIDEWALKS CLEAN.
   It shall be unlawful for the occupant of any lot or lots or the owner of any
vacant lot or lots within the corporate limits to allow snow, sleet, mud, ice,
or other substance to accumulate on the sidewalks or to permit any snow, sleet,
ice, mud, or other substance to remain upon said sidewalk. In the event that
the occupant or property owner fails to keep the sidewalk clear, after notice
by the municipality to do so, the municipality may clean the sidewalks at the
expense of the owner or occupant of the property upon which the sidewalk is
located.
(Prior Code, § 8-202) Penalty, see §
93.999
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-557
§ 93.022 MAINTENANCE.
   Every owner of any lot, lots, or piece of land within the corporate limits
shall at all times keep and maintain the sidewalk along and contiguous to said
lot, lots, or pieces of land, as the case may be, in good and proper repair,
and in a condition reasonably safe for travel for all travelers thereon. In the
event that the owner or owners of any lot, lots, or lands, abutting on any
street, avenue, or part thereof shall fail to construct or repair any sidewalk
in front of his, her, or their lot, lots, or lands, within the time and in the
manner as directed and required herein after having received due notice to do
so, they shall be liable for all damages or injury occasioned by reason of the
defective or dangerous condition of any sidewalk, and the governing body shall
have power to cause any such sidewalks to be constructed or repaired and assess
the costs thereof against such property. In the event the property owner is a
nonresident of the county in which the property lies, the municipality shall,
before levying any special assessment against that property, send a copy of any
notice required by law to be published by means of certified mail, return
receipt requested, to the last known address of the nonresident property owner.
The last known address shall be that address listed on the current tax rolls at
the time such required notice was first published.
(Prior Code, § 8-203)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-557.01
§ 93.023 REPAIRS.
   The City Superintendent may require sidewalks of the municipality to be
repaired. Notice to the owners of property upon which such sidewalks in
disrepair are located shall require within 48 hours from issuance of notice
said owners to make arrangements to have the sidewalk repaired. Said repairs
shall be completed within 21 days after issuance of said notice. No special
assessment shall be levied against the property unless said owner shall neglect
or refuse to repair within the time prescribed and in the event that such owner
fails to repair, the municipality shall cause the repairs to be made and assess
the property owner the expense of such repairs. In the event the property owner
is a nonresident of the county in which the property lies, the municipality
shall, before levying any special assessment against that property, send a copy
of any notice required by law to be published by means of certified mail,
return receipt requested, to the last known address of the nonresident property
owner. The last known address shall be that address listed on the current tax
rolls at the time such required notice was first published.
(Prior Code, § 8-204)
§ 93.024 CONSTRUCTION BY OWNER.
   (A)   Any person desiring to construct, or cause to be constructed, any
sidewalk shall do so only as herein provided. It shall be unlawful for any
person to construct any sidewalk without first having obtained a permit.
   (B)   Said owner shall make application in writing for a permit and file
such application in the office of the City Clerk. The permit shall give a
description of the lot or piece of land along which the sidewalk is to be
constructed. The City Superintendent shall issue the desired permit unless good
cause shall appear why said permit should be denied; provided, if it is desired
to construct the sidewalk at any other than the regularly prescribed location,
grade, or elevation, the City Superintendent shall submit the application to
the governing body who shall determine whether the permit should be granted or
denied. It shall be unlawful for any person to construct, or cause to be
constructed, said sidewalk at any other location, grade, or elevation than so
designated by the municipality. All sidewalks shall be built and constructed on
the established grade, or elevation, and if there is no established grade, then
on the grade or elevation indicated by the City Superintendent.
(Prior Code, § 8-205) Penalty, see §
93.999
§ 93.025 MUNICIPAL CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   The governing body may, by resolution, order the construction of a
sidewalk on any lot or piece of ground within the municipality. Notice of the
governing body’s intention to construct said sidewalk shall be given by the
City Clerk by publication of notice one time in a legal newspaper of general
circulation in the municipality.
   (B)   A copy of said notice shall be personally served upon the occupant in
possession of such property, or, when personal service is not possible, said
notice shall be posted upon such premises ten days prior to the commencement of
construction. The notice required in this section shall be prepared by the
Municipal Attorney in accordance with the provisions of this section. Such
service shall include a form of return evidencing personal service or posting
as herein required.
   (C)   Said notice shall notify the owner of the premises of the passage of
the resolution ordering him or her to construct or cause to be constructed a
sidewalk within 30 days after the date of publication and further that if he or
she fails to construct the sidewalk or cause the same to be done within the
time allowed, the municipality will cause the sidewalk to be constructed and
the cost thereof shall be levied and assessed as a special tax against the
premises; provided, the notice shall contain the official estimate of the cost
of said construction and no special assessment in excess of this estimate shall
be assessed against the property. In the event the property owner is a
nonresident of the county in which the property lies, the municipality shall,
before levying any special assessment against that property, send a copy of any
notice required by law to be published by means of certified mail, return
receipt requested, to the last known address of the nonresident property owner.
The last known address shall be that address listed on the current tax rolls at
the time such required notice was first published.
(Prior Code, § 8-206)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-522, 17-523
§ 93.026 CONSTRUCTION BIDS.
   Whenever the municipality shall construct, widen, replace, or reconstruct
any sidewalk, notice prepared by the Municipal Attorney, specifying the work to
be done and calling for bids for doing such work and supplying the necessary
materials and labor, shall be published in at least one issue of a legal
newspaper of general circulation in the municipality; provided, bids so invited
shall be filed in the office of the City Clerk within ten days after the date
of publication. Bids shall be opened at the next regular or special meeting of
the governing body, and the governing body shall then award the work to the
lowest responsible bidder. Upon approval of the work, the governing body may
require the contractor to accept payment in certificates issued to him or her
by the City Clerk entitling him or her to all assessments or special taxes,
against such real estate whenever such assessments or special taxes shall be
collected together with the interest or penalty collected thereon. Each
certificate shall give the legal description of the lot, lots, or parcel of
ground against which the assessments or special taxes are assessed. Such
certificate or certificates may be assigned and transferred, entitling the
holder to the same rights as if held by the original contractor. The County
Treasurer shall pay over to such contractor or other holder of the certificate
or certificates all assessments or special taxes against such real estate,
together with the interest and penalty thereon, at any time upon presentation
of such certificate or certificates after said assessments or special taxes
against such real estate, together with interest or penalty thereon, shall have
been collected.
(Prior Code, § 8-207)
§ 93.027 CONSTRUCTION BY PETITION.
   If three-fifths of the record resident abutting owners of property in fee
simple, subject to assessment for sidewalk improvements, petition the governing
body to make the same, the governing body shall proceed in all things as though
such construction had been ordered by it. Upon the petition of any freeholder
who is an abutting owner in fee simple of property subject to assessment for
sidewalk improvements, the governing body may order permanent sidewalks built
in accordance with this subchapter upon the freeholder making, executing, and
delivering to the municipality an agreement to the effect that the petitioning
freeholder will pay the engineering service fee and the cost of the
construction of the sidewalk, and that the cost of such construction including
the engineering service fee and all other incidental construction costs until
paid shall be a perpetual lien upon the real estate along which the freeholder
desires such sidewalk to be constructed and that the petitioner gives and
grants to the municipality the right to assess and levy the costs of such
construction against the freeholder’s real estate abutting the sidewalk
improvement and promises to pay such costs with interest. The total cost of
such improvement shall be levied, allocated, financed, and specially assessed
as provided by law. In the event the property owner is a nonresident of the
county in which the property lies, the municipality shall, before levying any
special assessment against that property, send a copy of any notice required by
law to be published by means of certified mail, return receipt requested, to
the last known address of the nonresident property owner. The last known
address shall be that address listed on the current tax rolls at the time such
required notice was first published.
(Prior Code, § 8-208)
§ 93.028 RAMPS.
   Any property owner desiring to construct, or cause to be constructed, any
sidewalk ramp to facilitate access to their property shall do so only as herein
provided. It shall be unlawful for any person to construct any sidewalk ramp
without obtaining the permission of the governing body. SIDEWALK RAMP shall
mean any sidewalk constructed on municipal property which is not constructed on
the established grade. The governing body shall consider the need for such ramp
for accessibility and the extent to which such ramp would restrict the
remaining sidewalk, impede drainage, or otherwise affect pedestrians. Any
property owner constructing such sidewalk ramp and their successors in interest
to the property benefitted by such ramp shall indemnify the city for loss due
to obstruction of the sidewalk.
(Prior Code, § 8-209) (Ord. 739, passed 1-17-2005) Penalty, see §
93.999
STREETS
§ 93.040 NAMES AND NUMBERS.
   The governing body may at anytime, by ordinance, rename any street or
provide a name for any new street. Buildings used for residence or business
purposes and located along such streets shall retain such numbers as the
governing body may require. It shall be the duty of the City Superintendent,
upon the erection of any new building or buildings to assign the proper numbers
to said building or buildings and give notice to the owner or owners and
occupant or occupants of the same.
(Prior Code, § 8-301) (Ord. 2024-848, passed 9-16-2024)
§ 93.041 WIDENING AND OPENING.
   The governing body shall have the power to open or widen any street, alley,
or lane within the limits of the municipality; to create, open, and improve any
new street, alley, or lane; provided, all damages sustained shall be
ascertained in such manner as shall be provided by ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 8-302) (Ord. 2024-848, passed 9-16-2024)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-558, 17-559, 76-704 through 76-724
§ 93.042 EXCAVATION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to make an excavation in any street or
streets for any purpose whatsoever unless a written permit is issued by the
City Superintendent authorizing such excavations.
(Prior Code, § 8-303) (Ord. 2024-848, passed 9-16-2024)  Penalty, see §
93.999
§ 93.043 DRIVING STAKES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to drive any peg or stake of any kind
into the pavement in any street or alley without first procuring the written
consent of the City Superintendent.
(Prior Code, § 8-304) (Ord. 2024-848, passed 9-16-2024)  Penalty, see §
93.999
§ 93.044 MIXING CONCRETE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to mix any concrete or plastering
material directly on the street pavement for any reason whatsoever.
(Prior Code, § 8-305) (Ord. 2024-848, passed 9-16-2024)  Penalty, see §
93.999
§ 93.045 HARMFUL LIQUIDS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to place or permit to leak in the gutter
of any street, waste gasoline, kerosene, or high lubricating oils, which damage
or act as a solvent upon said streets.
(Prior Code, § 8-306) (Ord. 2024-848, passed 9-16-2024)  Penalty, see §
93.999
§ 93.046 CONSTRUCTION NOTICE.
   The governing body shall notify the owners in fee simple of real estate
abutting a street, alley, or a part thereof which is to be put under contract
for paving or repaving. Notice shall also be given to all gas, electric
service, and telephone companies. Notice shall also be given to all consumers
of gas, water, and sewer services which will be discontinued during such
construction. Said notice shall be published one time in a legal newspaper at
least 20 days prior to the beginning of such construction by the party
undertaking such construction, and said notice shall state at what date
connections must be made and excavation completed. All gas, water, sewer, and
underground connections must be made prior to the paving or repaving of the
street under construction. After expiration of such time, permits for
excavation will not be issued, nor will excavation be allowed, until after the
completion of the pavement in said street or alley, and the formal final
acceptance thereof by the proper officials of the municipality.
(Prior Code, § 8-307) (Ord. 2024-848, passed 9-16-2024)
§ 93.047 PIPE LINES AND WIRES.
   Poles, wires, gas mains, pipe lines, and other appurtenances of public
services companies shall be located, or erected over, upon, or under the
streets, alleys, and common grounds of the municipality. Application for
location of the above shall be made to the governing body in writing. Approval
by that body shall be issued in writing. Any public service company granted a
right-of-way for the erection and maintenance of poles, conduits, gas mains,
pipe lines, and wires shall at all times erect and locate their poles, wires,
gas mains, pipe lines, and other appurtenances at such places and in such
manner as shall be designated by the governing body. Such poles, wires, gas
mains, pipe lines, and other appurtenances, shall be removed or relocated by
said companies at their own expense when requested to do so by the governing
body. Any such relocation shall be ordered by resolution of the governing body
and the City Clerk shall notify any and all companies affected. Said companies
shall, within 24 hours after receiving notice, at their own expense, cause the
poles, wires, gas mains, pipe lines, or other appurtenances to be removed. The
governing body shall designate another location as closely as possible where
said poles, wires, gas mains, pipe lines, or other appurtenances, may be reset
or placed. All poles, wires, gas mains, pipe lines, or other appurtenances,
shall be reset, placed, or erected in such a manner that they will not
interfere with the water system; sewerage system; poles, wires, and mains of
any public utility; adjacent buildings; or with travel on the public ways and
property. Whenever possible, all pole lines, wires, gas mains, pipe lines, or
appurtenances shall be confined to the alleys of the municipality.
(Prior Code, § 8-308) (Ord. 2024-848, passed 9-16-2024)
§ 93.048 CONSTRUCTION ASSESSMENT.
    To defray the costs and expenses of street improvements, as may be
authorized by law, the governing body shall have power and authority to levy
and collect special taxes and assessments upon the lots and pieces of ground
adjacent to, abutting upon, or especially benefitting from, the street, avenue,
alley, or sidewalk in whole or in part opened, widened, curbed, curbed and
guttered, graded, paved, repaired, graveled, macadamized, parked, extended,
constructed, or otherwise improved or repaired. The governing body sitting as
the Board of Equalization shall review all such improvements in accordance with
the procedure provided by law. All special assessments shall be made by the
governing body at a regular or special meeting by resolution, taking into
account the benefits derived or injuries sustained in consequence of such
improvements and the amount charged against same. The vote shall be recorded in
the minutes. Notice of the time of holding such meeting and the purpose for
which it is to be held shall be published in some legal newspaper published, or
of general circulation, in the municipality at least four weeks before the same
shall be held. In lieu of such aforementioned notice, personal service may be
had upon the persons owning or occupying the property to be assessed. Such
assessments shall be known as "special assessments for improvements" and with
the cost of notice shall be levied and collected as a special tax in addition
to the taxes for general revenue purposes, subject to the same penalties and
collected in like manner as other municipal taxes and shall be certified to the
County Clerk by the City Clerk forthwith after the date of levy, for collection
by the Treasurer of said county unless otherwise specified. After it shall
become delinquent, said assessment shall draw interest at the legal interest
rate per annum. In the event the property owner is a nonresident of the county
in which the property lies, the municipality shall, before levying any special
assessment against that property, send a copy of any notice required by law to
be published by means of certified mail, return receipt requested, to the last
known address of the nonresident property owner. The last known address shall
be that address listed on the current tax rolls at the time such required
notice was first published.
(Prior Code, § 8-309) (Ord. 2024-848, passed 9-16-2024)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-511, 17-524
§ 93.049 PETITION FOR IMPROVEMENTS.
   Whenever a petition signed by the owners of record title representing more
than 60% of the front footage of the property directly abutting upon the
street, streets, alley, alleys, public way, or the public grounds proposed to
be improved, shall be presented and filed with the City Clerk, petitioning
therefor, the governing body shall by ordinance create a paving, graveling, or
other improvement district or districts, and shall cause such work to be done
or such improvement to be made, and shall contract therefor, and shall levy
assessments on the lots and parcels of land abutting on or adjacent to such
street, streets, alley, or alleys, especially benefitted thereby in such
district in proportion to such benefits, to pay the cost of such improvement.
The governing body shall have the discretion to deny the formation of the
proposed district when the area has not previously been improved with a water
system, sewer system, and grading of streets. If the governing body should deny
a requested improvement district formation, it shall state the grounds for such
denial in a written letter to interested parties.
(Prior Code, § 8-310) (Ord. 499, passed 12-19-1983; Ord. 2024-848, passed 9-16-
2024)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-510
§ 93.050 DEFERRAL FROM SPECIAL ASSESSMENTS.
   (A)   Whenever the governing body of a municipality creates a paving
district which includes land adjacent to the municipality which is within an
agricultural use zone and is used exclusively for agricultural use, the owners
of record title of such adjacent land may apply for a deferral from special
assessments. For purposes of this section, the terms AGRICULTURAL USE and
AGRICULTURAL USE ZONE shall have the meaning specified in Neb. RS 77-1343.
   (B)   Any owner of record title eligible for the deferral granted by this
section shall, to secure such assessment, make application to the governing
body of the municipality within 90 days after creation of the paving district.
Any owner of record title who makes application for the deferral provided by
this section shall notify the County Register of Deeds of such application in
writing prior to approval by the governing body. The governing body shall
approve the application of any owner of record title upon determination that
the property is within an agricultural use zone and is used exclusively for
agricultural use, and the owner has met the requirements of this section.
   (C)   The deferral provided for in this section shall be terminated upon any
of the following events:
      (1)   Notification by the owner of record title to the governing body to
removed such defferal:
      (2)   Sale or transfer to a new owner who does not make a new application
within 60 days of the sale or transfer, except as provided in division (C)(3)
below.
      (3)   Transfer by reason of death of a former owner to a new owner who
does not make application within 125 days of the transfer;
      (4)   The land is no longer being used as agricultural land; or
      (5)   Change of zoning to other than an agricultural zone.
   (D)   Whenever property which has received a deferral pursuant to this
section becomes disqualified for such deferral, the owner of record title of
such property shall pay to the municipality an amount equal to:
      (1)   The total amount of special assessments which would have been
assessed against such property, to the extent of special benefits, had such
deferral not been granted; and
      (2)   Interest upon the special assessments not paid each year at the
rate of 6% from the dates at which such assessments would have been payable if
no deferral had been granted.
   (E)   In cases where the deferral provided by this section is terminated as
a result of a sale or transfer described in division (C)(2) or (C)(3) above,
the lien for assessments and interest shall attach as of the day preceding such
sale or transfer.
(Prior Code, § 8-311) (Ord. 500, passed 12-19-1983; Ord. 2024-848, passed 9-16-
2024)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 19-2427
§ 93.051 CURB CUTTING.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to cut into any paving, curb, or
sidewalk for the purpose of constructing a driveway or any other purpose
whatsoever without first having obtained a written permit from the governing
body therefor.
   (B)   Before any person shall obtain a permit, he or she shall inform the
City Clerk of the place where such cutting is to be done, and it shall be the
City Superintendent's duty to inspect the place of entry into the paving,
sidewalk, or curb, before the same is cut. When cutting into any paving, it
shall be the duty of the party to cut the paving under such rules and
regulations as may be prescribed by the governing body or the Municipal
Engineer. When the applicant is ready to close the opening made, he or she
shall inform the City Superintendent, who shall supervise and inspect the
materials used and the work done in closing the opening.
   (C)   It shall be discretionary with the governing body to order the City
Superintendent, under the supervision and inspection of the Municipal Engineer,
to do the work of cutting and closing the paving and charge the costs thereof
to the party who obtained such permit. The governing body may consent to the
work of cutting and closing the paving to be done by the party holding such
permit. Before any permit is issued by the governing body, the applicant for
such permit shall deposit with the Municipal Treasurer a sum set by resolution
of the governing body for all paving, curb, or sidewalk to be cut. Such sum
shall be set on a per square foot cost of construction basis.
   (D)   (1)   The deposit shall be retained by the municipality for the
purpose of replacing the paving, curb, or sidewalk, in the event the work is
done by the municipality. In the event the municipality elects to require the
applicant to replace the paving, curb, or sidewalk, the deposit shall be
retained by the municipality until the work is completed to the satisfaction of
the City Superintendent.
      (2)   In addition to making the deposit above set forth, the applicant
shall, before any permit is issued, execute a bond to the municipality with a
good and sufficient surety or sureties to be approved by the governing body in
a sum set by resolution of the governing body.
(Prior Code, § 8-401) (Ord. 2024-848, passed 9-16-2024)  Penalty, see §
93.999
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-567
§ 93.052 VACATING PUBLIC WAYS.
   (A)   Whenever any street, avenue, alley, or lane is vacated, the same shall
revert to the owners of the abutting real estate, one-half on each side
thereof, and become a part of such property unless the city reserves title in
the ordinance vacating such street or alley. If title is retained by the city,
such property may be sold, conveyed, exchanged, or leased upon such terms and
conditions as shall be deemed in the best interests of the city.
   (B)   When a portion of a street, avenue, alley, or lane is vacated only on
one side of the center thereof, the title to such land shall vest in the owner
of the abutting property and become a part of such property unless the city
reserves title in the ordinance vacating a portion of such street or alley. If
title is retained by the city, such property may be sold, conveyed, exchanged,
or leased upon such terms and conditions as shall be deemed in the best
interests of the city.
   (C)   When the city vacates all or any portion of a street, avenue, alley,
or lane, the city shall, within 30 days after the effective date of the
vacation, file a certified copy of the vacating ordinance with the county
register of deeds to be indexed against all affected lots.
   (D)   The title to property vacated pursuant to this section shall be
subject to the following:
      (1)   There is reserved to the city the right to maintain, operate,
repair, and renew public utilities existing at the time title to the property
is vacated there; and
      (2)   There is reserved to the city, any public utilities, and any cable
television systems the right to maintain, repair, renew, and operate water
mains, gas mains, pole lines, conduits, electrical transmission lines, sound
and signal transmission lines, and other similar services and equipment and
appurtenances, including lateral connections or branch lines, above, on, or
below the surface of the ground that are existing as valid easements at the
time title to the property is vacated for the purposes of serving the general
public or the abutting properties and to enter upon the premises to accomplish
such purposes at any and all reasonable times.
(Ord. 2024-848, passed 9-16-2024)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. §17-558
TREES
§ 93.065 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COMMUNITY FOREST. All street and park trees as a total resource.
   COMMUNITY FOREST MANAGER. The official representative of the Tree Board and
as such is responsible for administration of the community forestry program.
   PARK TREES. Trees, shrubs, bushes, and all other woody vegetation in public
parks and all areas owned by the city, or to which the public has free access.
   STREET TREES. Trees, shrubs, bushes, and all other woody vegetation on land
lying between property lines on either side of all streets, avenues, or ways
within the city.
(Prior Code, § 8-501)
§ 93.066 STREET TREE SPECIES TO BE PLANTED.
   The city shall maintain a list of recommended trees for planting in public
areas. The purpose of this list will be to maintain diversity in the total tree
population. This list shall be available to residents of the city upon request
to aid in the selection of trees for private properties. The list of
recommended trees shall be updated periodically to reflect new developments or
species that will affect the population of the community forest.
(Prior Code, § 8-502)
§ 93.067 SPACING.
   Spacing of street trees will not be restricted except as it may affect §
93.068 of this chaptersection 8-503.
(Prior Code, § 8-503)
§ 93.068 DISTANCES AND CLEARANCES FOR PLANTING.
   (A)   Street trees may be planted in the tree lawn where there is more than
six feet between the edge of the sidewalk and the curb of the street. Street
trees shall be planted no closer than three feet from a sidewalk, driveway, or
street.
   (B)   No street tree, hedge, or shrubbery shall interfere with the vision of
motorists or adjacent property holders. On corner lots in residential
districts, a triangular area adjacent to each street intersection shall be
maintained wherein nothing shall be erected, placed, planted, or allowed to
grow in such a manner as to materially impede vision between a height of two
and one-half feet and ten feet above the centerline grades of the intersecting
streets. The triangular area shall be bounded by the street lines of such
corner lots and a line joining points on said street lines which points are 50
feet from the point of intersection of said streets.
   (C)   No street tree shall be planted closer than ten feet from any fire
hydrant.
   (D)   Special permission must be obtained from the Tree Board or the
community forest manager when planting street trees within ten feet of any
point on a line or the ground immediately below any overhead utility wire, or
within five lateral feet of any underground water line, sewer lines,
transmission line, or other utility.
(Prior Code, § 8-504) (Ord. 597, passed 12-19-1994) Penalty, see §
93.999
§ 93.069 PUBLIC TREE CARE.
   (A)   The city shall have the right to plant, prune, maintain, and remove
trees, plants, and shrubs within the right-of-way or bounds of all streets,
alleys, lanes, squares, and public grounds, as may be necessary to ensure the
public safety.
   (B)   The Tree Board may remove or cause or order to be removed, any tree or
part thereof which is in an unsafe condition or which by reason of its nature
is injurious to sewers, electric power lines, gas lines, water lines, or other
public improvements, or is seriously affected with any fatal disease.
(Prior Code, § 8-505)
§ 93.070 PERMITS REQUIRED.
   No person shall plant a street tree or any other tree in the public right-
of-way without first obtaining a permit from the City Clerk. There will be no
fee for such permit.
(Prior Code, § 8-506) Penalty, see §
93.999
§ 93.071 COMPENSATORY PAYMENTS.
   No person shall remove any public tree without replacing such tree with a
tree or trees of equivalent dollar value in the vicinity of the removed tree.
The value of trees shall be determined by the community forest manager in
accordance with regulations considering the species, location, size, and
condition of trees adopted by the Tree Board. If no suitable location exists in
the vicinity of the tree removed or if the replacement tree is of lesser value,
the person causing the tree to be removed shall make a compensatory payment to
the city equal to the difference in value between the tree removed and any
replacement tree. Such compensatory payment shall be paid into a fund
established by the Director of Finance and used solely for the purpose of
enhancing the community forest.
(Prior Code, § 8-507) Penalty, see §
93.999
§ 93.072 TREE TOPPING.
   It shall be unlawful as a normal practice for any person, firm, or city
department to top any street tree, park tree, or other tree on public property.
TOPPING is defined as the severe cutting back of limbs to stubs larger than
three inches in diameter within the tree’s crown to such a degree as to remove
the normal canopy and disfigure the tree. Trees severely damaged by storms or
other causes, or certain trees under utility wires or other obstructions where
other pruning practices are impractical may be exempted from this section at
the determination of the Tree Board of the community forest manager.
(Prior Code, § 8-508) Penalty, see §
93.999
§ 93.073 CLEARANCE OVER STREETS AND WALKWAYS.
   Clearance over streets and walkways shall be the responsibility of the
abutting property owner. A clearance of eight feet must be maintained over
walkways and a clearance of 12 feet must be maintained over streets. Property
owners are responsible for trees on their own property as well as trees on the
public way that abuts their property.
(Prior Code, § 8-509)
§ 93.074 DEAD OR DISEASED TREE REMOVAL.
   The city shall remove or cause to be removed any dead or diseased tree
within the city limits. Diseased trees are defined as those trees that may
constitute a hazard to life and property and represent a potential threat to
other trees within the city due to the presence of a fatal disease (e.g., Dutch
elm disease, chestnut blight). The Tree Board will notify in writing the owners
of such trees. Removal is the responsibility of the owners of such trees and
shall be accomplished within 60 days of notification. In the event of failure
to remove by the owner, the city shall have the authority to remove such trees
and charge the costs of removal to the property owner. Upon the failure of the
owner to pay the cost thereof, such cost may be assessed and levied as a tax
against the property from which the tree was removed.
(Prior Code, § 8-510)
§ 93.075 REMOVAL OF STUMPS.
   All stumps of street and park trees shall be removed below the surface of
the ground so that the top of the stump shall not project above the surface of
the ground.
(Prior Code, § 8-511)
§ 93.076 ACCESS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to prevent, delay, or interfere with
access to private property by the city or its representative in the legal
performance of any section of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 8-512) Penalty, see §
93.999
§ 93.077 ARBORIST LICENSE AND BOND.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person or firm to engage in the business
or occupation of pruning, treating, or removing any street tree, park tree, or
other privately owned tree without first applying for and procuring a license.
The license fee shall be set by the Tree Board.
   (B)   Before license shall be issued, each applicant shall first file
evidence of possession of liability insurance and meet other requirements set
by the Tree Board.
(Prior Code, § 8-513) Penalty, see §
93.999
§ 93.078 ABATEMENT.
   (A)   Whenever a nuisance exists as defined in this chapter, the
municipality may proceed by a suit in equity to enjoin and abate the same, in
the manner provided by law.
   (B)   Whenever, in any action, it is established that a nuisance exists, the
court may together with the fine or penalty imposed, enter an order of
abatement as a part of the judgment in the case.
(Prior Code, § 8-602)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 18-1720, 18-1722
VACANT PROPERTY
§ 93.090 FINDINGS.
   The city finds and declares that:
   (A)   Vacant properties have the potential to create a host of problems for
the city, including a propensity to foster criminal activity, create public
health problems, and otherwise diminish quality of life;
   (B)   Vacant properties have the potential to reduce the value of area
properties, increase the risk of property damage through arson and vandalism,
and discourage neighborhood stability;
   (C)   Vacant properties represent unrealized economic growth in the city;
   (D)   A vacant property registration ordinance will allow the city to
discourage property vacancy, maintain unoccupied buildings, provide a database
of vacant properties and their owners, and assess fees for the increased public
costs associated with vacant properties;
   (E)   Fees imposed under a vacant property registration ordinance have the
potential to benefit the owners of vacant properties by helping to finance
additional government services to protect the value and security of such
properties; and
   (F)   Enactment of this vacant property registration subchapter is a proper
exercise of the city's authority to protect the public health, safety, and
welfare of community residents and a valid regulatory scheme.
(Ord. 2020-822, passed 6-15-2020; Ord. 2021-827, passed 7-19-2021)
§ 93.091 PURPOSES.
   The purposes of this subchapter are to promote the health, safety, and
welfare of the city residents by providing authority for enacting vacant
property registration requirements. This subchapter will allow the city to
identify and register vacant properties, collect fees to compensate for the
public costs of vacant properties, plan for the rehabilitation of vacant
properties, and encourage the occupancy of vacant properties.
(Ord. 2020-822, passed 6-15-2020; Ord. 2021-827, passed 7-19-2021)
§ 93.092 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COMMERCIAL BUILDING. Any building or structure located on a property that is
not a residential building.
   EVIDENCE OF VACANCY. Any condition or circumstance that on its own or in
combination with other conditions or circumstances would lead a reasonable
person to believe that a residential building or commercial building is vacant.
Such conditions or circumstances may include, but are not limited to:
      (1)   Any unoccupied or empty building or structure on the property;
      (2)   Lack of active utility service accounts;
      (3)   Overgrown or dead vegetation, including grass, shrubbery, and other
plantings;
      (4)   Visible deterioration or lack of maintenance of any building or
structure on the property;
      (5)   Graffiti or other defacement of any building or structure on the
property; or
      (6)   Any other condition or circumstance reasonably indicating that the
property is not occupied for residential purposes or being used for the
operation of a lawful business.
   OWNER. The person or persons shown to be the owner or owners of record in
the records of the County Register of Deeds.
   RESIDENTIAL BUILDING. A house, a condominium, a townhouse, an apartment unit
or building, or a trailer house.
   VACANT. That a residential building or commercial building exhibits evidence
of vacancy.
(Ord. 2020-822, passed 6-15-2020; Ord. 2021-827, passed 7-19-2021)
§ 93.093 APPLICATIONS.
   The city hereby adopts this subchapter which applies to any type of either
residential or commercial buildings, located within the corporate limits of the
city, except that this subchapter shall not apply to property owned by the
federal government, the State of Nebraska, or any political subdivision
thereof. This subchapter shall create a city-wide vacant property registration
database which shall be administered by a Program Administrator appointed by
the City Council.
(Ord. 2020-822, passed 6-15-2020; Ord. 2021-827, passed 7-19-2021)
§ 93.094 REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Owners of vacant property subject to this subchapter shall be required
to register such property with the Program Administrator on forms provided by
the Program Administrator if the property has been vacant for 180 days or
longer. If the Program Administrator is aware of a property that has been
vacant for 180 days or longer which has not been registered by the owner, the
Program Administrator shall notify the owner by first class United States mail
of the owner’s obligation to register the property within 15 days. If after 15
days, the owner has failed to register the vacant property, the Program
Administrator is authorized to register the vacant property for the owner by
completing the registration form on behalf of the owner.
   (B)   A vacant property registration form shall be in either paper or
electronic form, and the following information shall be required:
      (1)   The name, street address, mailing address, telephone number, and,
if applicable, the facsimile number and email address of the property owner and
his or her agent;
      (2)   The street address and parcel identification number of the vacant
property;
      (3)   The transfer date of the instrument conveying the property to the
owner; and
      (4)   The date on which the property became vacant.
   (C)   The property owner, 180 days after initial registration of the vacant
property pursuant to division (A) of this section or 360 days after the
property becomes vacant, whichever is sooner, shall be required to pay an
initial registration fee. The property owner shall also be required to pay
supplemental registration fees at intervals every six months thereafter for as
long as the property remains on the vacant property registration database.
      (1)   The initial registration fee for a residential property shall be
$250 and $1,000 for a commercial property.
      (2)   The supplemental registration fee shall be double the previous fee
amount, with a maximum supplemental registration fee of ten times the initial
registration fee amount.
(Ord. 2020-822, passed 6-15-2020; Ord. 2021-827, passed 7-19-2021)
§ 93.095 EXEMPTIONS.
   The City Council may exempt a vacant property from this subchapter when the
vacant property is advertised in good faith for sale or lease. A vacant
property is advertised in good faith for sale or lease when the vacant property
is being listed for sale and actively marketed at a price no more than 125% of
the assessed value as determined by the County Assessor.
(Ord. 2021-827, passed 7-19-2021)
§ 93.096 ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS; PROGRAM ADMINISTRATOR POWERS.
   (A)   A subsequent owner or owners of property subject to the subchapter
will assume the obligations of the previous owner or owners.
   (B)   Property shall be removed from the vacant property registration
database when the property is no longer vacant.
   (C)   Owners of registered property shall submit a plan for occupancy of the
property.
   (D)   Owners have the right to prior notice and to appeal adverse decisions
of the Program Administrator. Such notice shall be sent by certified mail to
the registered owner at the address maintained in the County Assessor’s office
at least ten days prior to such adverse decision.
   (E)   The Program Administrator or his or her designee may inspect the
interior and exterior of the vacant property upon registration and at one year
intervals thereafter for so long as the property remains on the vacant property
registration database.
(Ord. 2020-822, passed 6-15-2020; Ord. 2021-827, passed 7-19-2021)
§ 93.097 ENFORCEMENT.
   Failure of a property owner to comply with the requirement of this
subchapter may be enforced by municipal fines of up to $100 per day of
violation. In addition, the city may enforce the collection of vacant property
registration fees by civil action in any court of competent jurisdiction.
Unpaid vacant property registration fees and unpaid fines for any violation of
a vacant property registration ordinance shall become a lien on the applicable
property upon the recording of a notice of such lien in the office of the
Register of Deeds of the county.
(Ord. 2020-822, passed 6-15-2020; Ord. 2021-827, passed 7-19-2021)
§ 93.098 APPLICABILITY.
   The provisions of subchapter shall be supplemental to and in addition to the
Vacant Property Registration Act (Neb. RS §§ 19-5401 et seq.) and any other
laws of the State of Nebraska relating to vacant property.
(Ord. 2020-822, passed 6-15-2020; Ord. 2021-827, passed 7-19-2021)
§ 93.999 PENALTY.
   Any person who shall violate or refuse to comply with the enforcement of any
of the provisions of this chapter, set forth at full length herein or
incorporated by reference shall be deemed guilty of an offense and upon
conviction thereof, shall be fined not more than $100 for each offense. A new
violation shall be deemed to have been committed every 24 hours of such failure
to comply.
(Prior Code, § 8-601)
CHAPTER 94: PARKS AND RECREATION
Section
General Provisions
   
94.01   Operation and funding
   
94.02   Injury to property
   
94.03   Recreational vehicles parking and fees
Swimming Pool
   
94.15   Operation and funding
   
94.16   Admission charge
   
94.17   Rentals
   
94.18   Rules and regulations
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 94.01 OPERATION AND FUNDING.
The municipality owns and operates the municipal parks and other recreational
areas through the City Superintendent. The Governing Body, for the purpose of
defraying the cost of the care, management, and maintenance of the municipal
park may each year levy a tax not exceeding the maximum limit prescribed by
state law, on the actual valuation of all real estate and personal property
within the corporate limits that is subject to taxation. The revenue from the
said tax shall be known as the Park Fund and shall remain in the custody of the
Municipal Treasurer. The City Superintendent shall have the authority to adopt
rules and regulations for the efficient management of the Municipal Parks and
other recreational areas of the municipality. The City Superintendent shall not
enter into a contract of any nature which involves an expenditure of funds,
except for ordinary operating expenses, unless the contract has been approved
by resolution of the majority of the members of the Governing Body prior to the
contractual agreement.
(Prior Code, § 3-501)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-948 through 17-952
§ 94.02 INJURY TO PROPERTY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to maliciously or willfully cut down,
injure, or destroy any tree, plant, or shrub. It shall be unlawful for any
person to injure or destroy any sodded or planted area, or injure or destroy
any building, structure, equipment, fence, bench, table, or any other property
of the municipal parks and recreational areas. No person shall commit any waste
on or litter the municipal parks or other public grounds.
(Prior Code, § 3-502) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 94.03 RECREATIONAL VEHICLES PARKING AND FEES.
   The municipality shall have power to provide an area on or adjacent to the
municipal park for temporary parking of recreational vehicles and may provide
electrical service for those using the parking area. Every vehicle using such
electrical service shall pay a fee of $20 for each day or portion thereof
during which electricity is used. No vehicle may park at such location for more
than five consecutive days.
(Prior Code, § 3-503) (Ord. 556, passed 8-20-1990)
SWIMMING POOL
§ 94.15 OPERATION AND FUNDING.
   The municipality owns and manages the municipal swimming pool. The governing
body, for the purpose of defraying the cost of the management, maintenance, and
improvements of the swimming pool, may each year levy a tax not exceeding the
maximum limit prescribed by state law, on the actual valuation of all real
estate and personal property within the municipality that is subject to
taxation. The revenue from the said tax shall be known as the Swimming Pool
Fund and shall include all gifts, grants, deeds of conveyance, bequests, or
other valuable income-producing personal property and real estate from any
source for the purpose of endowing the swimming pool. The Swimming Pool Fund
shall at all times be in the custody of the Municipal Treasurer. The City
Superintendent shall manage the swimming pool. The Superintendent shall have
the power and authority to hire and supervise the Swimming Pool Manager and
such employees as he or she may deem necessary and shall pass such rules and
regulations for the operation of the swimming pool as may be proper for its
efficient operation. All actions by the City Superintendent shall be under the
supervision and control of the governing body.
(Prior Code, § 3-601)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-948, 17-951, 17-952
§ 94.16 ADMISSION CHARGE.
   The City Superintendent may, for the purpose of defraying the expenses
involved in maintaining, improving, managing, and beautifying the swimming
pool, make a reasonable admission charge for the use by any person of the
municipal swimming pool. The said charges shall be on file at the office of the
City Clerk and shall also be posted in a conspicuous place at the municipal
swimming pool for public inspection. Such rates may be structured for classes
of persons in a reasonable manner; provided, that nothing herein shall be
construed to permit or allow discrimination on the basis of race, creed, color,
or national origin in the classification of persons for admission charges.
(Prior Code, § 3-602)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-949
§ 94.17 RENTALS.
   The City Superintendent shall have the authority to rent the municipal
swimming pool to such organizations and other persons he or she may, in his or
her discretion, see fit, subject to the review of the governing body. The
Superintendent shall prescribe rules and regulations for such rentals and shall
require an appropriate number of qualified lifeguards to be in attendance
during the rental period. Such fees and other costs shall be on file at the
office of the City Clerk and posted in a conspicuous place at the municipal
swimming pool.
(Prior Code, § 3-603)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-949
§ 94.18 RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   The City Superintendent shall have the power and authority to enact bylaws,
rules, and regulations for the protection of those using the swimming pool and
for the efficient management thereof. He or she may provide suitable penalties
for the violation of such bylaws, rules, and regulations subject to the review
and supervision of the governing body.
(Prior Code, § 3-604)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-949
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
      
111.   PEDDLERS AND SOLICITORS
      
112.   MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS
      
113.   OCCUPATION TAXES
      
114.   MOBILE FOOD TRUCKS
CHAPTER 110: ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
Section
   
110.01   Definitions
   
110.02   License required
   
110.03   Location
   
110.04   Dwellings
   
110.05   License displayed
   
110.06   Licensee requirements
   
110.07   Liquor application; municipal examination
   
110.08   Liquor license renewal
   
110.09   Municipal powers and duties
   
110.10   Owner of premises
   
110.11   Employer responsibilities
   
110.12   Covering windows unlawful
   
110.13   Minors
   
110.14   Credit sales
   
110.15   Spiking beer
   
110.16   Original package
   
110.17   Minor’s presence
   
110.18   Hours of sale
   
110.19   Sanitary conditions
   
110.20   Hiring minors
   
110.21   Consumption in public places
   
110.22   Acquisition of alcoholic beverages
   
110.23   Liquor applications; retail licensing standards; binding
recommendations
   
110.24   Liquor application; notice and hearing
   
110.25   Suspension or revocation of license
§ 110.01 DEFINITIONS.
   All words and phrases herein used are to have the definitions applied
thereto, as defined in the state’s Liquor Control Act.
(Prior Code, § 10-101)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 53-103
§ 110.02 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to manufacture for sale, sell, keep for
sale, or to barter any alcoholic liquors within the municipality unless said
person shall have in full force and effect a license as provided by the state’s
Liquor Control Act.
(Prior Code, § 10-102)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 53-102
§ 110.03 LOCATION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to own, maintain, manage, or
hold open to the public any establishment for the purpose of selling at retail
any alcoholic liquor within 150 feet of any church, school, hospital, or home
for aged or indigent persons or veterans, their wives or children; provided,
this prohibition shall not apply to any location within such distance when the
said establishment has been licensed by the state’s Liquor Control Commission
at least two years, and to hotels offering restaurant service, regularly
organized clubs, or to restaurants where the selling of alcoholic liquors is
not the principal business carried on, if the said hotel, club, or restaurant
were licensed and in operation prior to May 24, 1935. No alcoholic liquor,
other than beer, shall be sold for consumption on the premises within 300 feet
from the campus of any college within the municipality.
(Prior Code, § 10-103) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 53-177
§ 110.04 DWELLINGS.
   Except in the case of hotels and clubs, no alcoholic liquor shall be sold at
retail upon any premises which has any access which leads from such premises to
any other portion of the same building used for dwelling or lodging purposes,
and which is permitted to be used by the public. Nothing herein shall prevent
any connection with such premises, and such other portion of the building which
is used only by the licensee, his or her family, or personal guests.
(Prior Code, § 10-104)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 53-178
§ 110.05 LICENSE DISPLAYED.
   Every licensee under the state’s Liquor Control Act shall cause his or her
license to be framed and hung in plain public view in a conspicuous place on
the licensed premises.
(Prior Code, § 10-105)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 53-148
§ 110.06 LICENSEE REQUIREMENTS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to own an establishment that
sells at retail any alcoholic beverages unless said person is a resident of the
county in which the premises is located; a person of good character and
reputation; a citizen of the United States; a person who has never been
convicted of a felony or any Class I misdemeanor pursuant to Neb. RS Ch. 28,
Art. 3, 4, 7, 8, 10, 11, or 12, or any similar offense under a prior criminal
statute or in another state; a person who has never had a liquor license
revoked for cause; a person whose premises, for which a license is sought,
meets standards for fire safety as established by the State Fire Marshal; or a
person who has not acquired a beneficial interest in more than two alcoholic
beverage retail establishments since March 4, 1963; provided, the beneficial
interest requirement in this section shall not apply to a person applying for
an additional license for use in connection with the operation of a hotel
containing at least 25 sleeping rooms, or where the request is limited to on
premises sale of beer only in a restaurant.
(Prior Code, § 10-106) (Ord. 501, passed 12-19-1983) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 53-125
§ 110.07 LIQUOR APPLICATION; MUNICIPAL EXAMINATION.
   (A)   Any person or persons desiring to obtain a license to sell alcoholic
liquor at retail shall file an application with the Liquor Control Commission.
Upon receipt from the Commission of the notice and copy of the application as
provided in Neb. RS 53-131, the governing body shall fix a time and place at
which a hearing will be held, and at which time the governing body shall
receive evidence, under oath, either orally or in writing, from the applicant
and any other person concerning the propriety of the issuance of such license.
Such hearing shall be held not more than 45 days after the receipt of notice
from the Commission. The governing body may examine, or cause to be examined,
under oath, any applicant; examine, or cause to be examined, the books and
records of any such applicant; to hear testimony, and to take proof for its
information in the performance of its duties. For purposes of obtaining any of
the information desired, the governing body may authorize its agent, the City
Clerk or the Municipal Attorney, to act on its behalf.
   (B)   Notice of the time and place of such hearing shall be published in a
legal newspaper in, or of general circulation in, the municipality one time not
less than seven, nor more than 14, days before the time of the hearing. Such
notice shall include, but not be limited to, a statement that all persons
desiring to give evidence before the governing body in support of or in protest
against the issuance of such license may do so at the time of the hearing.
   (C)   The governing body shall, after the hearing provided in division (A)
above, approve or deny the application within 45 days of receipt of such
application from the Commission, and shall cause to be spread at large in the
minute record of its proceedings a resolution approving or denying such
application. The City Clerk shall thereupon mail or deliver to the Commission a
copy of the resolution within ten days of the decision to approve or deny the
application.
   (D)   Any resolution denying an application rendered by the governing body
shall be in writing or stated in the record and shall be accompanied by
findings. The findings shall consist of concise statements of the conclusions
upon each contested issue. The applicant shall be notified of the decision in
person or by mail.
(Prior Code, § 10-107) (Ord. 501, passed 12-19-1983; Ord. 524, passed 6-12-
1986; Ord. 549, passed 1-15-1990; Ord. 577, passed 10-19-1992)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 53-131, 53-132, 53-134
§ 110.08 LIQUOR LICENSE RENEWAL.
   Retail or bottle club licenses issued by the Commission and outstanding may
be automatically renewed in the absence of a request by the governing body to
require the said licensee to issue an application for renewal. Any licensed
retail or bottle club establishment located in an area which is annexed to the
municipality shall file a formal application for a license, and while such
application is pending, the licensee shall be authorized to continue all
license privileges pursuant to this chapter until the original license expires,
is canceled, or revoked. If such license expires within 60 days following the
annexation date of such area, the license may be renewed by order of the
Commission for not more than one year. The City Clerk, upon notice from the
Commission, between January 10 and January 30 of each year, shall cause to be
published in a legal newspaper in, or of general circulation in the
municipality, one time, a notice in the form prescribed by law of the right of
automatic renewal of each retail liquor and beer license within the
municipality; provided, Class C license renewal notices shall be published
between the dates of July 10 and July 30 of each year. The City Clerk shall
then file with the Commission proof of publication of said notice on or before
February 10 of each year or August 10 of each year for Class C licenses. Upon
the conclusion of any hearing required by this section, the governing body may
request a licensee to submit an application.
(Prior Code, § 10-108) (Ord. 501, passed 12-19-1983)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 53-135, 53-135.01
§ 110.09 MUNICIPAL POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The governing body is authorized to regulate, by ordinance not inconsistent
with the provisions of the state’s Liquor Control Act, the business of all
retail and bottle club licensees carried on within the corporate limits. The
governing body shall further have the power and duties in respect to licensed
retailers of alcoholic beverages to cancel or revoke for cause retail or bottle
club licenses to sell or dispense alcoholic liquors issued to persons for
premises within its jurisdiction subject to the right of appeal to the
Commission; to enter or to authorize any law enforcement officer to enter at
any time upon any premises licensed by the state to determine whether any of
the provisions of the municipal laws or the laws of the state are being
violated; to receive signed complaints from any citizens within its
jurisdiction that any of the municipal laws or laws of the state are being
violated, and to act upon such complaints in the manner herein provided; to
cancel or revoke on its own motion any license if, upon the same notice and
hearing, it determines that the licensee has violated any of the provisions of
the state’s Liquor Control Act or any valid and subsisting ordinance or
regulation duly enacted relating to alcoholic liquors; and to collect for the
benefit of the state and the municipality all license fees and occupation taxes
as prescribed by law.
(Prior Code, § 10-109) (Ord. 501, passed 12-19-1983)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 53-134
§ 110.10 OWNER OF PREMISES.
   The owner of any premises used for the sale at retail of alcoholic beverages
shall be deemed guilty of a violation of these laws to the same extent as the
said licensee if the owner shall knowingly permit the licensee to use the said
licensed premises in violation of any municipal code section or state statute.
(Prior Code, § 10-110)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 53-1,101
§ 110.11 EMPLOYER RESPONSIBILITIES.
   The employer of any officer, director, manager, or employees working in a
retail liquor establishment shall be held to be liable and guilty of any act or
omission or violation of any law or ordinance, if such act is committed or
omission made with the authorization, knowledge, or approval of the employer or
licensee, and each such act or omission shall be deemed and held to be the act
of the employer, and will be punishable in the same manner as if the said act
or omission had been committed by him or her personally.
(Prior Code, § 10-111)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 53-1,102
§ 110.12 COVERING WINDOWS UNLAWFUL.
   It shall be unlawful to use any screen, blind, curtain, partition, article,
or other device in the windows or upon the doors of any retail liquor
establishment, other than restaurants, hotels, and clubs, which will have the
effect of preventing a clear view into the interior of such licensed premises
from the street, road, or sidewalk at all times. All licensed premises shall be
continuously lighted during business hours by natural or artificial white
lights to ensure the clear visibility into said establishment. Any licensee who
willfully violates the provisions of this section shall be subject to a
revocation of his or her license by the municipality as provided herein.
(Prior Code, § 10-112) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 110.13 MINORS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to sell, or make a gift of,
any alcoholic liquors, or to procure any such alcoholic liquors for any minor,
or other person who is mentally, physically, or otherwise incompetent, whether
due to natural disabilities or the prior consumption of alcoholic beverages.
(Prior Code, § 10-113) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 53-180
§ 110.14 CREDIT SALES.
   No person shall sell or furnish alcoholic liquor at retail to any person or
persons for credit of any kind, barter, or services rendered; provided, nothing
herein contained shall be construed to prevent any bona fide club from
permitting checks or statements for alcoholic liquor to be signed by members,
or guests of members, and charged to the accounts of the said members or guests
in accordance with the bylaws of any such club; and provided further, nothing
herein shall be construed to prevent any hotel from permitting checks or
statements for liquor to be signed by regular guests residing in the said
hotel, and charged to the accounts of such guests.
(Prior Code, § 10-114) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 53-183
§ 110.15 SPIKING BEER.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons who own, manage, or lease any
premises in which the sale of alcoholic beverages is licensed, to serve or
offer for sale any beer to which there has been added any alcohol, or permit
any person or persons to add alcohol to any beer on the licensed premises of
such licensee.
(Prior Code, § 10-115) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 110.16 ORIGINAL PACKAGE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons who own, manage, or lease any
premises in which the sale of alcoholic beverages is licensed, to have in their
possession for sale at retail any alcoholic liquors contained in bottles,
casks, or other containers except in the original package.
(Prior Code, § 10-116) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 53-184
§ 110.17 MINOR’S PRESENCE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons who own, manage, or lease an
establishment selling alcoholic beverages at retail to allow any minor under
the age of 18 years to frequent or otherwise remain in the said establishment
unless the said minor is accompanied by his or her parent or legal guardian,
and unless said minor remains seated with, and under the immediate control of,
the said parent or legal guardian.
(Prior Code, § 10-117) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 53-134.03
§ 110.18 HOURS OF SALE.
   (A)   For the purposes of this section, ON SALE shall be defined as
alcoholic beverages sold at retail by the drink for consumption on the premises
of the licensed establishment. OFF SALE shall be defined as alcoholic beverages
sold at retail in the original container for consumption off the premises of
the licensed establishment.
   (B)   (1)   It shall be unlawful for any licensed person or persons or their
agents to sell any alcoholic beverages within the municipality except during
the hours provided herein.
Hours of Sale
Alcoholic liquor (except beer and wine)
Secular days
Off sale 6:00 a.m. to 1:00 a.m. - On sale 6:00 a.m. to 1:00 a.m.
Off sale 12:00 noon to 1:00 a.m. - On sale 12:00 noon to 1:00 a.m. Sundays
Beer and wine secular days
Off sale 6:00 a.m. to 1:00 a.m. - On sale 6:00 a.m. to 1:00 a.m.
Off sale 6:00 a.m. to 1:00 a.m. - On sale 12:00 noon to 1:00 a.m. Sundays
 
      (2)   Provided such limitations shall not apply after noon on Sunday to a
licensee which is a nonprofit corporation holding a license pursuant to Neb. RS
53-124.
   (C)   No person or persons shall consume any alcoholic beverages on licensed
premises for a period of time longer than 15 minutes after the time fixed
herein for stopping the sale of alcoholic beverages on the said premises.
   (D)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to prohibit licensed
premises from being open for business on days and hours during which the sale
or dispensing of alcoholic beverages is prohibited by this section.
(Prior Code, § 10-118) (Ord. 438, passed 7-30-1976; Ord. 440, passed 11-15-
1976; Ord. 506, passed 6-18-1984; Ord. 526, passed 6-16-1986; Ord. 548, passed
12-18-1989; Ord. 568, passed 10-21-1991) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 53-179
§ 110.19 SANITARY CONDITIONS.
   It shall be unlawful to open for public use any retail liquor establishment
that is not in a clean and sanitary condition. Toilet facilities shall be
adequate and convenient for customers and patrons and said licensed premises
shall be subject to any health inspections the governing body or the municipal
police may make, or cause to be made. All applications for liquor licenses
shall be viewed in part from the standpoint of the sanitary conditions, and a
report concerning the said sanitary conditions shall be made at all hearings
concerning the application for, or renewal of, a liquor license.
(Prior Code, § 10-119) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 53-118
§ 110.20 HIRING MINORS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to hire a minor regardless of sex under
the age of 19 years to serve or dispense alcoholic liquors, including beer, to
said licensee’s customers.
(Prior Code, § 10-120) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 53-102
§ 110.21 CONSUMPTION IN PUBLIC PLACES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to consume alcoholic beverages within
the corporate limits upon the public ways and property, including inside
vehicles while upon the public ways and property. It shall further be unlawful
for any person to consume alcoholic beverages within any other public business
that is not a licensed liquor establishment.
(Prior Code, § 10-121) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 53-186, 53-186.01
§ 110.22 ACQUISITION OF ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to have possession of any alcoholic
liquors which shall have been acquired otherwise than from a licensee duly
licensed to sell same to such person under the provisions of the state’s Liquor
Control Act; providing, nothing herein shall prevent the possession of
alcoholic liquor for the personal use of the possessor, his or her family and
guests, nor prevent the making of wine, cider, or other alcoholic liquor by a
person from fruits, vegetables, or grains, or the product thereof, by simple
fermentation and without distillation, if it is made solely for the use of the
maker, his or her family, and his or her guests; provided further, that nothing
herein shall prevent any duly licensed practicing physician or dentist from
possessing or using alcoholic liquor in the strict practice of his or her
profession, or any hospital or institution caring for the sick and diseased
persons, from possessing any alcoholic liquor for the treatment of bona fide
patients of such hospital or other institution; provided further, that any drug
store employing a licensed pharmacist may possess and use alcoholic liquors in
the compounding of prescriptions of duly licensed physicians; and provided
further, that the possession and dispensation of wine by an authorized
representative of any church for the purpose of conducting any bona fide rite
or religious ceremony conducted by such church shall not be prohibited by this
section.
(Prior Code, § 10-122) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 53-102, 53-164.01, 53-175
§ 110.23 LIQUOR APPLICATIONS; RETAIL LICENSING STANDARDS; BINDING
RECOMMENDATIONS.
   (A)   Local governing bodies shall only have authority to approve
applications and deny licenses pursuant to the state’s Liquor Control Act.
   (B)   The governing body shall only consider the following licensing
standards and criteria at the hearing and an evaluation of any applicant for a
retail alcoholic liquor license, for the upgrading of a license to sell
alcoholic liquor, or for the expansion or change in location of the premises,
and for the purpose of formulating a recommendation from the governing body to
the state’s Liquor Control Commission in accordance with the state’s Liquor
Control Act:
      (1)   The adequacy of existing law enforcement resources and services in
the area;
      (2)   The recommendation of the Police Department or any other law
enforcement agency;
      (3)   Existing motor vehicle and pedestrian traffic flow in the vicinity
of the proposed licensed premises, potential traffic and parking problems, and
the proximity and availability of on-street and off- street parking;
      (4)   Zoning restrictions and the local governing body’s zoning and land
use policies;
      (5)   Sanitation or sanitary conditions on or about the proposed licensed
premises;
      (6)   The existence of a citizen’s protest and similar evidence in
support of or in opposition to the application;
      (7)   The existing population and projected growth within the
jurisdiction of the local governing body and within the area to be served;
      (8)   The existing liquor licenses, the class of each such license, and
the distance and times of travel between establishments that issued such
licenses;
      (9)   Whether the proposed license would be compatible with the
neighborhood or community where the proposed premises are located;
      (10)   Whether the type of business or activity proposed to be operated
or presently operated in conjunction with the proposed license is and will be
consistent with the public interest as declared in Neb. RS 53-101.01;
      (11)   Whether the applicant is fit, willing, and able to properly
provide the service proposed in conformance with all provisions and
requirements of an rules and regulations adopted and promulgated pursuant to
the Act;
      (12)   Whether the applicant can ensure that all alcoholic beverages,
including beer and wine, will be handled by persons in accordance with Neb. RS
53-102;
      (13)    Whether the applicant is fit, willing, and able to properly
provide the service proposed in conformance with all provisions and
requirements, of and rules and regulations adopted and promulgated pursuant to,
the Act;
      (14)   Whether the applicant has demonstrated that the type of management
and control exercised over the licensed premises will be sufficient to ensure
that the licensee can conform to all the provisions and requirements of and
rules and regulations adopted and promulgated pursuant to the act;
      (15)   The background information of the applicant established by
information contained in the public records of the Commission and
investigations conducted by law enforcement agencies;
      (16)   Past evidence of discrimination involving the applicant as
evidenced by findings of fact before any administrative board or agency of the
local governing body, any other governmental board or agency of the local
governing body, any other governmental unit, or any court of law;
      (17)   Whether the applicant or the applicant’s representatives
suppressed any fact or provided any inaccurate information to the Commission or
local governing body or the employees of the Commission in regard to the
license application or liquor investigations. The applicant shall be required
to cooperate in providing a full disclosure to the investigating agents of the
local governing body;
      (18)   Proximity of and impact on schools, hospitals, libraries, parks,
and public institutions;
      (19)   Whether activities proposed to be conducted on the licensed
premises or in adjacent related outdoor areas will create unreasonable noise or
disturbance; and
      (20)   Compliance with state laws, liquor rules and regulations, and
municipal ordinances and regulations, and whether or not the applicant has ever
forfeited bond to appear in court to answer charges of having committed a
felony or charges of having violated any law or ordinance enacted in the
interest of good morals and decency or has been convicted of violating or has
forfeited bond to appear in court and answer charges for violating any law or
ordinance relating to alcoholic liquor.
   (C)   It shall be the applicant’s duty to produce evidence pertaining to the
designated criteria prescribed in this section. The burden of proof and
persuasion shall be on the party filing the application. When applicable for
purposes of this section, APPLICANT shall be synonymous with LICENSEE.
(Prior Code, § 10-123) (Ord. 523, passed 6-12-1986; Ord. 550, passed 1-15-1990)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 53-134
§ 110.24 LIQUOR APPLICATION; NOTICE AND HEARING.
   (A)   Notice. Notice of a hearing held pursuant to Neb. RS 53-134 shall be
given to the applicant by the City Clerk and shall contain the date, time, and
location of the hearing. Two or more proceedings which are legally or factually
related may be heard and considered together unless any party thereto makes a
showing sufficient to satisfy the governing body that prejudice would result
therefrom.
   (B)   Hearing.
      (1)   Hearings will be informal and conducted by the Municipal Attorney.
The intent is an inquiry into the facts, not an adversarial action. Each
witness may present their testimony in narrative fashion or by question and
answer.
      (2)   The governing body may admit and give probative effect to evidence
which possesses probative value commonly accepted by reasonably prudent
individuals. The Municipal Attorney may limit testimony where it appears
incompetent, irrelevant, or unduly repetitious. If there is opposition to any
application and such opposition desires the opportunity to present arguments
and to cross-examine the applicant and any witnesses in favor of such
application, they shall choose a spokesperson to perform such function who
shall notify the Municipal Attorney of his or her representation prior to the
start of the hearing.
      (3)   The order of the proceeding is as follows.
         (a)   Exhibits will be marked in advance by the Clerk and presented to
the Municipal Attorney during the presentation;
         (b)   Presentation of evidence, witnesses, and arguments by applicant;
         (c)   Testimony of any other citizens in favor of such proposed
license;
         (d)   Examination of applicant, witnesses, or citizens by Municipal
Attorney, governing body, or duly appointed agent;
         (e)   Cross-examination of applicant, witnesses, or citizens by
spokesperson for opposition, if any;
         (f)   Presentation of evidence and witnesses by opposition;
         (g)   Testimony of any other citizens in opposition to such proposed
license;
         (h)   Presentation of evidence by municipality and law enforcement
personnel;
(i)   Cross-examination by applicant;
         (j)   Rebuttal evidence by both parties, and by municipality
administration and agent;
         (k)   Summation by applicant and opposition spokesperson, if any.
            1.   In all cases, the burden of proof and persuasion shall be on
the party filing the application.
            2.   Any member of the governing body and the Municipal Attorney
may question any witness, call witnesses, or request information.
            3.   All witnesses shall be sworn.
            4.   The governing body may make further inquiry and investigation
following the hearing.
            5.   The governing body or the applicant may order the hearing to
be recorded by the Clerk, at the expense of the applicants.
(Prior Code, § 10-124) (Ord. 521, passed 5-12-1986; Ord. 551, passed 1-15-1990)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 53-134
§ 110.25 SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION OF LICENSE.
   (A)   A retail license to sell alcoholic beverages may be either revoked or
suspended by the City Council whenever it shall find, after notice and hearing
as provided by law, that the holder of such license has violated any of the
provisions of the state’s Liquor Control Act, or of this section, or rule or
regulation of the state’s Liquor Control Commission, or for any one or more of
the following causes:
      (1)   The licensee, his or her manager or agent in charge of the premises
licensed, has been convicted of or has pled guilty to a felony under the laws
of the state, or of any other state of the United States;
      (2)   The licensee, his or her manager or agent in charge of the premises
licensed, has been convicted or has pled guilty to being the proprietor,
manager, or agent in charge of a gambling house, or of pandering or other crime
or misdemeanor opposed to decency and morality;
      (3)   The licensee, his or her manager or agent in charge of the premises
licensed, has been convicted of or pled guilty to violation of any federal or
state law concerning the manufacture, possession, or sale of alcoholic
beverages;
      (4)   The licensee either swore falsely to any question in his or her
application for said license, or has failed to comply with the statements and
representation made by the answer to any question or questions in said
applications; or has failed to perform in accordance with any other statement
or representation to keep any promise, oral or written, made to the City
Council, in connection with such licensee’s request for said license;
      (5)   The licensee, his or her manager or agent in charge of the premises
licensed, shall have forfeited bond to appear in court to answer charges for
any one of the violations of referred to in this section; or
      (6)   It shall be cause for revocation or suspension as herein provided
if the licensee, his or her manager or agent, shall allow any live person to
appear in any licensed premises in a state of nudity, to provide entertainment,
to provide service, to act as hostess, manager, or owner, or to serve as an
employee in any capacity.
   (B)   For the purpose of this section, the term NUDITY shall mean the
showing of the human male or female genitals, pubic area or buttocks, or the
human female breast including the nipple or any portion below the nipple with
less than a full opaque covering.
(Prior Code, § 10-125) (Ord. 595, passed 10-17-1994)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 28-807, 53-116.02
CHAPTER 111: PEDDLERS AND SOLICITORS
Section
   
111.01   General regulations
   
111.02   Hours of solicitation
   
111.03   Exceptions
   
111.04   Fees
   
111.05   Registration expiration
§ 111.01 GENERAL REGULATIONS.
   Peddlers and hawkers shall include persons and companies having no personal
residence or business location in the county, who sell goods and services
without a regular weekly schedule or route or without a previous appointment
with the customer. To prevent the sale of fraudulent, dangerous, and
unhealthful goods and services, and to protect the public by maintaining
records of the products sold and the persons and companies responsible for such
sales, all peddlers and hawkers shall, before doing business within the
municipality, register with the City Clerk and shall provide, as requested by
the City Clerk, all the necessary information and documents required for the
protection of the residents of the municipality. Any person or persons so
registered shall be subject to any fees, occupation taxes, and other rules and
regulations which the governing body deems appropriate for the purposes stated
herein. Any permit so granted shall be subject to revocation for good and
sufficient cause by the municipal police or governing body.
(Prior Code, § 10-201) (Ord. 569, passed 11-8-1991; Ord. 591, passed 6-20-1994)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-134, 17-525
§ 111.02 HOURS OF SOLICITATION.
   It shall be unlawful for any solicitor, salesperson, or peddler to solicit
any individual between the hours of 6:00 p.m. and 8:00 a.m., unless they have a
previous appointment with the resident or residents of the premises solicited.
(Prior Code, § 10-202) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-134
§ 111.03 EXCEPTIONS.
   Nothing herein shall be construed to apply to any person, or persons,
selling produce raised within the county, or to wholesale sales persons
soliciting merchants directly.
(Prior Code, § 10-203)
§ 111.04 FEES.
   The applicant shall pay a registration fee of $10 to cover the cost of
processing the application and registering the applicant.
(Prior Code, § 10-204) (Ord. 569, passed 11-8-1991; Ord. 571, passed 5-19-1992;
Ord. 591, passed 6-20-1994)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-525
§ 111.05 REGISTRATION EXPIRATION.
   All registrations allowed shall expire two days after the date of issuance
thereof unless a prior date is fixed therein.
(Prior Code, § 10-205) (Ord. 569, passed 11-8-1991; Ord. 571, passed 5-19-1992;
Ord. 591, passed 6-20-1994)
CHAPTER 112: MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS
Section
Railroad Companies
   
112.01   Safe crossing
   
112.02   Lighting
   
112.03   Obstructing traffic
Fireworks
   
112.15   Definition
   
112.16   Permitted fireworks
   
112.17   Sale of fireworks
Telecommunication Franchises
   
112.30   Short title
   
112.31   Definitions
   
112.32   Grant of authority
   
112.33   Subject to ordinances and Council
   
112.34   Indemnification
   
112.35   Construction privileges and requirements
   
112.36   Manner of acceptance of franchise
Amusements
   
112.50   Lottery; sales outlet locations; approval required; qualification
standards
   
112.51   Participation and restriction on lottery
 
   
112.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   City organization, see
Ch. 30
   Fire prevention, see
Ch. 92
   Nuisances, see
Ch. 91
RAILROAD COMPANIES
§ 112.01 SAFE CROSSING.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of every railroad company doing business in, or
traveling through, the municipality to keep in a suitable and safe condition
the crossings and right-of-way in the municipality.
   (B)   If any such crossing shall at any time fall into disrepair and become
unsafe or inconvenient for public travel, the governing body may, by
resolution, call upon the said company to make whatever repairs that it may
deem necessary to correct the dangerous condition.
   (C)   Notice of the said resolution shall be served upon the local agent of
the said company.
   (D)   In the event that the railroad shall fail or neglect to repair and
correct the said condition as aforesaid within 48 hours, neglect for each 24
hours thereafter shall be deemed and is hereby made a separate and distinct
offense against the provisions herein.
(Prior Code, § 10-301)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-143
§ 112.02 LIGHTING.
   It shall be the duty of all railroad companies owning, operating, and
maintaining a railroad through the municipality to sufficiently light all
crossings and to install as many signal systems as the governing body shall
deem necessary at the expense of the said company.
(Prior Code, § 10-302)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-561
§ 112.03 OBSTRUCTING TRAFFIC.
   It shall be unlawful for any railroad company, its employees, agents, or
servants operating a railroad through the municipality, to obstruct traffic on
any public street, except in the event of an emergency, for a longer period at
one time than five minutes.
(Prior Code, § 10-303) Penalty, see §
112.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-552
FIREWORKS
§ 112.15 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   FIREWORKS. Any composition or device designed for the purpose of producing a
visible or audible effect by combustion, deflagration, or detonation and which
meets the definition of common or special fireworks set forth by the United
States Department of Transportation in Title 49, Code of Federal Regulations.
(Prior Code, § 10-401) (Ord. 627, passed 9-15-1997; Ord. 674, passed 1-17-2000)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 28-1241
§ 112.16 PERMITTED FIREWORKS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to, within the city, possess,
sell, offer for sale, hold for sale, bring into the city, use or discharge
fireworks, except for the following:
      (1)   Consumer fireworks, as defined by Neb. RS 28-1241, as amended;
      (2)   Any display fireworks, purchased by a person licensed to purchase
such fireworks, and purchased from a licensed distributor;
      (3)   Any display fireworks purchased by the holder of a display permit
issued pursuant to Neb. RS 28-1239.01;
      (4)   Any fireworks brought into this state for storage by a licensed
distributor and held for sale outside of this state;
      (5)   Any fireworks furnished for agricultural purposes pursuant to
written authorization from the state fire marshal to any holder of a
distributor’s license; or
      (6)   Toy cap pistols or toy caps, each of which does not contain more
than twenty-five hundredths of a grain of explosive material.
   (B)   Definitions.
      (1)   The term FIREWORKS shall mean any composition or device designed
for the purpose of producing a visible or audible effect by combustion,
deflagration, or detonation and which meets the definition of consumer or
special fireworks set forth by the United States Department of Transportation
in Title 49 of the Code of Federal Regulations.
      (2)   The term FLYING LANTERNS shall mean any device that requires a
flame which produces heated air trapped in a balloon-type covering allowing the
device to float in the air. FLYING LANTERNS shall not include hot-air balloons
used for transporting persons.
   (C)   The use or discharge of consumer fireworks under division (A)(1) of
this section shall be subject to the following rules:
      (1)   The possession, use or discharge of consumer fireworks shall comply
with the laws of the State of Nebraska.
      (2)   Notwithstanding other rules, consumer fireworks may be used or
discharged only on June 24 through July 4.
      (3)   Consumer fireworks may only be possessed, used or discharged by a
person 16 years of age or older; provided, that a person 12 years of age or
older and less than 16 years of age may possess, use or discharge consumer
fireworks, but only when in the immediate presence of and under the direct
supervision of an adult 19 years of age or older.
   (D)   The possession, use, or discharge of fireworks as allowed under this
section shall be lawful, notwithstanding any general prohibition of such
activities in the city’s master plan.
   (E)   Notwithstanding any other language in this section, the possession,
use, discharge, retail sale, offer for retail sale, or explosion of flying
lanterns is prohibited.
   (F)   The sale of fireworks shall be regulated by §
112.17 of this subchapter.
   (G)   Any person convicted of a violation of this section shall be punished
under this section as follows:
      (a)   First offense: A fine of $300.
      (b)   Second offense: A fine of $400.
      (c)   Third and subsequent offenses: A fine of $500 for each separate
conviction.
(Prior Code, § 10-402) (Ord. 627, passed 9-15-1997; Ord. 674, passed 1-17-2000)
Penalty, see § 112.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-556, 28-1241, 28-1244, 28-1245
§ 112.17 SALE OF FIREWORKS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to sell, hold for sale, or offer for
sale as a distributor, jobber, or retailer any fireworks without first
obtaining a license from the State Fire Marshal. Licensees shall only sell
fireworks which have been approved by the State Fire Marshal, and permissible
fireworks may be sold at retail only between June 24 and July 5 of each year;
provided, that fireworks of any description are permissible for purposes of
public exhibitions or displays as authorized by the governing body; and further
provided that said vendor shall secure a license prior to such sales.
Application shall be filed with the City Clerk upon forms supplied by the
municipality and requesting such information and documents as the governing
body may deem necessary as to whether or not to grant said license. Upon the
determination to grant the license, the governing body shall direct the City
Clerk to collect the appropriate fee and issue said license. Any license so
issued may be revoked at any time by the governing body upon proper notice and
hearing, if one is requested by the licensee.
(Prior Code, § 10-403) ( Ord 673, passed 11-15-1999; Ord. 674, passed 1-17-
2000) Penalty, see §
112.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-137, 28-1246 through 28-1250
TELECOMMUNICATION FRANCHISES
§ 112.30 SHORT TITLE.
   This subchapter shall be known and may be cited as “the Telecommunications
Franchise Ordinance”.
(Prior Code, § 10-601) (Ord. 452, passed 5-7-1981) (Ord. 675, passed 2-21-2000;
Ord. 682, passed 11-20-2000)
§ 112.31 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter the following terms, phrases, words, and
their derivation shall have the meaning given herein. If consistent with the
context, words used in the present tense shall include the future, words in the
plural shall include the singular number, words in the singular number shall
include the plural, words used denoting the masculine shall also denote the
feminine, and words used denoting the feminine shall also denote the masculine.
The word “shall” shall always be mandatory and not merely directory.
   CITY. The political subdivision of the State of Nebraska commonly known as
Benkelman, Dundy County, Nebraska, a municipal corporation.
   COMPANY. The Benkelman Telephone Company, Inc., a Nebraska corporation, duly
incorporated and doing business in the State of Nebraska.
   COUNCIL. The municipal governing body of Benkelman, Dundy County, Nebraska
and as such body being the legislative body of Benkelman, Dundy County,
Nebraska.
   PERSON. Any person, firm, partnership, association, corporation, company,
entity, or organization of any kind.
   TELECOMMUNICATIONS. The transmission, between or among points specified by
the user, of information of the user’s choosing, without change in the form or
content of the information as sent and received.
   TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICE. The offering of telecommunications for a fee
directly to the public, or to such classes of users as to be effectively
available directly to the public, regardless of the facilities used.
(Prior Code, § 10-602) (Ord. 675, passed 2-21-2000; Ord. 682, passed 11-20-
2000)
§ 112.32 GRANT OF AUTHORITY.
   There is hereby granted to the company, its successors and assigns, for a
period of 25 years from the date of acceptance of this subchapter, as
hereinafter provided, the right and authority to offer telecommunications
service and establish, construct, operate, and maintain a telecommunications
system or to provide similar facilities or properties rented or leased from
other persons, firms, or corporations, including, but not limited to, any
public utility, the city, or other person, group, or entity permitted to do
business in the city, within the corporate limits of the city upon the terms
and conditions contained herein; and such company is further granted the right
and authority with this grant of power to construct, erect, operate, enlarge,
extend, repair, and maintain in, upon, along, across, above, over, and under
the streets, alleys, and public ways now laid out or dedicated, and all
extensions and additions thereto within the corporate limits of the city, all
poles, wires, cables, underground conduits, conductors, fixtures, and other
equipment necessary for the establishment, operation, and maintenance of a
telecommunications system or offering of telecommunications services. The
authority and franchise granted by the city to the company herein shall be
without fee or assessment against the company and the city hereby agrees that
during the term of this franchise the city shall not assess or otherwise charge
the company a franchise fee, tax, or other assessment for the construction or
operation of a telecommunications system, offering of telecommunications
service, or other authority granted herein.
(Prior Code, § 10-603) (Ord. 675, passed 2-21-2000; Ord. 682, passed 11-20-
2000)
§ 112.33 SUBJECT TO ORDINANCES AND COUNCIL.
   In the establishment, construction, maintenance, repair, and operation of
the company’s telecommunications system and offering of telecommunications
service, and in the use of the streets, alleys, and public ways in the city,
the company shall comply with all applicable ordinances, rules, and regulations
of the city.
(Prior Code, § 10-604) (Ord. 675, passed 2-21-2000; Ord. 682, passed 11-20-
2000)
§ 112.34 INDEMNIFICATION.
   The company shall defend the city as well as indemnify and save the city
harmless from any and all losses, costs, and expenses sustained by the city on
account of any suit, judgment, execution, claim, or demand whatsoever,
resulting from negligence on the part of the company in the establishment,
construction, operation, and/or maintenance of a telecommunications system or
offering tele- communications service. The city shall notify the company’s
representative in writing within 15 days after the presentment of any claim or
demand, either by suit or otherwise, made against the city on account of any
negligence as aforesaid on the company.
(Prior Code, § 10-605) (Ord. 675, passed 2-21-2000; Ord. 682, passed 11-20-
2000)
§ 112.35 CONSTRUCTION PRIVILEGES AND REQUIREMENTS.
   All structures, lines, cable, and equipment erected by the company within
the city shall be so located as to cause minimal interference with the rights
of the property owners. Existing poles, posts, conduits and other structures of
any electric power system, cable company, or other public utility located in
the city shall be made available to the company for leasing, licensing, or use
upon reasonable terms and rates.
(Prior Code, § 10-606) (Ord. 675, passed 2-21-2000; Ord. 682, passed 11-20-
2000)
§ 112.36 MANNER OF ACCEPTANCE OF FRANCHISE.
   The company shall file its written acceptance of the provisions of this
subchapter with the City Clerk of the city on or before the expiration of 30
days after publication of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 10-607) (Ord. 675, passed 2-21-2000; Ord. 682, passed 11-20-
2000)
AMUSEMENTS
§ 112.50 LOTTERY; SALES OUTLET LOCATIONS; APPROVAL REQUIRED; QUALIFICATION
STANDARDS.
   (A)   The lottery operator whom the governing body contracts to conduct its
lottery shall not operate the lottery at a sales outlet location other than the
location of the lottery operator without prior approval of the sales outlet
location by the governing body. The governing body shall approve or disapprove
each sales outlet location and individual, sole proprietorship, partnership, or
corporation which desires to conduct the lottery at its sales outlet location
solely on the basis of the qualification standards prescribed in division (B)
below.
   (B)   Any individual, sole proprietorship, partnership, or corporation which
seeks to have its location approved as an authorized sales outlet location
shall:
      (1)   First obtain a retail liquor license for consumption on the
premises pursuant to Neb. RS Ch. 53, Art. 1;
      (2)   Not have been convicted of, forfeited bond upon a charge of, or
pleaded guilty to forgery, larceny, extortion, conspiracy to defraud, willful
failure to make required payments or reports to a governmental agency at any
level, filing false reports with any such agency, or any similar offense or
offenses or any crime, whether felony or misdemeanor, involving gambling
activity or moral turpitude;
      (3)   Not have had a gaming license revoked or canceled under the state’s
Bingo Act being Neb. RS 9-201 through 9-266, the state’s Pickle Card Lottery
Act being Neb. RS 9-301 through 9-356, the state’s Lottery and Raffle Act being
Neb. RS 9-401 through 9-437, or the state’s County and City Lottery Act being
Neb. RS 9-601 through 9-653; and
      (4)   Be fit, willing, and able to properly provide the service proposed
in conformance with all provisions and requirements of the state’s County and
City Lottery Act, being Neb. RS 9-601 through 9-653 and the rules and
regulations adopted and promulgated pursuant to the Act.
   (C)   If the person seeking to have its location approved as an authorized
sales outlet location is a partnership or corporation, the qualification
standards shall apply to every partner of such partnership, every officer of
such corporation, and stockholder owning more than 10% of the stock of such
corporation.
   (D)   The governing body shall notify the Department of Revenue of all
approved lottery locations within 30 days of approval.
(Prior Code, § 10-701) (Ord. 580, passed 7-19-1993)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 9-642.01
§ 112.51 PARTICIPATION AND RESTRICTION ON LOTTERY.
   (A)   No person under 19 years of age shall play or participate in any way
in the lottery established and conducted by the governing body.
   (B)   No owner of officer of a lottery operator with whom the governing body
contracts to conduct its lottery, or his or her immediate family, employees, or
agents, shall play in a lottery established and conducted by the governing
body.
   (C)   No person having an ownership interest in an authorized sales outlet
or employee thereof, shall play the lottery when actually working at such
lottery or while on duty. Keno writers shall be prohibited from playing one
hour prior to and one hour after writing keno.
   (D)   No employee or agent, or member of his or her immediate family, of the
city or of an authorized sales outlet location for a lottery established and
conducted by the governing body, shall play such lottery during the time he or
she performs work for such lottery or while on duty.
   (E)   (1)   Nothing shall prohibit any member of the governing body, a
municipal official, or the immediate family of such member or official, from
playing in the lottery established and conducted by the governing body;
provided that such person is 19 years of age or older.
      (2)   For the purpose of this section, IMMEDIATE FAMILY shall mean a
person who is related to the member, official, or operator by blood, marriage,
or adoption and resides in the same household of the member, official, or
operator; member, official, or operator as a dependant for federal income tax
purposes.
(Prior Code, § 10-702) (Ord. 581, passed 7-19-1993; Ord. 752, passed 12-17-
2007)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 9-646
§ 112.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who shall violate or refuse to comply with the enforcement of any
of the provisions of this chapter, set forth at full length herein or
incorporated by reference, shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon
conviction thereof, shall be fined not more than $100 for each offense. A new
violation shall be deemed to have been committed every 24 hours of such failure
to comply.
(Prior Code, § 10-801)
CHAPTER 113: OCCUPATION TAXES
Section
   
113.01   Amounts
   
113.02   Fire insurance companies
   
113.03   Collection date
   
113.04   Certificates
   
113.05   Failure to pay
§ 113.01 AMOUNTS.
   (A)   For the purpose of raising revenue an occupation tax is hereby levied
on the following businesses in the following amounts.
   (B)   Alcoholic beverages: the occupation tax for all retail liquor
establishments shall be equal to the license fee established by the state for
each classification of retail liquor license.
 
Billiard and pool halls, per table: $10
First table                         $5
Additional tables, per table
Bowling lanes, per lane:            $10
First lane                          $5
Additional lanes, per lane
Fire insurance companies            $5
 
(Prior Code, § 10-501) (Ord. 740, passed 11-15-2004)
§ 113.02 FIRE INSURANCE COMPANIES.
For the use, support, and maintenance of the Municipal Fire Department, all
revenue realized from the occupation tax on fire insurance companies shall be
appropriated to the Fire Department Fund.
(Prior Code, § 10-502)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 35-106
§ 113.03 COLLECTION DATE.
   All occupation taxes shall be due and payable on May 1 of each year, except
in the event that the said tax is levied daily, and upon the payment thereof by
any person or persons to the City Clerk, the said Clerk shall give a receipt,
properly dated, and specifying the person paying the said tax, and the amount
paid. The revenue collected shall then be immediately deposited into the
General Fund by the Municipal Treasurer. The Municipal Treasurer shall keep an
accurate account of all revenue turned over to him or her. All forms and
receipts herein mentioned shall be issued in duplicate. One copy shall then be
kept by each party in the transaction.
(Prior Code, § 10-503)
§ 113.04 CERTIFICATES.
   The receipt issued after the payment of any occupation tax shall be the
occupation tax certificate. The said certificate shall specify the amount of
the tax and the name of the person and business that paid the said tax. The
occupation tax certificate shall then be displayed in a prominent place, or
carried in such a way as to be easily accessible, while business is being
conducted.
(Prior Code, § 10-504)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-525
§ 113.05 FAILURE TO PAY.
   If any person, company, or corporation fails or neglects to pay the
occupation taxes as provided herein on the day it becomes due and payable, the
municipality shall then proceed by civil suit to collect the amount due. All
delinquent taxes shall bear interest at the rate of 1% per month until paid.
(Prior Code, § 10-505)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-525
CHAPTER 114: MOBILE FOOD TRUCKS
Section
   
114.01   Permit required
   
114.02   Application
   
114.03   Denial of permit
   
114.04   Permits nontransferable
   
114.05   Application fee
   
114.06   Liability
   
114.07   Waste plan
   
114.08   Revocation
   
114.09   Appeal
   
114.99   Penalty
§ 114.01 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to sell or offer for sale or peddle
food, goods, etc. from a mobile food truck, mobile food vending unit, mobile
sale of goods, etc. upon any property within the city limits of the city,
including, but not limited to, streets, sidewalks, parking lots, parks, and
private property without first having obtained a permit from the city in
accordance with this chapter.
(Ord. 2024-845, passed 3-18-2024) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.02 APPLICATION.
   Persons may apply for a permit to operate a mobile food truck, mobile food
vending unit, mobile sale of goods, etc. by filing with the City Clerk a signed
application on a form to be furnished by the city, which shall contain the
following information:
   (A)   The applicant's business name, address and phone number;
   (B)   If the applicant is a corporation, partnership, or other entity, the
names of all officers and managers of such entity;
   (C)   The vehicle license plate numbers and descriptions of all vehicles
from which the applicant proposes to sell;
   (D)   The description of the general goods and/or food items to be sold;
   (E)   The requested term of the permit (i.e., a single event or a recurring
license to operate);
   (F)   Documentation from the State of Nebraska showing any and all licenses
and permits required for applicant's sale of goods or food;
   (G)   A copy of the State of Nebraska sales tax permit, or proof of an
applicable sales tax exemption for the applicant;
   (H)   The address of the location the applicant anticipates selling from,
including written permission from any private landowner, as well as adjoining
private landowners (if applicable);
   (I)   A copy of the vehicle registration and proof of insurance;
   (J)   Proof of insurance with a minimum coverage of $1,000,000, together
with an insurance certificate listing the city as an additional insured unless
the application is for a peddler;
   (K)   A signed waiver of liability set forth in §
114.06;
   (L)   A non-refundable application fee;
   (M)   A plan for disposal of grease, water and other waste; and
   (N)   Such other information as the city may require and as requested in the
application form.
(Ord. 2024-845, passed 3-18-2024)
§ 114.03 DENIAL OF PERMIT.
   (A)   Upon receipt of a complete application submitted in accordance with §
114.02, the Mayor and/or City Council and/or the City Clerk shall either
approve or deny the permit. Grounds for denial may include, but are not limited
to, the following:
      (1)   A finding that the application is incomplete;
      (2)   Nonpayment of applicable fees;
      (3)   A finding that the application is not in conformity with any
applicable laws, including, but not limited to, this chapter;
      (4)   A finding that the proposed location of the applicant are
materially untrue or incorrect;
      (5)   Previous revocations or suspensions of permits issued under this
chapter or similar ordinances of other municipalities;
      (6)   Insufficient or unacceptable plans for the disposal of grease,
water, or other waste; or
      (7)   The issuance of the permit is not in the best interest of the city.
   (B)   The Mayor, City Council and the City Clerk also may modify any
provision of the permit, including, but not limited to, reducing the term of
the permit.
(Ord. 2024-845, passed 3-18-2024)
§ 114.04 PERMITS NONTRANSFERABLE.
   Permits issued under this chapter are nontransferable and no such permit
shall be used at any time by an person other than the one to whom it was
issued.
(Ord. 2024-845, passed 3-18-2024) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.05 APPLICATION FEE.
   The fee for applications submitted under this chapter shall be $25.
(Ord. 2024-845, passed 3-18-2024)
§ 114.06 LIABILITY.
   Before a permit under this chapter is granted, the applicant shall sign a
waiver of liability holding harmless the city and indemnifying the city, its
officials, and employees, for any claims for damages to property or injury to
persons, which may occur in connection with mobile food vending, mobile sale of
goods, etc.
(Ord. 2024-845, passed 3-18-2024) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.07 WASTE PLAN.
   Permit holders shall conduct their activities in strict conformity with this
permit, including, but not limited to, adhering to their plan for disposal of
grease, water, and other waste.
(Ord. 2024-845, passed 3-18-2024) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.08 REVOCATION.
   A permit issued under this chapter may be revoked or suspended by the city
for any of the following reasons:
   (A)   Any fraud, misrepresentation, or false statement contained in the
application for the permit;
   (B)   Any fraud, misrepresentation, or false statement made in connection
with the selling of food;
   (C)   Operating in contravention of the parameters of the permit;
   (D)    Any unlawful activity of the permit holder, including any violation
of this chapter; or
   (E)   Operating in such a manner as to constitute a breach of the peace or a
menace to the health, safety, or general welfare of this public.
(Ord. 2024-845, passed 3-18-2024)
§ 114.09 APPEALS.
   When the city revokes or suspends a permit or a permit application is
denied, the city shall mail a notice of such revocation, suspension, or denial
to the address of the permit holder or applicant, as set forth on the
application form. Such permit holder or applicant may file an appeal with the
City Clerk. The request for an appeal shall be in writing to the City Clerk.
Such request for an appeal must be received within 30 days of the date the City
Clerk mailed notice of the revocation, suspension, or denial. If no timely
request for an appeal is made, the initial decision shall be final. If a timely
request for appeal is received, the appeal shall be heard by the Mayor and the
City Council at a regularly scheduled meeting with notice mailed to the permit
holder or applicant at least 14 days prior to the meeting.
(Ord. 2024-845, passed 3-18-2024)
§ 114.99 PENALTY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to violate the provisions of this
chapter. Any person found guilty of violating any of the provisions of this
chapter shall, upon conviction, be fined a sum of not less than $250 nor more
than $500. Each day that a violation of any of the provisions of this chapter
continues shall constitute a distinct offense and shall be punishable as such.
(Ord. 2024-845, passed 3-18-2024)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   MISDEMEANORS
CHAPTER 130: MISDEMEANORS
Section
   
130.01   Gambling premises
   
130.02   Posted advertisements
   
130.03   Permission to post advertisements
   
130.04   Slingshot, air guns, and BB guns
   
130.05   Firecrackers
   
130.06   Appliances in yards
   
130.07   Weeds, litter, and stagnant water
   
130.08   Abandoned automobiles
   
130.09   Unlicensed or inoperable vehicles
   
130.10   Abatement
   
130.11   False reporting
   
130.12   Shoplifting
   
130.13   Curfew; loitering; responsibility of guardian
   
130.14   Sexual predator residency restrictions
 
   
130.99   Penalty
130.01 GAMBLING PREMISES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to set up or keep a gambling
house, table, room, place, or gambling device at which a game of chance may be
played for money, property, or other valuable article representing money,
property, or other valuable thing.
   (B)   It shall be further unlawful for any person to suffer or permit such
gambling device to be set up, kept, or used for the purpose of gambling in or
upon any premise or tenement belonging to, or under the control of, any such
person.
(Prior Code, § 6-301) Penalty, see §
130.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 28-1102 through 28-1111
§ 130.02 POSTED ADVERTISEMENTS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to wrongfully and maliciously tear,
deface, remove, or cover up the posted advertisement or bill of any person,
firm, or corporation when said bill or advertisement is rightfully and lawfully
posted, and the same remains of value.
(Prior Code, § 6-302) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.03 PERMISSION TO POST ADVERTISEMENTS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to post, paste, or paint any sign,
advertisement, or other writing of any nature upon a fence, pole, building, or
other property without the written permission of the owner of the said
property.
(Prior Code, § 6-303) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.04 SLINGSHOT, AIR GUNS, AND BB GUNS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to discharge a slingshot, air gun, BB
gun, or the like loaded with rock or other dangerous missiles at any time or
under any circumstances within the municipality.
(Prior Code, § 6-304) Penalty, see §
130.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-207
§ 130.05 FIRECRACKERS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to ignite or cause to be exploded
fireworks or firecrackers of any description whatsoever, except sparklers,
vesuvious fountains, spray fountains, torches, color fire cones, star and comet
type color aerial shells without explosive charges for the purpose of making a
noise, color wheels, lady fingers, not exceeding seven-eighths inch in length
or one-eighth inch in diameter, and which do not contain more than one-half
grain each in weight of explosive material.
(Prior Code, § 6-305) Penalty, see §
130.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 28-1213
§ 130.06 APPLIANCES IN YARDS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to permit a refrigerator, icebox,
freezer, or any other dangerous appliance to be in the open and accessible to
children whether on private or public property unless he or she shall first
remove all doors and make the same reasonably safe.
(Prior Code, § 6-306) Penalty, see §
130.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 18-1720
§ 130.07 WEEDS, LITTER, AND STAGNANT WATER.
   (A)   Lots or pieces of ground within the municipality shall be drained or
filled so as to prevent stagnant water or any other nuisance accumulating
thereon.
   (B)   The owner or occupant of any lot or piece of ground within the
municipality shall keep the lot or piece of ground and the adjoining street and
alleys free of any growth of 12 inches or more in height of weeds, grasses, or
worthless vegetation.
   (C)   The throwing, depositing, or accumulation of litter on any lot or
piece of ground within the municipality is prohibited; provided, that grass,
leaves, and worthless vegetation may be used as a ground mulch or in a compost
pile.
   (D)   It is hereby declared to be a nuisance to permit or maintain any
growth of 12 inches or more in height of weeds, grasses, or worthless
vegetation or to litter or cause litter to be deposited or remain thereon
except in proper receptacles.
   (E)   Any owner or occupant of a lot or piece of ground shall, upon
conviction of violating this section, be guilty of an offense.
   (F)   Notice to abate and remove such nuisance shall be given to each owner
or owner’s duly authorized agent and to the occupant, if any, by personal
service or certified mail. Within five days after receipt of such notice, if
the owner or occupant of the lot or piece of ground does not request a hearing
with the municipality or fails to comply with the order to abate and remove the
nuisance, the municipality may have such work done. The costs and expenses of
any such work shall be paid by the owner. If unpaid for two months after such
work is done, the municipality may either levy and assess the costs and
expenses of the work upon the lot or piece of ground so benefitted in the same
manner as other special taxes for improvements are levied and assessed or
recover in a civil action the costs and expenses of the work upon the lot or
piece of ground and the adjoining streets and alleys.
   (G)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      LITTER. Include, but not be limited to:
         (a)   Trash, rubbish, refuse, garbage, paper, rags, and ashes;
         (b)   Wood, plaster, cement, brick, or stone building rubble;
         (c)   Grass, leaves, and worthless vegetation;
         (d)   Offal and dead animals; and
         (e)   Any machine or machines, vehicle or vehicles, or parts of a
machine or vehicle which have lost their identity, character, utility, or
serviceability as such through deterioration, dismantling, or the ravages of
time, are inoperative or unable to perform their intended functions, or are
cast off, discarded, or thrown away or left as waste, wreckage, or junk.
      WEEDS. Include, but not be limited to, bindweed (convolvulus arvensis),
puncture vine (tribulus terrestris), leafy spurge (euphorbia esula), Canada
thistle (cirsium arvense), perennial peppergrass (lepidium draba), Russian
knapweed (centaurea picris), Johnson grass (sorghum halepense), nodding or musk
thistle, quack grass (agropyron repens), perennial sow thistle (sonchus
arvensis), horse nettle (solanum carolinense), bull thistle (cirsium
lanceolatum), buckthorn (rhamnus sp.) (tourn), hemp plant (canabis sativa), and
ragweed (ambrosiaceae).
(Prior Code, § 6-307) (Ord. 547, passed 11-20-1989; Ord. 574, passed 7-20-1992;
Ord. 608, passed 6-19-1995) Penalty, see §
130.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-563, 18-1720
§ 130.08 ABANDONED AUTOMOBILES.
   (A)   (1)   No person shall cause any vehicle to be an abandoned vehicle as
described in divisions (B)(1), (B)(2), (B)(3), or (B)(4) below.
(Neb. RS 60-1907)
      (2)   No person other than one authorized by the municipality or
appropriate state agency shall destroy, deface, or remove any part of a vehicle
which is left unattended on a highway or other public place without license
plates affixed or which is abandoned.
(Neb. RS 60-1908)
   (B)   (1)   A motor vehicle is an abandoned vehicle:
         (a)   If left unattended, with no license plates or valid in transit
decals issued pursuant to Neb. RS 60-320 affixed thereto, for more than six
hours on any public property;
         (b)   If left unattended for more than 24 hours on any public
property, except a portion thereof on which parking is legally permitted;
         (c)   If left unattended for more than 48 hours after the parking of
such vehicle has become illegal, if left on a portion of any public property on
which parking is legally permitted;
         (d)   If left unattended for more than seven days on private property
if left initially without permission of the owner, or after permission of the
owner is terminated; or
         (e)   If left for more than 30 days in the custody of a law
enforcement agency after the agency has sent a letter to the last-registered
owner under division (E) below.
      (2)   No motor vehicle subject to forfeiture under Neb. RS 28-431 shall
be an abandoned vehicle under this division (B).
(Neb. RS 60-1901)
   (C)   If an abandoned vehicle, at the time of abandonment, has no license
plates of the current year or valid in transit decals issued pursuant to Neb.
RS 60-320 affixed and is of a wholesale value, taking into consideration the
condition of the vehicle, of $250 or less, title shall immediately vest in the
municipality.
(Neb. RS 60-1902)
   (D)   (1)   Except for vehicles governed by division (C) above, the
municipality shall make an inquiry concerning the last-registered owner of an
abandoned vehicle as follows:
         (a)   Abandoned vehicle with license plates affixed, to the
jurisdiction which issued such license plates; or
         (b)   Abandoned vehicle with no license plates affixed, to the
Department of Motor Vehicles.
      (2)   The municipality shall notify the last-registered owner, if any,
that the vehicle in question has been determined to be an abandoned vehicle and
that, if unclaimed, either:
         (a)   It will be sold or will be offered at public auction after five
days from the date such notice was mailed; or
         (b)   Title will vest in the municipality 30 days after the date such
notice was mailed.
      (3)   If the municipality is notified that a lien or mortgage exists, the
notice described in division (D)(2) above shall also be sent to the lienholder
or mortgagee. Any person claiming such vehicle shall be required to pay the
cost of removal and storage of such vehicle.
      (4)   Title to an abandoned vehicle, if unclaimed, shall vest in the
municipality:
         (a)   Five days after the date the notice is mailed if the vehicle
will be sold or offered at public auction under division (D)(2)(a) above;
         (b)   Thirty days after the date the notice is mailed if the
municipality will retain the vehicle; or
         (c)   If the last-registered owner cannot be ascertained, when notice
of such fact is received.
      (5)   After title to the abandoned vehicle vests pursuant to division (D)
(4) above, the municipality may retain for use, sell, or auction the abandoned
vehicle. If the municipality has determined that the vehicle should be retained
for use, the municipality shall, at the same time that the notice, if any, is
mailed, publish in a newspaper of general circulation in the jurisdiction an
announcement that the municipality intends to retain the abandoned vehicle for
its use and that title will vest in the municipality 30 days after publication.
(Neb. RS 60-1903)
   (E)   (1)   If the municipal law enforcement agency has custody of a motor
vehicle for investigatory purposes and has no further need to keep it in
custody, it shall send a certified letter to each of the last- registered
owners stating that the vehicle is in the custody of the agency, that the
vehicle is no longer needed for law enforcement purposes, and that after 30
days the agency will dispose of the vehicle.
      (2)   This division (E) shall not apply to motor vehicles subject to
forfeiture under Neb. RS 28-431.
      (3)   No storage fees shall be assessed against the registered owner of a
motor vehicle held in custody for investigatory purposes under this division
(E) unless the registered owner or the person in possession of the vehicle when
it is taken into custody is charged with a felony or misdemeanor related to the
offense for which the law enforcement agency took the vehicle into custody. If
a registered owner or the person in possession of the vehicle when it is taken
into custody is charged with a felony or misdemeanor but is not convicted, the
registered owner shall be entitled to a refund of the storage fees. (Neb. RS
60-1903.01)
   (F)   Any proceeds from the sale of an abandoned vehicle, less any expenses
incurred by the municipality, shall be held by the municipality without
interest, for the benefit of the owner or lienholders of such vehicle for a
period of two years. If not claimed within such two-year period, the proceeds
shall be paid into the General Fund of the municipality.
(Neb. RS 60-1905)
   (G)   Neither the owner, lessee, nor occupant of the premises from which any
abandoned vehicle is removed, nor the municipality, shall be liable for any
loss or damage to such vehicle which occurs during its removal or while in the
possession of the municipality or its contractual agent or as a result of any
subsequent disposition.
(Neb. RS 60-1906)
   (H)   The last-registered owner of an abandoned vehicle shall be liable to
the municipality for the costs of removal and storage of such vehicle.
(Neb. RS 60-1909)
   (I)   For purposes of this section, PUBLIC PROPERTY means any public right-
of-way, street, highway, alley, or park or other state, county, or municipally
owned property; PRIVATE PROPERTY means any privately owned property which is
not included within the definition of public property.
(Neb. RS 60-1901)
   (J)   Any person who violates the provisions of this section is guilty of an
offense.
(Prior Code, § 6-309) (Ord. 677, passed 6-19-2000) Penalty, see §
130.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 60-1901 through 60-1911
§ 130.09 UNLICENSED OR INOPERABLE VEHICLES.
   No person in charge or control of any property within the municipality,
other than municipal property, whether as owner, tenant, occupant, lessee, or
otherwise, shall allow any partially dismantled, inoperable, wrecked, junked,
or discarded vehicle to remain on such property longer than 30 days or for any
length of time any vehicle that has been unlicensed for a period in excess of
four months; provided, this section shall not apply to a vehicle in an enclosed
building; to a vehicle on the premises of a business enterprise, operated in a
lawful place and manner, when such vehicle is necessary to the lawful operation
of the business; or to a vehicle in an appropriate storage place or depository
maintained in a lawful place and manner by the municipality. Any vehicle
allowed to remain on property in violation of this section shall constitute a
nuisance and shall be abated, and any person violating this section shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 6-310) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.10 ABATEMENT.
   (A)   Whenever a nuisance exists as defined in this chapter, the
municipality may proceed by a suit in equity to enjoin and abate the same, in
the manner provided by law.
   (B)   Whenever, in any action, it is established that a nuisance exists, the
court may together with the fine or penalty imposed, enter an order of
abatement as a part of the judgment in the case.
(Prior Code, § 6-402)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 18-1720, 18-1722
§ 130.11 FALSE REPORTING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to:
   (A)   Furnish information he or she knows to be false to any peace officer
or other official with the intent to instigate an investigation of an alleged
criminal matter or impede the investigation of an actual criminal matter;
   (B)   Furnish information he or she knows to be false alleging the existence
of an emergency in which human life or property are in jeopardy to any
hospital, ambulance company, or other person or governmental agency which deals
with emergencies involving danger to life or property;
   (C)   Furnish any information, or cause such information to be furnished or
conveyed, by electric, electronic, telephonic, or mechanical means, knowing the
same to be false concerning the need for assistance of a Fire Department or any
personnel or equipment of such Department; or
   (D)   Furnish any information he or she knows to be false concerning the
location of any explosive in any building or other property to any person.
(Prior Code, § 6-311) (Ord. 477, passed 8-16-1982) Penalty, see §
130.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 28-907
§ 130.12 SHOPLIFTING.
   (A)   A person commits the crime of theft by shoplifting when he or she,
with the intent of appropriating merchandise to his or her own use without
paying for the same or to deprive the owner of possession of such property or
its retail value, in whole or in part, does any of the following:
      (1)   Conceals or takes possession of the goods or merchandise of any
store or retail establishment;
      (2)   Alters the price tag or other price marking on goods or merchandise
of any store or retail establishment;
      (3)   Transfers the goods or merchandise of any store or retail
establishment from one container to another;
      (4)   Interchanges the label or price tag from one item of merchandise
with a label or price tag from another item of merchandise; or
      (5)   Causes the cash register or other sales recording device to reflect
less than the retail price of the merchandise.
   (B)   In any prosecution for theft by shoplifting, in order to allow the
owner or owners of shoplifted property the use of such property pending
criminal prosecutions, photographs of the shoplifted property may be accepted
as prima facie evidence as to the identity of the property. Such photograph
shall be accompanied by a written statement containing the following:
      (1)   A description of the property;
      (2)   The name of the owner or owners of the property;
      (3)   The time, date, and location where the shoplifting occurred;
      (4)   The time and date the photograph was taken;
      (5)   The name of the photographer; and
      (6)   Verification by the arresting officer.
   (C)   Prior to allowing the use of shoplifted property as provided in this
section, legal counsel for the alleged shoplifter shall have a reasonable
opportunity to inspect and appraise the property and may file a motion for
retention of the property, which motion shall be granted if there is any
reasonable basis for believing that the photographs and accompanying affidavit
may be misleading.
(Prior Code, § 6-312) (Ord. 478, passed 8-16-1982) Penalty, see §
130.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 28-511.01
§ 130.13 CURFEW; LOITERING; RESPONSIBILITY OF GUARDIAN.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any minor under the age of 16 years to
loiter, idle, wander, stroll, or play in or upon any of the streets, roads,
alleys, parks, or public places of the city, or to be found in any vehicle upon
the streets, roads, alleys, parks, or other places of public amusement or
recreation therein, between the hours of 11:00 p.m. on any Sunday, Monday,
Tuesday, Wednesday, or Thursday and 5:00 a.m. of the following day or between
the hours of 12:30 a.m. and 5:00 a.m. on any Saturday or Sunday unless
accompanied by a parent, guardian, or adult person having the legal care,
custody, or control of said minor. It shall be unlawful for any parent,
guardian, or adult person having the legal care, custody, or control of any
minor under the age of 16 years to allow or permit such minor to loiter,
wander, stroll, idle, or play in or about any of the places designated above
during the hours designated above unless said minor is accompanied by a parent,
guardian, or other adult person having the legal care, custody, and control of
such minor.
   (B)   The provisions of this section shall not apply to any minor under the
age of 16 years if returning home from work or from a school or church related
activity, if attending or traveling to or from an activity involving the
exercise of First Amendment rights; or if upon any emergency errand, or
legitimate business directed by his or her parent, guardian, or other adult
person having legal care, custody, or control of such minor. No minor person
arrested under the provisions of this section shall be placed in confinement
until he or she has been taken home, or the parent, guardian, or legal
custodian has been notified and the arresting officer has ascertained whether
or not such minor person is within the control of his parent, guardian, or
legal custodian; and if such parent, parents, guardian, or legal custodian
shall state that such minor cannot be controlled by them or either of them, as
the case may be, then such minor shall be proceeded against; otherwise the
parent, parents, guardian, or custodian, as the case may be, shall be proceeded
against.
(Prior Code, § 6-313) (Ord. 566, passed 8-19-1991) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.14 SEXUAL PREDATOR RESIDENCY RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   Findings and intent.
      (1)   The State Legislature has found that certain sex offenders present
a high risk to commit repeat offenses and has enabled municipalities to
restrict such persons’ place of residency as provided in the Sexual Predator
Residency Restriction Act, being Neb. RS 29-4015 through 29-4017.
      (2)   Sex offenders who prey on children and who are high risks to repeat
such acts present an extreme threat to public safety. The cost of sex offender
victimization to these children and to society at large, while incalculable, is
exorbitant.
      (3)   It is the intent of this section to serve the city’s compelling
interest to promote, protect, and improve the health, safety, and welfare of
the citizens of the city by creating certain areas around locations where
children regularly congregate in concentrated numbers where certain sexual
predators cannot reside.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      CHILD CARE FACILITY. A facility licensed pursuant to the Child Care
Licensing Act, being Neb. RS 71-1908 through 71-1923.
      RESIDE. To sleep, live, or dwell at a place, which may include more than
one location, and may be mobile or transitory.
      RESIDENCE. A place where an individual sleeps, lives, or dwells, which
may include more than one location, and may be mobile or transitory.
      SCHOOL. A public, private, denominational, or parochial school which
meets the requirements for state accreditation or approval.
      SEX OFFENDER. An individual who has been convicted of a crime listed in
Neb. RS 29-4003 and who is required to register as a sex offender pursuant to
the Sex Offender Registration Act, being Neb. RS 29-4001 through 29-4014.
      SEXUAL PREDATOR. An individual who is required to register under the Sex
Offender Registration Act, being Neb. RS 29-4001 through 29-4014, who has been
classified as Level 3 under the Act because of a high risk of recidivism, as
determined by the Nebraska State Patrol under Neb. RS 29-4013, and who has
victimized a person 18 years of age or younger.
   (C)   Sexual predator residency restrictions; penalties; exceptions.
      (1)   Prohibited location of residence. It is unlawful for any sexual
predator to reside within 500 feet from a school or child care facility.
      (2)   Measure of distance. For purpose of determining the minimum
distance separation, the distance shall be measured by following a straight
line from the outer property line of the residence to the nearest outer
boundary line of the school or child care facility.
      (3)   Penalties. A person who violates this section shall be punished as
provided generally in the code.
   (D)   Exceptions. This section shall not apply to a sexual predator who:
      (1)   Resides within a prison or correctional or treatment facility
operated by the state or political subdivision;
      (2)   Established a residence before July 20, 2015, and has not moved
from that residence; or
      (3)   Established a residence after July 20, 2015, and the school or
child care facility triggering the restriction was established after the
initial date of the sexual predator’s residence at that location.
(Prior Code, § 6-314) (Ord. 2015-802, passed 7-20-2015)
Statutory Reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 29-4003, 29-4013
§ 130.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who shall violate or refuse to comply with the enforcement of any
of the provisions of this chapter, set forth at full length herein or
incorporated by reference, shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon
conviction thereof, shall be fined not more than $100 for each offense. A new
violation shall be deemed to have been committed every 24 hours of such failure
to comply.
(Prior Code, § 6-401)
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   BUILDING REGULATIONS
      
151.   UNSAFE BUILDINGS
      
152.   BUILDING CODES
      
153.   FLOOD PREVENTION
      
154.   ZONING AND SUBDIVISIONS
CHAPTER 150: BUILDING REGULATIONS
Section
Building Inspector
   
150.01   Power and authority
   
150.02   Right of entry
   
150.03   Appeal from decision
   
150.04   Barricades and lights
   
150.05   Plans, plats, and the like; municipal officials; duty
Building Permits
   
150.20   Permit requirement
   
150.21   Building permit limitation
   
150.22   When duplicate of permit required
Building Moving
   
150.35   General regulations
   
150.36   Deposit required
Residential Structures
   
150.50   Purpose
   
150.51   Definitions
   
150.52   Prohibited structures
   
150.53   Exceptions
   
150.54   Construction and design standards
   
150.55   Enforcement
BUILDING INSPECTOR
§ 150.01 POWER AND AUTHORITY.
   The Building Inspector shall be the municipal official who shall have the
duty of enforcing all building and housing regulations as herein prescribed. He
or she shall inspect all buildings repaired, altered, built, or moved in the
municipality as often as necessary to ensure compliance with all municipal
ordinances. He or she shall have the power and authority to order all work
stopped on any construction, alteration, or relocation which violates any
provisions prescribed herein. He or she shall issue permission to continue any
construction, alteration, or relocation when satisfied that no provision will
be violated. If the stop order is an oral one, it shall be followed by a
written stop order within 24 hours. Such written order may be served by any
municipal police officer.
(Prior Code, § 9-101)
§ 150.02 RIGHT OF ENTRY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to refuse to allow the Building
Inspector entry into any building or structure where the work of construction,
alteration, repair, or relocation is taking place for the purpose of making
official inspections at any reasonable hour.
(Prior Code, § 9-102) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 150.03 APPEAL FROM DECISION.
   In the event it is claimed that the true intent and meaning of this chapter
has been wrongly interpreted by the Building Inspector, that the time allowed
for compliance with any order of the Building Inspector is too short, or that
conditions peculiar to a particular building make it unreasonably difficult to
meet the literal requirements prescribed by this chapter, the Building
Inspector, the owner, his or her agent, or the occupant may file a notice of
appeal within ten days after the decision or order of the Building Inspector
has been made. The governing body shall sit and act as the Municipal Board of
Appeals and shall have the power and authority, when appealed to, to modify the
decision or order of the Building Inspector. Such a decision shall be final,
subject only to any remedy which the aggrieved person may have at law or
equity. Applications for review shall be in writing and shall state the reasons
why the variance should be made. A variance shall be granted only where it is
evident that reasonable safety and sanitation is assured and may include
conditions not generally specified by this code to achieve that end. A copy of
any variance so granted shall be sent to both the Building Inspector and the
applicant.
(Prior Code, § 9-103)
§ 150.04 BARRICADES AND LIGHTS.
   It shall be the duty of the owner, tenant, or lessee causing the
construction, demolition, or moving of any building or improvement within the
municipality to have during such work all excavations, open basements, building
materials, and debris protected by suitable guards or barricades by day, and by
warning lights at night. The failure, neglect, or refusal of said persons to
erect such guards shall constitute a violation of this section and the
municipal police or the Building Inspector shall stop all work until guards are
erected and maintained as required.
(Prior Code, § 9-104)
§ 150.05 PLANS, PLATS, AND THE LIKE; MUNICIPAL OFFICIALS; DUTY.
   (A)   A municipal official charged with the duty or responsibility of
accepting or approving plans, specifications, plats, and reports shall not
accept or approve plans, specifications, plats, or reports which have not been
prepared in accordance with the Engineers and Architects Regulation Act, being
Neb. RS 81-3401 through 81-3455.
   (B)   A municipal official charged with the duty or responsibility of
accepting or approving plans, specifications, geological maps, and reports
shall not accept or approve plans, specifications, plats, or reports which have
not been prepared in accordance with the Geologists Regulation Act, being Neb.
RS 81-3501 through 81-3504.
(Prior Code, § 9-105) (Ord. 679, passed 7-17-2000)
BUILDING PERMITS
§ 150.20 PERMIT REQUIREMENT.
   (A)   Any person desiring to commence or proceed to erect, construct,
repair, enlarge, demolish, or relocate any building or dwelling, or cause the
same to be done, shall file with the City Clerk an application for a building
permit.
   (B)   The application shall be in writing on a form to be furnished by the
City Clerk for that purpose. Every such application shall set forth the legal
description of the land upon which the construction or relocation is to take
place, the nature of the use or occupancy, the principal dimensions, the
estimated cost, the names of the owner, architect, and contractor, and such
other information as may be requested thereon.
   (C)   The application, plans, and specifications so filed with the City
Clerk shall be checked and examined by the governing body and if they are found
to be in conformity with the requirements of this chapter and all other
ordinances applicable thereto, the governing body shall authorize the City
Clerk to issue the said applicant a permit.
   (D)   Whenever there is a discrepancy between permit application procedures
contained herein and those contained in any building code adopted by reference,
the provisions contained herein shall govern.
(Prior Code, § 9-201)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-130 through 17-132, 17-550, 17-1001
§ 150.21 BUILDING PERMIT LIMITATION.
   If the work for which a permit has been issued shall not have begun within
one year of the date thereof, or if the construction shall be discontinued for
a period of one year, the permit shall be void. Before work can be resumed, a
new permit shall be obtained in the same manner and form as an original permit.
(Prior Code, § 9-202)
§ 150.22 WHEN DUPLICATE OF PERMIT REQUIRED.
   Whenever a building permit is issued for the erection, alteration, or repair
of any building within the city’s jurisdiction and the improvement is $2,500 or
more, a duplicate of such permit shall be issued to the County Assessor.
(Prior Code, § 9-203) (Ord. 737, passed 8-16-2004)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 18-1743
BUILDING MOVING
§ 150.35 GENERAL REGULATIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to move any
building or structure within the municipality without a written permit to do
so. Application may be made to the City Clerk, and shall include the present
and future location of the building to be moved, the proposed route, the
equipment to be used, and such other information as the governing body may
require. The application shall be accompanied by a certificate issued by the
County Treasurer to the effect that all the provisions regulating the moving of
buildings have been complied with on the part of the owner of the real estate
upon which the said building is presently located.
   (B)   The City Clerk shall refer the said application to the governing body
for approval of the proposed route over which the said building is to be moved.
Upon approval of the governing body, the City Clerk shall then issue the said
permit; provided, that a good and sufficient corporate surety bond, check, or
cash in an amount set by motion of the governing body and conditioned upon
moving said building without doing damage to any private or municipal property
is filed with the City Clerk prior to the granting of any permit. No moving
permit shall be required to move a building that is ten feet wide, or less, and
20 feet long, or less, and when in a position to move, 15 feet high, or less.
In the event it will be necessary for any licensed building mover to interfere
with the telephone or telegraph poles and wires, or a gas line, the company or
companies owning, using, or operating the said poles, wires, or line shall upon
proper notice of at least 24 hours, be present and assist by disconnecting the
said poles, wires, or line relative to the building moving operation.
   (C)   All expense of the said disconnection, removal, or related work shall
be paid in advance by the licensee unless such disconnection or work is
furnished on different terms as provided in the said company’s franchise.
Whenever the moving of any building necessitates interference with a water
main, sewer main, pipes, or wire belonging to the municipality, notice in
writing of the time and route of the said building moving operation shall be
given to the various municipal officials in charge of the municipal utility
departments who shall proceed in behalf of the municipality and at the expense
of the mover to make such disconnections and do such work as is necessary.
(Prior Code, § 9-301) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 150.36 DEPOSIT REQUIRED.
   At such time as the building moving has been completed, the Building
Inspector shall inspect the premises and report to the City Clerk as to the
extent of damages, if any, resulting from the said relocation and whether any
municipal laws have been violated during the said operation. Upon a
satisfactory report from the Building Inspector, the City Clerk shall return
the corporate surety bond, cash, or check deposited by the applicant. In the
event the basement, foundation, or portion thereof is not properly filled,
covered, or in a clean and sanitary condition, the governing body may apply the
money deposited for the purpose of defraying the expense of correcting the said
conditions. If the expense of correcting the hazardous condition is greater
than the amount of the deposit set by resolution of the governing body, as
required herein, the governing body may recover such excess expense by civil
suit or otherwise as prescribed by law.
(Prior Code, § 9-302)
RESIDENTIAL STRUCTURES
§ 150.50 PURPOSE.
   This subchapter is intended to regulate the design, construction, and use of
residential structures within the city limits to maintain consistent
neighborhood aesthetics and promote compatible land uses.
(Ord. 2024-852, passed 12-16-2024)
§ 150.51 DEFINITIONS.
   For purposes of this subchapter, the following definitions apply:
   BARNDOMINIUM. A structure combining residential living space with a barn or
agricultural storage or workspace, typically featuring a metal frame or
exterior resembling a barn.
   RESIDENTIAL STRUCTURE. A building designed and intended for human
habitation, conforming to the design and construction standards set forth in
this chapter.
   SHOUSE. A structure combining residential living space with a shop or
commercial workspace, typically featuring metal siding or roofing materials and
an industrial aesthetic.
(Ord. 2024-852, passed 12-16-2024)
§ 150.52 PROHIBITED STRUCTURES.
   The following types of structures are prohibited within the city limits of
Benkelman, except as otherwise provided herein:
   (A)   Shouses, as defined in §
150.51.
   (B)   Barndominiums, as defined in §
150.51.
(Ord. 2024-852, passed 12-16-2024)
§ 150.53 EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   Structures meeting the definitions above may be permitted in areas
zoned for: TA-1 Transitional Agricultural, C-3 Highway Commercial, I-
1 Industrial, and FP-Flood Plain, Residential Transitional, R-4, C-2, and C-1,
provided they meet all other applicable zoning and building code requirements.
   (B)   Structures meeting the definitions above shall not be permitted in
areas zoned for residential: R-1, R-2 and R-3.
   (C)   Structures existing prior to the effective date of this subchapter
shall be considered grandfathered and may continue their current use but may
not be expanded or substantially modified without compliance with this
subchapter.
(Ord. 2024-852, passed 12-16-2024)
150.54 CONSTRUCTION AND DESIGN STANDARDS.
   To maintain residential character and aesthetic consistency, all newly
constructed residential structures in the city shall:
   (A)   Be constructed with exterior materials typical of residential homes,
including but not limited to wood, brick, stucco, or vinyl siding.
   (B)   Include roofing materials consistent with residential design, such as
shingles or tiles.
   (C)   Meet the design standards established by the city's zoning code and
comprehensive plan.
(Ord. 2024-852, passed 12-16-2024)
§ 150.55 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   The City Clerk is authorized to enforce this subchapter and issue
violations for non- compliance.
   (B)   Any person or entity found constructing or permitting construction in
violation of this subchapter shall be subject to:
      (1)   A fine not exceeding $100 per day for each day the violation
continues.
      (2)   An order to remove or alter the non-compliant structure to meet the
subchapter’s requirements.
(Ord. 2024-852, passed 12-16-2024)
CHAPTER 151: UNSAFE BUILDINGS
Section
   
151.01   Definition
   
151.02   Unsafe buildings prohibited
   
151.03   Determination and notice of unsafe buildings
   
151.04   Hearing and appeal
   
151.05   Emergency
   
151.06   Special assessments
§ 151.01 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   UNSAFE BUILDING. Includes any building, shed, fence, or other human-made
structure which is dangerous to the public health because of its condition, and
which may cause or aid in the spread of disease or injury to the health of the
occupants of it or neighboring structures; which because of faulty
construction, age, lack of proper repair, or any other cause is especially
liable to fire and constitutes or creates a fire hazard; which by reason of
faulty construction or any other cause is liable to cause injury or damage by
the collapse or fall of all or any part of such structure. Any such UNSAFE
BUILDING in the municipality is hereby declared to be a nuisance.
(Prior Code, § 9-401)
§ 151.02 UNSAFE BUILDINGS PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful to maintain or permit the existence of any unsafe
building in the municipality and it shall be unlawful for the owner, occupant,
or person in custody of any dangerous building to permit the same to remain in
an unsafe condition or to occupy such building or permit it to be occupied
while it is in an unsafe condition.
(Prior Code, § 9-402) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 151.03 DETERMINATION AND NOTICE OF UNSAFE BUILDINGS.
   (A)   Whenever the Building Inspector shall be of the opinion that any
building or structure in the municipality is an unsafe building, he or she
shall file a written statement to this effect with the City Clerk. The Clerk
shall thereupon cause the property to be posted accordingly and shall file a
copy of such determination in the office of the County Register of Deeds, and
shall serve written notice upon the owner thereof, and upon the occupant
thereof, if any, by certified mail or by personal service. Such notice shall
state that the building has been declared to be in an unsafe condition; and
that such dangerous condition must be removed or remedied by repairing or
altering the building or by demolishing it; and that the condition must be
remedied within 60 days from the date of receipt.
   (B)   Such notice may be in the following terms.
“To................ (owner-occupant of premises) of the premises known and
described as.................
   “You are hereby notified that                                              
(describe building) on the premises above mentioned has been determined to be
an unsafe building and a nuisance after inspection by
                                     causes for this decision are
                                       (here insert the facts as to the
dangerous condition).
   “You must remedy this condition or demolish the building within sixty (60)
days from the date of receipt of this notice or the Municipality will proceed
to do so. Appeal of this determination may be made to the governing body,
acting as the Board of Appeals, by filing with the City Clerk within ten (10)
days from the date of receipt of this notice a request for a hearing.”
   (C)   If the person receiving the notice has not complied therewith or taken
an appeal from the determination of the officer or employee finding that a
dangerous building exists within ten days from the time when this notice is
served upon such person by personal service or certified mail, the Building
Inspector may, upon orders of the governing body, proceed to remedy the
condition or demolish the unsafe building.
(Prior Code, § 9-403)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 18-1720, 18-1722, 18-1722.01
§ 151.04 HEARING AND APPEAL.
   (A)   Upon receiving the notice to repair or demolish the building, the
owner of the building, within the time stipulated, may in writing to the City
Clerk request a hearing before the governing body, sitting as the Board of
Appeals, to present reasons why the building should not be repaired or
demolished. The governing body shall grant such hearing within ten days from
the date of receiving the request. A written notice of the governing body’s
decision following the hearing shall be sent to the property owner by certified
mail.
   (B)   If the governing body rejects the appeal, the owner shall have five
days from the sending of the decision to begin repair or demolition and
removal. If after the five-day period the owner has not begun work, the
governing body shall proceed to cause such work to be done; provided, the
property owner may appeal such decision to the appropriate court for
adjudication during which proceedings the decision of the governing body shall
be stayed. Where the municipality has not adopted a building code, the statutes
of the state relating to bonded indebtedness and collection of delinquent taxes
shall apply.
(Prior Code, § 9-404)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 18-1720, 18-1722, 18-1722.01
§ 151.05 EMERGENCY.
   Where any unsafe building or structure poses an immediate danger to the
health, safety, or general welfare of any person or persons, and the owner
fails to remedy the situation in a reasonable time after notice by the Building
Inspector to do so, the municipality may summarily repair or demolish and
remove such building or structure.
(Prior Code, § 9-405)
§ 151.06 SPECIAL ASSESSMENTS.
   (A)   If any owner of any building or structure fails, neglects, or refuses
to comply with notice by or on behalf of the municipality to repair,
rehabilitate, or demolish and remove a building or structure which is unsafe
and a public nuisance, the municipality may proceed with the work specified in
the notice to the property owner. A statement of the cost of such work shall be
transmitted to the governing body.
   (B)   The governing body may:
      (1)   Levy the cost as a special assessment against the lot or real
estate upon which the building or structure is located. Such special assessment
shall be a lien on the real estate and shall be collected in the manner
provided for special assessments; or
      (2)   Collect the cost from the owner of the building or structure and
enforce the collection by civil action in any court of competent jurisdiction.
(Prior Code, § 9-406) (Ord. 561, passed 1-21-1991)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 18-1720, 18-1722, 18-1722.01
CHAPTER 152: BUILDING CODES
Section
   
152.01   Building Code adopted by reference
   
152.02   Housing Code adopted by reference
   
152.03   Plumbing Code adopted by reference
   
152.04   Electrical Code adopted by reference
   
152.05   Prohibition of lead, pipes, solder, and flux
§ 152.01 BUILDING CODE ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   To provide certain minimum standards, provisions, and requirements for safe
and stable design, methods of construction, and uses of materials in buildings
hereafter erected, constructed, enlarged, altered, repaired, relocated, and
converted, the International Building Code, 2018 Edition, recommended by the
American Insurance Association, and printed in book or pamphlet form is hereby
incorporated by reference in addition to all amended editions as though printed
in full herein insofar as said Code does not conflict with the statutes of the
state. Three copies of the Building Code are on file at the office of the City
Clerk and are available for public inspection at any reasonable time. The
provisions of the Building Code shall be controlling throughout the
municipality and throughout its zoning jurisdiction.
(Prior Code, § 9-501)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-1001, 18-132
§ 152.02 HOUSING CODE ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   To provide certain minimum standards, provisions, and requirements for safe
and stable design, methods of construction, and uses of materials in houses
hereafter erected, constructed, enlarged, altered, repaired, relocated, and
converted, the International Housing Code, 2018 Edition, published by the
International Conference of Building Officials, and printed in book or pamphlet
form, is hereby incorporated by reference in addition to all amended editions
as though printed in full herein insofar as said Code does not conflict with
the statutes of the state. Three copies of the Housing Code are on file at the
office of the City Clerk and are available for public inspection at any
reasonable time. The provisions of the Housing Code shall be controlling
throughout the municipality and throughout its zoning jurisdiction.
(Prior Code, § 9-502)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-1001, 18-132
§ 152.03 PLUMBING CODE ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   To provide certain minimum standards, provisions, and requirements for safe
and stable installation, methods of connection, and uses of materials in the
installation of plumbing and heating, the International Plumbing Code, 2018
Edition, published by the American Society of Mechanical Engineers, and printed
in book or pamphlet form, is hereby incorporated by reference in addition to
all amended editions as though printed in full herein insofar as said Code does
not conflict with the statutes of the state. Three copies of the Plumbing Code
are on file at the office of the City Clerk and are available for public
inspection at any reasonable time. The provisions of the Plumbing Code shall be
controlling throughout the municipality and throughout its zoning jurisdiction.
(Prior Code, § 9-503)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-1001, 18-132
§ 152.04 ELECTRICAL CODE ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   To provide certain minimum standards, provisions, and requirements for safe
and fire-proof installation, methods of connection, and uses of materials in
the installation of electrical wiring and appliances, the International
Electrical Code, 2018 Edition, as recommended and published by the National
Fire Protection Association, and printed in book or pamphlet form, is hereby
incorporated by reference in addition to all amended editions as though printed
in full herein insofar as said Code does not conflict with the statutes of the
state. Three copies of the Electrical Code are on file at the office of the
City Clerk and are available for public inspection at any reasonable time. The
provisions of the Electrical Code shall be controlling throughout the
municipality and throughout its zoning jurisdiction.
(Prior Code, § 9-504)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-1001, 18-132
§ 152.05 PROHIBITION OF LEAD, PIPES, SOLDER, AND FLUX.
   (A)   Any pipe, solders, or flux used in the installation or repair of any
residential or nonresidential facility which is connected to the public water
supply system shall be lead free.
   (B)   For purposes of this section, LEAD FREE shall mean:
      (1)   Solders and flux: not more than 0.2% lead; and
      (2)   Pipe and pipe fittings: not more than 8% lead.
(Prior Code, § 9-505) (Ord. 540, passed 6-20-1988)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 71-5301
CHAPTER 153: FLOOD PREVENTION
Section
   
153.01   Authorization; findings of fact; statement of purpose
   
153.02   Definitions
   
153.03   Local Administrator responsibilities
   
153.04   Local Administrator additional responsibilities
   
153.05   Designation of current flood hazard boundary map/flood insurance rate
map
   
153.06   Management regulations; permit required
   
153.07   Development permit applications review
   
153.08   All applications review
   
153.09   Subdivision applications
   
153.10   Water and sewage systems
   
153.11   Storage of material and equipment
   
153.12   Flood-carrying capacity within any watercourse
   
153.13   Variances
   
153.14   Nonconforming use
   
153.15   Conflict with existing agreements
   
153.16   Interpretation
   
153.17   Warning and disclaimer of liability
   
153.18   Appeal
   
153.19   Conflicting ordinances
 
   
153.99   Penalty
§ 153.01 AUTHORIZATION; FINDINGS OF FACT; STATEMENT OF PURPOSE.
   (A)   Statutory authorization. The State Legislature has, in Neb. RS 31-1001
to 31-1022, assigned the responsibility to local governmental units to adopt
floodplain management regulations designed to protect the public health,
safety, and general welfare. Therefore, the Mayor and City Council ordain as
follows.
   (B)   Findings of fact.
      (1)   Flood losses resulting from periodic inundation. The flood hazard
areas of the city are subject to inundation which results in loss of life and
property, health and safety hazards, disruption of commerce and governmental
services, extraordinary public expenditures for flood protection and relief,
and impairment of the tax base all of which adversely affect the public health,
safety, and general welfare.
      (2)   General causes of the flood losses. These flood losses are caused
by:
         (a)   The cumulative effect of obstructions in floodplains causing
increases in flood heights and velocities; and
         (b)   The occupancy of flood hazard areas by uses vulnerable to floods
or hazardous to others which are inadequately elevated or otherwise unprotected
from flood damages.
   (C)   Statement of purpose. It is the purpose of this chapter to promote the
public health, safety, and general welfare and to minimize those losses
described in division (B)(1) above by applying the provisions of this chapter
to:
      (1)   Restrict or prohibit uses which are dangerous to health, safety, or
property in times of flooding or cause undue increases in flood heights or
velocities;
      (2)   Require that uses vulnerable to floods, including public facilities
which serve such uses, be provided with flood protection at the time of initial
construction;
      (3)   Protect individuals from buying lands which are unsuited for
intended purposes because of flood hazard; and
      (4)   Assure that eligibility is maintained for property owners in the
community to purchase flood insurance in the National Flood Insurance Program.
(Prior Code, § 11-301) (Ord. 710, passed 11-17-2003)
§ 153.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AGRICULTURAL COMMODITIES. Agricultural products and livestock.
   AGRICULTURAL STRUCTURE. Any structure used exclusively in connection with
the production, harvesting, storage, drying, or raising of agricultural
commodities, including the raising of livestock.
   APPURTENANT STRUCTURES. Structures on the same parcel of property as the
principal structure, the use of which is incidental to the use of the principal
structures.
   BASE FLOOD. The flood having 1% chance of being equaled or exceeded in any
given year.
   BASEMENT. Any area of the building having its floor subgrade (below ground
level) on all sides.
   DEVELOPMENT. Any human-made change to improved or unimproved real estate,
including, but not limited to, buildings or other structures, mining, dredging,
filling, grading, paving, excavation or drilling operations, or storage of
equipment or materials.
   EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including, at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is complete before the effective date
of the floodplain management regulations adopted by a community.
   EXPANSION OF EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. The preparation
of additional sites by the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including the installation of
utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site grading or the
pouring of concrete pads).
   FLOOD. A general and temporary condition of partial or complete inundation
of normally dry land areas from:
      (1)   The overflow of inland or tidal waters; or
      (2)   The usual and rapid accumulation of runoff of surface waters from
any source.
   FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (FIRM). An official map of a community, on which
the Administrator has delineated both the special flood hazard areas and the
risk premium applicable to the community.
   FLOODPLAIN. Any land area susceptible to being inundated by water from any
source (see also FLOOD).
   FLOOD-PROOFING. Any combination of structural and nonstructural additions,
changes, or adjustments to structures which reduce or eliminate flood damage to
real estate or improved real property, water and sanitary facilities,
structures, and their contents.
   FLOODWAY. The channel of the river or other watercourse and the adjacent
land areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the base flood without
cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation more than a designated
height.
   HISTORIC STRUCTURE. Any structure that is:
      (1)   Listed individually in the National Register of Historic Places (a
listing maintained by the Department of Interior) or preliminarily determined
by the Secretary of the Interior as meeting the requirements for individual
listing on the National Register;
      (2)   Certified or preliminarily determined by the Secretary of the
Interior as contributing to the historical significance of a registered
historic district or a district preliminarily determined by the Secretary to
qualify as a registered historic district;
      (3)   Individually listed on a state inventory of historic places in
states with historic preservation programs which have been approved by the
Secretary of the Interior; or
      (4)   Individually listed upon a local inventory of historic places in
communities with historic preservation programs that have been certified
either:
         (a)   By an approved state program as determined by the Secretary of
the Interior; or
         (b)   Directly by the Secretary of the Interior in states without
approved programs.
   LOWEST FLOOR. The lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area (including
basement). An unfinished or flood-resistant enclosure, usable solely for
parking of vehicles, building access or storage, in an area other than a
basement area, is not considered a building’s LOWEST FLOOR, provided that such
enclosure is not built so as to render the structure in violation of the
applicable non-elevation design requirements of this chapter.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. A structure, transportable in one or more sections, which
is built on a permanent chassis and is designed for use with or without a
permanent foundation when attached to the required utilities. The term
MANUFACTURED HOME does not include a RECREATIONAL VEHICLE.
   MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A parcel or contiguous parcel(s) of
land divided into two or more manufactured home lots for rent or sale.
   NEW CONSTRUCTION. For floodplain management purposes, NEW CONSTRUCTION means
structures for which the “start of construction” commenced on or after the
effective date of the floodplain management regulation adopted by a community
and includes any subsequent improvements to such structures.
   NEW MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including at a minimum the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed on or after the effective
date of floodplain management regulations adopted by a community.
   100-YEAR FLOOD. The condition of flooding having a 1% chance of annual
occurrence.
   PRINCIPALLY ABOVE GROUND. At least 51% of the actual cash value of the
structure is above ground.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. A vehicle which is:
      (1)   Built on a single chassis;
      (2)   Four hundred square feet or less when measured at the largest
horizontal projection;
      (3)   Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light
duty truck; and
      (4)   Designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling but as
temporary living quarters for recreational, camping, travel, or seasonal use.
   REGULATORY FLOOD ELEVATION. The water surface elevation of the 100-year
flood.
   SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA. The land in the floodplain within a community
subject to 1% or greater chance of flooding in any given year.
   START OF CONSTRUCTION. For other than new construction or substantial
improvements under the Coastal Barrier Resources Act (Pub. Law 97-348), being
16 U.S.C. §§ 3501 et seq., includes substantial improvement, and means the date
the building permit was issued, provided the actual START OF CONSTRUCTION,
repair, reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition, placement, or other
improvement was within 180 days of the permit date. The actual START means the
first placement of permanent construction of a structure on a site, such as the
pouring of slab or footings, the installation of piles, the construction of
columns, or any work beyond the stage of excavation; or the placement of a
manufactured home on a foundation. Permanent construction does not include land
preparation, such as clearing, grading, and filling; nor does it include the
installation of streets and/or walkways; nor does it include excavation for a
basement, footings, piers, or foundations or the erection of temporary forms;
nor does it include the installation on the property of accessory buildings,
such as garages or sheds not occupied as dwelling units or not part of the main
structure. For a substantial improvement, the actual START OF CONSTRUCTION
means the first alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor, or other structural
part of a building, whether or not the alteration affects the external
dimensions of the building.
   STRUCTURE. A walled and roofed building that is principally above ground, as
well as a manufactured home, and a gas or liquid storage tank that is
principally above ground.
   SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE. Damage of any origin sustained by a structure whereby
the cost of restoring the structure to its before-damaged condition would equal
or exceed 50% of the market value of the structure before the damage occurred.
   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT. Any reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition, or
other improvement of a structure, the cost of which equals or exceeds 50% of
the market value of the structure before “start of construction” of the
improvement. This includes structures which have incurred “substantial damage”
regardless of the actual repair work performed. The term does not, however,
include either:
      (1)   Any project for improvement of a structure to correct existing
violations of state or local health, sanitary, or safety code specifications
which have been identified by the local code enforcement official and which are
the minimum necessary to assure safe living conditions; or
      (2)   Any alteration of a “historic structure”, provided that the
alteration will not preclude the structure’s continued designation as a
“historic structure”.
   VARIANCE. A grant of relief to a person from the terms of this chapter.
   VIOLATION. The failure of a structure or other development to be fully
compliant with the community’s floodplain management regulations.
(Prior Code, § 11-321) (Ord. 710, passed 11-17-2003)
§ 153.03 LOCAL ADMINISTRATOR RESPONSIBILITIES.
   The City Clerk hereby has these added responsibilities and is authorized and
directed to enforce all of the provisions of this chapter and all other
ordinances of the city now in force or hereafter adopted, related to floodplain
management.
(Prior Code, § 11-302) (Ord. 710, passed 11-17-2005)
§ 153.04 LOCAL ADMINISTRATOR ADDITIONAL RESPONSIBILITIES.
   The City Clerk shall be appointed to these additional responsibilities by
resolution of the governing body and his or her appointment shall continue
during good behavior and satisfactory service. During temporary absence or
disability of the City Clerk, the governing body shall designate an acting
administrator.
(Prior Code, § 11-303) (Ord. 710, passed 11-17-2003)
§ 153.05 DESIGNATION OF CURRENT FLOOD HAZARD BOUNDARY MAP/FLOOD INSURANCE RATE
MAP.
   The governing body of the city hereby designates the current Flood Hazard
Boundary Map/Flood Insurance Rate Map dated October 4, 2002, and any revisions
thereto, as the official map to be used in determining those areas of special
flood hazard.
(Prior Code, § 11-304) (Ord. 710, passed 11-17-2003)
§ 153.06 MANAGEMENT REGULATIONS; PERMIT REQUIRED.
   No person, firm, or corporation shall initiate in the city any floodplain
development or substantial improvement or cause the same to be done without
first obtaining a separate permit for development as defined in this chapter.
   (A)   If a proposed development is within special flood hazard areas on the
official map, separate floodplain development permits are required for all new
construction, substantial improvements, and other developments, including the
placement of manufactured homes.
   (B)   To obtain a floodplain development permit, the applicant shall first
file an application therefor in writing on a form furnished for that purpose
accompanied by a fee of $25. Every such application shall:
      (1)   Identify and describe the development to be covered by the
floodplain development permit for which application is made;
      (2)   Describe the land on which the proposed development is to be done
by lot, block, tract, and house and street address, or similar description that
will readily identify and definitely locate the proposed building or
development;
      (3)   Indicate the use or occupancy for which the proposed development is
intended;
      (4)   Be accompanied by plans and specifications for proposed
construction;
      (5)   Be signed by the permittee or his or her authorized agent who may
be required to submit evidence to indicate such authority;
      (6)   Within designated floodplain areas, be accompanied by elevations of
the lowest floor, including basement, or in the case of flood-proofed
nonresidential structures, the elevation to which it shall be flood-proofed.
Documentation or certification of such elevations will be maintained by the
City Clerk; and
      (7)   Give such other information as reasonably may be required by the
City Clerk (i.e., require a statement from the applicant that he or she is
aware that elevating or flood-proofing structures above the minimum levels will
result in premium reduction, especially in the case of nonresidential flood-
proofing when a minus one foot penalty is assessed at the time of rating the
structure for policy premium).
(Prior Code, § 11-305) (Ord. 710, passed 11-17-2003; Ord. 746, passed 11-21-
2005)
§ 153.07 DEVELOPMENT PERMIT APPLICATIONS REVIEW.
   The City Clerk shall review all development permit applications to determine
if the site of the proposed development is reasonably safe from flooding and
that all necessary permits have been received as required by federal or state
law.
(Prior Code, § 11-306) (Ord. 710, passed 11-17-2003)
§ 153.08 ALL APPLICATIONS REVIEW.
   The City Clerk, in reviewing all applications for new construction,
substantial improvements, prefabricated buildings, placement of manufactured
homes and other development(s) (as defined in §
153.02), will:
   (A)   Obtain, review, and reasonably utilize, if available, any regulatory
flood elevation data and floodway data available from federal, state, or other
sources, until such other data is provided by the Federal Insurance
Administration in a flood insurance study; and require within special flood
hazard areas on the official map that the following performance standards be
met.
      (1)   Until a floodway has been designated, no development or substantial
improvement may be permitted within the identified floodplain unless the
applicant has demonstrated that the proposed development or substantial
improvement, when combined with all other existing and reasonably anticipated
developments or substantial improvements, will not increase the water surface
elevation of the 100-year flood more than one foot at any location.
      (2)   New construction or substantial improvement of any residential
structure shall have the lowest floor, including basement, elevated at least
one foot above the base flood elevation.
      (3)   New construction or substantial improvement of any commercial,
industrial, or other nonresidential structure shall have either the lowest
floor, including basement, elevated at least one foot above the base flood
elevation or, together with attendant utility and sanitary facilities, be
flood-proofed so that below such a level the structure is water-tight with
walls substantially impermeable to the passage of water and with structural
components having the capability of resisting hydrostatic and hydrodynamic
loads and effects of buoyancy. A registered professional engineer or architect
shall certify that the standards of this division (A)(3) are satisfied. Such
certification shall be provided to the local administrator.
      (4)   Fully enclosed areas below the lowest floor that are usable solely
for parking of vehicles, building access, or storage in an area other than a
basement and which are subject to flooding shall be designed to automatically
equalize hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls by allowing for the entry
and exit of floodwaters. Designs for meeting this requirement must either be
certified by a registered professional engineer or architect or meet or exceed
the following minimum criteria: a minimum of two openings having a total net
area of not less than one square inch for every square foot of enclosed area
subject to flooding shall be provided. The bottom of all openings shall be no
higher than one foot above grade. Openings may be equipped with screens,
louvers, valves, or other coverings or devices provided that they permit the
automatic entry and exit of floodwaters.
      (5)   Appurtenant structures used exclusively for storage of motor
vehicles and storage of other items readily removable in the event of a flood
warning may have their lowest floor below one foot above the base flood
elevation provided the structure is capable of withstanding hydrostatic and
hydrodynamic forces caused by the base flood and provided that no utilities are
installed in the structure except elevated or flood-proofed electrical
fixtures. If the structure is converted to another use, it must be brought into
full compliance with the minimum standards governing such use.
   (B)   Require the use of construction materials that are resistant to flood
damage;
   (C)   Require the use of construction methods and practices that will
minimize flood damage;
   (D)   Require that new structures be designed (or modified) and adequately
anchored to prevent flotation, collapse, or lateral movement of the structure
resulting from hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads, including the effects of
buoyancy;
   (E)   New structures be constructed with electrical, heating, ventilation,
plumbing and air conditioning equipment, and other service facilities that are
designed and/or located so as to prevent water from entering or accumulating
within the components during conditions of flooding;
   (F)   Assure that all manufactured homes shall be anchored to resist
flotation, collapse, or lateral movement. Manufactured homes must be anchored
in accordance with state laws, local building codes, and FEMA guidelines. In
the event that over-the-top frame ties to ground anchors are used, the
following specific requirements (or their equivalent) shall be met:
      (1)   Over-the-top ties be provided at each of the four corners of the
manufactured home with two additional ties per side at the intermediate
locations and manufactured homes less than 50 feet long requiring one
additional tie per side;
      (2)   Frame ties be provided at each corner of the home with five
additional ties per side at intermediate points and manufactured homes less
than 50 feet long requiring four additional ties per side;
      (3)   All components of the anchoring system be capable of carrying a
force of 4,800 pounds; and
      (4)   Any additions to manufactured homes be similarly anchored.
   (G)   Assure that all manufactured homes that are placed or substantially
improved within special flood hazard areas on the community’s official map on
sites:
      (1)   Outside of a manufactured home park or subdivision;
      (2)   In a new manufactured home park or subdivision;
      (3)   In an expansion to an existing manufactured home park or
subdivision; or
      (4)   In an existing manufactured home park or subdivision on which a
manufactured home has incurred “substantial damage” as the result of a flood be
elevated on a permanent foundation such that the lowest floor of the
manufactured home is elevated at least one foot above the base flood elevation
and be securely anchored to an adequately anchored foundation system in
accordance with the provisions of division (F) above.
   (H)   Assure that manufactured homes to be placed or substantially improved
on sites in an existing manufactured home park or subdivision within special
flood hazard areas on the community’s official map that are not subject to the
provisions of division (G) above be elevated so that either:
      (1)   The lowest floor of the manufactured home is at least one foot
above the base flood elevation; or
      (2)   The manufactured home chassis is supported by reinforced piers or
other foundation elements of at least equivalent strength that are no less than
36 inches in height above grade and be securely anchored to an adequately
anchored foundation system in accordance with the provisions of division (F)
above.
   (I)   Require that recreational vehicles placed on sites within the
identified special flood hazard areas on the community’s official map either be
on the site for fewer than 180 consecutive days, be fully licensed and ready
for highway use, or meet the permit requirements and the elevation and
anchoring requirements for “manufactured homes” of this chapter. A recreational
vehicle is ready for highway use if it is on its wheels or jacking system is
attached to the site only by quick disconnect type utilities and security
devices, and has no permanently attached additions; and
   (J)   Structures used solely for agricultural purposes in connection with
the production, harvesting, storage, drying, or raising of agricultural
commodities, including the raising of livestock, may be constructed at-grade
and wet flood-proofed; provided there is no human habitation or occupancy of
the structure; the structure is of single-wall design; there is no permanent
retail, wholesale, or manufacturing use included in the structure; a variance
has been granted from the floodplain management requirements of this chapter;
and a floodplain development permit has been issued.
(Prior Code, § 11-307) (Ord. 710, passed 11-17-2003)
§ 153.09 SUBDIVISION APPLICATIONS.
   The governing body of the city shall review all subdivision applications and
other proposed new developments (including manufactured home parks or
subdivisions) and shall make findings of fact and assure that:
   (A)   All such proposed developments are consistent with the need to
minimize flood damage;
   (B)   Subdivision proposals and other proposed new developments (including
proposals for manufactured home parks and subdivisions), greater than five
acres or 50 lots, whichever is lesser, include within such proposals regulatory
flood elevation data in special flood hazard areas;
   (C)   Adequate drainage is provided so as to reduce exposure to flood
hazards; and
   (D)   All public utilities and facilities are located so as to minimize or
eliminate flood damage.
(Prior Code, § 11-308) (Ord. 710, passed 11-17-2003)
§ 153.10 WATER AND SEWAGE SYSTEMS.
   New and replacement water and sewage systems shall be constructed to
eliminate or minimize infiltration by or discharge into flood waters. Moreover,
on-site waste disposal systems will be designed to avoid impairment or
contamination during flooding.
(Prior Code, § 11-309) (Ord. 710, passed 11-17-2003)
§ 153.11 STORAGE OF MATERIAL AND EQUIPMENT.
   The storage or processing of materials that are in time of flooding buoyant,
flammable, explosive, or could be injurious to human, animal, or plant life is
prohibited. Storage of other material or equipment may be allowed if not
subject to major damage by floods and firmly anchored to prevent flotation or
if readily removable from the area within the time available after flood
warning.
(Prior Code, § 11-310) (Ord. 710, passed 11-17-2003) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.12 FLOOD-CARRYING CAPACITY WITHIN ANY WATERCOURSE.
   The governing body of the city will ensure that the flood-carrying capacity
within the altered or relocated portion of any watercourse is maintained. The
city will notify, in riverine situations, adjacent communities and the State
Coordinating Office (the state’s Natural Resources Commission) prior to any
alteration or relocation of a watercourse, and submit copies of such
notifications to the Federal Emergency Management Agency. Moreover, the city
will work with appropriate state and federal agencies in every way possible in
complying with the National Flood Insurance Program in accordance with the
National Disaster Protection Act of 1973, being 42 U.S.C. §§ 4001 et seq.
(Prior Code, § 11-311) (Ord. 710, passed 11-17-2003)
§ 153.13 VARIANCES.
   (A)   The Zoning Board of Adjustment as established by the City Council
shall hear and decide appeals and requests for variances from the requirements
of this chapter.
   (B)   The Zoning Board of Adjustment shall hear and decide appeals when it
is alleged that there is an error in any requirement, decision, or
determination made by the City Clerk in the enforcement or administration of
this chapter.
   (C)   Any person aggrieved by the decision of the Zoning Board of Adjustment
or any taxpayer may appeal such decision to the District Court as provided in
Neb. RS 19-912.
   (D)   In passing upon such applications, the Zoning Board of Adjustment
shall consider all technical evaluation, all relevant factors, and standards
specified in other sections of this chapter, and:
      (1)   The danger that materials may be swept onto other lands to the
injury of others;
      (2)   The danger to life and property due to flooding or erosion damage;
      (3)   The susceptibility of proposed facility and its contents to flood
damage and the effect of such damage on the individual owner;
      (4)   The importance of the services provided by the proposed facility to
the community;
      (5)   The necessity to the facility of a waterfront location, where
applicable;
      (6)   The availability of alternative locations, not subject to flooding
or erosion damage, for the proposed use;
      (7)   The compatibility of the proposed use with existing and anticipated
development;
      (8)   The relationship of the proposed use to the comprehensive plan and
floodplain management program for that area;
      (9)   The safety of access to the property in times of flood for ordinary
and emergency vehicles;
      (10)   The expected heights, velocity, duration, rate of rise, and
sediment transport of the flood waters and the effects of wave action, if
applicable, expected at the site; and
      (11)   The costs of providing governmental services during and after
flood conditions, including maintenance and repair of public utilities and
facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical and water systems, and streets and
bridges.
   (E)   The conditions for approving variances shall be as follows.
      (1)   Generally variances may be issued for new construction and
substantial improvements to be erected on a lot of one-half acre or less in
size contiguous to and surrounded by lots with existing structures constructed
below the base flood level, providing divisions (E)(2) through (E)(5) below
have been fully considered. As the lot size increases beyond the one-half acre,
the technical justification required for issuing the variance increases.
      (2)   Variances may be issued for the repair or rehabilitation of
historic structures upon a determination that the proposed repair or
rehabilitation will not preclude the structure’s continued designation as a
historic structure and the variance is the minimum necessary to preserve the
historic character and design of the structure.
      (3)   Variances shall only be issued upon a determination that the
variance is the minimum necessary, considering the flood hazard, to afford
relief.
      (4)   Variances shall only be issued upon a showing of good and
sufficient cause, a determination that failure to grant the variance would
result in exceptional hardship to the applicant, and a determination that the
granting of a variance will not result in increased flood heights, additional
threats to public safety, extraordinary public expense, create nuisances, cause
fraud on or victimization of the public, or conflict with existing local laws
or resolutions.
      (5)   The applicant shall be given a written notice over the signature of
a community official that the issuance of a variance to construct a structure
below base flood level will result in increased premium rates for flood
insurance up to amounts as high as $25 for $100 of insurance coverage and such
construction below the base flood level increases risks to life and property.
Such notification shall be maintained with the record of all variance actions
as required by this chapter.
   (F)   The conditions for approving variances specifically for agricultural
structures shall be as follows: any variance granted for an agricultural
structure shall be decided individually based on a case- by-case analysis of
the building’s unique circumstances. In order to minimize flood damage during
the 100-year flood and the threat to public health and safety, the following
conditions shall be included for any variance issued for agricultural
structures that are constructed at-grade and wet flood-proofed.
      (1)   All agricultural structures considered for a variance from the
floodplain management regulations of this chapter shall demonstrate that the
varied structure is located in wide, expansive floodplain areas and no other
alternate location outside of the special flood hazard area exists for the
agricultural structure. Residential structures, such as farm houses, cannot be
considered agricultural structures.
      (2)   Use of the varied structures must be limited to agricultural
purposes in Zone A only as identified on the community’s Flood Insurance Rate
Map (FIRM).
      (3)   For any new or substantially damaged agricultural structures, the
exterior and interior building components and elements (i.e., foundation, wall
framing, exterior and interior finishes, flooring, and the like) below the base
flood elevation, must be built with flood-resistant materials in accordance
with §
153.08.
      (4)   The agricultural structures must be adequately anchored to prevent
flotation, collapse, or lateral movement of the structures in accordance with §
153.08. All of the building’s structural components must be capable of
resisting specific flood-related forces including hydrostatic, buoyancy, and
hydrodynamic and debris impact forces.
      (5)   Any mechanical, electrical, or other utility equipment must be
located above the base flood elevation or flood-proofed so that they are
contained within a water-tight, flood-proofed enclosure that is capable of
resisting damage during flood conditions in accordance with §
153.08.
      (6)   The agricultural structures must meet all National Flood Insurance
Program (NFIP) opening requirements. The NFIP requires that enclosures or
foundation walls, subject to the 100-year flood, contain openings that will
permit the automatic entry and exit of flood waters in accordance with §
153.08.
      (7)   The agricultural structures must comply with the floodplain
management floodway encroachment provisions of §
153.08. No variances may be issued for agricultural structures within any
designated floodway, if any increase in flood levels would result during the
100-year flood.
      (8)   Major equipment, machinery, or other contents must be protected
from any flood damage.
      (9)   No disaster relief assistance under any program administered by any
federal agency shall be paid for any repair or restoration costs of the
agricultural structures.
      (10)   A community shall notify the applicant in writing over the
signature of a community official that the issuance of a variance to construct
a structure below base flood level will result in increased premium rates for
flood insurance up to amounts as high as $25 for $100 of insurance coverage and
such construction below the base flood level increases risks to life and
property. Such notification shall be maintained with the record of all variance
actions as required by this chapter.
      (11)   Wet flood-proofing construction techniques must be reviewed and
approved by the community and a registered professional engineer or architect
prior to the issuance of any floodplain development permit for construction.
(Prior Code, § 11-312) (Ord. 710, passed 11-17-2003)
§ 153.14 NONCONFORMING USE.
   (A)   A structure or the use of a structure or premises which was lawful
before the passage or amendment of the chapter, but which is not in conformity
with the provisions of this chapter may be continued subject to the following
conditions.
      (1)   If such use is discontinued for 24 consecutive months, any future
use of the building premises shall conform to this chapter. The Utility
Department shall notify the Zoning Administration in writing of instances of
nonconforming uses where utility services have been discontinued for a period
of 24 months.
      (2)   Uses or adjuncts thereof that are or become nuisances shall not be
entitled to continue as nonconforming uses.
   (B)   If any nonconforming use or structure is destroyed by any means,
including flood, it shall not be reconstructed if the cost is more than 50% of
the market value of the structure before the damage occurred except that if it
is reconstructed in conformity with the provisions of this chapter. This
limitation does not include the cost of any alteration to comply with existing
state or local health, sanitary, building, or safety codes or regulations or
the cost of any alteration of a structure listed on the National Register of
Historic Places or a State Inventory of Historic Places.
(Prior Code, § 11-313) (Ord. 710, passed 11-17-2003)
§ 153.15 CONFLICT WITH EXISTING AGREEMENTS.
   It is not intended by this chapter to repeal, abrogate, or impair any
existent easements, covenants, or deed restrictions. However, where this
chapter imposes greater restrictions, the provision of this chapter shall
prevail. All other ordinances inconsistent with this chapter are hereby
repealed to the extent of the inconsistency only.
(Prior Code, § 11-315) (Ord. 710, passed 11-17-2003)
§ 153.16 INTERPRETATION.
   In their interpretation and application, the provisions of this chapter
shall be held to be minimum requirements and shall be liberally construed in
favor of the governing body and shall not be deemed a limitation or repeal of
any other powers granted by state statutes.
(Prior Code, § 11-316) (Ord. 710, passed 11-17-2003)
§ 153.17 WARNING AND DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY.
   The degree of flood protection required by this chapter is considered
reasonable for regulatory purposes and is based on engineering and scientific
methods of study. Larger floods may occur on rare occasions or the flood height
may be increased by human-made or natural causes, such as ice jams and bridge
openings restricted by debris. This chapter does not imply that areas outside
floodplain boundaries or land uses permitted within such districts will be free
from flooding or flood damage. This chapter shall not create liability on the
part of the city or any officer or employee thereof for any flood damages that
may result from reliance on this chapter or any administrative decision
lawfully made thereunder.
(Prior Code, § 11-317) (Ord. 710, passed 11-17-2003)
§ 153.18 APPEAL.
   Where a request for a permit to develop or a variance is denied by the City
Council, the applicant may apply for such permit or variance directly to the
Zoning Board of Adjustment.
(Prior Code, § 11-319) (Ord. 710, passed 11-17-2003)
§ 153.19 CONFLICTING ORDINANCES.
   This chapter shall take precedence over conflicting ordinances or parts of
ordinances. The governing body may from time to time amend this chapter to
reflect any and all changes in the National Flood Disaster Protection Act of
1973, being 42 U.S.C. §§ 4001 et seq. The regulations of this chapter are in
compliance with the National Flood Insurance Program Regulations as published
in C.F.R. Title 44 and the 1983 Nebraska Floodplain Management Act, being Neb.
RS 31-1001 through 31-1031.
(Prior Code, § 11-320) (Ord. 710, passed 11-17-2003)
§ 153.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Violation of the provisions of this chapter or failure to comply with
any of its requirements (including violations of conditions and safeguards
established in connection with grants of variances or special exceptions) shall
constitute a misdemeanor. Any person who violates this chapter or fails to
comply with any of its requirements shall, upon conviction thereof, be fined
not more than $500 and, in addition, shall pay all costs and expenses involved
in the case. Each day such violation continues shall be considered a separate
offense.
   (B)   Nothing herein contained shall prevent the City Council or other
appropriate authority from taking such other lawful action as is necessary to
prevent or remedy any violation.
(Prior Code, § 11-314) (Ord. 710, passed 11-17-2003)
CHAPTER 154: ZONING AND SUBDIVISIONS
Section
   
154.01   Adoption of regulations
   
154.02   Schedule of fees
   
154.03   Comprehensive Development Plan
 
   
154.99   Penalty
§ 154.01 ADOPTION OF REGULATIONS.
   The City Council hereby adopts and incorporates by this reference the zoning
ordinance of the city and the subdivision regulations of city, prepared by
Marvin Planning Consultants, including the extraterritorial jurisdiction
extending one mile from the corporate limits of the city, as recommended by the
city’s Planning Commission after the completion of the required public
hearings.
(Prior Code, § 11-401) (Ord. 768, passed 12-15-2010; Ord. 2011-769, passed 1-
17-2011)
§ 154.02 SCHEDULE OF FEES.
   The following schedule of fees is established for the zoning ordinance to
cover the costs of administration.
Requirement Fee
Requirement                          Fee
Application for certificate of       $15
occupancy
Application for variance             $40
Application for zoning amendment     $15
                                     $15 (minimum)
                                     $3 per $1,000 construction up to and
Building permit for new construction including $20,000
and alterations                      $2 per $1,000 construction from $20,001
                                     up to and including $100,000
                                     $1 per $l,000 construction over $100,000
Fence application                    $15
Home business                        $15
Sign application                     $15
 
(Prior Code, § 11-402) (Ord. 747, passed 11-21-2005)
§ 154.03 COMPREHENSIVE DEVELOPMENT PLAN.
   The City Council adopts this section, incorporating the Comprehensive
Development Plan for the city, including the extraterritorial jurisdiction
extending one-mile from the corporate limits of the city, as recommended by the
city’s Planning Commission after the completion of the required public
hearings.
(Prior Code, § 11-501) (Ord. 767, passed 12-15-2010)
§ 154.99 PENALTY.
   Any person, whether as owner, proprietor, or as the agent, attorney, or
representative of any owner or proprietor of land who shall plat or subdivide
any tract of land within the corporate limits of the municipality, or adjoining
and contiguous to the same, except as herein authorized, or who shall sell,
transfer, deed or convey, contract, or agree to sell, transfer, or offer for
sale any lot, or piece of ground in any addition, or subdivision of three, or
more parts within said corporate limits, or adjoining and contiguous thereto,
without having first obtained the acceptance and approval of the plat, or map
thereof by the governing body, and any person who shall violate, or who shall
fail, neglect, or refuse to comply with any of the provisions hereinbefore, as
now existing, or as hereafter amended, shall, upon conviction, be fined in any
sum not exceeding $100.
(Prior Code, § 11-601)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   Table
      
I.   FRANCHISES
      
II.   VACATIONS
TABLE I: FRANCHISES
 
Ord. No. Date Passed  Description
2019-816 1-21-2019      Granting a natural gas franchise to Black Hills Gas
                        Distribution, LLC
                        Granting Hamilton Cobalt, Inc, in conjunction with
                        Benkelman Telephone Company, Inc and their successors
2020-825 9-21-2020      and assigns the right, privilege, and authority to
                        construct and operate, maintain and reconstruct a cable
                        television communications system within the city.
                       
 
TABLE II: VACATIONS
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
2018-814 11-19-2018  Vacating a portion of Fremont Street
2019-817 2-18-2019   Vacating a portion of Railroad Street
2020-821 2-17-2020   Vacating a portion of Railroad Street
                    
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Nebraska Revised Statutes
References to Prior Code
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO NEBRASKA REVISED STATUTES
Neb. RS Section Code Section
Neb. RS Section                 Code Section
3-501 through 3-514             32.24
9-201 through 9-266             112.50
9-301 through 9-356             112.50
9-401 through 9-437             112.50
9-601 through 9-653             32.02,
                                112.50
9-642.01                        112.50
9-646                           112.51
10-209 through 10-411           32.23
10-606 through 10-617           32.23
11-101                          30.034
11-103 through 11-118           30.033
12-1001                         32.23
13-403                          93.009
13-501 through 13-513           32.09,
                                33.13
13-503                          32.02
13-504                          32.03
13-505                          32.03
13-506                          32.04,
                                32.05
13-507                          32.05
13-508                          32.06
13-509.01                       32.07
13-509.02                       32.07
13-510                          32.16
13-511                          32.16
13-518 through 13-522           32.04
13-609                          32.26
                                30.054,
13-801 through 13-827           32.24,
                                35.02
13-1802                         35.02
13-2001 through 13-2043         33.13,
                                53.02
13-2501 through 13-2550         32.24,
                                35.02
16-714 through 16-716           32.21
17-102                          30.073
17-103                          30.003
17-104                          30.003,
                                30.004
17-105                          30.046
17-106                          30.046
                                30.020,
17-107                          30.026,
                                30.032
                                30.001,
17-108.02                       30.006,
                                30.008,
                                30.021
17-110 through 17-117           30.001
17-118                          30.027
17-119                          30.031
                                30.026,
17-121                          30.092,
                                30.115,
                                30.116
17-124                          30.027
17-130 through 17-132           150.20
17-134                          111.01,
                                111.02
17-137                          112.17
17-143                          112.01
17-147                          30.028,
                                34.01
17-148                          30.002
17-149                          51.01,
                                51.03
17-150                          30.029
17-207                          90.42,
                                130.04
17-208                          30.116
17-209.02                       30.008
17-502                          11.03
17-503                          93.004
17-503.01                       93.004
17-503.02                       93.005
                                10.99,
17-505                          30.028,
                                31.01
17-510                          93.049
17-511                          93.048
17-522                          93.025
17-523                          93.025
17-524                          93.048
                                111.01,
17-525                          111.04,
                                113.04,
                                113.05
                                90.01,
17-526                          90.11,
                                90.12,
                                90.14
17-529.01                       32.23
17-529.08                       32.23
17-531                          50.01
17-534                          32.23,
                                50.01
17-536                          50.17
                                50.03,
                                50.05,
                                50.13,
17-537                          50.14,
                                50.19,
                                50.20,
                                50.27
17-538                          50.12
17-539                          50.18
17-540                          50.09,
                                53.09
17-541                          30.020,
                                30.031
17-542                          50.08,
                                50.11
17-543                          30.031
17-547                          90.35,
                                90.39
17-548                          90.20
17-549                          92.08
                                92.05 –
17-550                          92.07,
                                150.20
17-552                          112.03
17-555                          91.02
17-556                          92.08,
                                112.16
17-557                          72.17,
                                93.021
                                93.002,
17-557.01                       93.006,
                                93.020,
                                93.022
17-558                          93.041,
                                93.052
17-559                          93.041
17-561                          112.02
17-563                          130.07
17-567                          93.002,
                                93.051
17-568                          30.029,
                                30.030
17-568.01                       32.12
17-568.02                       32.12
17-604                          30.033
17-605                          30.023
17-606                          30.024
17-607                          32.20
17-608                          32.22
17-609                          32.22
17-610                          30.025
17-612                          30.008
                                31.04,
                                31.07,
17-613                          31.08,
                                31.10,
                                32.12
                                10.15,
17-614                          31.05,
                                31.06,
                                31.09
17-616                          31.06
17-702                          32.10
17-706                          32.09
17-708                          32.11
17-710                          32.17
17-711                          32.15
17-714                          32.14
17-715                          32.14
17-718                          34.01
17-720                          32.21
17-901                          51.04
                                51.04,
                                52.03-
                                52.05,
17-902                          52.07,
                                52.09,
                                52.10,
                                52.15
17-902 through 17-904           52.01
17-905                          32.23
17-906                          52.01
17-908                          32.23
17-909                          52.01
17-911                          32.23
17-919                          30.029,
                                30.030
17-925.01                       51.01,
                                51.10
17-939                          32.23
17-948                          94.15
17-948 through 17-952           94.01
17-949                          94.16 –
                                94.18
17-951                          94.15
17-952                          94.15
17-953                          34.01
17-954                          93.009
17-958                          32.23
17-968                          32.23
                                150.20,
17-1001                         152.01-
                                152.04
                                92.01,
18-132                          152.01-
                                152.04
18-412                          33.15
18-412.01                       32.12
18-412.02                       33.15
18-503                          51.05,
                                51.06
18-1001 through 18-1006         93.004
                                10.99,
                                90.43,
                                91.01,
                                93.002,
                                93.078,
18-1720                         130.06,
                                130.07,
                                130.10,
                                151.03,
                                151.04,
                                151.06
                                10.99,
                                90.43,
                                93.078,
18-1722                         130.10,
                                151.03,
                                151.04,
                                151.06
                                151.03,
18-1722.01                      151.04,
                                151.06
18-1723                         91.02
18-1736                         72.19
18-1736                         72.27
                                72.19,
18-1737                         72.20,
                                72.27
18-1743                         150.22
18-1755                         93.009
18-1756                         32.12
18-1801 through 18-1805         32.23
18-2101 through 18-2154         30.100,
                                32.24
18-2102.01                      30.100
18-2401 through 18-2485         30.054
18-2501 through 18-2531         33.99
18-2512                         33.02
18-2513                         33.02
18-2514                         33.03
18-2515                         33.03
18-2516                         33.05
18-2517                         33.06
18-2518                         33.07,
                                33.13
18-2519                         33.08
18-2520                         33.09
18-2521                         33.10
18-2522                         33.11
18-2524                         33.13
18-2526                         33.13
18-2527                         33.13
18-2528                         33.13
18-2529                         33.13
18-2529 through 18-2531         33.14
18-2530                         33.13
18-2532 through 18-2535         33.99
18-2536                         33.15
18-2537                         33.15
18-2801 through 18-2808         32.01,
                                32.03
18-3301                         30.029,
                                30.030
19-710                          91.04
19-905                          33.13
19-908                          30.091
19-912                          153.13
19-924 through 19-929           30.091
19-929                          30.091
19-1101                         30.024
19-1102                         30.023
19-1103                         30.024
19-1104                         30.023
19-1301 through 19-1304         32.18
19-1305                         50.01
                                52.06,
19-1404                         52.11,
                                52.12
19-2101 through 19-2106         53.40
19-2106                         53.26
19-2427                         93.050
19-2701                         52.03
19-2702                         50.11,
                                52.09
19-2901 through 19-2909         32.13
19-3101                         30.007
19-3301 through 19-3326         32.24
19-3701                         31.10
19-4624 through 19-4625         33.13
19-5401 et seq.                 93.098
20-203                          90.15
25-1801                         54.01
25-21,149 through 25-21,164     33.04
25-21,275                       54.01
25-21,276                       54.01
25-21,277                       54.01
25-21,278                       54.01
Ch. 28, Art. 3                  110.06
Ch. 28, Art. 4                  110.06
28-431                          130.08
28-511.01                       130.12
28-512                          52.16
28-515.02                       54.03
28-520                          90.15
28-521                          70.40,
                                90.15
Ch. 28, Art. 7                  110.06
Ch. 28, Art. 8                  110.06
28-807                          110.25
28-906                          90.09
28-907                          130.11
28-1102 through 28-1111         130.01
Ch. 28, Art. 10                 110.06
28-1213                         130.05
Ch. 28, Art. 11                 110.06
Ch. 28, Art. 12                 110.06
28-1239.01                      112.16
28-1241                         112.15,
                                112.16
28-1244                         112.16
28-1245                         112.16
28-1246 through 28-1250         112.17
28-1465                         35.02
28-1466                         35.02
28-1472                         35.02
29-215                          35.02
29-4001 through 29-4014         130.14
29-4003                         130.14
29-4013                         130.14
29-4015 through 29-4017         130.14
31-1001 to 31-1022              153.01
31-1001 through 31-1031         153.19
Chapter 32                      30.070
32-101 through 32-1551          30.077,
                                32.26
32-102                          30.072
32-109                          30.006
32-405                          30.077
32-505                          30.070
32-559                          30.077
32-560                          30.005
32-561                          30.005
32-568(4)                       30.005
32-569                          30.005
32-603                          30.006
32-604                          30.006
32-607                          30.075
32-608                          30.075
32-615                          30.075
32-616                          30.075
32-617                          30.075
32-618                          30.075
32-621                          30.075
32-625(2)                       30.075
32-628                          30.075
32-628 through 32-631           32.24
32-629                          30.075,
                                30.076
32-630                          30.075,
                                30.076
32-802                          32.24
32-952 through 32-959           30.077
32-1301                         30.076
32-1301 through 32-1309         30.076
32-1302                         30.076
32-1303                         30.076
32-1304                         30.076
32-1305                         30.076
32-1306                         30.076
32-1307                         30.076
32-1308                         30.076
32-1309                         30.076
33-139.01                       34.03
35-102                          30.028
35-106                          113.02
35-108                          30.028,
                                34.03
37-1254.01                      35.02
37-1254.02                      35.02
Chapter 39                      70.01
39-311                          70.25
39-602(91)                      70.01
39-602(99)                      70.01
60-670                          70.01
39-602(112)                     70.01
39-836                          32.23
44-4301 through 44-4339         30.054
48-1503                         32.12
49-801(16)                      10.05
49-1408                         30.009
49-1425                         30.009
49-1499.04                      30.009
49-14,102                       30.009
49-14,103.01                    30.009
49-14,103.02                    30.009
49-14,103.03                    30.009
49-14,103.05                    30.009
49-14,103.06                    30.009
51-201                          32.24
51-501                          32.24
Ch. 53, Art. 1                  112.50
53-101.01                       110.23
                                110.02,
53-102                          110.20,
                                110.22,
                                110.23
53-103                          110.01
53-116.02                       110.25
53-118                          110.19
53-124                          110.18
53-125                          110.06
53-131                          110.07
53-132                          110.07
                                110.07,
53-134                          110.09,
                                110.23,
                                110.24
53-135                          110.08
53-135.01                       110.08
53-134.03                       110.17
53-148                          110.05
53-164.01                       110.22
53-175                          110.22
53-177                          110.03
53-178                          110.04
53-179                          110.18
53-180                          110.13
53-183                          110.14
53-184                          110.16
53-186                          110.21
53-186.01                       110.21
53-1,101                        110.10
53-1,102                        110.11
54-601                          90.13
54-602                          90.13
54-603                          90.01
54-604                          90.06
54-605                          90.08
54-606                          90.04
54-617                          90.15
54-618                          90.16
54-619                          90.17
54-620                          90.18
54-624                          90.19
Ch. 60                          70.01,
                                72.26
60-320                          130.08
60-3,113                        72.19,
                                72.20
60-476                          70.01
60-607                          70.01
60-609                          70.01
60-610                          70.01
60-624                          70.01
60-627                          70.01
60-638                          70.01
60-642                          70.01
60-644                          70.01
60-645                          70.01
60-646                          70.01
60-649                          70.01
60-655                          70.01
60-662                          70.01
60-655                          70.01
60-667                          70.01
60-676                          70.01
                                70.03 –
                                70.05,
                                70.10-
                                70.12,
                                70.28,
                                70.29,
                                70.36,
60-680                          70.43,
                                70.44,
                                72.02-
                                72.07,
                                72.11,
                                72.13-
                                72.16,
                                Ch. 73, Schd. I
60-683                          70.42,
                                70.44
60-689                          72.26
60-4,163                        35.02
60-4,164                        35.02
60-6,114                        72.18
60-6,131                        70.09
60-6,119 through 60-6,121       70.11,
                                70.12
60-6,127                        70.27
60-6,133                        70.31
60-6,136                        70.30
60-6,139                        70.32
60-6,140                        70.33
60-6,146 through 60-6,154       70.07
60-6,151                        70.08
60-6,159                        70.06
                                70.29,
60-6,166                        72.09,
                                72.10
60-6,167                        72.12
60-6,168                        72.01
60-6,169                        70.28
60-6,178                        70.37
60-6,179                        70.35,
                                70.36
60-6,183                        70.34
60-6,185                        Ch. 73, Schd. II
60-6,186                        Ch. 73, Schd. II
60-6,190                        Ch. 73, Schd. II
60-6,196                        35.02
60-6,197                        35.02
60-6,203                        70.46
60-6,211.01                     35.02
60-6,211.02                     35.02
60-6,212.07 through 60-6,212.13 70.46
60-6,274 through 60-6,275       70.45
60-6,286                        70.39
60-6,308                        70.32
60-6,371                        70.39
60-1901                         130.08
60-1901 through 60-1911         130.08
60-1902                         130.08
60-1903                         130.08
60-1903.01                      130.08
60-1905                         130.08
60-1906                         130.08
60-1907                         130.08
60-1908                         130.08
60-1909                         130.08
70-504                          33.15
70-624.04                       30.009
70-650.01                       33.15
70-650.02                       33.15
70-1601 through 70-1615         54.03
70-1602 et seq.                 54.02
71-1536                         30.095
71-1537                         30.096
71-1572 through 71-15,168       30.094
71-1576                         30.094
71-1594                         30.098
71-1637                         32.24
71-1908 through 71-1923         130.14
71-4101 through 71-4104         53.41
71-4401                         90.04
71-4408                         90.20
71-4412                         90.01
71-5301                         152.05
71-5301 through 71-5327         50.27
76-704 through 76-724           93.041
77-1343                         93.050
77-1601                         32.25
77-1601.02                      32.25
77-1606                         32.24,
                                32.25
77-1702                         32.26
77-2201                         30.024
77-2201 through 77-2215         30.024
77-2202                         30.024
77-2209                         30.024
77-2210                         30.024
77-2304                         32.21
77-2337                         32.18
77-2339                         32.18
77-2341                         32.22
77-2362                         32.20
77-2365.01                      32.20
77-2366                         32.20,
                                32.21
77-2386 through 77-23,108       32.20,
                                32.21
77-2701 et seq.                 32.27
77-27,142 through 77-27,148     32.27
77-3442                         32.10,
                                32.24
77-3443                         32.24
77-3444                         30.077,
                                32.24
77-5444                         32.24
77-27,142 et seq.               32.27
77-27,143                       32.27
80-202                          32.24
80-203 through 80-205           33.15
81-145 through 81-162           32.12
81-506                          30.028
81-512                          30.028,
                                92.03
81-520.01                       92.08,
                                92.09
81-829.65                       35.02
81-1438                         30.020
81-1501 through 81-1532         53.02
81-2005                         70.41
81-3401 through 81-3455         150.05
81-3501 through 81-3504         150.05
84-712                          30.023
84-1201 through 84-1220         30.023
84-1408                         30.045
84-1408 through 84-1414         30.056
84-1409                         30.045,
                                30.054
84-1409(1)                      30.050
84-1409(2)                      30.050
84-1410                         30.051
                                30.045,
84-1411                         30.052,
                                30.054
84-1411(3)                      30.056
84-1412                         30.053
84-1413                         30.045
                                
 
REFERENCES TO PRIOR CODE
Prior Code Section 2020 Code Section
Prior Code Section 2020 Code Section
1-101              30.001
1-102              30.002
1-103              30.003
1-104              30.004
1-105              30.005
1-107              30.006
1-108              30.007
1-201              30.020
1-202              30.021
1-203              30.022
1-204              30.023
1-205              30.024
1-208              30.025
1-209              30.026
1-210              30.027
1-211              30.028
1-212              30.029
1-213              30.030
1-214              30.031
1-215              30.032
1-301              30.033
1-302              30.034
1-401              11.03
1-501              11.04
1-601              30.045
1-602              30.046
1-603              30.047
1-604              30.048
1-605              30.049
1-606              30.050
1-607              30.050
1-608              30.051
1-609              30.052
1-610              30.053
1-611              30.054
1-612              30.055
1-613              30.056
1-701              31.01
1-702              31.02
1-703              31.03
1-704              31.04
1-705              31.05
1-706              31.06
1-707              31.07
1-708              31.08
1-709              31.09
1-710              31.10
1-801              30.070
1-802              30.071
1-803              30.072
1-804              30.073
1-806              30.074
1-807              30.075
1-808              30.076
1-809              30.077
1-901              32.01
1-901.01           32.02
1-902              32.03
1-902.01           32.04
1-903              32.05
1-904              32.06
1-904.01           32.07
1-905              32.08
1-906              32.09
1-907              32.10
1-908              32.11
1-909              32.12
1-910              32.13
1-911              32.14
1-912              32.15
1-913              32.16
1-914              32.17
1-915              32.18
1-916              32.19
1-917              32.20
1-917.01           32.21
1-918              32.22
1-919              32.23
1-920              32.24
1-921              32.25
1-922              32.26
1-923              32.27
1-1001             30.008
1-1002             30.009
1-1101             33.01
1-1102             33.02
1-1103             33.03
1-1103.01          33.04
1-1104             33.05
1-1105             33.06
1-1106             33.07
1-1107             33.08
1-1108             33.09
1-1109             33.10
1-1110             33.11
1-1111             33.12
1-1112             33.13
1-1113             33.14
1-1114             33.99
1-1115             33.15
1-1201             30.999
2-101              30.090
2-201              30.091
2-202              30.092
2-203              30.093
2-204              30.094
2-205              30.095
2-206              30.096
2-207              30.097
2-208              30.098
2-209              30.099
2-210              30.100
2-301              30.999
3-101              50.01
3-102              50.02
3-103              50.03
3-104              50.04
3-105              50.05
3-106              50.06
3-107              50.07
3-108              50.08
3-109              50.09
3-110              50.10
3-111              50.11
3-112              50.12
3-113              50.13
3-114              50.14
3-115              50.15
3-116              50.16
3-117              50.17
3-118              50.18
3-119              50.19
3-120              50.20
3-121              50.21
3-122              50.22
3-123              50.23
3-124              50.24
3-125              50.25,
                   50.99
3-126              50.26
3-127              50.27
3-201              51.01
3-202              51.02
3-203              51.03
3-204              51.04
3-207              51.05
3-208              51.06
3-210              51.07
3-211              51.08
3-215              51.09
3-217              51.10
3-218              51.11
3-219              51.12
3-220              51.13
3-221              51.14
3-222              51.15
3-223              51.16
3-224              51.17
3-225              51.18
3-226              51.19
3-227              51.20
3-228              51.21
3-229              51.22
3-230              51.23
3-231              51.24
3-232              51.25
3-233              51.26
3-234              51.27
3-235              51.28
3-236              51.29
3-237              51.30
3-238              51.31
3-239              51.32
3-240              51.33
3-241              51.34
3-242              51.35
3-243              51.36
3-244              51.37
3-245              51.37
3-246              51.38
3-247              51.39
3-248              51.40
3-249              51.41
3-250              51.42
3-251              51.99
3-252              51.43
3-253              51.44
3-254              51.45
3-255              51.46
3-256              51.47
3-301              34.01
3-302              34.02
3-303              34.03
3-304              34.04
3-401              35.01
3-402              35.02
3-501              94.01
3-502              94.02
3-503              94.03
3-601              94.15
3-602              94.16
3-603              94.17
3-604              94.18
3-701              53.40
3-702              53.41
3-801              52.01
3-802              52.02
3-803              52.03
3-804              52.04
3-805              52.05
3-806              52.06
3-807              52.07
3-808              52.08
3-809              52.09
3-810              52.10
3-811              52.11
3-812              52.12
3-813              52.13
3-814              52.14
3-815              52.15
3-816              52.16
3-817              52.17
3-901              53.01
3-902              53.02
3-903              53.03
3-904              53.04
3-905              53.05
3-906              53.06
3-907              53.07,
                   53.99
3-908              53.08
3-910              53.09
3-911              53.10,
                   53.99
3-1001             54.01
3-1002             54.02
3-1003             54.03
3-1101             54.99
4-101              30.115
4-102              30.116
4-104              30.117
4-201              53.25
4-202              53.26
4-203              53.27
4-205              53.29
4-206              53.99
4-301              91.01
4-302              91.02
4-303              91.03
4-304              91.04
4-305              91.05
5-101              70.01
5-201              70.02
5-202              70.03
5-203              70.04
5-204              70.05
5-205              72.99
5-206              70.06
5-207              70.07
5-208              70.08
5-209              70.09
5-210              70.10
5-211              70.11
5-212              70.12
5-213              70.13,
                   70.99
5-301              70.25
5-302              70.26
5-303              70.27
5-304              72.99
5-305              70.28
5-306              70.29
5-307              70.30
5-308              70.31
5-309              70.32
5-310              70.33
5-311              70.34
5-312              70.35
5-313              70.36
5-314              70.37
5-315              70.38
5-316              70.39
5-317              70.40
5-318              70.41
5-319              70.42
5-320              70.43
5-321              70.44
5-322              70.45
5-323              70.46
5-401              72.01
5-402              72.02
5-403              72.03
5-404              72.04
5-405              72.05
5-406              72.06
5-407              72.07
5-408              72.08
5-409              72.09
5-410              72.10
5-411              72.11
5-412              72.12
5-413              72.13
5-414              72.14
5-415              72.15
5-416              72.16
5-417              72.17
5-418              72.18
5-419              72.19
5-419.01           72.20
5-419.02           72.21
5-419.03           72.22
5-419.04           72.23
5-419.05           72.24
5-419.06           72.25
5-419.07           72.26
5-419.08           72.27
5-501              71.01
5-502              71.02
5-503              71.03
5-504              71.04
5-505              71.99
5-601              72.99
6-101              90.01
6-102              90.02
6-103              90.03
6-104              90.04
6-105              90.05
6-106              90.06
6-107              90.07
6-108              90.08
6-110              90.09
6-111              90.10
6-112              90.11
6-113              90.12
6-114              90.13
6-115              90.14
6-116              90.15
6-117              90.16
6-118              90.17
6-119              90.18
6-120              90.19
6-121              90.20
6-122              90.21
6-201              90.35
6-202              90.36
6-203              90.37
6-204              90.38
6-205              90.39
6-206              90.40
6-207              90.41
6-208              90.42
6-301              150.01
6-401              90.99
6-402              90.43
7-201              92.01
7-202              92.02
7-203              92.03
7-204              92.04
7-205              92.05
7-206              92.06
7-207              92.07
7-208              92.08
7-209              92.09
7-301              92.99
8-101              93.001
8-102              93.002
8-103              93.003
8-104              93.004
8-104.01           93.005
8-105              93.006
8-106              93.007
8-107              93.008
8-108              93.009
8-109              93.009
8-110              93.009
8-201              93.020
8-202              93.021
8-203              93.022
8-204              93.023
8-205              93.024
8-206              93.025
8-207              93.026
8-208              93.027
8-209              93.028
8-301              93.040
8-302              93.041
8-303              93.042
8-304              93.043
8-305              93.044
8-306              93.045
8-307              93.046
8-308              93.047
8-309              93.048
8-310              93.049
8-311              93.050
8-401              93.051
8-501              93.065
8-502              93.066
8-503              93.067
8-504              93.068
8-505              93.069
8-506              93.070
8-507              93.071
8-508              93.072
8-509              93.073
8-510              93.074
8-511              93.075
8-512              93.076
8-513              93.077
8-601              93.999
8-602              93.078
9-101              150.01
9-102              150.02
9-103              150.03
9-104              150.04
9-105              150.05
9-201              150.20
9-202              150.21
9-203              150.22
9-301              150.35
9-302              150.36
9-401              151.01
9-402              151.02
9-403              151.03
9-404              151.04
9-405              151.05
9-406              151.06
9-501              152.01
9-502              152.02
9-503              152.03
9-504              152.04
9-505              152.05
10-101             110.01
10-102             110.02
10-103             110.03
10-104             110.04
10-105             110.05
10-106             110.06
10-107             110.07
10-108             110.08
10-109             110.09
10-110             110.10
10-111             110.11
10-112             110.12
10-113             110.13
10-114             110.14
10-115             110.15
10-116             110.16
10-117             110.17
10-118             110.18
10-119             110.19
10-120             110.20
10-121             110.21
10-122             110.22
10-123             110.23
10-124             110.24
10-125             110.25
10-201             111.01
10-202             111.02
10-203             111.03
10-204             111.04
10-205             111.05
10-301             112.01
10-302             112.02
10-303             112.03
10-401             112.15
10-402             112.16
10-403             112.17
10-501             113.01
10-502             113.02
10-503             113.03
10-504             113.04
10-505             113.05
10-601             112.30
10-602             112.31
10-603             112.32
10-604             112.33
10-605             112.34
10-606             112.35
10-607             112.36
10-701             112.50
10-702             112.51
10-801             112.99
11-101             11.01
11-102             11.02
11-301             153.01
11-302             153.03
11-303             153.04
11-304             153.05
11-305             153.06
11-306             153.07
11-307             153.08
11-308             153.09
11-309             153.10
11-310             153.11
11-311             153.12
11-312             153.13
11-313             153.14
11-314             153.99
11-315             153.15
11-316             153.16
11-317             153.17
11-319             153.18
11-320             153.19
11-321             153.02
11-401             154.01
11-402             154.02
11-501             154.03
11-601             154.99
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
438      7-30-1976   110.18
440      11-15-1976  110.18
452      5-7-1981    112.30
                     53.25 –
461      11-16-1981  53.28,
                     53.99
469      8-16-1982   30.009
470      8-16-1982   30.093
472      8-16-1982   30.095
473      8-16-1982   30.097
474      8-16-1982   30.098
475      8-16-1982   70.46
476      8-16-1982   70.45
477      8-16-1982   130.11
478      8-16-1982   130.12
479      8-16-1982   92.09
480      8-16-1982   92.08
481      8-16-1982   93.004
486      12-20-1982  30.048,
                     30.049
494      10-17-1983  31.07
495      10-17-1983  31.08
495A     11-22-1983  30.046
                     30.045,
496      12-19-1983  30.050-
                     30.053
497      12-19-1983  32.12
498      12-19-1983  54.01
499      12-19-1983  93.049
500      12-19-1983  93.050
501      12-19-1983  110.06 –
                     110.09
503      12-19-1983  70.46
504      12-19-1983  33.99
505      12-19-1983  30.009
506      6-18-1984   110.18
507      6-18-1984   30.046
                     53.25 –
512      5-20-1985   53.28,
                     53.99
519      10-21-1985  30.074
520      11-18-1985  51.02
521      5-12-1986   110.24
523      6-12-1986   110.23
524      6-12-1986   110.07
526      6-16-1986   110.18
528      9-15-1986   Ch. 73, Schd. II
530      2-16-1987   51.02
531      2-16-1987   90.20
539      5-16-1988   90.41
540      6-20-1988   152.05
                     53.25 –
546      10-18-1989  53.28,
                     53.99
547      11-20-1989  130.07
548      12-18-1989  110.18
549      1-15-1990   110.07
550      1-15-1990   110.23
551      1-15-1990   110.24
552      1-15-1990   90.15 –
                     90.19
                     50.03,
555      4-16-1990   51.03,
                     52.03
556      8-20-1990   94.03
562      1- -1991    30.005
558      1-21-1991   30.001
559      1-21-1991   30.004
560      1-21-1991   30.006
561      1-21-1991   151.06
564      1-21-1991   54.02
566      8-19-1991   130.13
568      10-21-1991  110.18
                     111.01,
569      11-8-1991   111.04,
                     111.05
571      5-19-1992   111.04,
                     111.05
572      6-15-1992   90.42
574      7-20-1992   130.07
577      10-19-1992  110.07
577      1-18-1993   51.45
580      7-19-1993   112.50
581      7-19-1993   112.51
584      8-30-1993   53.26,
                     53.27
590      5-16-1994   30.099
                     111.01,
591      6-20-1994   111.04,
                     111.05
                     50.03,
592      8-15-1994   51.03,
                     52.03
595      10-17-1994  110.25
597      12-19-1994  93.068
598      3-20-1995   30.050,
                     30.051
599      3-20-1995   31.06
600      3-20-1995   32.02
601      3-20-1995   32.07
602      3-20-1995   30.091
603      3-20-1995   35.02
605      3-20-1995   92.09
606      3-20-1995   93.009
607      3-20-1995   93.009
608      6-19-1995   130.07
612      2-19-1996   30.046
613      2-19-1996   32.01
614      2-19-1996   32.06
615      2-19-1996   32.09
616      2-19-1996   54.03
617      2-19-1996   93.004
618      2-19-1996   93.009
627      9-15-1997   112.15,
                     112.16
628      9-15-1997   31.06
629      9-15-1997   31.07
630      9-15-1997   31.09
631      9-15-1997   31.10
634      9-15-1997   30.054
635      9-15-1997   31.01
636      9-15-1997   31.02
637      11-17-1997  34.03
649      7-20-1998   30.006
650      7-20-1998   30.075
651      7-20-1998   32.03
652      7-20-1998   32.05
655      7-20-1998   32.24
656      7-20-1998   32.25
657      8-17-1998   32.20
658      8-17-1998   32.21
659      8-17-1998   32.12
660      8-17-1998   32.26
661      8-17-1998   30.091
664      10-19-1998  50.24
665      11-16-1998  50.23
666      11-16-1998  50.20
669      1-18-1999   50.25,
                     50.99
670      1-18-1999   30.055
671      4-19-1999   52.09
674      1-17-2000   112.15 –
                     112.17
675      2-21-2000   112.30 –
                     112.36
677      6-19-2000   130.08
678      7-14-2000   72.19
679      7-17-2000   150.05
653      7-20-2000   32.06
654      7-20-2000   32.10
                     50.03,
680      9-18-2000   51.03,
                     52.03
681      11-16-2000  51.08
682      11-20-2000  112.30 –
                     112.36
691      10-15-2001  30.056
692      10-15-2001  30.094
694      11-19-2001  32.24
695      11-19-2001  32.25
687      9-17-2001   30.076
689      9-17-2001   33.13
690      9-17-2001   32.03
700      10-21-2002  70.13,
                     70.99
702      10-21-2002  30.009
703      10-21-2002  30.053
697      6-17-2002   30.005
698      6-17-2002   30.024
                     153.01,
                     153.02,
710      11-17-2003  153.04-
                     153.19,
                     153.99
713      1-19-2004   30.007
714      1-19-2004   30.075
716      1-19-2004   30.076
717      1-19-2004   33.13
718      1-19-2004   32.03
719      1-19-2004   32.05
720      1-19-2004   32.04
721      1-19-2004   32.24
722      1-19-2004   32.26
723      1-19-2004   32.20
724      1-19-2004   54.03
725      1-19-2004   54.01
726      3-15-2004   52.03
727      6-21-2004   54.02
728      6-21-2004   30.092
729      6-21-2004   34.03
730      6-21-2004   35.02
731      6-21-2004   32.20
732      6-21-2004   93.004,
                     93.005
733      7-19-2004   50.26
734      8-16-2004   30.077
735      8-16-2004   30.076
736      8-16-2004   33.03,
                     33.04
737      8-16-2004   150.22
740      11-15-2004  113.01
739      1-17-2005   93.028
743      9-19-2005   90.21
710      11-17-2005  153.03
746      11-21-2005  153.06
747      11-21-2005  154.02
752      12-17-2007  112.51
753      11-17-2008  32.27
757      1-19-2009   51.08
754      2-16-2009   91.01 –
                      91.05
                     71.01 –
760      6-15-2009   71.04,
                     71.99
                     50.03,
761      6-15-2009   51.03,
                     52.03
763      8-20-2010   30.100
766      10-29-2010  30.100
767      12-15-2010  154.03
768      12-15-2010  154.01
2011-769 1-17-2011   154.01
2011-770 2-21-2011   30.100
2012-777 3-19-2012   51.08
2012-780 5-21-2012   50.27
2013-789 9-16-2013   30.055
                     50.03,
2014-795 4-21-2014   51.03,
                     52.03
2015-802 7-20-2015   130.14
2016-805 3-21-2016   52.08
2016-806 4-18-2016   50.15
2017-808 8-21-2017   52.17
2018-811 1-15-2018   53.09
2018-812 5-21-2018   50.10
2018-814 11-19-2018  TSO Table II
2019-815 1-21-2019   52.18
2019-816 1-21-2019   TSO Table I
2019-817 2-18-2019   TSO Table II
2019-819 9-16-2019   30.057
2020-821 2-17-2020   TSO Table II
                     93.090 –
2020-822 6-15-2020   93.094,
                     93.096 –
                     93.098
2020-825 9-21-2020   TSO I
2021-827 7-19-2021   93.090 –
                     93.098
2022-831 6-27-2022   50.10
2022-832 6-27-2022   51.08
2022-833 4-18-2022   30.091
2022-834 9-19-2022   53.09
2023-837 6-19-2023   50.10
2023-838 6-19-2023   51.08
2023-839 4-17-2023   54.04
2023-843 11-20-2023  52.08
2024-844 3-18-2024   52.09
                     114.01 –
2024-845 3-18-2024   114.09,
                     114.99
2024-847 11-18-2024  52.08
2024-848 9-16-2024   93.040 –
                     93.052
2024-852 12-16-2024  150.50 –
                     150.55
                    
 
 
