CITY OF BENNET, NEBRASKA
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2024 S-1 Supplement Contains:
Local Legislation current through Ordinance No. 2023-6.2, passed 6-12-2023
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street, Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Internet: http://www.amlegal.com
ADOPTING ORDINANCES
ORDINANCE NO. 2023-3.3
AN ORDINANCE OF THE CITY OF BENNET, LANCASTER COUNTY, NEBRASKA, TO ADOPT THE
CODE OF ORDINANCES FOR THE CITY OF BENNET, NEBRASKA; TO REPEAL THE PRIOR CODE;
TO REQUIRE FILINGS; TO PROVIDE FOR PUBLICATION; AND TO PROVIDE AN EFFECTIVE
DATE
BE IT ORDAINED BY THE MAYOR AND CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF BENNET, LANCASTER
COUNTY, NEBRASKA:
Section 1.   The general ordinances of the City of Bennet, Lancaster County,
Nebraska, are hereby revised, adopted, codified, and published as a Code of
Ordinances, composed of the following titles:
   TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
                           10. General Provisions
                           11. City Standards
   TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
                           30. City Council
                           31. Officials and Organizations
                           32. General Administrative Policies
                           33. Finance and Revenue
                           34. Taxation
   TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
                           50. Utilities, Generally
                           51. Garbage and Refuse
                           52. Water
                           53.   Sewer
   TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
                           70. General Provisions
                           71. Traffic Regulations
                           72. Parking Regulations
                           73. Recreational Vehicles
                           74. Traffic Schedules
   TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
                           90. Fire Prevention
                           91. Health and Safety
                           92. Sidewalks and Streets
                           93. Parks and Public Ways
                           94. Animals
   TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
                           110. Occupation Taxes
                           111. Solicitation
                           112. Liquor Control
                           113. Amusements and Leisure
                           
   TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
                           130. Offenses Generally
   TITLE XV: LAND USE
                           150. Building Codes and Regulations
                           151. Minimum Housing Code
                           152. Subdivisions
                           153. Zoning Code
Section 2.   The Code of Ordinances contains all of the provisions of a general
nature pertaining to the subjects enumerated. All prior ordinances pertaining
to such subjects are hereby repealed.
Section 3.   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other
ordinances pertaining to subjects not embraced in the Code of Ordinances,
including ordinances specified in this section, shall remain in effect unless
repealed expressly or by necessary implication:
            a.   Vacating or setting the boundaries of streets, alleys, or
other public places;
            b.   Annexing or detaching territory;
            c.   Granting or accepting easements, plats, or dedication of land
to public use;
            d.   Providing of the acquisition or conveyance of real or personal
property;
            e.   Authorizing or directing public improvements to be made;
            f.   Levying taxes or special assessments;
            g.   Appropriating money;
            h.   Granting franchise or special licenses;
            i.   Providing for the issuance of bonds or other instruments of
indebtedness..
Section 4.   All boards, commissions, councils, and other such bodies as
established in ordinances or resolutions adopted prior to the adoption of the
Code of Ordinances shall continue in existence and number of members unless
specifically amended in the Code of Ordinances or until an ordinance
abolishing, establishing, or otherwise changing such bodies is adopted or
amended. All fees and charges established in ordinances or resolutions adopted
prior to the adoption of the Code of Ordinances shall remain in effect unless
amended in the Code of Ordinances or until an ordinance adopting a schedule of
fees and charges is adopted or amended.
Section 5.   At least one copy of the Code of Ordinances shall be kept on file
in the Office of the City Clerk and available for inspection by members of the
public during the hours the office is open for the ordinary transaction of
business. The City may publish the Code of Ordinances on its website. The Clerk
shall file a copy of the Code of Ordinances with the County Court and the City
Attorney.
Section 6.   This ordinance shall take effect from and after its passage,
approval, and publication according to law.
Section 4.   Such Code shall be deemed published as of the day of its adoption
and approval by the Chairperson and Board of Trustees and the Clerk of the
Village of Murray, Cass County, Nebraska is hereby authorized and ordered to
file a copy of such Code of Ordinances in the Office of the Clerk.
Section 5.   Such Code shall be in full force and effect as provided in Section
6, and such Code shall be presumptive evidence in all courts and places of the
ordinance and all provisions, sections, penalties and regulations herein
contained and of the date of passage, and that the same if properly signed,
attested, recorded, and approved and that any public hearings and notices
thereof as required by law have been given.
Section 6.   This ordinance is declared to be an emergency measure necessary
for the immediate preservation of the peace, health, safety and general welfare
of the people of this municipality and shall take effect at the earliest date
provided by law.
PASSED AND APPROVED this 13th day of March 2023.
   Ryan Cheney /s/
   Mayor
ATTESTED AND PUBLISHED IN BOOK OR PAMPHLET FORM WITHIN FIFTEEN (15) DAYS OF
PASSAGE ON THE 13th DAY OF MARCH 2023.
Michele Lincoln /s/
City Clerk
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
11.   CITY STANDARDS
CHAPTER 10: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Interpretation
   
10.03   Application to future ordinances
   
10.04   Captions
   
10.05   Definitions
   
10.06   Rules of interpretation
   
10.07   Severability
   
10.08   Reference to other sections
   
10.09   Reference to offices
   
10.10   Errors and omissions
   
10.11   Official time
   
10.12   Reasonable time
   
10.13   Ordinances repealed
   
10.14   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.15   Repeal or modification of ordinance
   
10.16   Section histories; statutory references
   
10.17   Local changes to this code of ordinances
 
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01 TITLE OF CODE.
   This codification of ordinances shall be designated as the Bennet Code of
Ordinances and may be so cited.
§ 10.02 INTERPRETATION.
   Unless otherwise provided herein, or by law or implication required, the
same rules of construction, definition, and application shall govern the
interpretation of this code as those governing the interpretation of state law.
§ 10.03 APPLICATION TO FUTURE ORDINANCES.
   All provisions of Title I compatible with future legislation shall apply to
ordinances hereafter adopted amending or supplementing this code unless
otherwise specifically provided.
§ 10.04 CAPTIONS.
   Headings and captions used in this code other than the title, chapter, and
section numbers are employed for reference purposes only and shall not be
deemed a part of the text of any section.
§ 10.05 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   General rule. Words and phrases shall be taken in their plain, or
ordinary and usual sense. However, technical words and phrases having a
peculiar and appropriate meaning in law shall be understood according to their
technical import.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this code, the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      CITY, MUNICIPAL CORPORATION, or MUNICIPALITY. Bennet, Nebraska.
      CITY COUNCIL or GOVERNING BODY. The legislative body of the city.
      CODE, THIS CODE, or THIS CODE OF ORDINANCES. This city code as modified
by amendment, revision, and adoption of new titles, chapters, or sections.
      COUNTY. Lancaster County, Nebraska.
      MAY. The act referred to is permissive.
      MONTH. A calendar month.
      OATH. Includes an affirmation in all cases in which, by law, an
affirmation may be substituted for an oath, and in such cases the words SWEAR
and SWORN shall be equivalent to the words AFFIRM and AFFIRMED.
      OFFICER, OFFICE, EMPLOYEE, COMMISSION, or DEPARTMENT. An officer, office,
employee, commission, or department of this city unless the context clearly
requires otherwise.
      PERSON. Includes bodies politic and corporate, societies, communities,
the public generally, individuals, partnerships, limited liability companies,
joint-stock companies, and associations.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. 49-801(16))
      PRECEDING or FOLLOWING. Next before or next after, respectively.
      SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory.
      SIGNATURE or SUBSCRIPTION. Includes a mark when the person cannot write.
      STATE. The State of Nebraska.
      SUBCHAPTER. A division of a chapter, designated in this code by a heading
in the chapter analysis and a capitalized heading in the body of the chapter,
setting apart a group of sections related by the subject matter of the heading.
Not all chapters have SUBCHAPTERS.
      WRITTEN. Any representation of words, letters, or figures, whether by
printing or otherwise.
      YEAR. A calendar year, unless otherwise expressed.
§ 10.06 RULES OF INTERPRETATION.
   The construction of all ordinances of this city shall be by the following
rules, unless that construction is plainly repugnant to the intent of the Mayor
and City Council or of the context of the same ordinance.
   (A)   AND or OR. Either conjunction shall include the other as if written
“and/or,” if the sense requires it.
   (B)   Acts by assistants. When a statute or ordinance requires an act to be
done which, by law, an agent or deputy as well may do as the principal, the
requisition shall be satisfied by the performance of the act by an authorized
agent or deputy.
   (C)   Gender; singular and plural; tenses. Words denoting the masculine
gender shall be deemed to include the feminine and neuter genders; words in the
singular shall include the plural, and words in the plural shall include the
singular; the use of a verb in the present tense shall include the future, if
applicable.
   (D)   General term. A general term following specific enumeration of terms
is not to be limited to the class enumerated unless expressly so limited.
§ 10.07 SEVERABILITY.
   If any provision of this code as now or later amended or its application to
any person or circumstance is held invalid, the invalidity does not affect
other provisions that can be given effect without the invalid provision or
application.
§ 10.08 REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   Whenever a section refers to another section hereof, that reference shall
extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently amended, revised,
recodified, or renumbered unless the subject matter is materially altered by
the amendment or revision.
§ 10.09 REFERENCE TO OFFICES.
   Reference to a public office or officer shall be deemed to apply to any
office, officer, or employee of this city exercising the powers, duties, or
functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any transfer of
functions or change in the official title of the functionary.
§ 10.10 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error is discovered, consisting of the misspelling of any
words; the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention of
the provisions affected; the use of a word or words to which no meaning can be
attached; or the use of a word or words when another word or words was clearly
intended to express the intent, the spelling shall be corrected and the word or
words supplied, omitted, or substituted as will conform with the manifest
intention, and the provisions shall have the same effect as though the correct
words were contained in the text as originally published. No alteration shall
be made or permitted if any question exists regarding the nature or extent of
the error.
§ 10.11 OFFICIAL TIME.
   The official time, as established by applicable state/federal laws, shall be
the official time within the city for the transaction of all city business.
§ 10.12 REASONABLE TIME.
   (A)   In all cases where an ordinance requires an act to be done in a
reasonable time or requires reasonable notice to be given, REASONABLE TIME OR
NOTICE shall be deemed to mean the time which is necessary for a prompt
performance of the act or the giving of the notice.
   (B)   The time within which an act is to be done, as herein provided, shall
be computed by excluding the first day and including the last. If the last day
is Sunday, it shall be excluded.
§ 10.13 ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   This code contains all of the provisions of a general nature pertaining to
the subjects enumerated and embraced in this code. All prior ordinances
pertaining to the subjects treated by this code are repealed, except that
nothing shall affect any rights acquired under, actions involving, or fines,
penalties, forfeitures, or liabilities incurred pursuant to those ordinances
prior to repeal.
§ 10.14 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not embraced in this code, including ordinances
specified in this section, shall remain in full force and effect unless
repealed expressly or by necessary implication:
   (A)   Vacating or setting the boundaries of streets, alleys, or other public
places;
   (B)   Annexing or detaching territory;
   (C)   Granting or accepting easements, plats, or dedication of land to
public use;
   (D)   Providing for the acquisition or conveyance of real or personal
property;
   (E)   Authorizing or directing public improvements to be made;
   (F)   Levying taxes or special assessments;
   (G)   Appropriating money;
   (H)   Granting franchises or special licenses; or
   (I)   Providing for the issuance of bonds or other instruments of
indebtedness.
§ 10.15 REPEAL OR MODIFICATION OF ORDINANCE.
   (A)   Whenever any ordinance or part of an ordinance is repealed or modified
by a subsequent ordinance, the ordinance or part of an ordinance thus repealed
or modified shall continue in force until the publication of the ordinance
repealing or modifying it to give effect thereto.
   (B)   No suit, proceedings, right, liability, fine, forfeiture, or penalty
instituted, created, given, secured, or accrued under any ordinance previous to
its repeal shall in any way be affected, released, or discharged, but may be
prosecuted, enjoyed, and recovered as fully as if the ordinance had continued
in force, unless it is otherwise expressly provided.
   (C)   When any ordinance repealing a former ordinance, clause, or provision
is itself repealed, the repeal shall not be construed to revive the former
ordinance, clause, or provision, unless it is expressly provided.
Statutory reference:
   Requirements for amendments and revisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 17-614
§ 10.16 SECTION HISTORIES; STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   A statutory cite included in the history indicates that the text of
the section reads substantially the same as the statute. Example: (Neb. Rev.
Stat. 18-132)
   (B)   A statutory cite set forth as a “statutory reference” following the
text of the section indicates that the reader should refer to that statute for
further information. Example:
      § 39.01 PUBLIC RECORDS AVAILABLE.
         This municipality shall make available to any person for inspection or
      copying all public records, unless otherwise exempted by state law.
      Statutory reference:
         Inspection of public records, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 84-712 et seq.
§ 10.17 LOCAL CHANGES TO THIS CODE OF ORDINANCES.
   Any provision of this code of ordinances may be repealed, modified or
superseded by an ordinance passed by the City Council.
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who violates any of the provisions of this city code,
unless otherwise specifically provided herein, shall be deemed guilty of an
offense and upon conviction thereof shall be fined in any sum not exceeding
$500. A new violation shall be deemed to have been committed every 24 hours of
failure to comply with the provisions of this code.
   (B)   (1)   Whenever a nuisance exists as defined in Title IX of this code,
the city may proceed by a suit in equity to enjoin and abate the same, in the
manner provided by law. This code allows for administrative abatement of
nuisances.
      (2)   Whenever, in any action, it is established that a nuisance exists,
the court may, together with the fine or penalty imposed, enter an order of
abatement as a part of the judgment in the case.
Statutory reference:
   Authority to abate nuisances, see Neb. Rev. Stat. and 18-1722
   Authority to impose fines, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 17-505
CHAPTER 11: CITY STANDARDS
Section
   
11.01   Official Corporate Seal
   
11.02   City limits
§ 11.01 OFFICIAL CORPORATE SEAL.
   (A)   There shall be owned by the city and kept in the office of the City
Clerk/Treasurer a common seal of the corporation having engraved thereon the
words “Bennet, Lancaster County, Nebraska, City Seal.”
   (B)   The City Clerk/Treasurer shall affix an impression of the official
seal to all warrants, licenses, ordinances, and other papers issued by order of
the City Council and countersigned by the Clerk/Treasurer.
(Prior Code, § 11.01)
§ 11.02 CITY LIMITS.
   (A)   As used in this code, the terms CITY LIMITS, CORPORATE LIMITS OF THE
CITY, and all similar terms shall mean the area included within the boundaries
of the original City of Bennet plus all other areas added by annexation or
otherwise.
   (B)   There shall be kept in the office of the City Clerk/Treasurer one or
more maps which shall show all areas which are located within the city limits.
The map or maps shall be kept available for public inspection during regular
business hours at the City Hall.
(Prior Code, § 11.02)
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   ELECTED OFFICIALS; ORDINANCES
      
31.   APPOINTED CITY OFFICIALS
      
32.   DEPARTMENTS, BOARDS, AND COMMISSIONS
      
33.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
34.   FINANCE AND REVENUE
CHAPTER 30: ELECTED OFFICIALS; ORDINANCES
Section
Mayor
   
30.01   Election; qualifications; term
   
30.02   Powers and duties
   
30.03   Vacancy
City Council
   
30.15   Election; qualifications; terms
   
30.16   President; Acting President
   
30.17   Standing committees
   
30.18   Vacancy; general provisions
   
30.19   Vacancy due to unexcused absences
Ordinances, Resolutions, and Motions
   
30.40   Grant of power
   
30.41   Introduction of ordinances
   
30.42   Procedure for resolutions and motions
   
30.43   Ordinances; style, title
   
30.44   Reading and passage of ordinances, resolutions, orders, bylaws
   
30.45   Publication or posting
   
30.46   Certificate of publication or posting
   
30.47   Effective date; emergency ordinances
   
30.48   Amendments and revisions
MAYOR
§ 30.01 ELECTION; QUALIFICATIONS; TERM.
   (A)   (1)   The Mayor shall be elected as provided in the Election Act. The
Mayor shall take office on the date of the first regular meeting of the City
Council held in December following the statewide general election.
      (2)   The Mayor shall be a resident and registered voter of the city.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. 17-107)
   (B)   The Mayor shall serve for a term of four years or until his or her
successor is elected and qualified.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. 32-533)
§ 30.02 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   (1)   The Mayor shall preside at all meetings of the City Council.
      (2)   The Mayor may vote when his or her vote would provide the
additional vote required to attain the number of votes equal to a majority of
the number of members elected to the City Council on any pending matter,
legislation, or transaction, and the Mayor shall, for the purpose of such vote,
be deemed to be a member of the City Council. He or she shall have
superintendence and control of all the officers and affairs of the city, and
shall take care that the ordinances of the city and all laws governing cities
of the second class are complied with.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. 17-110)
   (B)   (1)   The Mayor shall have the power to veto or sign any ordinance
passed by the City Council and to approve or veto any order, bylaw, resolution,
award of or vote to enter into any contract, or the allowance of any claim.
      (2)   If the Mayor approves the ordinance, order, bylaw, resolution,
contract, or claim, he or she shall sign it, and it shall become effective.
      (3)   If the Mayor vetoes the ordinance, order, bylaw, resolution,
contract, or any item or items of appropriations or claims, he or she shall
return it to the City Council stating that the measure is vetoed.
      (4)   The Mayor may issue the veto at the meeting at which the measure
passed or within seven calendar days after the meeting.
      (5)   If the Mayor issues the veto after the meeting, the Mayor shall
notify the City Clerk of the veto in writing. The City Clerk shall notify the
City Council in writing of the Mayor’s veto.
      (6)   Any order, bylaw, resolution, award of or vote to enter into any
contract, or the allowance of any claim vetoed by the Mayor may be passed over
his or her veto by a vote of two-thirds of the members of the City Council.
      (7)   If the Mayor neglects or refuses to sign any ordinance, order,
bylaw, resolution, award of or vote to enter into any contract, or the
allowance of any claim, but fails to veto the measure within the time required
by this section, the measure shall become effective without his or her
signature.
      (8)   The Mayor may veto any item or items of any appropriation bill or
any claims bill, and approve the remainder thereof, and the item or items
vetoed may be passed by the City Council over the veto as in other cases.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. 17-111)
   (C)   The Mayor shall, from time to time, communicate to the City Council
such information and recommend such measures as, in his or her opinion, may
tend to the improvement of the finances, the police, health, security,
ornament, comfort, and general prosperity of the city.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. 17-112)
   (D)   The Mayor shall have the power, when he or she deems it necessary, to
require any officer of the city to exhibit his or her accounts or other papers,
and to make reports to the City Council, in writing, touching any subject or
matter pertaining to his or her office.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. 17-113)
   (E)   The Mayor shall have such jurisdiction as may be vested in him or her
by ordinance, over all places within five miles of the corporate limits of the
city, for the enforcement of any health or quarantine ordinance and regulation
thereof, and shall have jurisdiction in all matters vested in him or her by
ordinance, excepting taxation, within the extraterritorial zoning jurisdiction
of the city.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. 17-114)
   (F)   The Mayor shall have the power to remit fines and forfeitures, and to
grant reprieves and pardons for all offenses arising under the ordinances of
the city.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. 17-117)
   (G)   The Mayor shall hold no other elective or appointive office or
employment with the city.
   (H)   The Mayor shall sign the City Clerk’s minutes of all meetings of the
City Council, and he or she shall sign all resolutions that have been passed
and warrants for the payment of money when ordered by the City Council.
   (I)   The Mayor shall have such other duties as are reposed in the Mayor by
the laws of the state or as the City Council may by resolution confer upon the
Mayor.
Statutory reference:
   Restrictions on holding other office or employment, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 17-
108.02, 32-109, 32-603, and 32-604
§ 30.03 VACANCY.
   (A)   The office of Mayor shall be vacant upon the happening of any of the
events specified in Neb. Rev. Stat. 32-560 except as provided in Neb. Rev.
Stat. 32-561.
   (B)   (1)   In case of any vacancy in the office of Mayor, or in case of his
or her disability or absence, the President of the City Council shall exercise
the office of Mayor for the unexpired term, until such disability is removed,
or in case of temporary absence, until the Mayor returns.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. 32-568)
      (2)   If the President of the City Council assumes the office of Mayor
for the unexpired term, there shall be a vacancy on the City Council.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. 17-107, 32-568)
Statutory reference:
   Additional and similar provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 32-560 through 32-572
   Ineligibility of person subjected to recall, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 32-1308
CITY COUNCIL
§ 30.15 ELECTION; QUALIFICATIONS; TERMS.
   (A)   The City Council shall consist of not less than four nor more than 12
residents of the city who are registered voters.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. 17-103)
   (B)   All City Council members shall be nominated and elected on a
nonpartisan ballot unless the city provides for a partisan ballot by ordinance.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. 32-557)
   (C)   If members of the City Council are not elected at large:
      (1)   Unless the city elects City Council members at large as provided in
Neb. Rev. Stat. 32-554, the city shall be divided into not less than two nor
more than six wards, as provided by ordinance of the City Council. Each ward
shall contain, as nearly as practicable, an equal portion of the population;
(Neb. Rev. Stat. 17-102)
      (2)   Unless the city elects City Council members at large as provided in
Neb. Rev. Stat. 32-554, each ward of the city shall have at least two City
Council members elected in the manner provided in the Election Act. No person
shall be eligible to the office of City Council member who is not at the time
of the election an actual resident of the ward for which he or she is elected
and a registered voter; and
(Neb. Rev. Stat. 17-104)
      (3)   Such wards shall be substantially equal in population as determined
by the most recent federal decennial census.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. 32-553)
   (D)   The term of office shall begin on the first regular meeting of the
City Council in December following the statewide general election.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. 17-104)
   (E)   Members of the City Council shall serve for terms of four years or
until their successors are elected and qualified.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. 32-533)
   (F)   (1)   If the city operates under a city manager plan, members of the
City Council shall be residents and registered voters of the city and shall
hold no other employment with the city.
      (2)   Any City Council member who ceases to possess any of the
qualifications required by this section or who has been convicted of a felony
or of any public offense involving the violation of the oath of office of such
member while in office shall forthwith forfeit such office.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. 19-613)
Statutory reference:
   Ability to elect council members at large or by ward, see Neb. Rev. Stat.
32-554
   Election Act, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 32-101
   Other requirements for wards, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 32-552 and 32-553
   Restrictions on holding other office or employment, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 17-
108.02, 32-109, 32-603, 32-604
§ 30.16 PRESIDENT; ACTING PRESIDENT.
   (A)   The City Council shall elect one of its own body who shall be styled
the President of the City Council and who shall preside at all meetings of the
City Council in the absence of the Mayor.
   (B)   In the absence of the President, the City Council shall elect one of
its own body to occupy his or her place temporarily, who shall be styled Acting
President of the City Council.
   (C)   The President, and Acting President, when occupying the place of the
Mayor, shall have the same privileges as other members of the City Council; and
all acts of the President or Acting President, while so acting, shall be as
binding upon the City Council and upon the city as if done by the Mayor.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. 17-148)
§ 30.17 STANDING COMMITTEES.
   (A)   The following standing committees are to be established:
      (1)   Personnel Committee;
      (2)   Finance Committee;
      (3)   Street Committee:
      (4)   Utility Committee;
      (5)   Parks Committee; and
      (6)   Housing Committee.
   (B)   The Mayor shall appoint two members of the City Council to standing
committees for the term of one year, unless reappointed. The membership of such
standing committees may be changed at any time by the Mayor. The Mayor shall be
an ex officio member of each standing committee.
(Ord. 2022-12.1, passed 12-12-2022)
§ 30.18 VACANCY; GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   The office of member of the City Council shall be vacant upon the
happening of any of the events specified in Neb. Rev. Stat. 32-560 except as
provided in Neb. Rev. Stat. 32-561.
   (B)   Any vacancy on the City Council shall be filled as provided in
division (C) below.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. 32-568)
   (C)   (1)   (a)   Except as otherwise provided in divisions (C)(2) or (C)(3)
below or §
30.03, vacancies in city elective offices shall be filled by the Mayor and City
Council for the balance of the unexpired term. Notice of a vacancy, except a
vacancy resulting from the death of the incumbent, shall be in writing and
presented to the City Council at a regular or special meeting and shall appear
as a part of the minutes of such meeting. The City Council shall at once give
public notice of the vacancy by causing to be published in a newspaper of
general circulation within the city or by posting in three public places in the
city the office vacated and the length of the unexpired term.
         (b)   The Mayor shall call a special meeting of the City Council or
place the issue of filling such vacancy on the agenda at the next regular
meeting at which time the Mayor shall submit the name of a qualified registered
voter to fill the vacancy for the balance of the unexpired term. The regular or
special meeting shall occur upon the death of the incumbent or within four
weeks after the meeting at which such notice of vacancy has been presented.
         (c)   The City Council shall vote upon the nominee, and if a majority
votes in favor of the nominee, the vacancy shall be declared filled. If the
nominee fails to receive a majority of the votes, the nomination shall be
rejected and the Mayor shall, at the next regular or special meeting, submit
the name of another qualified registered voter to fill the vacancy. If the
subsequent nominee fails to receive a majority of the votes, the Mayor shall
continue at that meeting to submit the names of qualified registered voters in
nomination and the City Council shall continue to vote upon the nominations at
such meeting until the vacancy is filled. The Mayor shall cast his or her vote
for or against the nominee in case of a tie vote of the City Council. All City
Council members present shall cast a ballot for or against the nominee. Any
member of the City Council who has been appointed to fill a vacancy on the City
Council shall have the same rights, including voting, as if that person were
elected.
      (2)   The Mayor and City Council may, in lieu of filling a vacancy in a
city elected office as provided in division (C)(1) above, call a special city
election to fill such vacancy.
      (3)   If vacancies exist in the offices of one-half or more of the
members of the City Council, the Secretary of State shall conduct a special
city election to fill such vacancies.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. 32-569)
Statutory reference:
   Additional and similar provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 32-560 through 32-572
   Ineligibility of person subjected to recall, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 32-1308
§ 30.19 VACANCY DUE TO UNEXCUSED ABSENCES.
   (A)   In addition to the events listed in Neb. Rev. Stat. 32-560 and any
other reasons for a vacancy provided by law, after notice and a hearing, a
vacancy on the City Council shall exist if a member is absent from more than
five consecutive regular meetings of the City Council unless the absences are
excused by a majority vote of the remaining members.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. 19-3101)
   (B)   The City Council shall take a vote on whether to excuse a member’s
absence from a meeting upon either:
      (1)   A written request from the member submitted to the City Clerk; or
      (2)   A motion of any other City Council member.
   (C)   (1)   If a City Council member has been absent from six consecutive
regular meetings and none of the absences have been excused by a majority vote
of the remaining members, the City Clerk shall include this as an item on the
agenda for the next regular meeting.
      (2)   At that meeting, the City Council shall set a date for a hearing
and direct the City Clerk to give the member notice of the hearing by personal
service or first class mail to the member’s last known address.
   (D)   (1)   At the hearing, the City Council member shall have the right to
present information on why one or more of the absences should be excused.
      (2)   If the City Council does not excuse one or more of the member’s
absences by a majority vote at the conclusion of the hearing, there shall be a
vacancy on the City Council.
ORDINANCES, RESOLUTIONS, AND MOTIONS
§ 30.40 GRANT OF POWER.
   In addition to its special powers specifically granted by law, the city
shall have the power to make all ordinances, bylaws, rules, regulations, and
resolutions, not inconsistent with the laws of the state, as may be expedient
for maintaining the peace, good government, and welfare of the city and its
trade, commerce, and manufactories, and to enforce all ordinances by inflicting
fines or penalties for the breach thereof, not exceeding $500 for any one
offense, recoverable with costs.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. 17-505)
Cross-reference:
   Ordinances repealed, see §
10.13
   Ordinances unaffected, see §
10.14
   Repeal or modification of ordinance, see §
10.15
Statutory reference:
   Adoption of standard codes, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 18-132 and 19-922
   Prosecution in county court, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 25-2703
§ 30.41 INTRODUCTION OF ORDINANCES.
   Unless the City Council provides otherwise, ordinances shall be introduced
by members of the City Council in one of the following ways.
   (A)   With the recognition of the Mayor, a member may, in the presence and
hearing of a majority of the members elected to the City Council, read aloud
the substance of the proposed ordinance and file a copy with the City Clerk for
future consideration.
   (B)   With the recognition of the Mayor, a member may present the proposed
ordinance to the City Clerk, who, in the presence and hearing of a majority of
the members elected to the City Council, shall read aloud the substance of the
ordinance and file it for future consideration.
§ 30.42 PROCEDURE FOR RESOLUTIONS AND MOTIONS.
   (A)   Unless the City Council provides otherwise, resolutions and motions
shall be introduced in one of the methods prescribed in §
30.46 for the introduction of ordinances.
   (B)   The issue raised by the resolution or motion shall be disposed of in
accordance with the usage of parliamentary law adopted for the guidance of the
City Council.
   (C)   A majority vote shall be required to pass any resolution or motion.
   (D)   The vote on any resolution or motion shall be by roll call vote.
§ 30.43 ORDINANCES; STYLE, TITLE.
   (A)   Style. The style of all city ordinances shall be: “Be it ordained by
the Mayor and Council of the City of Bennet, Nebraska:….”
(Neb. Rev. Stat. 17-613)
   (B)   Title. No ordinance shall contain a subject which is not clearly
expressed in the title.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. 17-614)
§ 30.44 READING AND PASSAGE OF ORDINANCES, RESOLUTIONS, ORDERS, BYLAWS.
   (A)   (1)   All ordinances and resolutions or orders for the appropriation
or payment of money shall require for their passage or adoption the concurrence
of a majority of all members elected to the City Council. The Mayor may vote
when his or her vote would provide the additional vote required to attain the
number of votes equal to a majority of the number of members elected to the
City Council, and the Mayor shall, for the purpose of such vote, be deemed to
be a member of the City Council.
      (2)   Ordinances of a general or permanent nature shall be read by title
on three different days unless three-fourths of the City Council vote to
suspend this requirement. Such requirement shall not be suspended for any
ordinance for the annexation of territory, or the redrawing of boundaries for
City Council election districts or wards, or as otherwise provided in Neb. Rev.
Stat. 17-614(3) or as otherwise provided by law.
      (3)   In case this requirement is suspended, the ordinance shall be read
by title and then moved for final passage.
      (4)   Three-fourths of the City Council may require a reading of any such
ordinance in full before enactment under either procedure set out in this
section.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. 17-614)
   (B)   (1)   On the passage or adoption of every bylaw or ordinance, and
every resolution or order to enter into a contract by the City Council, the
yeas and nays shall be called and recorded.
      (2)   To pass or adopt any bylaw, ordinance, or any such resolution or
order, a concurrence of a majority of the whole number of members elected to
the City Council shall be required.
      (3)   All appointments of the officers by the City Council shall be made
viva voce, and the concurrence of a like majority shall be required, and the
names of those, and for whom they voted, on the vote resulting in an
appointment, shall be recorded.
      (4)   The requirements of a roll call or viva voce vote shall be
satisfied by a city which utilizes an electronic voting device which allows the
yeas and nays of each member of the City Council to be readily seen by the
public.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. 17-616)
Statutory reference:
   Adjustments to boundaries of election districts, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 17-614
§ 30.45 PUBLICATION OR POSTING.
   All ordinances of a general nature shall, before they take effect, be
published one time, within 15 days after they are passed:
   (A)   In newspaper in or of general circulation in the city; or
   (B)   In book, pamphlet, or electronic form.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. 17-613)
Statutory reference:
   Additional provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 18-131
§ 30.46 CERTIFICATE OF PUBLICATION OR POSTING.
   The passage, approval, and publication or posting of an ordinance shall be
sufficiently proved by a certificate under the seal of the city from the City
Clerk showing that the ordinance was passed and approved, and when and in what
paper the ordinance was published, or when and by whom and where the ordinance
was posted.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. 17-613)
Statutory reference:
   Passage; rules and regulations, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 17-615
§ 30.47 EFFECTIVE DATE; EMERGENCY ORDINANCES.
   (A)   Except as provided in §
30.45 and division (B) below, an ordinance for the government of the city which
has been adopted by the City Council without submission to the voters of the
city shall not go into effect until 15 days after the passage of the ordinance.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. 19-3701)
   (B)   In the case of riot, infectious or contagious diseases, or other
impending danger, failure of a public utility, or any other emergency requiring
its immediate operation, an ordinance shall take effect upon the proclamation
of the Mayor and the posting thereof in at least three of the most public
places in the city. The emergency ordinance shall recite the emergency, be
passed by a three-fourths’ vote of the City Council, and be entered of record
on the City Clerk’s minutes.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. 17-613)
§ 30.48 AMENDMENTS AND REVISIONS.
   No ordinance or section thereof shall be revised or amended unless the new
ordinance contains the entire ordinance or section as revised or amended and
the ordinance or section so amended is repealed, except that an ordinance
revising all the ordinances of the city and modifications to zoning or building
districts may be adopted as otherwise provided by law.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. 17-614)
Statutory reference:
   Modifications to zoning or building districts, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 19-915
   Ordinances revising all the ordinances of the city, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 17-
614
   Requests to detach property from city or village, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 17-614
CHAPTER 31: APPOINTED CITY OFFICIALS
Section
   
31.01   Appointment; terms; removal; powers; duties
   
31.02   Qualification for office
   
31.03   Merger of offices
   
31.04   City Clerk
   
31.05   City Treasurer
   
31.06   City Attorney
   
31.07   Water Commissioner/Public Works Commissioner
   
31.08   Sewer Commissioner
   
31.09   City Engineer; Special Engineer
§ 31.01 APPOINTMENT; TERMS; REMOVAL; POWERS; DUTIES.
   (A)   (1)   The Mayor, with the consent of the City Council, may appoint
such officers as shall be required by ordinance or otherwise required by law.
Such officers may be removed from office by the Mayor.
      (2)   The terms of office for all officers, except regular police
officers, appointed by the Mayor and confirmed by the City Council shall be
established by the City Council by ordinance. The ordinance shall provide that
either:
         (a)   The officers hold the office to which they have been appointed
until the end of the Mayor’s term of office and until their successors are
appointed and qualified unless sooner removed; or
         (b)   The officers hold office for one year unless sooner removed.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. 17-107)
   (B)   (1)   The city may enact ordinances or bylaws to regulate and
prescribe the powers and duties of officers not provided for in state law.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. 17-604)
      (2)   If the Mayor and City Council appoint any of the officials
specified in this chapter or any other officials, the officials shall have the
powers and duties, if any, provided in this chapter or as otherwise provided by
city ordinances and state law.
§ 31.02 QUALIFICATION FOR OFFICE.
   Each appointive officer who is required to give bond shall qualify by filing
the required bond and oath as provided in §§
33.25 and
33.26. Each appointive officer who is not required to give bond shall qualify
by filing the required oath as provided in §
33.26.
§ 31.03 MERGER OF OFFICES.
   (A)   The City Council may at its discretion by ordinance combine and merge
any elective or appointive office or employment or any combination of duties of
any such offices or employments, except Mayor and City Council member, with any
other elective or appointive office or employment so that one or more of such
offices or employments or any combination of duties of any such offices or
employments may be held by the same officer or employee at the same time.
   (B)   The offices or employments so merged and combined shall always be
construed to be separate, and the effect of the combination or merger shall be
limited to a consolidation of official duties only.
   (C)   The salary or compensation of the officer or employee holding the
merged and combined offices or employments or offices and employments shall not
be in excess of the maximum amount provided by law for the salary or
compensation of the office, offices, employment, or employments so merged and
combined.
   (D)   For purposes of this section, volunteer firefighters and ambulance
drivers shall not be considered officers.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. 17-108.02)
§ 31.04 CITY CLERK.
   (A)   The City Clerk shall have the custody of all laws and ordinances and
shall keep a correct journal of the proceedings of the City Council. After the
period of time specified by the State Records Administrator pursuant to the
Records Management Act, the City Clerk may transfer the journal of the
proceedings of the City Council to the State Archives of the State Historical
Society for permanent preservation. The City Clerk shall also perform such
other duties as may be required by the ordinances of the city. If the City
Clerk is acting as the Treasurer, he or she shall also comply with the
requirements of §
31.05(A)(3).
(Neb. Rev. Stat. 17-605)
   (B)   (1)   It shall be the duty of the City Clerk to prepare and publish
the official proceedings of the City Council within 30 days after any meeting
of the City Council. The publication shall be in a newspaper of general
circulation in the city, shall set forth a statement of the proceedings of the
meeting, and shall also include the amount of each claim allowed, the purpose
of the claim, and the name of the claimant, except that the aggregate amount of
all payroll claims may be included as one item. Between July 15 and August 15
of each year, the employee job titles and the current annual, monthly, or
hourly salaries corresponding to such job titles shall be published. Each job
title published shall be descriptive and indicative of the duties and functions
of the position. The charge for the publication shall not exceed the rates
provided for in Neb. Rev. Stat. 23-122.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. 19-1102)
      (2)   Publication under division (B)(1) above shall be made in one legal
newspaper of general circulation in the city. If no legal newspaper is
published in the city, then the publication shall be made in one legal
newspaper published or of general circulation within the county in which the
city is located. The cost of publication shall be paid out of the General Funds
of the city.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. 19-1103)
   (C)   The City Clerk shall dispose of or destroy city public records when
the records have been determined to be of no further legal, administrative,
fiscal, or historical value by the State Records Administrator pursuant to the
Records Management Act. This shall not apply to the minutes of the City Clerk
and the permanent ordinance and resolution books, or any other record
classified as permanent by the State Records Administrator.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. 18-1701)
   (D)   (1)   The City Clerk shall permit any person to examine and copy the
public records in the City Clerk’s custody, and may charge a fee for providing
copies of a public record, as provided in Neb. Rev. Stat. 84-712 through 84-
712.09.
      (2)   The City Clerk may charge a reasonable fee for certified copies of
any record in his or her office as set by resolution of the City Council.
   (E)   (1)   The City Clerk shall permit no records, public papers, or other
documents of the city kept and preserved in his or her office to be taken
therefrom, except by such officers of the city as may be entitled to the use of
the same, but only upon their leaving a receipt therefor, and except pursuant
to Neb. Rev. Stat. 84-712(2).
      (2)   He or she shall keep all the records of his or her office,
including a record of all licenses issued by him or her, in a blank book with a
proper index. He or she shall include as part of his or her records all
petitions under which the City Council shall order public work to be done at
the expense of the property fronting thereon, together with references to all
resolutions and ordinances relating to the same.
      (3)   He or she shall endorse the date and hour of filing upon every
paper or document so filed in his or her office. All such filings made by him
or her shall be properly docketed. Included in his or her records shall be all
standard codes, amendments thereto, and other documents incorporated by
reference and arranged in triplicate in a manner convenient for reference.
      (4)   He or she shall keep an accurate and complete account of the
appropriation of the several funds and draw, sign, and attest all warrants
ordered for the payment of money on the particular fund from which the same is
payable. At the end of each month, he or she shall then make a report of the
amounts appropriated to the various funds and the amount of the warrants drawn
thereon.
   (F)   The City Clerk shall deliver all warrants, ordinances, and resolutions
under his or her charge to the Mayor for his or her signature. He or she shall
also deliver to officers, employees, and committees all resolutions and
communications which are directed at such officers, employees, or committees.
With the seal of the city, he or she shall duly attest the Mayor’s signature to
all ordinances, deeds, and papers required to be attested to when ordered to do
so by the City Council.
   (G)   The City Clerk shall issue and sign all licenses, permits, and
occupation tax receipts authorized by law and required by the city ordinances.
He or she shall collect all occupation taxes and license money, except where
some other city officer is specifically charged with that duty. He or she shall
keep a register of all licenses granted in the city and the purpose for which
they have been issued.
   (H)   (1)   The City Clerk shall keep in a book with a proper index, copies
of all notices required to be published or posted by the City Clerk by order of
the City Council or under the ordinances of the city.
      (2)   To each of the file copies of the notices shall be attached the
printer’s affidavit of publication, if the notices are required to be
published, or the City Clerk’s certificate under seal where the same are
required to be posted only.
   (I)   The City Clerk shall receive all objections to creation of paving
districts and other street improvements. He or she shall receive the claims of
any person against the city, and in the event that the claim is disallowed in
part or in whole, the City Clerk shall notify the claimant or his or her agent
or attorney by letter within five days after the disallowance, and the City
Clerk shall then prepare transcripts on appeals of any disallowance of a claim
in all proper cases.
§ 31.05 CITY TREASURER.
   (A)   (1)   The City Treasurer shall be the custodian of all money belonging
to the city. He or she shall keep a separate account of each fund or
appropriation and the debts and credits belonging thereto. He or she shall give
every person paying money into the treasury a receipt therefor, specifying the
date of payment and on what account paid. He or she shall also file copies of
such receipts with his or her monthly reports. The Treasurer shall, at the end
of every month, and as often as may be required, render an account to the City
Council, under oath, showing the state of the treasury at the date of such
account and the balance of money in the treasury. He or she shall also
accompany such accounts with a statement of all receipts and disbursements,
together with all warrants redeemed and paid by him or her, which warrants,
with any and all vouchers held by him or her, shall be filed with his or her
account in the City Clerk’s office. If the Treasurer fails to render his or her
account within 20 days after the end of the month, or by a later date
established by the City Council, the Mayor may use this failure as cause to
remove the Treasurer from office.
      (2)   The Treasurer shall keep a record of all outstanding bonds against
the city, showing the number and amount of each bond, for and to whom the bonds
were issued, and the date upon which any bond is purchased, paid, or canceled.
The Treasurer shall accompany the annual statement submitted pursuant to Neb.
Rev. Stat. 19-1101 with a description of the bonds issued and sold in that year
and the terms of sale, with every item of expense thereof.
      (3)   The Treasurer shall annually complete continuing education through
a program approved by the Auditor of Public Accounts, and proof of completion
of such program shall be submitted to the Auditor of Public Accounts.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. 17-606)
   (B)   (1)   The Treasurer shall prepare and publish annually within 60 days
after the close of the city fiscal year a statement of the receipts and
expenditures of funds of the city for the preceding fiscal year. The statement
shall also include the information required by Neb. Rev. Stat. 16-318(3) or
Neb. Rev. Stat. 17-606(2). Not more than the legal rate provided for in Neb.
Rev. Stat. 33-141 shall be charged and paid for such publication.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. 19-1101)
      (2)   Publication shall be made in one legal newspaper of general
circulation in the city. If no legal newspaper is published in the city, then
such publication shall be made in one legal newspaper published or of general
circulation within the county in which the city is located.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. 19-1103)
   (C)   (1)   All warrants upon the Treasurer shall be paid in the order of
their presentation therefor and as otherwise provided in Neb. Rev. Stat. 77-
2201 through 77-2215.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. 77-2201)
      (2)   The Treasurer shall keep a warrant register, which register shall
show in columns arranged for that purpose the number, the date, and the amount
of each warrant presented and registered, the particular fund upon which the
same is drawn, the date of presentation, the name and address of the person in
whose name the warrant is registered, the date of payment, the amount of
interest, and the total amount paid thereon, with the date when notice to the
person in whose name such warrant is registered is mailed.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. 77-2202)
      (3)   The Treasurer shall make duplicate receipts for all sums which
shall be paid into his or her office, which receipts shall show the source from
which such funds are derived, and shall, by distinct lines and columns, show
the amount received to the credit of each separate fund, and whether the same
was paid in cash, in warrants, or otherwise. The Treasurer shall deliver one of
the duplicates to the person making the payment and retain the other in his or
her office.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. 77-2209)
      (4)   The Treasurer shall daily, as money is received, foot the several
columns of the cash book and of the register, and carry the amounts forward,
and at the close of each year, in case the amount of money received by the
Treasurer is insufficient to pay the warrants registered, he or she shall close
the account for that year in the register and shall carry forward the excess.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. 77-2210)
      (5)   The cash book, register, and retained receipts of the Treasurer
shall at all times be open to the inspection of any person in whose name any
warrants are registered and unpaid.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. 77-2212)
   (D)   The Treasurer shall permit any person to examine and copy the public
records in the Treasurer’s custody, and may charge a fee for providing copies
of a public record, as provided in Neb. Rev. Stat. 84-712 through 84-712.09.
   (E)   The Treasurer shall keep all money belonging to the city separate and
distinct from his or her own money. He or she shall cancel all bonds, coupons,
warrants, and other evidences of debt against the city, whenever paid by him or
her, by writing or stamping on the face thereof, “Paid by the City Treasurer,”
with the date of payment written or stamped thereon. He or she shall collect
all special taxes, allocate special assessments to the several owners, and
obtain from the County Treasurer a monthly report as to the collection of
delinquent taxes.
§ 31.06 CITY ATTORNEY.
   (A)   The City Attorney shall be the legal advisor of the City Council. He
or she shall commence, prosecute, and defend all suits and actions necessary to
be commenced, prosecuted, or defended on behalf of the city, or that may be
ordered by the City Council. When requested, he or she shall attend meetings of
the City Council and give them his or her opinion upon any matters submitted to
him or her, either orally or in writing, as may be required. He or she shall
draft or review for legal correctness ordinances, contracts, franchises, and
other instruments as may be required, and he or she shall perform such other
duties as may be imposed upon him or her by general law or ordinance. The City
Council shall have the right to pay the City Attorney compensation for legal
services performed by him or her for it on such terms as the City Council and
Attorney may agree, and to employ additional legal assistance and to pay for
such legal assistance out of the funds of the city.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. 17-610)
   (B)   The City Attorney shall also examine, when requested to do so by the
City Council, the ordinance records and advise and assist the City Clerk as
much as may be necessary to the end that each procedural step will be taken in
the passage of each ordinance to ensure that it will be a valid and subsisting
local law in so far as its passage and approval are concerned.
§ 31.07 WATER COMMISSIONER/PUBLIC WORKS COMMISSIONER.
   (A)   (1)   As soon as a system of waterworks or mains or portion or
extension of any system of waterworks or water supply has been established by
the city, the Mayor shall nominate and by and with the advice and consent of
the City Council shall appoint any competent person who shall be known as the
Water Commissioner of the city and whose term of office shall be for one fiscal
year or until his or her successor is appointed and qualified. Annually at the
first regular meeting of the City Council in December, the Water Commissioner
shall be appointed as provided in this section.
      (2)   The Water Commissioner may at any time, for sufficient cause, be
removed by a two-thirds’ vote of the City Council. Any vacancy occurring in the
office of Water Commissioner by death, resignation, removal from office, or
removal from the city may be filled in the manner provided in this section for
the appointment of the Commissioner.
      (3)   The Water Commissioner shall, before he or she enters upon the
discharge of his or her duties, execute a bond or provide evidence of
equivalent insurance to the city in a sum to be fixed by the Mayor and City
Council, but not less than $5,000, conditioned upon the faithful discharge of
his or her duties, and such bond shall be signed by two or more good and
sufficient sureties, to be approved by the Mayor and City Council or executed
by a corporate surety.
      (4)   The Water Commissioner, subject to the supervision of the Mayor and
City Council, shall have the general management and control of the system of
waterworks or mains or portion or extension of any system of waterworks or
water supply in the city.
      (5)   In a city where no Board of Public Works exists, and the city has
other public utilities than its waterworks system, the Mayor and City Council
shall by ordinance designate Water Commissioner as Public Works Commissioner
with authority to manage not only the system of waterworks but also other
public utilities, and all of the provisions of this division (A) applying to
the Water Commissioner shall apply to the Public Works Commissioner.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. 17-541)
   (B)   (1)   The Water Commissioner shall collect all money received by the
city on account of its system of waterworks and shall faithfully account for
and pay over the same to the City Treasurer, taking his or her receipt therefor
in duplicate, filing one of the same with the City Clerk.
      (2)   He or she shall make a detailed report to the City Council, at
least once every six months, of the condition of the water system, of all
mains, pipes, hydrants, reservoirs, and machinery, and such improvements,
repairs, and extension thereof as he or she may think proper. The report shall
show the amount of receipts and expenditures on account thereof for the
preceding six months. No money shall be expended for improvements, repairs, or
extension of the waterworks system except upon recommendation of the Water
Commissioner.
      (3)   The Water Commissioner shall perform such other duties as may be
prescribed by ordinance.
      (4)   The Water Commissioner shall be paid such salary as the City
Council may by ordinance provide, and upon his or her written recommendation,
the Mayor and City Council shall employ such laborers and clerks as may to them
seem necessary.
      (5)   Neither the Mayor nor any member of the City Council shall be
eligible to the office of Water Commissioner during the term for which he or
she was elected.
      (6)   If the city owns public utilities other than the waterworks system
and the Water Commissioner has been designated by ordinance as the Public Works
Commissioner under the authority of division (A) above, then all provisions of
this division (B) in reference to a Water Commissioner shall apply to the
Public Works Commissioner.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. 17-543)
   (C)   In the event the city shall have created a Board of Public Works as
provided in §
32.04, the Water Commissioner shall, subject to confirmation by the Mayor and
City Council, be employed thereafter by the Board at such reasonable
compensation as may be agreed upon at the time of such employment and shall
thereafter be under the jurisdiction of the Board, any of the provisions of
Neb. Rev. Stat. 17-501 to 17-560 to the contrary notwithstanding. Any Water
Commissioner under the jurisdiction and control of the Board of Public Works
may be removed by the Board, after an opportunity to be heard before the Mayor
and City Council if he or she shall so request, for malfeasance, misfeasance,
or neglect in office.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. 17-804)
§ 31.08 SEWER COMMISSIONER.
   (A)   The Sewer Commissioner, subject to the supervision of the Mayor and
City Council, shall have the general management and control of the sewer system
in the city.
   (B)   He or she shall collect all money received by the city on account of
its sewer system and shall faithfully account for and pay over the same to the
City Treasurer, taking his or her receipt therefor in duplicate, filing one of
the same with the City Clerk.
   (C)   He or she shall make a detailed report to the City Council, at least
once every six months, of the condition of the sewer system and such
improvements, repairs, and extension thereof as he or she may think proper. The
report shall show the amount of receipts and expenditures on account thereof
for the preceding six months.
   (D)   He or she shall issue permits for all connections to the sewer system
and inspect and supervise all repairs made to the system.
   (E)   The Sewer Commissioner shall perform such other duties as may be
prescribed by ordinance.
§ 31.09 CITY ENGINEER; SPECIAL ENGINEER.
   (A)   (1)   The City Engineer shall, when requested by the Mayor or City
Council, make estimates of the cost of labor and material which may be done or
furnished by contract with the city and make all surveys, estimates, and
calculations necessary to be made for the establishment of grades, building of
culverts, sewers, electric light system, waterworks, power plant, public
heating system, bridges, curbing, and gutters, the improvement of streets, and
the erection and repair of buildings and shall perform such other duties as the
City Council may require.
      (2)   When the city has appointed a Board of Public Works and the Mayor
and City Council have by ordinance so authorized, the Board may utilize its own
engineering staff and may hire consulting engineers for the design and
installation of extensions and improvements of the works under the jurisdiction
of the Board.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. 17-568.01)
   (B)   The Mayor and City Council may employ a special engineer to make, or
assist in making, any estimate necessary or to perform any other duty provided
for in Neb. Rev. Stat. 17-568.01. Any work executed by such special engineer
shall have the same validity and serve in all respects as though executed by
the City Engineer.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. 17-568)   
   (C)   The City Engineer shall make a record of the minutes of his or her
surveys and of all work done for the city and, when directed by the Mayor and
City Council, shall accurately make such plats, sections, profiles, and maps as
may be necessary in the prosecution of any public work, which shall be public
records and belong to the city and be turned over to his or her successor.
Statutory reference:
   Duties related to areas to be annexed, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 17-405
   Duties related to sewerage systems, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 17-150 and 17-919
CHAPTER 32: DEPARTMENTS, BOARDS, AND COMMISSIONS
Section
   
32.01   Planning Commission
   
32.02   Board of Adjustment
   
32.03   Board of Health
   
32.04   Board of Public Works
§ 32.01 PLANNING COMMISSION.
   (A)   (1)   If the City Council adopts zoning or other regulations pursuant
to Neb. Rev. Stat. 19-901 et seq., the Planning Commission shall consist of
five, seven, or nine regular members, as specified by the City Council by
ordinance, who shall represent, insofar as is possible, the different
professions or occupations in the city and shall be appointed by the Mayor by
and with the approval of a majority vote of the members elected to the City
Council. Two of the regular members may be residents of the area over which the
city is authorized to exercise extraterritorial zoning and subdivision
regulation. When there are 500 residents in the area over which the city
exercises extraterritorial zoning and subdivision regulation, one regular
member of the Planning Commission shall be a resident from such area. If it is
determined by the City Council that 500 residents reside in the area subject to
extraterritorial zoning or subdivision regulation, and no such resident is a
regular member of the Planning Commission, the first available vacancy on the
Planning Commission shall be filled by the appointment of such an individual. A
number of commissioners equal to a majority of the number of regular members
appointed to the Planning Commission shall constitute a quorum for the
transaction of any business. All regular members of the Planning Commission
shall serve without compensation. The term of each regular member shall be
three years, except that one-third or fewer of the regular members of the first
commission to be so appointed shall serve for terms of one year, one-third or
fewer for terms of two years, and the remaining members for terms of three
years. All regular members shall hold office until their successors are
appointed. Any member may, after a public hearing before the City Council, be
removed by the Mayor with the consent of a majority vote of the members elected
to the City Council for inefficiency, neglect of duty, or malfeasance in office
or other good and sufficient cause. Vacancies occurring otherwise than through
the expiration of term shall be filled for the unexpired portion of the term by
the Mayor.
      (2)   The Mayor may, with the approval of a majority vote of the elected
members of the City Council, appoint one alternate member to the Planning
Commission. The alternate member shall serve without compensation. The term of
the alternate member shall be three years, and he or she shall hold office
until his or her successor is appointed and approved. The alternate member may
be removed from office in the same manner as a regular member. If the alternate
member position becomes vacant other than through the expiration of the term,
the vacancy shall be filled for the unexpired portion of the term by the Mayor
with the approval of a majority vote of the elected members of the City
Council. The alternate member may attend any meeting and may serve as a voting
and participating member of the Planning Commission at any time when less than
the full number of regular Planning Commission members is present and capable
of voting.
      (3)   A regular or alternate member of the Planning Commission may hold
any other municipal office except:
         (a)   Mayor;
         (b)   A member of the City Council;
         (c)   A member of any community redevelopment authority or limited
community redevelopment authority created under Neb. Rev. Stat. 18-2102.01; or
         (d)   A member of any citizen advisory review committee created under
Neb. Rev. Stat. 18-2715.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. 19-926)
   (B)   The Planning Commission shall elect its Chairperson from its members
and create and fill such other of its offices as it may determine. The term of
the Chairperson shall be one year, and he or she shall be eligible for
reelection. The Planning Commission shall hold at least one regular meeting in
each calendar quarter, except as provided in this section. The City Council may
require the Planning Commission to meet more frequently and the Chairperson of
the Planning Commission may call for a meeting when necessary to deal with
business pending before the Planning Commission. If no business is pending
before the Planning Commission, the Chairperson may cancel a quarterly meeting,
but no more than three quarterly meetings may be cancelled per calendar year.
The Planning Commission shall adopt rules and regulations for the transaction
of business and shall keep a record of its resolutions, transactions, findings,
and determinations, which shall be a public record.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. 19-927)
   (C)   No member of the Planning Commission shall serve in the capacity of
both the Chairperson and Secretary of the Planning Commission. The Secretary
shall keep the full and correct minutes and records of all meetings and file
them with the City Clerk where they shall be available for public inspection
during office hours.
   (D)   The City Council may provide the funds, equipment, and accommodations
necessary for the work of the Planning Commission, but the expenditures of the
Planning Commission, exclusive of gifts, shall be within the amounts
appropriated for that purpose by the City Council; and no expenditures nor
agreements for expenditures shall be valid in excess of such amounts.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. 19-928)
   (E)   (1)   (a)   Except as provided in Neb. Rev. Stat. 19-930 to 19-933,
the Planning Commission shall:
            1.   Make and adopt plans for the physical development of the city,
including any areas outside its boundaries which in the Planning Commission’s
judgment bear relation to the planning of such city and including a
comprehensive development plan as defined by Neb. Rev. Stat. 19-903;
            2.   Prepare and adopt such implemental means as a capital
improvement program, subdivision regulations, building codes, and a zoning
ordinance in cooperation with other interested city departments; and
            3.   Consult with and advise public officials and agencies, public
utilities, civic organizations, educational institutions, and citizens with
relation to the promulgation and implementation of the comprehensive
development plan and its implemental programs. The Planning Commission may
delegate authority to any such group to conduct studies and make surveys for
the Planning Commission, make preliminary reports on its findings, and hold
public hearings before submitting its final reports.
         (b)   The City Council shall not take final action on matters relating
to the comprehensive development plan, capital improvements, building codes,
subdivision development, the annexation of territory, or zoning until it has
received the recommendation of the Planning Commission; provided that the
Planning Commission shall make its recommendation so that it is received by the
City Council within 60 days after the Planning Commission begins consideration
of a matter or within such other number of days as the City Council has set by
ordinance.
         (c)   A recommendation from the Planning Commission shall not be
required for subdivision of existing lots and blocks whenever all required
public improvements have been installed, no new dedication of public rights-of-
way or easements is involved, and such subdivision complies with the ordinance
requirements concerning minimum areas and dimensions of such lots and blocks,
if the City Council has designated, by ordinance, an agent pursuant to Neb.
Rev. Stat. 19-916.
      (2)   (a)   The Planning Commission may, with the consent of the City
Council, in its own name:
            1.   Make and enter into contracts with public or private bodies;
            2.   Receive contributions, bequests, gifts, or grant funds from
public or private sources;
            3.   Expend the funds appropriated to it by the city;
            4.   Employ agents and employees; and
            5.   Acquire, hold, and dispose of property.
         (b)   The Planning Commission may, on its own authority, make
arrangements consistent with its program, conduct or sponsor special studies or
planning work for any public body or appropriate agency, receive grants,
remuneration, or reimbursement for such studies or work, and at its public
hearings, summon witnesses, administer oaths, and compel the giving of
testimony.
      (3)   (a)   The Planning Commission may grant conditional uses or special
exceptions to property owners for the use of their property if the City Council
has, through a zoning ordinance or special ordinance, generally authorized the
Planning Commission to exercise such powers and has approved the standards and
procedures adopted by the Planning Commission for equitably and judiciously
granting such conditional uses or special exceptions. The granting of a
conditional use permit or special exception shall only allow property owners to
put their property to a special use if it is among those uses specifically
identified in the zoning ordinance as classifications of uses which may require
special conditions or requirements to be met by the owners before a use permit
or building permit is authorized.
         (b)   The power to grant conditional uses or special exceptions shall
be the exclusive authority of the Planning Commission, except that the City
Council may choose to retain for itself the power to grant conditional uses or
special exceptions for those classifications of uses specified in the zoning
ordinance. The City Council may exercise such power if it has formally adopted
standards and procedures for granting such conditional uses or special
exceptions in a manner that is equitable and will promote the public interest.
         (c)   An appeal of a decision by the Planning Commission or City
Council regarding a conditional use or special exception shall be made to the
district court.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. 19-929)
Statutory reference:
   Other provisions on planning commissions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 19-925 through
19-933
§ 32.02 BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT.
   (A)   If the City Council adopts zoning or other regulations pursuant to
Neb. Rev. Stat. 19-901 et seq., except as provided in division (B) below, the
City Council shall provide for the appointment of a Board of Adjustment. Any
actions taken by the Board of Adjustment shall not exceed the powers granted by
division (F) below.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. 19-907)
   (B)   If the county has adopted a comprehensive development plan, as defined
by Neb. Rev. Stat. 23-114.02, and is enforcing zoning regulations based upon
such a plan, the zoning Board of Adjustment of the county shall, upon request
of the City Council, serve as the zoning Board of Adjustment for the city. If
the city is located in more than one county, it shall be served by request or
otherwise only by the county zoning Board of Adjustment of the county in which
the greatest area of the city is located, and the jurisdiction of such county
zoning Board of Adjustment shall include all portions of the city and its
extraterritorial control, regardless of county lines.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. 19-912.01)
   (C)   (1)   The Board of Adjustment shall consist of five regular members,
plus one additional member designated as an alternate who shall attend and
serve only when one of the regular members is unable to attend for any reason,
each to be appointed for a term of three years and removable for cause by the
appointing authority upon written charges and after public hearings. Vacancies
shall be filled for the unexpired term of any member whose term becomes vacant.
One member only of the Board of Adjustment shall be appointed from the
membership of the Planning Commission, and the loss of membership on the
Planning Commission by such member shall also result in his or her immediate
loss of membership on the Board of Adjustment and the appointment of another
Planning Commissioner to the Board of Adjustment. The first vacancy occurring
on the Board of Adjustment shall be filled by the appointment of a person who
resides in the extraterritorial zoning jurisdiction of the city at such time as
more than 200 persons reside within such area if the Board of Adjustment does
not already include such a person. Thereafter, at all times, at least one
member of the Board of Adjustment shall reside outside of the corporate
boundaries of the city but within its extraterritorial zoning jurisdiction.
      (2)   The Board of Adjustment shall adopt rules in accordance with the
provisions of any ordinance adopted pursuant to Neb. Rev. Stat. 19-901 to 19-
914. Meetings of the Board of Adjustment shall be held at the call of the
Chairperson and at such other times as the Board of Adjustment may determine.
Such Chairperson, or in his or her absence the Acting Chairperson, may
administer oaths and compel the attendance of witnesses. All meetings of the
Board of Adjustment shall be open to the public. The Board of Adjustment shall
keep minutes of its proceedings, showing the vote of each member upon each
question, or, if absent or failing to vote, indicating such fact, and shall
keep records of its examinations and other official actions, all of which shall
be immediately filed in the office of the Board of Adjustment and shall be a
public record.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. 19-908)
   (D)   A number of members equal to a majority of the number of regular
members appointed to the Board of Adjustment shall constitute a quorum for the
transaction of any business. All members of an appointed Board of Adjustment
shall serve without compensation and shall hold no other city office except for
the member of the Planning Commission appointed to serve on the Board of
Adjustment. No member of the Board of Adjustment shall serve in the capacity of
both Chairperson and Secretary of the Board of Adjustment. The Secretary shall
keep the full and correct minutes and records of all meetings and file them
with the City Clerk where they shall be available for public inspection during
office hours.
   (E)   Appeals to the Board of Adjustment may be taken by any person
aggrieved or by any officer, department, board, or bureau of the city affected
by any decision of the administrative officer. Such appeal shall be taken
within a reasonable time, as provided by the rules of the Board of Adjustment,
by filing with the officer from whom the appeal is taken and with the Board of
Adjustment a notice of appeal specifying the grounds thereof. The officer from
whom the appeal is taken shall forthwith transmit to the Board of Adjustment
all the papers constituting the record upon which the action appealed from was
taken. An appeal stays all proceedings in furtherance of the action appealed
from, unless the officer from whom the appeal is taken certifies to the Board
of Adjustment, after the notice of appeal shall have been filed with him or
her, that by reason of facts stated in the certificate a stay would, in his or
her opinion, cause imminent peril to life or property. In such case proceedings
shall not be stayed otherwise than by a restraining order which may be granted
by the Board of Adjustment or by a court of record on application on notice to
the officer from whom the appeal is taken and on due cause shown. The Board of
Adjustment shall fix a reasonable time for the hearing of the appeal, give
public notice thereof, as well as due notice to the parties in interest, and
decide the same within a reasonable time. Upon the hearing any party may appear
in person or by agent or by attorney.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. 19-909)
   (F)   (1)   The Board of Adjustment shall, subject to such appropriate
conditions and safeguards as may be established by the City Council, have only
the following powers:
         (a)   To hear and decide appeals when it is alleged there is error in
any order, requirement, decision, or determination made by an administrative
official or agency based on or made in the enforcement of any zoning regulation
or any regulation relating to the location or soundness of structures, except
that the authority to hear and decide appeals shall not apply to decisions made
by the City Council or Planning Commission regarding a conditional use or
special exception under Neb. Rev. Stat. 19-929(3);
         (b)   To hear and decide, in accordance with the provisions of any
zoning regulation, requests for interpretation of any map; and
         (c)   When by reason of exceptional narrowness, shallowness, or shape
of a specific piece of property at the time of the enactment of the zoning
regulations, or by reason of exceptional topographic conditions or other
extraordinary and exceptional situation or condition of such piece of property,
the strict application of any enacted regulation under Neb. Rev. Stat. 19-901
and 19-903 to 19-904.01 and division (C) above and this division (F) would
result in peculiar and exceptional practical difficulties to or exceptional and
undue hardships upon the owner of such property, to authorize, upon an appeal
relating to the property, a variance from such strict application so as to
relieve such difficulties or hardship, if such relief may be granted without
substantial detriment to the public good and without substantially impairing
the intent and purpose of any ordinance or resolution.
      (2)   (a)   No such variance shall be authorized by the Board of
Adjustment unless it finds that:
            1.   The strict application of the zoning regulation would produce
undue hardship;
            2.   Such hardship is not shared generally by other properties in
the same zoning district and the same vicinity;
            3.   The authorization of such variance will not be of substantial
detriment to adjacent property and the character of the district will not be
changed by the granting of the variance; and
            4.   The granting of such variance is based upon reason of
demonstrable and exceptional hardship as distinguished from variations for
purposes of convenience, profit, or caprice.
         (b)   No variance shall be authorized unless the Board of Adjustment
finds that the condition or situation of the property concerned or the intended
use of the property is not of so general or recurring a nature as to make
reasonably practicable the formulation of a general regulation to be adopted as
an amendment to the zoning regulations.
      (3)   In exercising the powers granted in this division (F), the Board of
Adjustment may, in conformity with Neb. Rev. Stat. 19-901 to 19-915, reverse or
affirm, wholly or partly, or may modify the order, requirement, decision, or
determination appealed from, and may make such order, requirement, decision, or
determination as ought to be made, and to that end shall have all the powers of
the officer from whom the appeal is taken. The concurring vote of four members
of the Board of Adjustment shall be necessary to reverse any order,
requirement, decision, or determination of any such administrative official or
to decide in favor of the applicant on any matter upon which it is required to
pass under any such regulation or to effect any variation in such regulation.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. 19-910)
   (G)   Any person or persons, jointly or severally, aggrieved by any decision
of the Board of Adjustment, or any taxpayer, or any officer, department, board,
or bureau of the city, may present to the district court a petition duly
verified, setting forth that such decision is illegal, in whole or in part, and
specifying the grounds of such illegality. Such petition must be presented to
the court within 15 days after the filing of the decision in the office of the
Board of Adjustment. Upon the filing of such petition a summons shall be issued
and be served upon the Board of Adjustment, together with a copy of the
petition. Return of service shall be made within four days after the issuance
of the summons. Within ten days after the return day of such summons, the Board
of Adjustment shall file an answer to the petition which shall admit or deny
the substantial averments of the petition and shall state the contentions of
the Board of Adjustment with reference to the matters in dispute as disclosed
by the petition. The answer shall be verified in like manner as required for
the petition. At the expiration of the time for filing answer, the court shall
proceed to hear and determine the cause without delay and shall render judgment
thereon according to the forms of law. If, upon the hearing, it appears to the
court that testimony is necessary for the proper disposition of the matter, it
may take evidence or appoint a referee to take such evidence as it may direct
and report the same to the court with his or her findings of fact and
conclusions of law, which shall constitute a part of the proceedings upon which
the determination of the court shall be made. The court may reverse or affirm,
wholly or partly, or may modify the decision brought up for review. The appeal
to the district court shall not stay proceedings upon the decision appealed
from, but the court may, on application, on notice to the Board of Adjustment
and on due cause shown, grant a restraining order. Any appeal from such
judgment of the district court shall be prosecuted in accordance with the
general laws of the state regulating appeals in actions at law.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. 19-912)
§ 32.03 BOARD OF HEALTH.
   (A)   (1)   The Board of Health shall consist of four members: The Mayor,
who shall be chairperson, the President of the City Council, and two other
members. One member shall be a physician or health care provider, if one can be
found who is willing to serve. Such physician or health care provider, if
appointed, shall be the Board of Health’s medical advisor.
      (2)   A majority of the Board of Health shall constitute a quorum and
shall enact rules and regulations, which shall have the full force and effect
of law, to safeguard the health of the people of the city, may enforce them,
and may provide fines and punishments for the violation of such rules and
regulations. The Board of Health shall have power to and shall make all needful
rules and regulations relating to matters of sanitation of the city, including
the removal of dead animals, the sanitary condition of the streets, alleys,
vacant grounds, stockyards, cattle and hog pens, wells, cisterns, privies,
water closets, cesspools, stables, and all buildings and places not specified
where filth, nuisances, or offensive matter is kept or is liable to or does
accumulate. It may regulate, suppress, and prevent the occurrence of nuisances
and enforce all laws of the state and ordinances of the city relating to
nuisances or to matters of sanitation of the city. The Board of Health shall
also have control of hospitals, dispensaries, places for treatment of sick, and
matters relating to the same under such restrictions and provisions as may be
provided by ordinance of the city.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. 17-121)
   (B)   The members of the Board of Health other than the Mayor, President of
the City Council, and Chief of Police shall serve terms of office of the length
specified by the City Council and may be reappointed.
   (C)   The Board of Health shall reorganize at its meeting after appointments
are regularly considered by the City Council and, if necessary, select a member
to serve as secretary. No member of the Board of Health shall hold more than
one Board of Health position. The secretary shall keep full and correct minutes
and records of all meetings and file the same with the City Clerk where they
shall be available for public inspection during office hours.
   (D)   The Board of Health shall meet at such times as the City Council may
designate. Special meetings may be held upon the call of the Chairperson or any
two members of the Board of Health.
   (E)   The members of the Board of Health shall serve without compensation.
The Board of Health shall be funded by the City Council from time to time out
of the General Fund.
   (F)   The Board of Health shall regularly inspect such premises and
businesses as the City Council may direct.
   (G)   All members of the Board of Health shall be responsible for making
such reports and performing such other duties as the City Council may, from
time to time, designate.
§ 32.04 BOARD OF PUBLIC WORKS.
   (A)   Whenever the city has or is about to establish or acquire any system
of waterworks, power plant, ice plant, gas plant, sewerage, heating or lighting
plant, or distribution system and the City Council has created a Board of
Public Works, the Board of Public Works shall consist of not less than three,
nor more than six members, residents of the city, to be appointed by the Mayor,
subject to the approval of the City Council. The members may be removed by the
Mayor and a majority of the members elected to the City Council at any time.
The term of the first members of the Board of Public Works shall be one, two,
three, or four years in the manner designated by the Mayor, as the case may be,
after which the term of each member shall be four years; and the terms of not
more than two members shall expire at any one time.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. 17-801)
   (B)   The Board of Public Works shall have the active direction and
supervision of any or all of the utility systems owned or operated by the city
as conferred on it by the City Council. The City Council shall approve the
budget of each proprietary function as provided in the Municipal Proprietary
Function Act. The Board of Public Works shall have the power to operate any
utility referred to it and to exercise all powers conferred by law upon the
city for the operation and government of such utility to the same extent, in
the same manner, and under the same restrictions as the City Council could do
if no such Board of Public Works existed, except that the Board of Public Works
shall not make any expenditure or contract any indebtedness other than for
ordinary running expenses, exceeding the amount established by the City
Council, without first obtaining the approval of the City Council. The Board of
Public Works shall report to the City Council at regular intervals as it may
require.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. 17-802)
   (C)   If so authorized and empowered by the Mayor and City Council, the
Board of Public Works may cooperate and participate in a plan of insurance
designed and intended for the benefit of the employees of any public utility
operated by the city. For that purpose the Board of Public Works may make
contributions to pay premiums or dues under such plan, authorize deductions
from salaries of employees, and take such other steps as may be necessary to
effectuate such plan of insurance.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. 17-802.01)
   (D)   (1)   The members of the Board of Public Works shall organize as soon
as practicable after their appointment, by electing a chairperson and
secretary, who shall serve until the first meeting in June next following; and
thereafter the Board of Public Works shall elect a chairperson and secretary at
the first meeting in June each year.
      (2)   In the absence of the regular officers, temporary officers to serve
in their places may be chosen by the members present at any meeting. They shall
establish regular times for meeting and may adopt such rules as may be
necessary or desirable for the conduct of their business. They shall keep a
record of their proceedings and if there is a legal newspaper published in or
of general circulation in the city, shall publish therein the minutes of each
meeting within 30 days after it is held.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. 17-805)
   (E)   Each of the members of the Board of Public Works shall take an oath to
discharge faithfully the duties of the office before entering upon the
discharge thereof. Each of the members of the Board of Public Works before
entering upon the duties of the office shall be required to give bond to the
city with corporate surety. Such bond shall be in the sum of $5,000 and shall
be conditioned for the faithful performance of the duties of member of the
Board of Public Works; and the surety on such bond shall be approved by the
Mayor and City Council and shall be filed with the City Treasurer, provided
that the premium on the bond shall be paid out of any public utility fund
designated by the Mayor and City Council.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. 17-806)
   (F)   No member of the Board of Public Works shall ever be financially
interested, directly or indirectly, in any contract entered into by them on
behalf of such city for more than $10,000 in one year.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. 17-807)
   (G)   If the Board of Public Works determines that the best interests of the
city and the patrons of the utility will be better or more economically served,
they may employ the duly elected City Clerk as ex officio bookkeeper and
collector for the utility or utilities, and he or she may be paid a reasonable
salary for the extra services required of him or her in such position in
addition to his or her salary as City Clerk.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. 17-808)
   (H)   Rates or charges for service may be fixed or changed by resolution
duly adopted by the Board of Public Works.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. 17-810)
CHAPTER 33: GENERAL MUNICIPAL PROVISIONS
Section
Meetings
   
33.01   Definitions
   
33.02   Open to public; notice; agenda
   
33.03   Notice to news media
   
33.04   City Council meetings; when; quorum; votes
   
33.05   Emergency meetings
   
33.06   Attendance other than in person
   
33.07   Closed sessions
   
33.08   Prohibited acts; exempt events
   
33.09   Public participation
   
33.10   City Council; order of business
   
33.11   Votes
   
33.12   City Council; parliamentary procedure
   
33.13   Minutes
   
33.14   Change in office
Bonds and Oaths
   
33.25   Bonds; requirements
   
33.26   Oath of office; city officials
Compensation; Conflicts of Interest
   
33.40   Compensation; how fixed; limitations
   
33.41   Conflict of interest involving contracts
Notices
   
33.55   Publication of notices
MEETINGS
§ 33.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   MEETING. All regular, special, or called meetings, formal or informal, of a
public body for the purposes of briefing, discussion of public business,
formation of tentative policy, or the taking of any action.
   PUBLIC BODY.
      (1)   (a)   The City Council;
         (b)   All independent boards, commissions, bureaus, committees,
councils, subunits, or any other bodies created by the Constitution of the
state, statute, ordinance, or otherwise pursuant to law; and
         (c)   Advisory committees of the bodies listed above.
      (2)   PUBLIC BODY does not include subcommittees of such bodies unless a
quorum of the public body attends a subcommittee meeting or unless the
subcommittees are holding hearings, making policy, or taking formal action on
behalf of their parent body.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. 84-1409)
§ 33.02 OPEN TO PUBLIC; NOTICE; AGENDA.
   (A)   The formation of public policy is public business and may not be
conducted in secret. Every meeting of a public body shall be open to the public
in order that citizens may exercise their democratic privilege of attending and
speaking at meetings of public bodies, except as otherwise provided by the
Constitution of the state, federal statutes, and the Open Meetings Act.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. 84-1408)
   (B)   (1)   Each public body shall give reasonable advance publicized notice
of the time and place of each meeting as provided in division (B)(2) below. The
notice shall be transmitted to all members of the public body and to the
public.
      (2)   The notice shall be published by:
         (a)   Publication in a newspaper of general circulation within the
public body’s jurisdiction and, if available, on such newspaper’s web site; or
         (b)   Posting written notice in three conspicuous public places in the
city. The notice shall be posted in the same three places for each meeting.
      (3)   In addition to a method of notice required by division (B)(2)
above, the notice shall also be provided by any other appropriate method
designated by the public body.
      (4)   Each public body shall record the methods and dates of the notice
in its minutes.
      (5)   The notice shall contain an agenda of subjects known at the time of
the publicized notice or a statement that the agenda, which shall be kept
continually current, is readily available for public inspection at the office
of the public body during normal business hours. Agenda items shall be
sufficiently descriptive to give the public reasonable notice of the matters to
be considered at the meeting. Except for items of an emergency nature, the
agenda shall not be altered later than 24 hours before the scheduled
commencement of the meeting or 48 hours before the scheduled commencement of a
meeting of the City Council scheduled outside the corporate limits of the city.
The public body shall have the right to modify the agenda to include items of
an emergency nature only at such public meeting.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. 84-1411)
Statutory reference:
   Videoconferencing when emergency is declared by the Governor under the
Emergency Management
    Act, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 84-1411(7)
§ 33.03 NOTICE TO NEWS MEDIA.
   The City Clerk, in the case of the City Council, and the secretary or other
designee of each other public body shall maintain a list of the news media
requesting notification of meetings and shall make reasonable efforts to
provide advance notification to them of the time and place of each meeting and
the subjects to be discussed at that meeting.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. 84-1411)
§ 33.04 CITY COUNCIL MEETINGS; WHEN; QUORUM; VOTES.
   (A)   (1)   Regular meetings of the City Council shall be held at such times
as the City Council may provide by ordinance. A majority of all the members
elected to the City Council shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of
any business, but a fewer number may adjourn from time to time and compel the
attendance of absent members.
      (2)   When the City Council consists of four members as established by
ordinance or home rule charter, the Mayor shall be deemed a member of the City
Council for purposes of establishing a quorum when the Mayor’s presence is
necessary to establish the quorum. Unless a greater vote is required by law, an
affirmative vote of at least one-half of the elected members shall be required
for the transaction of any business.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. 17-105)
   (B)   (1)   The Mayor or any three City Council members shall have power to
call special meetings of the City Council, the object of which shall be
submitted to the Council in writing; and the call and object, as well as the
disposition thereof, shall be entered upon the journal by the City Clerk.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. 17-106)
      (2)   On filing the call for a special meeting, the City Clerk shall
notify the Mayor and City Council members of the special meeting, stating the
time and purpose.
      (3)   Any private party who requests City Council action at a special
meeting shall be responsible for the costs associated with calling the meeting.
The costs shall be set by separate resolution.
   (C)   Unless otherwise provided by the City Council, on the request of any
two members, whether a quorum is present or not, all absent members shall be
sent for and compelled to attend.
   (D)   At the hour appointed for a meeting, the City Clerk shall proceed to
call the roll of members and announce whether a quorum is present. If a quorum
is present, the City Council shall be called to order by the Mayor, if present,
or if absent, by the President of the City Council.
§ 33.05 EMERGENCY MEETINGS.
   (A)   When it is necessary to hold an emergency meeting without reasonable
advance public notice, the nature of the emergency shall be stated in the
minutes and any formal action taken in that meeting shall pertain only to the
emergency. Such emergency meetings may be held by means of electronic or
telecommunication equipment.
   (B)   The provisions of §
33.03 shall be complied with in conducting emergency meetings. Complete minutes
of such emergency meetings specifying the nature of the emergency and any
formal action taken at the meeting shall be made available to the public by no
later than the end of the next regular business day.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. 84-1411)
§ 33.06 ATTENDANCE OTHER THAN IN PERSON.
   A public body may allow a member of the public or any other witness other
than a member of the public body to appear before the public body by means of
video or telecommunications equipment.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. 84-1411)
§ 33.07 CLOSED SESSIONS.
   (A)   (1)   Any public body may hold a closed session by the affirmative
vote of a majority of its voting members if a closed session is clearly
necessary for the protection of the public interest or for the prevention of
needless injury to the reputation of an individual and if that individual has
not requested a public meeting. The subject matter and the reason necessitating
the closed session shall be identified in the motion to close. Closed sessions
may be held for, but shall not be limited to, such reasons as:
         (a)   Strategy sessions with respect to collective bargaining, real
estate purchases, pending litigation, or litigation which is imminent as
evidenced by communication of a claim or threat of litigation to or by the
public body;
         (b)   Discussion regarding deployment of security personnel or
devices;
         (c)   Investigative proceedings regarding allegations of criminal
misconduct; or
         (d)   Evaluation of the job performance of a person when necessary to
prevent needless injury to the reputation of a person and if that person has
not requested a public meeting.
      (2)   Nothing in this section shall permit a closed meeting for
discussion of the appointment or election of a new member to any public body.
   (B)   The vote to hold a closed session shall be taken in open session. The
entire motion, the vote of each member on the question of holding a closed
session, and the time when the closed session commenced and concluded shall be
recorded in the minutes. If the motion to close passes, then the presiding
officer immediately prior to the closed session shall restate on the record the
limitation of the subject matter of the closed session. The public body holding
such a closed session shall restrict its consideration of matters during the
closed portions to only those purposes set forth in the motion to close as the
reason for the closed session. The meeting shall be reconvened in open session
before any formal action may be taken. For purposes of this section, formal
action means a collective decision or a collective commitment or promise to
make a decision on any question, motion, proposal, resolution, order, or
ordinance or formation of a position or policy but shall not include
negotiating guidance given by members of the public body to legal counsel or
other negotiators in closed sessions authorized under division (A)(1)(a) above.
   (C)   Any member of any public body shall have the right to challenge the
continuation of a closed session if the member determines that the session has
exceeded the reason stated in the original motion to hold a closed session or
if the member contends that the closed session is neither clearly necessary for
the protection of the public interest or the prevention of needless injury to
the reputation of an individual. Such challenge shall be overruled only by a
majority vote of the members of the public body. The challenge and its
disposition shall be recorded in the minutes.
   (D)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to require that any meeting
be closed to the public.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. 84-1410)
§ 33.08 PROHIBITED ACTS; EXEMPT EVENTS.
   (A)   No person or public body shall fail to invite a portion of its members
to a meeting, and no public body shall designate itself a subcommittee of the
whole body for the purpose of circumventing this subchapter or the Open
Meetings Act. No closed session, informal meeting, chance meeting, social
gathering, email, fax, or electronic communication shall be used for the
purpose of circumventing the requirements of this subchapter or the Act.
   (B)   This subchapter and the Act do not apply to chance meetings or to
attendance at or travel to conventions or workshops of members of a public body
at which there is no meeting of the body then intentionally convened, if there
is no vote or other action taken regarding any matter over which the public
body has supervision, control, jurisdiction, or advisory power.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. 84-1410)
§ 33.09 PUBLIC PARTICIPATION.
   (A)   Subject to this subchapter and the Open Meetings Act, the public has
the right to attend and the right to speak at meetings of public bodies, and
all or any part of a meeting of a public body, except for closed sessions
called pursuant to §
33.07, may be videotaped, televised, photographed, broadcast, or recorded by
any person in attendance by means of a tape recorder, a camera, video
equipment, or any other means of pictorial or sonic reproduction or in writing.
   (B)   It shall not be a violation of division (A) above for any public body
to make and enforce reasonable rules and regulations regarding the conduct of
persons attending, speaking at, videotaping, televising, photographing,
broadcasting, or recording its meetings, including meetings held by virtual
conferencing. A body may not be required to allow citizens to speak at each
meeting, but it may not forbid public participation at all meetings.
   (C)   No public body shall require members of the public to identify
themselves as a condition for admission to the meeting nor shall such body
require that the name of any member of the public be placed on the agenda prior
to such meeting in order to speak about items on the agenda. The body shall
require any member of the public desiring to address the body to identify
himself or herself, including an address and the name of any organization
represented by such person unless the address requirement is waived to protect
the security of the individual.
   (D)   No public body shall, for the purpose of circumventing this subchapter
or the Open Meetings Act, hold a meeting in a place known by the body to be too
small to accommodate the anticipated audience.
   (E)   No public body shall be deemed in violation of this section if it
holds its meeting in its traditional meeting place which is located in this
state.
   (F)   No public body shall be deemed in violation of this section if it
holds a meeting outside of this state if, but only if, a member entity of the
public body is located outside of this state and the other requirements of Neb.
Rev. Stat. 84-1412 are met.
   (G)   The public body shall, upon request, make a reasonable effort to
accommodate the public’s right to hear the discussion and testimony presented
at the meeting.
   (H)   Public bodies shall make available at the meeting, for examination and
copying by members of the public, at least one copy of all reproducible written
material to be discussed at an open meeting, either in paper or electronic
form. Public bodies shall make available at least one current copy of the Open
Meetings Act posted in the meeting room at a location accessible to members of
the public. At the beginning of the meeting, the public shall be informed about
the location of the posted information.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. 84-1412)
§ 33.10 CITY COUNCIL; ORDER OF BUSINESS.
   Promptly at the hour set by law on the day of each regular meeting, the
members of the City Council, the Mayor, the City Clerk, and such other city
officials that may be required shall take their regular stations in the meeting
place, and the business of the city shall be taken up for consideration and
disposition in the manner prescribed by the official agenda on file at the
office of the City Clerk.
§ 33.11 VOTES.
   (A)   Any action taken on any question or motion duly moved and seconded
shall be by roll call vote of the public body in open session, and the record
shall state how each member voted, or if the member was absent or not voting.
The requirements of a roll call or viva voce vote shall be satisfied by a city
which utilizes an electronic voting device which allows the yeas and nays of
each member of the City Council to be readily seen by the public.
   (B)   The vote to elect leadership within a public body may be taken by
secret ballot, but the total number of votes for each candidate shall be
recorded in the minutes.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. 84-1413)
§ 33.12 CITY COUNCIL; PARLIAMENTARY PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Unless the City Council provides otherwise, the rules of parliamentary
procedure specified in this section shall apply to meetings of the City
Council. The Mayor shall preserve order during meetings of the City Council and
shall decide all questions of order, subject to an appeal to the City Council.
When any person is called to order, he or she shall be seated until the point
is decided. When the Mayor is putting the question, no person shall leave the
meeting room. Every person present, previous to speaking, shall rise from his
or her seat and address the presiding officer and while speaking shall confine
his or her comments to the question. When two or more persons rise at once, the
Mayor shall recognize the one who spoke first. All resolutions or motions shall
be reduced to writing before being acted upon, if requested by the City Clerk
or any member of the City Council. Every member of the City Council who is
present when a question is voted upon shall cast his or her vote unless excused
by a majority of the members of the City Council present.
   (B)   No motion shall be put or debated unless seconded. When seconded, it
shall be stated by the Mayor before being debatable. In all cases where a
motion or resolution is entered on the minutes, the name of the member of the
City Council making the motion or resolution shall be entered also. After each
vote, the yeas and nays shall be taken and entered in the minutes. Before the
vote is actually taken, any resolution, motion, or proposed ordinance may be
withdrawn from consideration by the sponsor with the consent of the member of
the City Council seconding the resolution, motion, or ordinance. When, in the
consideration of an ordinance, different times or amounts are proposed, the
question shall be put on the largest sum, or the longest time.
   (C)   A question to reconsider shall be in order when made by a member
voting with the majority, but the motion to reconsider must be made before the
expiration of the third regular meeting after the initial consideration of the
question. When any question is under debate, no motion shall be made,
entertained, or seconded except the previous question, a motion to table, and
to adjourn. Each of those motions shall be decided without debate.
   (D)   Any of the rules of the City Council for meetings may be suspended by
a two-thirds’ vote of the members present. In all cases in which provisions are
not made by these rules, Robert’s Rules of Order is the authority by which the
City Council shall decide all procedural disputes that may arise.
§ 33.13 MINUTES.
   (A)   Each public body shall keep minutes of all meetings showing the time,
place, members present and absent, and the substance of all matters discussed.
   (B)   The minutes of all meetings and evidence and documentation received or
disclosed in open session shall be public records and open to public inspection
during normal business hours.
   (C)   Minutes shall be written or kept as an electronic record and shall be
available for inspection within ten working days or prior to the next convened
meeting, whichever occurs earlier, except that the city may have an additional
ten working days if the employee responsible for writing or keeping the minutes
is absent due to a serious illness or emergency.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. 84-1413)
§ 33.14 CHANGE IN OFFICE.
   (A)   The Mayor and City Council shall meet at the time and place of the
first regular meeting in December in each election year, and the outgoing
officers and the outgoing members of the City Council shall present their
reports. Upon the outgoing City Council having completed its business, the
outgoing members of the City Council shall surrender their offices to the
incoming members, and the outgoing officers shall thereupon each surrender to
their successors in office all property, records, papers, and moneys belonging
to the same.
   (B)   The newly elected members of the City Council and those continuing in
office shall convene immediately after the prior City Council adjourns and
proceed to organize themselves for the ensuing year. The Mayor shall call the
meeting to order. The City Clerk shall report to the City Council the names of
all City Council members-elect who have qualified for their respective offices.
The City Council shall examine the credentials of its members and any other
elective officers of the city to see that each has been duly and properly
elected and to see that such oaths and bonds as are required have been given.
The City Clerk’s report shall be spread upon the minutes of the meeting
preceding the roll call.
   (C)   (1)   After ascertaining that all City Council members and officers
are duly qualified and after the City Clerk has called the roll, the City
Council shall elect a President of the City Council.
      (2)   The Mayor shall nominate his or her candidates for appointive
offices in which the terms of incumbents are expired and call for a vote on
approval of the candidates. The Mayor shall then proceed with the regular order
of business.
BONDS AND OATHS
§ 33.25 BONDS; REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The city may enact ordinances or bylaws to require from all officers
and servants, elected or appointed, bonds and security or evidence of
equivalent insurance for the faithful performance of their duties. The city may
pay the premium for such bonds or insurance coverage.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. 17-604)
   (B)   (1)   All official bonds of officers of the city shall be in form
joint and several and made payable to the city in such penalty as the City
Council may fix.
      (2)   In place of the individual bonds required to be furnished by
municipal officers, a schedule, position, blanket bond or undertaking, or
evidence of equivalent insurance may be given by municipal officers, or a
single corporate surety fidelity, schedule, position, or blanket bond or
undertaking, or evidence of insurance coverage covering all the officers,
including officers required by law to furnish an individual bond or
undertaking, may be furnished. The municipality may pay the premium for the
bond or insurance coverage. The bond or insurance coverage shall be, at a
minimum, an aggregate of the amounts fixed by law or by the City Council, and
with such terms and conditions as may be required.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. 11-104)
      (3)   The penalty amount on any bond shall not fall below the legal
minimum, when one has been set by the state, for each particular official.
   (C)   (1)   Official bonds, with the oath endorsed thereon, shall be filed
in the City Clerk’s office within the following time:
         (a)    Of all officers elected at any general election, following
receipt of their election certificate, and not later than ten days before the
first Thursday after the first Tuesday in January next succeeding the election;
         (b)   Of all appointed officers, within 30 days after their
appointment; and
         (c)   Of officers elected at any special election and city officers,
within 30 days after the canvass of the votes of the election at which they
were chosen.
      (2)   The filing of the bond with the oath endorsed thereon does not
authorize a person to take any official action prior to the beginning of his or
her term of office pursuant to the State Constitution, Art. XVII, § 5.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. 11-105)
   (D)   All official bonds of city officers shall be executed by the principal
named in such bonds and by at least two sufficient sureties who shall be
freeholders of the county in which such bonds are given, or any official bond
of a city officer may be executed by the officer as principal and by a
guaranty, surety, fidelity, or bonding company as surety, or by two or more
such companies. Only such companies as are legally authorized to transact
business in this state shall be eligible to suretyship on the bond of a city
officer.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. 11-109)
   (E)   The City Clerk shall carefully record and preserve the bonds in his or
her office and shall give certified copies thereof, when required, under the
seal of his or her office, and shall be entitled to receive for the same the
usual fee allowed by law for certified copies of records in other cases.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. 11-110)
   (F)   (1)   The approval of each official bond shall be endorsed upon such
bond by the officer approving the same, and no bond shall be filed and recorded
until so approved.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. 11-111)
      (2)   No bond shall be deemed to be given or complete until the approval
of the City Council and all sureties are endorsed in writing on the instrument
by the Mayor and City Clerk pursuant to the approval of the City Council.
   (G)   All official bonds shall obligate the principal and sureties for the
faithful discharge of all duties required by law of such principal and shall
inure to the benefit of any persons injured by a breach of the conditions of
such bonds.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. 11-112)
   (H)   No official bond shall be rendered void by reason of any informality
of irregularity in its execution or approval.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. 11-113)
   (I)   No city official shall be taken as security on the bond of any
administrator, executor, or other officer from whom by law bond is or may be
required.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. 11-114)
   (J)   If any person elected or appointed to any office neglects to have his
or her official bond executed and approved as provided by law and filed for
record within the time limited by this section, the City Clerk shall
immediately issue an order to such person to show cause why he or she has
failed to properly file such bond and why his or her office should not be
declared vacant. If such person properly files the official bond within ten
days of the issuance of the show cause order for appointed officials or before
the date for taking office for elected officials, such filing shall be deemed
to be in compliance with this section. If such person does not file the bond
within ten days of the issuance of such order for appointed officials or before
the date for taking office for elected officials and sufficient cause is not
shown within that time, his or her office shall thereupon ipso facto become
vacant and such vacancy shall thereupon immediately be filled by election or
appointment as the law may direct in other cases of vacancy in the same office.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. 11-115)
   (K)   Any person appointed to fill a vacancy, before entering upon the
duties of the office, must give a bond corresponding in substance and form with
the bond required of the officer originally elected or appointed, as herein
provided.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. 11-116)
   (L)   (1)   When the incumbent of an office is reelected or reappointed, he
or she shall qualify by taking the oath and giving the bond as above directed,
but when such officer has had public funds or property in his or her control,
his or her bond shall not be approved until he or she has produced and fully
accounted for such funds and property.
      (2)   When it is ascertained that the incumbent of an office holds over
by reason of the nonelection or nonappointment of a successor or of the neglect
or refusal of the successor to qualify, he or she shall qualify anew within ten
days from the time at which his or her successor, if elected, should have
qualified.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. 11-117)
   (M)      No person shall be surety for the same officer for more than two
successive terms of the same office, but this provision shall not apply to
incorporated surety companies.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. 11-118)
   (N)   If the sureties on the official bond of any appointed officer of the
city, in the opinion of the City Council, become insufficient, the City Council
may, by resolution, fix a reasonable time within which the officer may give a
new bond or additional sureties as directed. If the officer fails, refuses, or
neglects to give a new bond or additional sureties to the satisfaction and
approval of the City Council, the office shall, by such failure, refusal, or
neglect, become vacant and it shall be the duty of the City Council to appoint
a competent and qualified person to fill the office.
§ 33.26 OATH OF OFFICE; CITY OFFICIALS.
   (A)   All officials of the city, whether elected or appointed, except when a
different oath is specifically provided herein, shall before entering upon
their respective duties take and subscribe the following oath, which shall be
endorsed upon their respective bonds:
      “I, ______________________________, do solemnly swear that I will support
the Constitution of the United States and the Constitution of the State of
Nebraska, against all enemies foreign and domestic; that I will bear true faith
and allegiance to the same; that I take this obligation freely and without
mental reservation or for the purpose of evasion; and that I will faithfully
and impartially perform the duties of the office of ____________________,
according to law and to the best of my ability. And I do further swear that I
do not advocate nor am I a member of any political party or organization that
advocates the overthrow of the government of the United States or of this state
by force or violence; and that during such time as I am in this position I will
not advocate nor become a member of any political party or organization that
advocates the overthrow of the government of the United States or of this state
by force or violence. So help me God.”
   (B)   If any such officer is not required to give bond, the oath shall be
filed with the City Clerk.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. 11-101)
COMPENSATION; CONFLICTS OF INTEREST
§ 33.40 COMPENSATION; HOW FIXED; LIMITATIONS.
   (A)   The officers and employees of the city shall receive such compensation
as the Mayor and City Council shall fix by ordinance.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. 17-108)
   (B)   The city may enact ordinances or bylaws to regulate and prescribe the
compensation of officers not provided for in state law.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. 17-604)
   (C)   No officer shall receive any pay or perquisites from the city other
than his or her salary. The City Council shall not pay or appropriate any money
or other valuable thing to any person not an officer for the performance of any
act, service, or duty, the doing or performance of which shall come within the
proper scope of the duties of any officer of the city.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. 17-611)
   (D)   The salary of any elective officer shall not be increased or
diminished during the term for which he or she shall have been elected, except
when there has been a combination and merger of offices as provided in §
31.03, except that when there are officers elected to the City Council, or any
other board or commission having more than one member and the terms of one or
more members commence and end at different times, the compensation of all
members of such council, board or commission may be increased or diminished at
the beginning of the full term of any member thereof. No person who shall have
resigned or vacated any office shall be eligible to the same during the time
for which he or she was elected if during the same time the emoluments thereof
were increased.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. 17-612)
§ 33.41 CONFLICT OF INTEREST INVOLVING CONTRACTS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      BUSINESS ASSOCIATION.
         (a)   A business:
            1.   In which the individual is a partner, limited liability
company member, director, or officer; or
            2.   In which the individual or a member of the individual’s
immediate family is a stockholder of closed corporation stock worth $1,000 or
more at fair market value or which represents more than a 5% equity interest or
is a stockholder of publicly traded stock worth $10,000 or more at fair market
value or which represents more than 10% equity interest.
         (b)   An individual who occupies a confidential professional
relationship protected by law shall be exempt from this definition. This
definition shall not apply to publicly traded stock under a trading account if
the filer reports the name and address of the stockbroker.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. 49-1408)
      IMMEDIATE FAMILY. A child residing in an individual’s household, a spouse
of an individual, or an individual claimed by that individual or that
individual’s spouse as a dependent for federal income tax purposes.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. 49-1425)
      OFFICER.
         (a)   Includes:
            1.   A member of any board or commission of the city which spends
and administers its own funds, who is dealing with a contract made by such
board or commission; and
            2.   Any elected city official.
         (b)   OFFICER does not mean volunteer firefighters or ambulance
drivers with respect to their duties as firefighters or ambulance drivers.
   (B)   (1)   Except as provided in Neb. Rev. Stat. 49-1499.04 or 70-624.04,
no officer may have an interest in any contract to which his or her governing
body, or anyone for its benefit, is a party. The existence of such an interest
in any contract shall render the contract voidable by decree of a court of
competent jurisdiction as to any person who entered into the contract or took
assignment of the contract with actual knowledge of the prohibited conflict. An
action to have a contract declared void under this section may be brought by
the County Attorney, the governing body, or any resident within the
jurisdiction of the governing body and shall be brought within one year after
the contract is signed or assigned. The decree may provide for the
reimbursement of any person for the reasonable value of all money, goods,
material, labor, or services furnished under the contract, to the extent that
the governing body has benefitted thereby.
      (2)   The prohibition in this division (B) shall apply only when the
officer or his or her parent, spouse, or child:
         (a)   Has a business association with the business involved in the
contract; or
         (b)   Will receive a payment, fee, or commission as a result of the
contract.
   (C)   Division (B) above does not apply if the contract is an agenda item
approved at a meeting of the governing body and the interested officer:
      (1)   Makes a declaration on the record to the governing body responsible
for approving the contract regarding the nature and extent of his or her
interest prior to official consideration of the contract;
      (2)   Does not vote on the matters of granting the contract, making
payments pursuant to the contract, or accepting performance of work under the
contract, or similar matters relating to the contract, except that if the
number of members of the governing body declaring an interest in the contract
would prevent the body with all members present from securing a quorum on the
issue, then all members may vote on the matters; and
      (3)   Does not act for the governing body which is a party to the
contract as to inspection or performance under the contract in which he or she
has an interest.
   (D)   (1)   The receiving of deposits, cashing of checks, and buying and
selling of warrants and bonds of indebtedness of any such governing body by a
financial institution shall not be considered a contract for purposes of this
section.
      (2)   The ownership of less than 5% of the outstanding shares of a
corporation shall not constitute an interest within the meaning of this
section.
   (E)   If an officer’s parent, spouse, or child is an employee of the
officer’s governing body, the officer may vote on all issues of the contract
which are generally applicable to all employees, or all employees within a
classification, and do not single out his or her parent, spouse, or child for
special action.
   (F)   Neb. Rev. Stat. 49-14,102 does not apply to contracts covered by this
section.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. 49-14,103.01)
   (G)   (1)   The person charged with keeping records for the governing body
shall maintain separately from other records a ledger containing the
information listed in divisions (G)(1)(a) through (G)(1)(e) below about every
contract entered into by the governing body in which an officer of the body has
an interest and for which disclosure is made pursuant to division (C) above.
This information shall be kept in the ledger for five years from the date of
the officer’s last day in office and shall include:
         (a)   The names of the contracting parties;
         (b)   The nature of the interest of the officer in question;
         (c)   The date that the contract was approved by the governing body;
         (d)   The amount of the contract; and
         (e)   The basic terms of the contract.
      (2)   (a)   The information supplied relative to the contract shall be
provided no later than ten days after the contract has been signed by both
parties.
         (b)   The ledger kept pursuant to this division (G) shall be available
for public inspection during the normal working hours of the office in which it
is kept.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. 49-14,103.02)
   (H)   (1)   An open account established for the benefit of any governing
body with a business in which an officer has an interest shall be deemed a
contract subject to this section.
      (2)   The statement required to be filed by division (G) above shall be
filed within ten days after the account is opened. Thereafter, the person
charged with keeping records for the governing body shall maintain a running
account of amounts purchased on the open account.
      (3)   Purchases made from petty cash or a petty cash fund shall not be
subject to this section.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. 49-14,103.03)
   (I)   Notwithstanding divisions (A) through (H) above, the governing body
may prohibit contracts over a specific dollar amount in which an officer of the
governing body may have an interest.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. 49-14,103.05)
   (J)   The governing body may exempt from divisions (A) through (H) above,
contracts involving $100 or less in which an officer of that body may have an
interest.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. 49-14,103.06)
Statutory reference:
   Other provisions on conflicts of interest, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 18-305
through 18-312 and 49-1499.03 through 49-14,103
   Penalty for violation of restrictions on contracts, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 49-
14,103.04
NOTICES
§ 33.55 NOTICES; PUBLICATION.
   If the city is required to publish a notice or advertisement in a legal
newspaper in or of general circulation in the city, and if there is no legal
newspaper in or of general circulation in the city, then the city shall publish
such notice or advertisement in a legal newspaper in or of general circulation
in the county in which the city is located. If there is no legal newspaper in
or of general circulation in such county, then the city shall publish such
notice or advertisement by posting a written or printed copy thereof in each of
three public places in the city for the same period of time the city is
required to publish the notice or advertisement in a legal newspaper.
CHAPTER 34: FINANCE AND REVENUE
Section
General Provisions
   
34.01   Definitions
   
34.02   Annual audit; financial statements
   
34.03   Contracts and purchases; bidding and other requirements
   
34.04   Orders or warrants for money; contracts; expenditures; requirements
   
34.05   Claims and accounts payable
   
34.06   Collection of special assessments; procedure
   
34.07   Special assessment fund
   
34.08   Sinking funds; gifts of money or property
   
34.09   Deposit of funds
   
34.10   Certificates of deposit; time deposits; conditions
   
34.11   Investment and use of surplus funds
   
34.12   Bond issues
   
34.13   Debt collection; authority to contract with collection agency
   
34.14   Credit cards; authority to accept
Annual Budget
   
34.25   Fiscal year
   
34.26   Budget procedures
   
34.27   Expenditures prior to adoption of budget
   
34.28   Proposed budget statement; contents; availability; correction
   
34.29   Proposed budget statement; hearing; adoption; certification of tax
amount
   
34.30   Adopted budget statement; filing; certification of tax amount
   
34.31   Appropriation bill
   
34.32   General Fund
   
34.33   Transfer of funds
   
34.34   Budget revision
   
34.35   Proprietary functions; fiscal year; budget statements; filing; hearing;
adoption; reconciliation
Tax Levies
   
34.50   Property tax levy for general revenue purposes
   
34.51   Levies for other taxes and special assessments
   
34.52   All-purpose levy; extraordinary levies; allocation; abandonment
   
34.53   Property tax levy; maximum; authority to exceed
   
34.54   Property tax levy; certification of amount; collection
   
34.55   Property tax request; procedure for setting
   
34.56   Property tax request; increase by more than allowable growth
percentage; procedure for setting
   
34.57   Motor vehicle fee
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 34.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BIENNIAL BUDGET. A budget by the city that provides for a biennial period to
determine and carry on the city’s financial and taxing affairs.
   BIENNIAL PERIOD. The two fiscal years comprising a biennium commencing in
odd-numbered or even-numbered years used by the city in determining and
carrying on its financial and taxing affairs.
   PUBLIC FUNDS. All money, including non-tax money, used in the operation and
functions of governing bodies. If the city has a lottery established under the
state’s County and City Lottery Act, only those net proceeds which are actually
received by the city from a licensed lottery operator shall be considered
PUBLIC FUNDS, and PUBLIC FUNDS shall not include amounts awarded as prizes.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. 13-503)
§ 34.02 ANNUAL AUDIT; FINANCIAL STATEMENTS.
   (A)   (1)   For the purpose of this division (A), the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
         ACCOUNTANT. A duly licensed public accountant or certified public
accountant who otherwise is not an employee of or connected in any way with the
city.
         ANNUAL AUDIT REPORT. The written report of the accountant and all
appended statements and schedules relating thereto presenting or recording the
findings of an examination or audit of the financial transactions, affairs, or
financial condition of the city and its proprietary functions for the fiscal
year immediately prior to the making of the annual report.
         FISCAL YEAR. The fiscal year for the city or the fiscal year
established in Neb. Rev. Stat. 18-2804 for a proprietary function if different
than the city fiscal year.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. 19-2902)
      (2)   (a)   The City Council shall cause an audit of the city’s accounts
to be made by a recognized independent and qualified accountant as
expeditiously as possible following the close of the fiscal year and to cover
all financial transactions and affairs of the city for that preceding fiscal
year. The audit shall be made on a cash or accrual method at the discretion of
the City Council. The audit shall be completed and the annual audit report made
by the accountant shall be submitted within six months after the close of the
fiscal year in any event, unless an extension of time is granted by a written
resolution adopted by the City Council.
         (b)   If the city owns or operates any type of public utility or other
enterprise which substantially generates its own revenue, that phase of the
affairs of the city shall be audited separately from other functions of the
city and the result shall appear separately in the annual audit report made by
the accountant to the city and such audit shall be on an accrual basis and
shall contain statements and materials which conform to generally accepted
accounting principles.
         (c)   For the utilities operated through the Board of Public Works,
the City Council may provide for an entirely separate audit, on an accrual
basis, of such operations and report and by a different accountant than the one
making the general audit.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. 19-2903)
      (3)   The annual audit report shall set forth, insofar as possible, the
financial position and results of financial operations for each fund or group
of accounts of the city. When the accrual method is selected for the annual
audit report, the report shall be in accordance with generally accepted
accounting principles. The annual audit report shall also include the
professional opinion of the accountant with respect to the financial
statements, or, if an opinion cannot be expressed, a declaration that the
accountant is unable to express such an opinion with an explanation of the
reasons why he or she cannot do so.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. 19-2904)
      (4)   At least three copies of such annual audit report shall be properly
signed and attested by the accountant; two copies shall be filed with the City
Clerk, and one copy shall be filed with the Auditor of Public Accounts. The
annual audit report filed, together with any accompanying comment or
explanation, shall become a part of the public records of the City Clerk and
shall at all times thereafter be open and subject to public inspection.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. 19-2905)
   (B)   The City Council shall provide and file with the City Clerk, not later
than August 1 of each year, financial statements showing the city’s actual and
budgeted figures for the most recently completed fiscal year.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. 13-606)
Statutory reference:
   Other provisions on audits, Neb. Rev. Stat. 19-2906 through 19-2909
§ 34.03 CONTRACTS AND PURCHASES; BIDDING AND OTHER REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Except as provided in Neb. Rev. Stat. 18-412.01 for a contract with a
public power district to operate, renew, replace, or add to the electric
distribution, transmission, or generation system of the city, no contract for
enlargement or general improvements, such as water extensions, sewers, public
heating system, bridges, work on streets, or any other work or improvement when
the cost of the enlargement or improvement is assessed to the property, costing
over $30,000, shall be made unless it is first approved by the City Council.
   (B)   Except as provided in Neb. Rev. Stat. 18-412.01, before the City
Council makes any contract in excess of $30,000 for enlargement or general
improvements, such as water extensions, sewers, public heating system, bridges,
work on streets, or any other work or improvement when the cost of the
enlargement or improvement is assessed to the property, an estimate of the cost
shall be made by the City Engineer and submitted to the City Council. In
advertising for bids as provided in divisions (C) and (E) below, the City
Council may publish the amount of the estimate.
   (C)   Advertisements for bids shall be required for any contract costing
over $30,000 entered into:
      (1)   For enlargement or general improvements, such as water extensions,
sewers, public heating system, bridges, work on streets, or any other work or
improvement when the cost of the enlargement or improvement is assessed to the
property; or
      (2)   For the purchase of equipment used in the construction of the
enlargement or general improvements.
   (D)   A city electric utility may enter into a contract for the enlargement
or improvement of the electric system or for the purchase of equipment used for
the enlargement or improvement without advertising for bids if the price is:
      (1)   Thirty thousand dollars or less;
      (2)   Sixty thousand dollars or less and the city electric utility has
gross annual revenue from retail sales in excess of $1,000,000;
      (3)   Ninety thousand dollars or less and the city electric utility has
gross annual revenue from retail sales in excess of $5,000,000; or
      (4)   One hundred twenty thousand dollars or less and the city electric
utility has gross annual revenue from retail sales in excess of $10,000,000.
   (E)   The advertisement provided for in division (C) above shall be
published at least seven days prior to the bid closing in a legal newspaper in
or of general circulation in the city. In case of a public emergency resulting
from infectious or contagious diseases, destructive windstorms, floods, snow,
war, or an exigency or pressing necessity or unforeseen need calling for
immediate action or remedy to prevent a serious loss of or serious injury or
damage to life, health, or property, estimates of costs and advertising for
bids may be waived in the emergency ordinance authorized by Neb. Rev. Stat. 17-
613 when adopted by a three-fourths’ vote of the City Council and entered of
record.
   (F)   If, after advertising for bids as provided in this section, the City
Council receives fewer than two bids on a contract or if the bids received by
the City Council contain a price which exceeds the estimated cost, the City
Council may negotiate a contract in an attempt to complete the proposed
enlargement or general improvements at a cost commensurate with the estimate
given.
   (G)   If the materials are of such a nature that, in the opinion of the
manufacturer and with the concurrence of the City Council or Board of Public
Works, no cost can be estimated until the materials have been manufactured or
assembled to the specific qualifications of the city, the City Council or Board
of Public Works may authorize the manufacture and assemblage of those materials
and may thereafter approve the estimated cost expenditure when it is provided
by the manufacturer.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. 17-568.01)
   (H)   Any city bidding procedure may be waived by the City Council or Board
of Public Works:
      (1)   When materials or equipment are purchased at the same price and
from the same seller as materials or equipment which have formerly been
obtained pursuant to the state bidding procedure in Neb. Rev. Stat. 81-145
through 81-162;
      (2)   When the contract is negotiated directly with a sheltered workshop
pursuant to Neb. Rev. Stat. 48-1503; or
      (3)   When required to comply with any federal grant, loan, or program.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. 17-568.02)
   (I)   (1)   Notwithstanding any other provisions of law or a home rule
charter, a city which has established, by an interlocal agreement with any
county, a joint purchasing division or agency may purchase personal property
without competitive bidding if the price for the property has been established
by the federal General Services Administration or the materiel division of the
Department of Administrative Services.
      (2)   For the purpose of this division (I), the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
         PERSONAL PROPERTY. Includes but is not limited to supplies, materials,
and equipment used by or furnished to any officer, office, department,
institution, board, or other agency.
         PURCHASING or PURCHASE. The obtaining of personal property by sale,
lease, or other contractual means.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. 18-1756)
Statutory reference:
   Requirements for public lettings, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 73-101 et seq.
§ 34.04 ORDERS OR WARRANTS FOR MONEY; CONTRACTS; EXPENDITURES; REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The Mayor and City Council shall have no power to appropriate, issue,
or draw any order or warrant on the City Treasurer for money, unless the same
has been appropriated or ordered by ordinance, or the claim for the payment of
which such order or warrant is issued has been allowed according to the
provisions of §
34.05, and funds for the class or object out of which such claim is payable
have been included in the adopted budget statement or transferred according to
law.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. 17-708)
   (B)   No contract shall be hereafter made by the City Council, or any
committee or member, and no expense shall be incurred by any of the officers or
departments of the city, whether the object of the expenditures shall have been
ordered by the City Council or not, unless an appropriation shall have been
previously made concerning such expense, except as otherwise expressly provided
in division (A) above.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. 17-709)
   (C)   (1)   All warrants drawn upon the City Treasurer must be signed by the
Mayor and countersigned by the City Clerk, stating the particular fund to which
the same is chargeable, the person to whom payable, and for what particular
object. No money shall be otherwise paid than upon such warrants so drawn.
      (2)   Each warrant shall specify the amount included in the adopted
budget statement for such fund upon which it is drawn and the amount already
expended of such fund.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. 17-711)
§ 34.05 CLAIMS AND ACCOUNTS PAYABLE.
   (A)   (1)   All liquidated and unliquidated claims and accounts payable
against the city shall:
         (a)   Be presented in writing;
         (b)   State the name and address of the claimant and the amount of the
claim; and
         (c)   Fully and accurately identify the items or services for which
payment is claimed or the time, place, nature, and circumstances giving rise to
the claim.
      (2)   As a condition precedent to maintaining an action for a claim,
other than a tort claim as defined in Neb. Rev. Stat. 13-903, the claimant
shall file such claim within 90 days of the accrual of the claim in the office
of the City Clerk.
      (3)   The City Clerk shall notify the claimant or his or her agent or
attorney by letter mailed to the claimant’s address within five days if the
claim is disallowed by the City Council.
      (4)   No costs shall be recovered against the city in any action brought
against it for any claim or for any claim allowed in part which has not been
presented to the City Council to be audited, unless the recovery is for a
greater sum than the amount allowed with the interest due.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. 17-714)
   (B)   Upon the allowance of claims by the City Council, the order for their
payment shall specify the particular fund or appropriation out of which they
are payable as specified in the adopted budget statement; and no order or
warrant shall be drawn in excess of 85% of the current levy for the purpose for
which it is drawn, unless there is sufficient money in the treasury at the
credit of the proper fund for its payment; provided that if there exists at the
time such warrant is drawn, obligated funds from the federal government or the
state, or both from the federal government and the state, for the general
purpose or purposes of such warrant, then such warrant may be drawn in excess
of 85% of the current levy for the purpose for which it is drawn to the
additional extent of 100% of such obligated federal or state funds. No claim
shall be audited or allowed unless an order or warrant for the payment thereof
may legally be drawn.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. 17-715)
§ 34.06 COLLECTION OF SPECIAL ASSESSMENTS; PROCEDURE.
   (A)   The city shall have authority to collect the special assessments which
it levies and to perform all other necessary functions related thereto
including foreclosure.
   (B)   The City Council of any city collecting its own special assessments
shall direct that notice that special assessments are due shall be mailed or
otherwise delivered to the last known address of the person against whom those
special assessments are assessed or to the lending institution or other party
responsible for paying those special assessments. Failure to receive the notice
shall not relieve the taxpayer from any liability to pay the special
assessments and any interest or penalties accrued thereon.
   (C)   A city collecting its own assessments shall:
      (1)   File notice of the assessments and the amount of assessment being
levied for each lot or tract of land to the Register of Deeds; and
      (2)   File a release of assessment upon final payment of each assessment
with the Register of Deeds.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. 18-1216)
Statutory reference:
   Refunding erroneously paid special assessments, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 17-703
§ 34.07 SPECIAL ASSESSMENT FUND.
   All money received on special assessments shall be held by the City
Treasurer as a special fund to be applied to the payment of the improvement for
which the assessment was made, and this money shall be used for no other
purpose whatever, unless to reimburse the city for money expended for any such
improvement.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. 17-710)
§ 34.08 SINKING FUNDS; GIFTS OF MONEY OR PROPERTY.
   (A)   The city is hereby empowered to receive money or property by donation,
bequest, gift, devise, or otherwise for the benefit of any one or more of the
public purposes for which sinking funds are established by this section, as
stipulated by the donor. Title to any money or property so donated shall vest
in the City Council, or in its successors in office, who shall become the
owners thereof in trust to the uses of the sinking fund or funds. In the event
of a donation of real estate, the City Council may manage such real estate as
in the case of real estate donated to the city for city library purposes under
the provisions of Neb. Rev. Stat. 51-215 and 51-216.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. 19-1301)
   (B)   The City Council, subject to all the limitations set forth in this
section, shall have the power to levy a tax of not to exceed $0.105 on each
$100 in any one year upon the taxable value of all the taxable property within
the city for a term of not to exceed ten years, in addition to the amount of
tax which may be annually levied for the purposes of the adopted budget
statement of the city, for the purpose of establishing a sinking fund for the
construction, purchase, improvement, extension, original equipment, or repair,
not including maintenance, of any one or more of the following public
improvements, including acquisition of any land incident to the making thereof:
city libraries; city auditoriums or community houses for social or recreational
purposes; city halls; city public libraries, auditoriums, or community houses
in a single building; city swimming pools; city jails; city fire stations,
together with firefighting equipment or apparatus; city parks; city cemeteries;
city medical buildings, together with furnishings and equipment; or city
hospitals. The city shall not be authorized to levy the tax or to establish the
sinking fund as provided in this division (B) if, having bonded indebtedness,
such city has been in default in the payment of interest thereon or principal
thereof for a period of ten years prior to the date of the passage of the
resolution providing for the submission of the proposition for establishment of
the sinking fund as required in division (C) below.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. 19-1302)
   (C)   Before any sinking fund or funds are established or before any annual
tax is levied for any such planned city improvements mentioned in division (B)
above by the city, the City Council shall declare its purpose by resolution to
submit to the qualified electors of the city at the next general city election
the proposition to provide the city with the specific city improvement planned
under this section. The resolution of submission shall, among other things, set
forth a clear description of the improvement planned, the estimated cost
according to the prevailing costs, the amount of annual levy over a definite
period of years, not exceeding ten years, required to provide such cost, and
the specific name or designation for the sinking fund sought to be established
to carry out the planned improvement, together with a statement of the
proposition for placement upon the ballot at the election. Notice of the
submission of the proposition, together with a copy of the official ballot
containing the proposition, shall be published in its entirety three successive
weeks before the day of the election in a legal newspaper in or of general
circulation in the city or, if no legal newspaper is in or of general
circulation in the city, in a legal newspaper in or of general circulation in
the county in which the city is located. No such sinking fund shall be
established unless the same has been authorized by a majority or more of the
legal votes of the city cast for or against the proposition. If less than a
majority of the legal votes favor the establishment of the sinking fund, the
planned improvement shall not be made, no annual tax shall be levied therefor,
and no sinking fund or sinking funds shall be established in connection
therewith, but such resolution of submission shall immediately be repealed. If
the proposition shall carry at such election in the manner prescribed in this
division (C), the City Council and its successors in office shall proceed to do
all things authorized under such resolution of submission but never
inconsistent with this section. The election provided for under this section
shall be conducted as provided under the Election Act.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. 19-1303)
   (D)   All funds received by the City Treasurer, by donation or by tax levy,
as hereinbefore provided, shall, as they accumulate, be immediately invested by
the Treasurer, with the written approval of the City Council, in the manner
provided in §
34.11. Whenever investments of such sinking fund or funds are made, as
aforesaid, the nature and character of the same shall be reported to the City
Council, and the investment report shall be made a matter of record by the City
Clerk in the proceedings of the City Council. The sinking fund, or sinking
funds, accumulated under the provisions of this section, shall constitute a
special fund, or funds, for the purpose or purposes for which the same was
authorized and shall not be used for any other purpose unless authorized by 60%
of the qualified electors of the city voting at a general election favoring
such change in the use of the sinking fund or sinking funds. The question of
the change in the use of the sinking fund or sinking funds, when it fails to
carry, shall not be resubmitted in substance for a period of one year from and
after the date of such election.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. 19-1304)
Statutory reference:
   Additional levy limitations, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 17-702
   Investment in warrants, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 77-2337
§ 34.09 DEPOSIT OF FUNDS.
   (A)   (1)   The City Treasurer shall deposit, and at all times keep on
deposit, for safekeeping, in banks, capital stock financial institutions, or
qualifying mutual financial institutions of approved and responsible standing,
all money collected, received, or held by him or her as City Treasurer. These
deposits shall be subject to all regulations imposed by law or adopted by the
City Council for the receiving and holding thereof. The fact that a
stockholder, director, or other officer of the bank, capital stock financial
institution, or qualifying mutual financial institution is also serving as
Mayor, a member of the City Council, as a member of the Board of Public Works,
or as any other officer of the city shall not disqualify the bank, capital
stock financial institution, or qualifying mutual financial institution from
acting as a depository for the city funds.
      (2)   The City Council shall require from all banks, capital stock
financial institutions, or qualifying mutual financial institutions a bond in
such penal sum as may be the maximum amount on deposit at any time less the
amount insured or guaranteed by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation or,
in lieu thereof, security given as provided in the Public Funds Deposit
Security Act, to secure the payment of all such deposits and accretions. The
City Council shall approve this bond or giving of security. The City Treasurer
shall not be liable for any loss of any money sustained by reason of the
failure of any such depository so designated and approved.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. 17-607)
   (B)   The insurance afforded to depositors in banks, capital stock financial
institutions, or qualifying mutual financial institutions through the Federal
Deposit Insurance Corporation shall be deemed and construed to be a surety bond
or bonds to the extent that the deposits are insured or guaranteed by that
corporation, and for deposits so insured or guaranteed, no other surety bond or
bonds or other security shall be required.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. 77-2362)
   (C)   Neb. Rev. Stat. 77-2366 shall apply to deposits in capital stock
financial institutions. Neb. Rev. Stat. 77-2365.01 shall apply to deposits in
qualifying mutual financial institutions.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. 17-607 and 77-2362)
Statutory reference:
   Other provisions on deposits of public funds, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 77-2363
and 77-2364
   Public Funds Deposit Security Act, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 77-2386
§ 34.10 CERTIFICATES OF DEPOSIT; TIME DEPOSITS; CONDITIONS.
   The City Treasurer may, upon resolution of the Mayor and City Council
authorizing the same, purchase certificates of deposit from and make time
deposits in any bank, capital stock financial institution, or qualifying mutual
financial institution in the state to the extent that those certificates of
deposit or time deposits are insured or guaranteed by the Federal Deposit
Insurance Corporation. Deposits may be made in excess of the amounts so secured
by the corporation, and the amount of the excess deposit shall be secured by a
bond or by security given in the same manner as is provided for cities of the
first class in Neb. Rev. Stat. 16-714 through 16-716 as of the time the deposit
is made. Neb. Rev. Stat. 77-2366 shall apply to deposits in capital stock
financial institutions. Neb. Rev. Stat. 77-2365.01 shall apply to deposits in
qualifying mutual financial institutions.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. 17-720)
§ 34.11 INVESTMENT AND USE OF SURPLUS FUNDS.
   (A)   When the City Treasurer holds funds of the city in excess of the
amount required for maintenance or set aside for betterments and improvements,
the Mayor and City Council may, by resolution, direct and authorize the
Treasurer to invest the surplus funds in the outstanding bonds or registered
warrants of the city, bonds and debentures issued either singly or collectively
by any of the 12 federal land banks, the 12 intermediate credit banks, or the
13 banks for cooperatives under the supervision of the Farm Credit
Administration, or in interest-bearing bonds or the obligations of the United
States. The interest on such bonds or warrants shall be credited to the fund
out of which the bonds or warrants were purchased.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. 17-608)
   (B)   All income received by the city from public utilities and from the
payment and collection of water taxes, rents, rates or assessments shall be
applied to the payment of running expenses, interest on bonds or money borrowed
and the erection and construction of public utilities; should there be any
surplus, it shall be annually created into a sinking fund for the payment of
public utility bonds or for the improvements of the works, or into the General
Fund as the City Council may direct. The surplus remaining, if any, may, if the
City Council, be invested in interest-bearing bonds or obligations of the
United States.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. 17-540)
   (C)   The Mayor and City Council may, by resolution, direct and authorize
the Treasurer to dispose of the surplus electric light, water, or gas funds, or
the funds arising from the sale of electric light, water, or natural gas
distribution properties, by the payment of outstanding electric light, water,
or gas distribution bonds or water warrants then due. The excess, if any, after
such payments, may be transferred to the General Fund of the city.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. 17-609)
   (D)   Any surplus funds arising out of the operation of any system of
waterworks, power plant, ice plant, gas plant, sewerage, heating or lighting
plant, or distribution system by the Board of Public Works, or by the City
Council, where any of such utilities are not being operated by such a Board,
may be invested, if not invested pursuant to the provisions of any other law
upon the subject, in like manner and subject to the same conditions as the
investment of similar funds of cities of the first class, as provided in Neb.
Rev. Stat. 16-691.01.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. 17-803)
   (E)   (1)   Whenever the city has accumulated a surplus of any fund in
excess of its current needs or has accumulated a sinking fund for the payment
of its bonds and the money in such sinking fund exceeds the amount necessary to
pay the principal and interest of any such bonds which become due during the
current year, the City Council may invest any such surplus in excess of current
needs or such excess in its sinking fund in certificates of deposit, in time
deposits, and in any securities in which the State Investment Officer is
authorized to invest pursuant to the Nebraska Capital Expansion Act and the
Nebraska State Funds Investment Act and as provided in the authorized
investment guidelines of the Nebraska Investment Council in effect on the date
the investment is made. The State Investment Officer shall upon request furnish
a copy of current authorized investment guidelines of the Nebraska Investment
Council.
      (2)   Nothing in division (E)(1) above shall be construed to authorize
investments in venture capital.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. 77-2341)
§ 34.12 BOND ISSUES.
   (A)   The City Council may, after meeting all the requirements of state law,
issue bonds, fund bonds, and retire bonds for such purposes as may be permitted
by state law.
   (B)   The City Council shall have the authority to levy special assessments
for the payment of interest and principal on these bonds and may spread the
payments up to the maximum number of years permitted by state law.
Statutory reference:
   Bonds in general, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 18-1801 through 18-1805
   Funding and refunding bonds, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 10-606 through 10-612
   General provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 10-101 through 10-143
§ 34.13 DEBT COLLECTION; AUTHORITY TO CONTRACT WITH COLLECTION AGENCY.
   (A)   The city may contract to retain a collection agency licensed pursuant
to the Collection Agency Act, within or without this state, for the purpose of
collecting public debts owed by any person to the city.
   (B)   No debt owed pursuant to division (A) above may be assigned to a
collection agency unless:
      (1)   There has been an attempt to advise the debtor by first-class mail,
postage prepaid, at the last known address of the debtor:
         (a)   Of the existence of the debt; and
         (b)   That the debt may be assigned to a collection agency for
collection if the debt is not paid; and
      (2)   At least 30 days have elapsed from the time the notice was sent.
   (C)   A collection agency which is assigned a debt under this section shall
have only those remedies and powers which would be available to it as an
assignee of a private creditor.
   (D)   (1)   For purposes of this section, debt shall include all delinquent
fees or payments except delinquent property taxes on real estate.
      (2)   In the case of debt arising as a result of an order or judgment of
a court in a criminal or traffic matter, a collection fee may be added to the
debt. The collection fee shall be $25 or 4.5% of the debt, whichever is
greater. The collection fee shall be paid by the person who owes the debt
directly to the person or agency providing the collection service.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. 45-623)
§ 34.14 CREDIT CARDS; AUTHORITY TO ACCEPT.
   (A)   If authorized by the City Council, any city official may accept credit
cards, charge cards, or debit cards, whether presented in person or
electronically, or electronic funds transfers as a method of cash payment of
any tax, levy, excise, duty, custom, toll, interest, penalty, fine, license,
fee, or assessment of whatever kind or nature, whether general or special, as
provided by Neb. Rev. Stat. 77-1702.
   (B)   The total amount of the taxes, levies, excises, duties, customs,
tolls, interest, penalties, fines, licenses, fees, or assessments of whatever
kind or nature, whether general or special, paid for by credit card, charge
card, debit card, or electronic funds transfer shall be collected by the city
official.
   (C)   With respect to a facility which it operates in a proprietary
capacity, the City Council may choose to accept credit cards, charge cards, or
debit cards, whether presented in person or electronically, or electronic funds
transfers as a means of cash payment and may adjust the price for services to
reflect the handling and payment costs.
   (D)   The city official shall obtain, for each transaction, authorization
for use of any credit card, charge card, or debit card used pursuant to this
section from the financial institution, vending service company, credit card or
charge card company, or third-party merchant bank providing that service.
   (E)   The types of credit cards, charge cards, or debit cards accepted and
the payment services provided shall be determined by the State Treasurer and
the Director of Administrative Services with the advice of a committee convened
by the State Treasurer and the director. The committee shall consist of the
State Treasurer, the Tax Commissioner, the director, and representatives from
counties, cities, and other political subdivisions as may be appropriate. The
committee shall develop recommendations for the contracting of such services.
The State Treasurer and the director shall contract with one or more credit
card, charge card, or debit card companies or third-party merchant banks for
services on behalf of the state and those counties, cities, and political
subdivisions that choose to participate in the state contract for such
services. The State Treasurer and the director shall consider, for purposes of
this section, any negotiated discount, processing, or transaction fee imposed
by a credit card, charge card, or debit card company or third-party merchant
bank as an administrative expense. If the City Council chooses not to
participate in the state contract, it may choose types of credit cards, charge
cards, and debit cards and may negotiate and contract independently or
collectively as a governmental entity with one or more financial institutions,
vending service companies, credit card, charge card, or debit card companies,
or third-party merchant banks for the provision of these services.
   (F)   Subject to the direction of the City Council, a city official
authorizing acceptance of credit card or charge card payments shall be
authorized but not required to impose a surcharge or convenience fee upon the
person making a payment by credit card or charge card so as to wholly or
partially offset the amount of any discount or administrative fees charged to
the city, but the surcharge or convenience fee shall not exceed the surcharge
or convenience fee imposed by the credit card or charge card companies or
third-party merchant banks which have contracted under division (E) above. The
surcharge or convenience fee shall be applied only when allowed by the
operating rules and regulations of the credit card or charge card involved or
when authorized in writing by the credit card or charge card company involved.
When a person elects to make a payment to the city by credit card or charge
card and such a surcharge or convenience fee is imposed, the payment of the
surcharge or convenience fee shall be deemed voluntary by that person and shall
be in no case refundable. If a payment is made electronically by credit card,
charge card, debit card, or electronic funds transfer as part of a system for
providing or retrieving information electronically, the city official shall be
authorized but not required to impose an additional surcharge or convenience
fee upon the person making a payment.
   (G)   For the purpose of this section, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      ELECTRONIC FUNDS TRANSFER. The movement of funds by nonpaper means,
usually through a payment system, including, but not limited to, an automated
clearinghouse or the Federal Reserve’s Fedwire system.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. 13-609)
ANNUAL BUDGET
§ 34.25 FISCAL YEAR.
   The fiscal year of the city and any public utility of the city commences on
October 1 and extends through the following September 30 except as provided in
the Municipal Proprietary Function Act.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. 17-701)
§ 34.26 BUDGET PROCEDURES.
   The budget instruction manual prepared by the Auditor of Public Accounts is
incorporated by reference for the purpose of proper budget preparation.
§ 34.27 EXPENDITURES PRIOR TO ADOPTION OF BUDGET.
   (A)   On and after the first day of its fiscal year in 1993 and of each
succeeding year or on or after the first day of its biennial period and until
the adoption of the budget by the City Council in September, the City Council
may expend any balance of cash on hand for the current expenses of the city.
Except as provided in division (B) below, these expenditures shall not exceed
an amount equivalent to the total amount expended under the last budget in the
equivalent period of the prior budget year or biennial period. These
expenditures shall be charged against the appropriations for each individual
fund or purpose as provided in the budget when adopted.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. 13-509.01)
   (B)   The restriction on expenditures in division (A) above may be exceeded
upon the express finding of the City Council that expenditures beyond the
amount authorized are necessary to enable the city to meet its statutory duties
and responsibilities. The finding and approval of the expenditures in excess of
the statutory authorization shall be adopted by the City Council in open public
session. Expenditures authorized by this section shall be charged against
appropriations for each individual fund or purpose as provided in the budget
when adopted, and nothing in this section shall be construed to authorize
expenditures by the city in excess of that authorized by any other statutory
provision.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. 13-509.02)
§ 34.28 PROPOSED BUDGET STATEMENT; CONTENTS; AVAILABILITY; CORRECTION.
   (A)   The City Council shall annually or biennially prepare a proposed
budget statement on forms prescribed and furnished by the Auditor of Public
Accounts. The proposed budget statement shall be made available to the public
prior to publication of the notice of the hearing on the proposed budget
statement pursuant to §
34.29. A proposed budget statement shall contain the following information,
except as provided by state law:
      (1)   For the immediately preceding fiscal year or biennial period, the
revenue from all sources, including motor vehicle taxes, other than revenue
received from personal and real property taxation, allocated to the funds and
separately stated as to each such source: the unencumbered cash balance at the
beginning and end of the year or biennial period; the amount received by
taxation of personal and real property; and the amount of actual expenditures;
      (2)   For the current fiscal year or biennial period, actual and
estimated revenue from all sources, including motor vehicle taxes, allocated to
the funds and separately stated as to each such source: the actual unencumbered
cash balance available at the beginning of the year or biennial period; the
amount received from personal and real property taxation; and the amount of
actual and estimated expenditures, whichever is applicable. This statement
shall contain the cash reserve for each fiscal year or biennial period and
shall note whether or not the reserve is encumbered. The cash reserve
projections shall be based upon the actual experience of prior years or
biennial periods. The cash reserve shall not exceed 50% of the total budget
adopted exclusive of capital outlay items;
      (3)   For the immediately ensuing fiscal year or biennial period, an
estimate of revenue from all sources, including motor vehicle taxes, other than
revenue to be received from taxation of personal and real property, separately
stated as to each such source: the actual or estimated unencumbered cash
balances, whichever is applicable, to be available at the beginning of the year
or biennial period; the amounts proposed to be expended during the year or
biennial period; and the amount of cash reserve, based on actual experience of
prior years or biennial period, which cash reserve shall not exceed 50% of the
total budget adopted exclusive of capital outlay items;
      (4)   A statement setting out separately the amount sought to be raised
from the levy of a tax on the taxable value of real property:
         (a)   For the purpose of paying the principal or interest on bonds
issued or authorized to be issued by the City Council or the legal voters of
the political subdivision; and
         (b)   For all other purposes.
      (5)   A uniform summary of the proposed budget statement, including each
proprietary function fund included in a separate proprietary budget statement
prepared pursuant to the Municipal Proprietary Function Act, and a grand total
of all funds maintained by the City Council; and
      (6)   A list of the proprietary functions which are not included in the
budget statement. These proprietary functions shall have a separate budget
statement which is approved by the City Council as provided in the Municipal
Proprietary Function Act.
   (B)   The actual or estimated unencumbered cash balance required to be
included in the budget statement by this section shall include deposits and
investments of the city as well as any funds held by the County Treasurer for
the city and shall be accurately stated on the proposed budget statement.
   (C)   The city shall correct any material errors in the budget statement
detected by the Auditor of Public Accounts or by other sources.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. 13-504)
   (D)   The estimated expenditures plus the required cash reserve for the
ensuing fiscal year or biennial period less all estimated and actual
unencumbered balances at the beginning of the year or biennial period and less
the estimated income from all sources, including motor vehicle taxes, other
than taxation of personal and real property shall equal the amount to be
received from taxes, and that amount shall be shown on the proposed budget
statement pursuant to this section. The amount to be raised from taxation of
personal and real property, as determined above, plus the estimated revenue
from other sources, including motor vehicle taxes, and the unencumbered
balances shall equal the estimated expenditures, plus the necessary required
cash reserve, for the ensuing year or biennial period.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. 13-505)
§ 34.29 PROPOSED BUDGET STATEMENT; HEARING; ADOPTION; CERTIFICATION OF TAX
AMOUNT.
   (A)   The City Council shall each year or biennial period conduct a public
hearing on its proposed budget statement. Such hearing shall be held separately
from any regularly scheduled meeting of the governing body and shall not be
limited by time. Notice of the place and time of the hearing, together with a
summary of the proposed budget statement, shall be published four calendar days
prior to the date set for hearing in a newspaper of general circulation within
the city’s jurisdiction. For purposes of such notice, the four calendar days
shall include the day of publication but not the day of hearing. When the total
operating budget, not including reserves, does not exceed $10,000 per year or
$20,000 per biennial period, the proposed budget summary may be posted at the
City Council’s principal headquarters. At such hearing, the governing body
shall make at least three copies of the proposed budget statement available to
the public and shall make a presentation outlining key provisions of the
proposed budget statement, including, but not limited to, a comparison with the
prior year’s budget. Any member of the public desiring to speak on the proposed
budget statement shall be allowed to address the governing body at the hearing
and shall be given a reasonable amount of time to do so.
   (B)   After the hearing, the proposed budget statement shall be adopted, or
amended and adopted as amended, and a written record shall be kept of the
hearing. The amount to be received from personal and real property taxation
shall be certified to the levying board after the proposed budget statement is
adopted or is amended and adopted as amended. The certification of the amount
to be received from personal and real property taxation shall specify
separately the amount to be applied to the payment of principal or interest on
bonds issued or authorized to be issued by the City Council or the legal voters
of the political subdivision and the amount to be received for all other
purposes.
   (C)   If the adopted budget statement reflects a change from that shown in
the published proposed budget statement, a summary of the changes shall be
published within 20 calendar days after its adoption in the manner provided in
this section, but without provision for hearing, setting forth the items
changed and the reasons for the changes.
   (D)   Upon approval by City Council, the budget shall be filed with the
Auditor of Public Accounts. The Auditor may review the budget for errors in
mathematics, improper accounting, and noncompliance with the state’s Budget Act
or Neb. Rev. Stat. 13-518 to 13-522. If the Auditor detects such errors, he or
she shall immediately notify the City Council of such errors. The City Council
shall correct any such error as provided in §
34.34. Warrants for the payment of expenditures provided in the budget adopted
under this section shall be valid notwithstanding any errors or noncompliance
for which the Auditor has notified the City Council.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. 13-506)
   (E)   When a levy increase has been authorized by vote of the electors, the
adopted budget statement shall indicate the amount of the levy increase.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. 13-507)
§ 34.30 ADOPTED BUDGET STATEMENT; FILING; CERTIFICATION OF AMOUNT OF TAX.
   (A)   (1)   After publication and hearing on the proposed budget statement
and within the time prescribed by law, the City Council shall file with and
certify to the levying board or boards on or before September 30 of each year
or September 30 of the final year of a biennial period and file with the
Auditor of Public Accounts a copy of the adopted budget statement which
complies with Neb. Rev. Stat. 13-518 to 13-522, together with the amount of the
tax required to fund the adopted budget, setting out separately:
         (a)   The amount to be levied for the payment of principal or interest
on bonds issued or authorized to be issued by the City Council or the legal
voters of the political subdivision; and
         (b)   The amount to be levied for all other purposes.
      (2)   Proof of publication shall be attached to the statements.
   (B)   (1)   If the prime rate published by the Federal Reserve Board is 10%
or more at the time of the filing and certification required under this
section, the City Council, in certifying the amount required, may make
allowance for delinquent taxes not exceeding 5% of the amount required plus the
actual percentage of delinquent taxes for the preceding tax year or biennial
period and for the amount of estimated tax loss from any pending or anticipated
litigation which involves taxation and in which tax collections have been or
can be withheld or escrowed by court order.
      (2)   For purposes of this section, anticipated litigation shall be
limited to the anticipation of an action being filed by a taxpayer who or which
filed a similar action for the preceding year or biennial period which is still
pending. Except for such allowances, the City Council shall not certify an
amount of tax more than 1% greater or lesser than the amount determined under §
34.28.
   (C)   The City Council shall use the certified taxable values as provided by
the County Assessor pursuant to Neb. Rev. Stat. 13-509 for the current year in
setting or certifying the levy. The City Council may designate one of its
members to perform any duty or responsibility required of the City Council by
this section.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. 13-508)
§ 34.31 APPROPRIATION BILL.
   The City Council shall adopt a budget statement pursuant to the state’s
Budget Act, to be termed, “The Annual Appropriation Bill,” in which the City
Council may appropriate those sums of money as may be deemed necessary to
defray all necessary expenses and liabilities of the city.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. 17-706)
§ 34.32 GENERAL FUND.
   If the city has not decided to follow the all-purpose levy method of
financing for the fiscal year, all money not specifically appropriated in the
annual appropriation bill shall be deposited in and known as the General Fund.
§ 34.33 TRANSFER OF FUNDS.
   (A)   Whenever during the current fiscal year it becomes apparent to the
City Council that due to unforeseen emergencies there is temporarily
insufficient money in a particular fund to meet the requirements of the adopted
budget of expenditures for that fund, the City Council may by a majority vote,
unless otherwise provided by state law, transfer money from other funds to such
fund.
   (B)   No expenditure during any fiscal year shall be made in excess of the
amounts indicated in the adopted budget statement, except as authorized in §
34.34 or by state law.
   (C)   Any officer or officers of the City Council who obligate funds
contrary to the provisions of this section shall be guilty of an offense.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. 13-510) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 34.34 BUDGET REVISION.
   (A)   (1)   Unless otherwise provided by law, the City Council may propose
to revise the previously adopted budget statement and shall conduct a public
hearing on that proposal whenever during the current fiscal year it becomes
apparent to the City Council that:
         (a)   There are circumstances which could not reasonably have been
anticipated at the time the budget for the current year was adopted;
         (b)   The budget adopted violated Neb. Rev. Stat. 13-518 through 13-
522, such that the revenue of the current fiscal year for any fund thereof will
be insufficient, additional expenses will be necessarily incurred, or there is
a need to reduce the budget requirements to comply with Neb. Rev. Stat. 13-518
through 13-522; or
         (c)   The City Council has been notified by the Auditor of Public
Accounts of a mathematical or accounting error or noncompliance with the
state’s Budget Act.
      (2)   The public hearing requirement shall not apply to emergency
expenditures pursuant to Neb. Rev. Stat. 81-829.51.
   (B)   Notice of the time and place of the hearing shall be published at
least four calendar days prior to the date set for hearing in a newspaper of
general circulation within the City Council’s jurisdiction. For purposes of
such notice, the four calendar days shall include the day of publication but
not the day of hearing. This published notice shall set forth:
      (1)   The time and place of the hearing;
      (2)   The amount in dollars of additional or reduced money required and
for what purpose;
      (3)   A statement setting forth the nature of the unanticipated
circumstances and, if the budget requirements are to be increased, the reasons
why the previously adopted budget of expenditures cannot be reduced during the
remainder of the current year to meet the need for additional money in that
manner;
      (4)   A copy of the summary of the originally adopted budget previously
published; and
      (5)   A copy of the summary of the proposed revised budget.
   (C)   At the hearing any taxpayer may appear or file a written statement
protesting any application for additional money. A written record shall be kept
of all such hearings.
   (D)   (1)   Upon conclusion of the public hearing on the proposed revised
budget and approval of the proposed revised budget by the City Council, the
City Council shall file with the County Clerk of the county or counties in
which the City Council is located, and with the Auditor of Public Accounts, a
copy of the revised budget, as adopted.
      (2)   The City Council may then issue warrants in payment for
expenditures authorized by the adopted revised budget. These warrants shall be
referred to as registered warrants and shall be repaid during the next fiscal
year from funds derived from taxes levied therefor.
   (E)   Within 30 days after the adoption of the budget under §
34.29, the City Council may, or within 30 days after notification of an error
by the Auditor of Public Accounts, the City Council shall correct an adopted
budget which contains a clerical, mathematical, or accounting error which does
not affect the total amount budgeted by more than 1% or increase the amount
required from property taxes. No public hearing shall be required for such a
correction. After correction, the City Council shall file a copy of the
corrected budget with the County Clerk of the county or counties in which the
City Council is located and with the Auditor of Public Accounts. The City
Council may then issue warrants in payment for expenditures authorized by the
budget.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. 13-511)
§ 34.35 PROPRIETARY FUNCTIONS; FISCAL YEAR; BUDGET STATEMENTS; FILING; HEARING;
ADOPTION; RECONCILIATION.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      PROPRIETARY FUNCTION. A water supply or distribution utility, a
wastewater collection or treatment utility, an electric generation,
transmission, or distribution utility, a gas supply, transmission, or
distribution utility, an integrated solid waste management collection,
disposal, or handling utility, or a hospital or a nursing home owned by the
city.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. 18-2803)
      SUBSIDIZATION. The costs of operation of a proprietary function are
regularly financed by appropriations from the city’s General Fund in excess of
the amount paid by the city to the proprietary function for actual service or
services received.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. 18-2804)
   (B)   The City Council may establish a separate fiscal year for each
proprietary function, except that any proprietary function which is subsidized
by appropriations from the city’s General Fund shall have the same fiscal year
as the city.
   (C)   (1)   At least 30 days prior to the start of the fiscal year of each
proprietary function, a proposed proprietary budget statement shall be prepared
in writing and filed with the City Clerk containing the following information:
         (a)   For the immediately preceding fiscal year, the revenue from all
sources, the unencumbered cash balance at the beginning and end of the year,
the amount received by taxation, and the amount of actual expenditure;
         (b)   For the current fiscal year, actual and estimated revenue from
all sources separately stated as to each such source, the actual unencumbered
cash balance available at the beginning of the year, the amount received from
taxation, and the amount of actual and estimated expenditure, whichever is
applicable;
         (c)   For the immediately ensuing fiscal year, an estimate of revenue
from all sources separately stated as to each such source, the actual or
estimated unencumbered cash balance, whichever is applicable, to be available
at the beginning of the year, the amounts proposed to be expended during the
fiscal year, and the amount of cash reserve based on actual experience of prior
years; and
         (d)   A uniform summary of the proposed budget statement which shall
include a total of all funds maintained for the proprietary function.
      (2)   The statement shall contain the estimated cash reserve for each
fiscal year and shall note whether or not the reserve is encumbered. The cash
reserve projections shall be based upon the actual experience of prior years.
      (3)   Each proprietary budget statement shall be filed on forms
prescribed and furnished by the Auditor of Public Accounts following
consultation with representatives of such governing bodies as operate
proprietary functions subject to the provisions of the Municipal Proprietary
Function Act.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. 18-2805)
   (D)   (1)   After a proposed proprietary budget statement is filed with the
City Clerk, the City Council shall conduct a public hearing on the statement.
Notice of the time and place of the hearing, a summary of the proposed
proprietary budget statement, and notice that the full proposed proprietary
budget statement is available for public review with the City Clerk during
normal business hours shall be published one time at least five days prior to
the hearing in a legal newspaper in or of general circulation within the City
Council’s jurisdiction or by mailing to each resident within the City Council’s
jurisdiction.
      (2)   After the hearing, the proposed proprietary budget statement shall
be adopted or amended and adopted as amended, and a written record shall be
kept of the hearing. If the adopted proprietary budget statement reflects a
change from the proposed proprietary statement presented at the hearing, a copy
of the adopted proprietary budget statement shall be filed with the City Clerk
within 20 days after its adoption and published in a legal newspaper in or of
general circulation within the City Council’s jurisdiction or by mailing to
each resident within the City Council’s jurisdiction.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. 18-2806)
   (E)   If the actual expenditures for a proprietary function exceed the
estimated expenditures in the proprietary budget statement during its fiscal
year, the City Council shall adopt a proprietary function reconciliation
statement within 90 days after the end of the fiscal year which reflects any
difference between the adopted proprietary budget statement for the previous
fiscal year and the actual expenditures and revenue for that fiscal year. After
the adoption of a proprietary function reconciliation statement, it shall be
filed with the City Clerk and published in a legal newspaper in or of general
circulation within the City Council’s jurisdiction or by mailing to each
resident within the City Council’s jurisdiction. If the difference between the
adopted proprietary budget for the previous fiscal year and the actual
expenditures and revenues for that fiscal year is greater than 10%, the
proprietary function reconciliation statement shall only be adopted following a
public hearing.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. 18-2807)
   (F)   If the budget of a proprietary function is included in the city budget
statement created pursuant to the state’s Budget Act, the Municipal Proprietary
Function Act need not be followed for that proprietary function. Any income
from a proprietary function which is transferred to the General Fund of the
city shall be shown as a source of revenue in the city budget statement created
pursuant to the state’s Budget Act.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. 18-2808)
TAX LEVIES
§ 34.50 PROPERTY TAX LEVY FOR GENERAL REVENUE PURPOSES.
   The city shall have power to levy taxes for general revenue purposes in any
one year not to exceed $0.35 on each $100 upon the taxable value of all the
taxable property in the city. The valuation of such property shall be
ascertained from the books or assessment rolls of the County Assessor.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. 17-506)
§ 34.51 LEVIES FOR OTHER TAXES AND SPECIAL ASSESSMENTS.
   The city shall have power to levy any other tax or special assessment
authorized by law.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. 17-507)
§ 34.52 ALL-PURPOSE LEVY; EXTRAORDINARY LEVIES; ALLOCATION; ABANDONMENT.
   (A)   (1)   Notwithstanding provisions in the statutes of state and this
code to the contrary, for any fiscal year the City Council may decide to
certify to the County Clerk for collection one all-purpose levy required to be
raised by taxation for all city purposes instead of certifying a schedule of
levies for specific purposes added together.
      (2)   Subject to the limits in §
34.53, the all-purpose levy shall not exceed an annual levy of $1.05 on each
$100 upon the taxable valuation of all the taxable property in the city.
Otherwise authorized extraordinary levies to service and pay bonded
indebtedness of the city may be made by the city in addition to such all-
purpose levy.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. 19-1309)
   (B)   If the method provided in division (A) above is followed in city
financing, the city shall allocate the amount so raised to the several
departments of the city in its annual budget and appropriation ordinance, or in
other legal manner, as the City Council deems wisest and best.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. 19-1310)
   (C)   If the city elects to follow the method provided in division (A)
above, it shall be bound by that election during the ensuing fiscal year but
may abandon such method in succeeding fiscal years.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. 19-1311)
   (D)   If it is necessary to certify the amount to county officers for
collection, the same shall be certified as a single amount for General Fund
purposes.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. 19-1312)
§ 34.53 PROPERTY TAX LEVY; MAXIMUM; AUTHORITY TO EXCEED.
   (A)   Property tax levies for the support of the city for fiscal years
beginning on or after July 1, 1998, shall be limited to the amounts set forth
in this division (A), except as provided in division (C) below. The city may
levy a maximum levy of $0.45 per $100 of taxable valuation of property subject
to the levy plus an additional $0.05 per $100 of taxable valuation to provide
financing for the city’s share of revenue required under an agreement or
agreements executed pursuant to the Interlocal Cooperation Act or the Joint
Public Agency Act. The maximum levy shall include amounts levied to pay for
sums to support a library pursuant to Neb. Rev. Stat. 51-201, museum pursuant
to Neb. Rev. Stat. 51-501, visiting community nurse, home health nurse, or home
health agency pursuant to Neb. Rev. Stat. 71-1637, or statue, memorial, or
monument pursuant to Neb. Rev. Stat. 80-202. Property tax levies for judgments,
except judgments or orders from the Commission of Industrial Relations,
obtained against the city which require or obligate the city to pay that
judgment, to the extent the judgment is not paid by liability insurance
coverage of the city, for preexisting lease-purchase contracts approved prior
to July 1, 1998, for bonded indebtedness approved according to law and secured
by a levy on property, and for payments by a public airport to retire interest-
free loans from the Division of Aeronautics in lieu of bonded indebtedness at a
lower cost to the public airport are not included in the levy limits
established by this division (A). The limitations on tax levies provided in
this division (A) are to include all other general or special levies provided
by law. Notwithstanding other provisions of law, the only exceptions to the
limits in this division (A) are those provided by or authorized by this
section. Tax levies in excess of the limitations in this section shall be
considered unauthorized levies under Neb. Rev. Stat. 77-1606 unless approved
under division (C) below.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. 77-3442)
   (B)   (1)   All city airport authorities established under the Cities
Airport Authorities Act, community redevelopment authorities established under
the Community Development Law, and off-street parking districts established
under the Off-street Parking District Act may be allocated property taxes as
authorized by law which are authorized by the city and are counted in the
municipal levy limit provided by division (A) above, except that such
limitation shall not apply to property tax levies for preexisting lease-
purchase contracts approved prior to July 1, 1998, for bonded indebtedness
approved according to law and secured by a levy on property, and for payments
by a public airport to retire interest-free loans from the Division of
Aeronautics in lieu of bonded indebtedness at a lower cost to the public
airport. For off- street parking districts established under the Off-street
Parking District Act, the tax shall be counted in the allocation by the city
proportionately, by dividing the total taxable valuation of the taxable
property within the district by the total taxable valuation of the taxable
property within the city multiplied by the levy of the district. The City
Council shall review and approve or disapprove the levy request of the
political subdivisions subject to this division (B). The City Council may
approve all or a portion of the levy request and may approve a levy request
that would allow a levy greater than that permitted by law. The levy allocated
by the city may be exceeded as provided in division (C) below.
      (2)   On or before August 1, all political subdivisions subject to city
levy authority under this division (B) shall submit a preliminary request for
levy allocation to the City Council. The preliminary request of the political
subdivision shall be in the form of a resolution adopted by a majority vote of
members present of the political subdivision’s governing body. The failure of a
political subdivision to make a preliminary request shall preclude that
political subdivision from using procedures set forth in Neb. Rev. Stat. 77-
3444 to exceed the final levy allocation as determined in this division (B).
      (3)   (a)   The City Council shall:
            1.   Adopt a resolution by a majority vote of members present which
determines a final allocation of levy authority to its political subdivisions;
and
            2.   Forward a copy of that resolution to the chairperson of the
governing body of each of its political subdivisions.
         (b)   No final levy allocation shall be changed after September 1
except by agreement between both the City Council and the governing body of the
political subdivision whose final levy allocation is at issue.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. 77-3443)
   (C)   (1)   The city may exceed the limits provided in division (A) above by
an amount not to exceed a maximum levy approved by a majority of registered
voters voting on the issue in a primary, general, or special election at which
the issue is placed before the registered voters. A vote to exceed the limits
must be approved prior to October 10 of the fiscal year which is to be the
first to exceed the limits.
      (2)   The City Council may call for the submission of the issue to the
voters:
         (a)   By passing a resolution calling for exceeding the limits by a
vote of at least two-thirds of the members of the City Council and delivering a
copy of the resolution to the County Clerk or Election Commissioner of every
county which contains all or part of the city; or
         (b)   Upon receipt of a petition by the County Clerk or Election
Commissioner of every county containing all or part of the city requesting an
election signed by at least 5% of the registered voters residing in the city.
      (3)   The resolution or petition shall include the amount of levy which
would be imposed in excess of the limits provided in division (A) above and the
duration of the excess levy authority. The excess levy authority shall not have
a duration greater than five years. Any resolution or petition calling for a
special election shall be filed with the County Clerk or Election Commissioner
on or before the fifth Friday prior to the election, and the time of
publication and providing a copy of the notice of election required in Neb.
Rev. Stat. 32-802 shall be no later than 20 days prior to the election.
      (4)   The County Clerk or Election Commissioner shall place the issue on
the ballot at an election as called for in the resolution or petition which is
at least 31 days after receipt of the resolution or petition. The election
shall be held pursuant to the Election Act. For petitions filed with the County
Clerk or Election Commissioner on or after May 1, 1998, the petition shall be
in the form as provided in Neb. Rev. Stat. 32-628 through 32-631.
      (5)   Any excess levy authority approved under this division (C) shall
terminate pursuant to its terms, on a vote of the City Council to terminate the
authority to levy more than the limits, at the end of the fourth fiscal year
following the first year in which the levy exceeded the limit, or as provided
in division (C)(8) below, whichever is earliest.
      (6)   The City Council may pass no more than one resolution calling for
an election pursuant to this division (C) during any one calendar year. Only
one election may be held in any one calendar year pursuant to a petition
initiated under this division (C). The ballot question may include any terms
and conditions set forth in the resolution or petition and shall include the
language specified in Neb. Rev. Stat. 77-3444.
      (7)   If a majority of the votes cast upon the ballot question are in
favor of the tax, the County Board shall authorize a tax in excess of the
limits in division (A) above, but the tax shall not exceed the amount stated in
the ballot question. If a majority of those voting on the ballot question are
opposed to the tax, the City Council shall not impose the tax.
      (8)   (a)   The city may rescind or modify a previously approved excess
levy authority prior to its expiration by a majority of registered voters
voting on the issue in a primary, general, or special election at which the
issue is placed before the registered voters. A vote to rescind or modify must
be approved prior to October 10 of the fiscal year for which it is to be
effective.
         (b)   The City Council may call for the submission of the issue to the
voters:
            1.   By passing a resolution calling for the rescission or
modification by a vote of at least two-thirds of the members of the City
Council and delivering a copy of the resolution to the County Clerk or Election
Commissioner of every county which contains all or part of the city; or
            2.   Upon receipt of a petition by the County Clerk or Election
Commissioner of every county containing all or part of the city requesting an
election signed by at least 5% of the registered voters residing in the city.
         (c)   The resolution or petition shall include the amount and the
duration of the previously approved excess levy authority and a statement that
either the excess levy authority will be rescinded or the excess levy authority
will be modified. If the excess levy authority will be modified, the amount and
duration of the modification shall be stated. The modification shall not have a
duration greater than five years. The County Clerk or Election Commissioner
shall place the issue on the ballot at an election as called for in the
resolution or petition which is at least 31 days after receipt of the
resolution or petition, and the time of publication and providing a copy of the
notice of election required in Neb. Rev. Stat. 32-802 shall be no later than 20
days prior to the election. The election shall be held pursuant to the Election
Act.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. 77-3444)
§ 34.54 PROPERTY TAX LEVY; CERTIFICATION OF AMOUNT; COLLECTION.
   The City Council shall, at the time and in the manner provided by law, cause
to be certified to the County Clerk the amount of tax to be levied upon the
taxable value of all the taxable property of the city which the city requires
for the purposes of the adopted budget statement for the ensuing year,
including all special assessments and taxes assessed as otherwise provided. The
County Clerk shall place the same on the property tax lists to be collected in
the manner provided by law for the collection of county taxes in the county
where the city is situated. In all sales for any delinquent taxes for municipal
purposes, if there are other delinquent taxes due from the same person or a
lien on the same property, the sale shall be for all the delinquent taxes. Such
sales and all sales made under or by virtue of this section or the provision of
law herein referred to shall be of the same validity and in all respects be
deemed and treated as though such sales had been made for the delinquent county
taxes exclusively.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. 17-702)
§ 34.55 PROPERTY TAX REQUEST; PROCEDURE FOR SETTING.
   (A)   If the annual assessment of property would result in an increase in
the total property taxes levied by a county, municipality, school district,
learning community, sanitary and improvement district, natural resources
district, educational service unit, or community college, as determined using
the previous year’s rate of levy, the city’s property tax request for the
current year shall be no more than its property tax request in the prior year,
and the city’s rate of levy for the current year shall be decreased accordingly
when such rate is set by the county’s Board of Equalization pursuant to Neb.
Rev. Stat. 77-1601. The City Council shall pass a resolution or ordinance to
set the amount of its property tax request after holding the public hearing
required in division (C) below. If the City Council seeks to set its property
tax request at an amount that exceeds its property tax request in the prior
year, it may do so after holding the public hearing required in division (C)
below and by passing a resolution or ordinance that complies with division (D)
below. If any county, city, school district, or community college seeks to
increase its property tax request by more than the allowable growth percentage,
such political subdivision shall comply with the requirements of Neb. 77-1633
in lieu of the requirements in divisions (C) and (D) below.
   (B)   If the annual assessment of property would result in no change or a
decrease in the total property taxes levied by a county, city, village, school
district, learning community, sanitary and improvement district, natural
resources district, educational service unit, or community college, as
determined using the previous year’s rate of levy, the city’s property tax
request for the current year shall be no more than its property tax request in
the prior year, and the city’s rate of levy for the current year shall be
adjusted accordingly when such rate is set by the county’s Board of
Equalization pursuant to Neb. Rev. Stat. 77-1601. The City Council shall pass a
resolution or ordinance to set the amount of its property tax request after
holding the public hearing required in division (C) below. If the City Council
seeks to set its property tax request at an amount that exceeds its property
tax request in the prior year, it may do so after holding the public hearing
required in division (C) below and by passing a resolution or ordinance that
complies with division (D) below. If any county, city, school district, or
community college seeks to increase its property tax request by more than the
allowable growth percentage, such political subdivision shall comply with the
requirements of Neb. 77-1633 in lieu of the requirements in divisions (C) and
(D) below.
   (C)   The resolution or ordinance required under this section shall only be
passed after a special public hearing called for the purpose is held and after
notice is published in a newspaper of general circulation in the area of the
city at least four calendar days prior to the hearing. For purposes of such
notice, the four calendar days shall include the day of publication but not the
day of hearing. If the city’s total operating budget, not including reserves,
does not exceed $10,000 per year or $20,000 per biennial period, the notice may
be posted at the City Council’s principal headquarters.
   (D)   The hearing notice shall contain the following information:
      (1)   The certified taxable valuation under Neb. Rev. Stat. 13-509 for
the prior year, the certified taxable valuation under Neb. Rev. Stat. 13-509
for the current year, and the percentage increase or decrease in such
valuations from the prior year to the current year;
      (2)   The dollar amount of the prior year’s tax request and the property
tax rate that was necessary to fund that tax request;
      (3)   The property tax rate that would be necessary to fund last year’s
tax request if applied to the current year’s valuation;
      (4)   The proposed dollar amount of the tax request for the current year
and the property tax rate that will be necessary to fund that tax request;
      (5)   The percentage increase or decrease in the property tax rate from
the prior year to the current year; and
      (6)   The percentage increase or decrease in the total operating budget
from the prior year to the current year.
   (E)   Any resolution or ordinance setting a city’s property tax request
under Neb. Rev. Stat. 77-1632 at an amount that exceeds the city’s property tax
request in the prior year shall include, but not be limited to, the following
information:
      (1)   The name of the city;
      (2)   The amount of the property tax request;
      (3)   The following statements:
         (a)   The total assessed value of property differs from last year’s
total assessed value by        percent;
         (b)   The tax rate which would levy the same amount of property taxes
as last year, when multiplied by the new total assessed value of property,
would be $        per $100 of assessed value;
         (c)   The city proposes to adopt a property tax request that will
cause its tax rate to be $       per $100 of assessed value; and
         (d)   Based on the proposed property tax request and changes in other
revenue, the total operating budget of the city will exceed last year’s by
        percent; and
      (4)   The record vote of the City Council in passing such resolution or
ordinance.
   (F)   Any resolution or ordinance setting a property tax request under this
section shall be certified and forwarded to the County Clerk on or before
October 15 of the year for which the tax request is to apply.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. 77-1632)
§ 34.56 PROPERTY TAX REQUEST; INCREASE BY MORE THAN ALLOWABLE GROWTH
PERCENTAGE; PROCEDURE FOR SETTING.
   (A)   For purposes of this section, POLITICAL SUBDIVISION means any county,
city, school district, or community college.
   (B)   If any political subdivision seeks to increase its property tax
request by more than the allowable growth percentage, such political
subdivision may do so if:
      (1)   A public hearing is held and notice of such hearing is provided in
compliance with division (C) below; and
      (2)   The governing body of such political subdivision passes a
resolution or an ordinance that complies with division (D) below.
   (C)   (1)   Each political subdivision within a county that seeks to
increase its property tax request by more than the allowable growth percentage
shall participate in a joint public hearing. Each such political subdivision
shall designate one representative to attend the joint public hearing on behalf
of the political subdivision. If a political subdivision includes area in more
than one county, the political subdivision shall be deemed to be within the
county in which the political subdivision’s principal headquarters are located.
At such hearing, there shall be no items on the agenda other than discussion on
each political subdivision’s intent to increase its property tax request by
more than the allowable growth percentage.
      (2)   The joint public hearing shall be held on or after September 17 and
prior to September 29 and before any of the participating political
subdivisions file their adopted budget statement pursuant to Neb. Rev. Stat.
13-508.
      (3)   The joint public hearing shall be held after 6:00 p.m. local time
on the relevant date.
      (4)   The joint public hearing shall be organized by the County Clerk or
his or her designee. At the joint public hearing, the representative of each
political subdivision shall give a brief presentation on the political
subdivision’s intent to increase its property tax request by more than the
allowable growth percentage and the effect of such request on the political
subdivision’s budget. The presentation shall include:
         (a)   The name of the political subdivision;
         (b)   The amount of the property tax request; and
         (c)   The following statements:
            1.   The total assessed value of property differs from last year’s
total assessed value by       percent;
            2.   The tax rate which would levy the same amount of property
taxes as last year, when multiplied by the new total assessed value of
property, would be $      per $100 of assessed value;
            3.   The (name of political subdivision) proposes to adopt a
property tax request that will cause its tax rate to be $      per $100 of
assessed value;
            4.   Based on the proposed property tax request and changes in
other revenue, the total operating budget of (name of political subdivision)
will exceed last year’s by       percent; and
            5.   To obtain more information regarding the increase in the
property tax request, citizens may contact the (name of political subdivision)
at (telephone number and email address of political subdivision).
      (5)   Any member of the public shall be allowed to speak at the joint
public hearing and shall be given a reasonable amount of time to do so.
      (6)   Notice of the joint public hearing shall be provided:
         (a)   By sending a postcard to all affected property taxpayers. The
postcard shall be sent to the name and address to which the property tax
statement is mailed;
         (b)   By posting notice of the hearing on the home page of the
relevant county’s website, except that this requirement shall only apply if the
county has a population of more than 25,000 inhabitants; and
         (c)   By publishing notice of the hearing in a legal newspaper in or
of general circulation in the relevant county.
      (7)   Each political subdivision that participates in the joint public
hearing shall send the information prescribed in division (C)(8) below to the
County Clerk by September 5. The County Clerk shall transmit the information to
the county assessor no later than September 10. The County Clerk shall notify
each participating political subdivision of the date, time, and location of the
joint public hearing. The county assessor shall send the information required
to be included on the postcards pursuant to division (C)(8) below to a printing
service designated by the County Board. The initial cost for printing the
postcards shall be paid from the county’s General Fund. Such postcards shall be
mailed at least seven calendar days before the joint public hearing. The cost
of creating and mailing the postcards, including staff time, materials, and
postage, shall be charged proportionately to the political subdivisions
participating in the joint public hearing based on the total number of parcels
in each participating political subdivision.
      (8)   The postcard sent under this section and the notice posted on the
county’s website, if required under division (C)(6)(b) above, and published in
the newspaper shall include the date, time, and location for the joint public
hearing, a listing of and telephone number for each political subdivision that
will be participating in the joint public hearing, and the amount of each
participating political subdivision’s property tax request. The postcard shall
also contain the following information:
         (a)   The following words in capitalized type at the top of the
postcard: “NOTICE OF PROPOSED TAX INCREASE”;
         (b)   The name of the county that will hold the joint public hearing,
which shall appear directly underneath the capitalized words described in
division (C)(8)(a) above;
         (c)   The following statement: “The following political subdivisions
are proposing a revenue increase which would result in an overall increase in
property taxes in (insert current tax year). The actual tax on your property
may increase or decrease. This notice contains estimates of the tax on your
property as a result of this revenue increase. These estimates are calculated
on the basis of the proposed (insert current tax year) data. The actual tax on
your property may vary from these estimates.”;
         (d)   The parcel number for the property;
         (e)   The name of the property owner and the address of the property;
         (f)   The property’s assessed value in the previous tax year;
         (g)   The amount of property taxes due in the previous tax year for
each participating political subdivision;
         (h)   The property’s assessed value for the current tax year;
         (I)   The amount of property taxes due for the current tax year for
each participating political subdivision;
         (j)   The change in the amount of property taxes due for each
participating political subdivision from the previous tax year to the current
tax year; and
         (k)   The following statement: “To obtain more information regarding
the tax increase, citizens may contact the political subdivision at the
telephone number provided in this notice.”
   (D)   After the joint public hearing required in division (C) above, the
governing body of each participating political subdivision shall pass an
ordinance or resolution to set such political subdivision’s property tax
request. If the political subdivision is increasing its property tax request
over the amount from the prior year, including any increase in excess of the
allowable growth percentage, then such ordinance or resolution shall include,
but not be limited to, the following information:
      (1)   The name of the political subdivision;
      (2)   The amount of the property tax request;
      (3)   The following statements:
         (a)   The total assessed value of property differs from last year’s
total assessed value by        percent;
         (b)   The tax rate which would levy the same amount of property taxes
as last year, when multiplied by the new total assessed value of property,
would be $      per $100 of assessed value;
         (c)   The (name of political subdivision) proposes to adopt a property
tax request that will cause its tax rate to be $      per $100 of assessed
value; and
         (d)   Based on the proposed property tax request and changes in other
revenue, the total operating budget of (name of political subdivision) will
exceed last year’s by       percent.
      (4)   The record vote of the governing body in passing such resolution or
ordinance.
   (E)   Any resolution or ordinance setting a property tax request under this
section shall be certified and forwarded to the County Clerk on or before
October 15 of the year for which the tax request is to apply.
   (F)   The County Clerk, or his or her designee, shall prepare a report which
shall include the names of the representatives of the political subdivisions
participating in the joint public hearing and the name and address of each
individual who spoke at the joint public hearing, unless the address
requirement is waived to protect the security of the individual, and the name
of any organization represented by each such individual. Such report shall be
delivered to the political subdivisions participating in the joint public
hearing within ten days after such hearing.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. 77-1633)
§ 34.57 MOTOR VEHICLE FEE.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      LIMITS OF THE CITY. Includes the extraterritorial zoning jurisdiction of
the city.
      PERSON. Includes bodies corporate, societies, communities, the public
generally, individuals, partnerships, limited liability companies, joint-stock
companies, cooperatives, and associations. Person does not include any federal,
state, or local government or any political subdivision thereof.
   (B)   (1)   Except as otherwise provided in division (D) below, the
governing body of the city shall have power to require any individual whose
primary residence or person who owns a place of business which is within the
limits of the city and that owns and operates a motor vehicle within such
limits to pay an annual motor vehicle fee and to require the payment of such
fee upon the change of ownership of such vehicle. All such fees which may be
provided for under this section shall be used exclusively for constructing,
repairing, maintaining, or improving streets, roads, alleys, public ways, or
parts thereof or for the amortization of bonded indebtedness when created for
such purposes.
      (2)   To ensure compatibility with the Vehicle Title and Registration
System maintained by the Department of Motor Vehicles:
         (a)   Any city that collects the annual motor vehicle fee authorized
under this section shall use the plate types listed under Neb. Rev. Stat. 60-
3,104 and, as applicable, weight categories listed under the Motor Vehicle
Registration Act when reporting information to the Vehicle Title and
Registration System; and
         (b)   Any city that adopts an annual motor vehicle fee under this
section or that modifies an existing motor vehicle fee shall notify the
Department of Motor Vehicles of such new or modified fee within ten business
days after the passage of the ordinance authorizing such new or modified fee
and at least 60 days prior to the implementation of such new or modified fee.
   (C)   No motor vehicle fee shall be required under this section if:
      (1)   A vehicle is used or stored but temporarily in the city for a
period of six months or less in a 12-month period;
      (2)   An individual does not have a primary residence or a person does
not own a place of business within the limits of the city and does not own and
operate a motor vehicle within the limits of the city; or
      (3)   An individual is a full-time student attending a postsecondary
institution within the limits of the city and the motor vehicle’s situs under
the Motor Vehicle Certificate of Title Act is different from the place at which
he or she is attending such institution.
   (D)   After December 31, 2012, no motor vehicle fee shall be required of any
individual whose primary residence is or person who owns a place of business
within the extraterritorial zoning jurisdiction of the city.
   (E)   The fee shall be paid to the County Treasurer of the county in which
the city is located when the registration fees as provided in the Motor Vehicle
Registration Act are paid. These fees shall be credited by the County Treasurer
to the road fund of the city.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. 18-1214)
Statutory reference:
   Motor Vehicle Registration Act, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 60-301
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   UTILITIES, GENERALLY
      
51.   GARBAGE AND REFUSE
      
52.   WATER
      
53.   SEWER
CHAPTER 50: UTILITIES, GENERALLY
Section
   
50.01   Denial of service; when prohibited
   
50.02   Utility bills; collection
   
50.03   Discontinuance of service; notice procedure
   
50.04   Diversion of services
   
50.05   Lien
   
50.06   Connection fees; generally
§ 50.01 DENIAL OF SERVICE; WHEN PROHIBITED.
   No applicant for the services of a public or private utility company
furnishing water, natural gas, or electricity at retail in this municipality
shall be denied service because of unpaid bills for similar service which are
not collectible at law because of statutes of limitations or discharge in
bankruptcy proceedings.
(Prior Code, § 50.01)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 70-1601
§ 50.02 UTILITY BILLS; COLLECTION.
   (A)   Charges for utility services provided by or through the city shall be
billed jointly on a monthly basis.
   (B)   The Utilities Superintendent shall read, or cause to be read, water
meters during the last week of each month.
   (C)   Utility bills shall be mailed on or about the first day of each month,
and shall be due and payable by the fifteenth day of each month. Bills not paid
by the fifteenth day of each month shall be deemed to be delinquent and a
monthly late fee equal to 10% of the amount due shall be charged against each
such delinquent account.
   (D)   Upon being deemed to be delinquent, as herein provided, the city may
discontinue service pursuant to §
50.03.
   (E)   Once discontinued, service shall not be recommenced except upon
payment in full of all delinquent charges and late fees and upon further
payment of a reconnection fee in the amount of $100.
   (F)   The city may also take any action authorized by law to effect
collection of the delinquent charges and late fees.
(Prior Code, § 50.02) (Ord. 2001-11.1, passed 11-12-2001; Ord. 2006-10.2,
passed 10-16-2006; Res. 2022-4.2, passed - -)
§ 50.03 DISCONTINUANCE OF SERVICE; NOTICE PROCEDURE.
   (A)   The municipality shall have the right to discontinue utility services
and remove its properties if the charges for the services are not paid within
seven days after the date that the charges become delinquent. Before any
termination, the municipality shall first give notice by first-class mail or in
person to any domestic subscriber whose service is proposed to be terminated.
If notice is given by first-class mail, the mail shall be conspicuously marked
as to its importance. Service shall not be discontinued for at least seven
days, weekends and holidays excluded, after notice is sent or given. As to any
subscriber who has previously been identified as a welfare recipient to the
municipality by the Department of Health and Human Services, the notice shall
be by certified mail, and notice of the proposed termination shall be given to
the Department of Health and Human Services.
   (B)   Prior to the discontinuance of service to any domestic subscriber by
the municipality, the domestic subscriber, upon request, shall be provided a
conference with the City Council. The City Council has established procedures
to resolve utility bills when a conference is requested by a domestic
subscriber. These procedures, three copies of which are on file in the office
of the City Clerk/Treasurer, are hereby incorporated by reference in addition
to any amendments thereto and are made a part of this section as though set out
in full. A copy of the procedures shall be furnished upon the request of any
domestic subscriber. The City Clerk shall notify the domestic subscriber of the
time, place, and date scheduled for such conference.
   (C)   This section shall not apply to any disconnections or interruptions of
services made necessary by the municipality for reasons of repair or
maintenance or to protect the health or safety of the domestic subscriber or of
the general public.
(Prior Code, § 50.03) (Ord. 1997-8.14, passed 8-11-1997)
Statutory reference:
   Utility discontinuance regulated, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 70-1602 et seq.
§ 50.04 DIVERSION OF SERVICES.
   (A)   Diversion of services, meter tampering, unauthorized reconnection,
prohibited; evidence.
      (1)   It is an offense for any person:
         (a)   To connect any pipe or conduit supplying water, without the
knowledge and consent of the municipality, in the manner that any portion
thereof may be supplied to any instrument by or at which water may be consumed
without passing through the meter made or provided for measuring or registering
the amount or quantity thereof passing through it;
         (b)   To knowingly use or knowingly permit the use of water obtained
unlawfully pursuant to this section;
         (c)   To reconnect water service without the knowledge and consent of
the municipality if the service has been disconnected pursuant to Neb. Rev.
Stat. 70-1601 to 70-1615 or §
50.03; or
         (d)   To willfully injure, alter, or by any instrument, device, or
contrivance in any manner interfere with or obstruct the action or operation of
any meter made or provided for measuring or registering the amount or quantity
of water passing through it, without the knowledge and consent of the
municipality.
      (2)   Proof of the existence of any pipe or conduit connection or
reconnection or of any injury, alteration, interference, or obstruction of a
meter is prima facie evidence of the guilt of the person in possession of the
premises where the connection, reconnection, injury, alteration, interference,
or obstruction is proved to exist.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. 28-515.02) (Prior Code, § 50.04)
   (B)   Diversion of services; civil action.
      (1)   For purposes of this section, the definitions found in Neb. Rev.
Stat. 25-21,275 shall apply.
      (2)   (a)   The municipality may bring a civil action for damages against
any person who commits, authorizes, solicits, aids, abets, or attempts
bypassing, tampering, or unauthorized metering when the act results in damages
to a municipal utility. The municipality may bring a civil action for damages
pursuant to this section against any person receiving the benefit of utility
service through means of bypassing, tampering, or unauthorized metering.
         (b)   In any civil action brought pursuant to this section, the
municipality shall be entitled, upon proof of willful or intentional bypassing,
tampering, or unauthorized metering, to recover as damages:
            1.   The amount of actual damage or loss if the amount of the
damage or loss is susceptible of reasonable calculation; or
            2.   Liquidated damages of an amount set by separate resolution if
the amount of actual damage or loss is not susceptible of reasonable
calculation.
         (c)   In addition to damage or loss under division (B)(2) above, the
municipality may recover all reasonable expenses and costs incurred on account
of the bypassing, tampering, or unauthorized metering including, but not
limited to, disconnection, reconnection, service calls, equipment, costs of the
suit, and reasonable attorneys’ fees in cases within the scope of Neb. Rev.
Stat. 25-1801.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. 25-21,276)
      (3)   (a)   There shall be a rebuttable presumption that a tenant or
occupant at any premises where bypassing, tampering, or unauthorized metering
is proven to exist caused or had knowledge of the bypassing, tampering, or
unauthorized metering if the tenant or occupant had access to the part of the
utility supply system on the premises where the bypassing, tampering, or
unauthorized metering is proven to exist and was responsible or partially
responsible for payment, either directly or indirectly, to the utility or to
any other person for utility services to the premises.
         (b)   There shall be a rebuttable presumption that a customer at any
premises where bypassing, tampering, or unauthorized metering is proven to
exist caused or had knowledge of the bypassing, tampering, or unauthorized
metering if the customer controlled access to the part of the utility supply
system on the premises where the bypassing, tampering, or unauthorized metering
was proven to exist.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. 25-21,277)
      (4)   The remedies provided by this section shall be deemed to be
supplemental and additional to powers conferred by existing laws. The remedies
provided in this section are in addition to and not in limitation of any other
civil or criminal statutory or common law remedies.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. 25-21, 278)
(Prior Code, § 50.05)
Statutory reference:
   Definitions related to diversion of utility services, see Neb. Rev. Stat.
25-21,275
§ 50.05 LIEN.
   In addition to all other remedies, if a customer shall for any reason remain
indebted to the municipality for utilities service furnished, the amount due,
together with any rents and charges in arrears, shall be considered a
delinquent utility rent which is hereby declared to be a lien upon the real
estate for which the same was furnished. The City Clerk/Treasurer shall notify
in writing, or cause to be notified in writing, all owners of premises or their
agents whenever their tenants or lessees are 60 days or more delinquent in the
payment of the utilities rent. It shall be the duty of the City Clerk/Treasurer
to report to the City Council a list of all unpaid accounts due for utilities
service together with a description of the premises served. The report shall be
examined and, if approved by the City Council, shall be certified by the City
Clerk/Treasurer to the County Treasurer to be collected as a special tax in the
manner provided by law.
(Prior Code, § 50.06)
Statutory reference:
   Assessments authorized, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 18-503
   Lien authorized for water and sewer delinquency, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 17-538
and 17-925.01
§ 50.06 CONNECTION FEES; GENERALLY.
   (A)   The City Council shall, by resolution, establish separate connection
fees to be charged to anyone who makes application to connect to the municipal
water system, the municipal sanitary sewer system, or both the municipal water
and sanitary sewer system.
   (B)   The City Council may, by resolution, establish fees to be charged
against anyone who makes a request to disconnect from or reconnect to the
municipal water system or to transfer the sewer and water service to another
person or user.
   (C)   The resolutions shall be placed on file in the office of the City
Clerk/Treasurer and be available for public inspection during regular business
hours.
   (D)   All the fees shall be payable to the city and shall be in addition to
all other fees and costs charged by the city or incurred by the applicant for
connection, reconnection, or disconnection to or from the municipal utility
systems, or either of them.
(Prior Code, § 50.07) (Ord. 1999-7.6, passed 9-15-1999)
CHAPTER 51: GARBAGE AND REFUSE
Section
   
51.01   Definitions
   
51.02   Prohibition
   
51.03   Dead animals
   
51.04   Municipal garbage disposal facility; user fees
Cross-reference:
   Garbage as nuisance, see §
91.21
§ 51.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   GARBAGE. Kitchen refuse, decayed waste, dead animals, or anything that may
decompose and become offensive to the public health.
   RUBBISH or TRASH. Discarded machinery, chips, pieces of wood, sticks, dead
trees, branches, bottles, broken glass, crockery, tin cans, boxes, papers,
rags, or any other litter or debris that is not an immediate hazard to the
health of the residents of the municipality.
   WASTE. Cinders, ashes, plaster, brick, stone, sawdust, or sand.
(Prior Code, § 51.01)
§ 51.02 PROHIBITION.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to keep in, on, or about any
dwelling, building, or premises, or any other place in the municipality,
decayed vegetable or animal substance, garbage, or refuse matter of any kind
that may be injurious to the public health or offensive to the residents of the
municipality unless the same is kept in receptacles not exceeding a 30-gallon
capacity and as nearly air-tight as may be practical.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to throw or sweep into the streets, alleys,
parks, or other public grounds any dirt, paper, nails, pieces of glass, refuse,
waste, or rubbish of any kind.
   (C)   No person may permit garbage, rubbish, waste, or refuse to collect and
all persons shall remove the same from their property within 24 hours after
being notified to do so by the Code Enforcement Officer.
   (D)   Any person having garbage, rubbish, waste, or refuse that is subject
to decay or fermentation within a short period of time shall be required to
place the same in a standard garbage can with a tight cover, or a durable
plastic container that is securely tied at its opening.
   (E)   All persons shall have the contents of their garbage cans removed at
least once a week.
(Prior Code, § 51.02) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 19-2106
§ 51.03 DEAD ANIMALS.
   (A)   All dead animals shall be immediately removed and buried by the owner
of such animals; and if the owner of the animal cannot be found within two
hours after discovering the same, then the animal shall be removed by and at
the expense of the municipality.
   (B)   Dead animals shall not be buried within the corporate limits of the
municipality, nor in or above the course of groundwater that is used for
drinking purposes by the municipality or its inhabitants.
(Prior Code, § 51.03)
Cross-reference:
   Dead animals generally, see §
94.013
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 17-121
§ 51.04 MUNICIPAL GARBAGE DISPOSAL FACILITY; USER FEES.
   (A)   The fees for use of the garbage disposal facilities, garbage
compactor, and waste disposal area of the municipality by residents and non-
residents of the municipality shall be established by resolution of the City
Council and such resolution shall be placed on file in the office of the City
Clerk/Treasurer and be available for public inspection during regular business
hours.
   (B)   The City Clerk/Treasurer shall be charged with the duty to bill and
collect all such user fees in a timely manner.
(Prior Code, § 51.08) (Ord. 1998-4.3, passed 4-13-1998)
CHAPTER 52: WATER
Section
General Provisions
   
52.01   Definitions
   
52.02   Rates
Water Regulations
   
52.15   Consumer’s application
   
52.16   Service to non-residents
   
52.17   Water contract
   
52.18   Installation
   
52.19   Repairs and maintenance
   
52.20   Fees and collections
   
52.21   Separate premises
   
52.22   Minimum rates
   
52.23   Single premises
   
52.24   Restricted use
   
52.25   Fire hydrants
   
52.26   Pollution
   
52.27   Mandatory hook-up
   
52.28   Water service contracts
   
52.29   Inspections
   
52.30   Reports
   
52.31   Destruction of property
   
52.32   Time
   
52.33   Backflow
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 52.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   MAIN. Any pipe other than a supply or service pipe that is used for the
purpose of carrying water to, and dispersing the same in the municipality.
   SEPARATE PREMISES. More than one consumer procuring water from the same
service or supply pipe. The second premises may be a separate dwelling,
apartment, building, or structure used for a separate business.
   SERVICE PIPE. Any pipe extending from the shut-off, stop box, or curb cock
at or near the lot line to and beyond the property line of the consumer to the
location on the premises where the water is to be dispersed.
   SUPPLY PIPE. Any pipe tapped into a main and extending from there to a point
at or near the lot line of the consumer’s premises where the shut-off, stop
box, or curb cock is located.
(Prior Code, § 52.01)
§ 52.02 RATES.
   All water consumers shall pay the following rates for the use of water from
the Water Department.
   (A)   Residential rate.
      (1)   The residential rate shall be applicable when the building,
premises or place receiving water service is located within the corporate
limits of the city and is used for dwelling or family living purposes.
      (2)   The residential water rate shall be a minimum of $28.50 per
calendar month plus $5.60 per 1,000 gallons of water or any portion thereof
used during the month, or an amount set by separate resolution.
   (B)   Non-residential rate.
      (1)   The non-residential rate shall be applicable when the building,
premises or place receiving water service is located within the corporate
limits of the city and is used for commercial, industrial, institutional or
other non-residential purposes,
      (2)   The non-residential water rate shall be a minimum of $28.50 per
calendar month plus $5.60 per 1,000 gallons of water or any portion thereof
used during the month, or an amount set by separate resolution.
   (C)   Non-resident rate.
      (1)   The non-resident rate shall be applicable to all buildings,
premises, or places receiving water service from the city which are located
outside the corporate limits of the city.
      (2)   The non-resident water rate shall be a minimum of $34.50 per
calendar month plus $5.60 per 1,000 gallons or any portion thereof used during
the month, or an amount set by separate resolution.
   (D)   Bulk rate.
      (1)   The bulk rate shall be applicable to those persons or entities who
occasionally purchase water from the city after obtaining a permit to do so
from the Utilities Superintendent or City Clerk/Treasurer.
      (2)   The recipient must make a refundable deposit of $500 to the city.
Upon the return of the water meter provided by the city, the deposit shall be
refunded to the recipient. Additionally, $48 is due for the first 1,000 gallons
of water plus $5 per additional 1,000 gallons of water or any portion thereof,
or any amount set by separate resolution.
(Prior Code, § 52.45) (Ord. 2000-1.2, passed 1-10-1999; Ord. 2008-10.1, passed
12-8-2008; Ord. 2023-3.2, passed 3-13-2023)
WATER REGULATIONS
§ 52.15 CONSUMER’S APPLICATION.
   (A)   Every person or persons desiring a supply of water must make
application therefor to the City Clerk/Treasurer. The City Clerk/Treasurer may
require any application to make a service deposit in such amount as has been
set by the City Council and placed on file at the office of the City Clerk/
Treasurer. Water may not be supplied to any house or private service pipe
except upon the order of the Utilities Superintendent.
   (B)   Before a tenant’s utility application will be accepted, the landlord
shall be required to sign an owner’s consent form and agree to pay all unpaid
utility charges for their property.
(Prior Code, § 52.15) (Ord. 2022-4.3, passed 4-11-2022)
§ 52.16 SERVICE TO NON-RESIDENTS.
   (A)   The municipality shall have the right to discontinue utility services
and remove its properties if the charges for the services are not paid within
seven business days after the issuance of a disconnect notice. Before any
termination, the municipality shall first give notice by first-class mail or in
person to any domestic subscriber whose service is proposed to be terminated.
If notice is given by first-class mail, the mail shall be conspicuously marked
as to its importance. Such disconnect notices shall normally be issued on the
sixteenth day of each month. Service shall not be discontinued for at least
seven days, weekends and holidays excluded, after notice is sent or given. As
to any subscriber who has previously been identified as a welfare recipient to
the municipality by the Department of Health and Human Services, the notice
shall be by certified mail, and notice of the proposed termination shall be
given to the Department of Health and Human Services.
   (B)   Prior to the discontinuance of service to any domestic subscriber by
the municipality, the domestic subscriber, upon request, shall be provided a
conference with the Utility Committee. The City Council has established
procedures to resolve utility bills when a conference is requested by a
domestic subscriber. These procedures, three copies of which are on file in the
office of the City Clerk/Treasurer, are hereby incorporated by reference in
addition to any amendments thereto and are made a part of this section as
though set out in full. A copy of the procedures shall be furnished upon the
request of any domestic subscriber. The City Clerk shall notify the domestic
subscriber of the time, place, and date scheduled for such conference.
   (C)   Disconnection may be prevented upon presentation of a duly licensed
physician’s, physician’s assistant’s, or advanced practice registered nurse’s
certificate which shall certify that a domestic subscriber or resident within
such subscriber’s household has an existing illness or handicap which would
cause such subscriber or resident to suffer an immediate and serious health
hazard by the disconnection of the utility’s service to the household. Such
certificate shall be filed with the utility within five business days of
receiving notice and shall prevent disconnection of the utility’s service for a
period of 30 days from such filing. Only one postponement of disconnection
shall be allowed for each incidence of any due date.
   (D)   This section shall not apply to any disconnections or interruptions of
services made necessary by the municipality for reasons of repair or
maintenance or to protect the health or safety of the domestic subscriber or of
the general public.
(Prior Code, § 52.16) (Ord. 2022-4.3, passed 4-11-2022)
§ 52.17 WATER CONTRACT.
   The municipality, through its Water Department, shall furnish water to
persons within its corporate limits whose premises abut a street or alley in
which a commercial main now is or may hereafter be laid. The municipality may
furnish water to persons within its corporate limits whose premises do not abut
a street or alley in which a municipal commercial main is now or may hereafter
be laid and may also furnish water to persons whose premises are situated
outside the corporate limits of the municipality, as and when, according to
law, the City Council may see fit to do so. The rules, regulations, and water
rates hereinafter named in this chapter, shall be considered a part of every
application hereafter made for water service and shall be considered a part of
the contract between every consumer now or hereafter served. Without further
formality, the making of application on the part of any applicant or the use or
consumption of water service by present consumers thereof and the furnishing of
water service to the consumer shall constitute a contract between the consumer
and the municipality, to which the contract both parties are bound. If the
consumer shall violate any of the provisions of the contract or any reasonable
rules and regulations that the City Council may hereafter adopt, the Utilities
Superintendent or his or her agent may cut off or disconnect the water service
from the building or premises or place of the violation. No further connection
for water service to the building, premises, or place shall again be made
except by order of the Utilities Superintendent or his or her agent.
(Prior Code, § 52.17)
§ 52.18 INSTALLATION.
   (A)   Procedure. In making excavations in streets, alleys, or sidewalks for
the purpose of installing pipe, or making repairs, the paving, stones, and
earth must be removed and deposited in a manner that will occasion the least
inconvenience to the public and provide for adequate drainage. No person shall
leave an excavation made in the street, alley, or sidewalk open at any time
without a barricade, and during the night, warning lights. After service pipes
are laid, the streets, alleys, and sidewalks shall be restored to good
condition. If the excavation in any street, alley, or sidewalk is left open or
unfinished for a period of 24 hours or more, the Utilities Superintendent shall
have the duty to finish or correct the work, and all expenses so incurred shall
be charged to the consumer. All installations or repairs of pipes require an
inspection by the Utilities Superintendent. The inspection shall be made when
connections or repairs are completed and before the pipes are covered. It is
the customer’s responsibility to notify the Superintendent at the time the work
is ready for inspection. All installation shall be done under the supervision
and strictly in accordance with the rules, regulations, and specifications
prescribed for such installation by the Utilities Superintendent; provided that
the rules, regulations, and specifications have been reviewed and approved by
the City Council.
   (B)   Expense. An applicant for water service shall accompany his or her
application with a water permit and inspection fee in an amount set by
resolution of the City Council and on file in the office of the City Clerk/
Treasurer. Upon the filing of the application and payment of the water permit
and inspection fee, a permit will be issued to bring water service from the
stop box, to be located at or near the property line, to and upon the
applicant’s premises. No person, except the Utilities Superintendent or his or
her designated agent, shall tap the commercial mains of the municipality or
insert ferrules therein. All costs and expense incident to the installation and
connection of the water line from the existing commercial mains shall be borne
by the applicant.
(Prior Code, § 52.18) (Ord. 1998-4.2, passed 4-13-1998) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 17-537 and 17-542
§ 52.19 REPAIRS AND MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   The municipality shall repair or replace, as the case may be, all
supply pipe between the commercial main and the stop box. The customer at his
or her own expense shall replace and keep in repair all service pipe from the
stop box to the place of dispersement. When leaks occur in service pipes, the
Utilities Superintendent shall shut off water service until the leak is
repaired at the expense of the customer to the satisfaction of the Utilities
Superintendent.
   (B)   All water meters shall be kept in repair by the municipality at the
expense of the municipality. When meters are worn out, they shall be replaced
and reset by the municipality at the expense of the municipality; provided,
that if the customer permits or allows a water meter to be damaged, injured, or
destroyed through his or her own recklessness, carelessness, or neglect so that
the meter must be repaired or replaced, the Utilities Superintendent shall bill
and collect from the customer the cost of the meter repair or replacement in
the same manner as water rent is collected. Permitting a water meter to be
damaged or destroyed by freezing shall always be considered negligence on the
part of the customer.
   (C)   All meters shall be tested at the customer’s request at the expense of
the customer any reasonable number of times; provided, that if the test shows
the water meter to be running 2% or more fast, the expense of the test shall be
borne by the municipality. The municipality reserves the right to test any
water service meter at any time, and if the meter is found to be beyond repair,
the municipality shall always have the right to place a new meter on the
customer’s water service fixtures at municipal expense. Should a consumer’s
meter fail to register properly, the customer shall be charged for water during
the time the meter is out of repair on the basis of the monthly consumption
during the same month of the preceding year; provided, that if no such basis
for comparison exists, the customer shall be charged such amount as may be
reasonably fixed by the Utilities Superintendent.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful for any person to tamper with any water meter, or
by any means or device to divert water from the service pipe so that the same
shall not pass through the meter, or while passing through the meter, to cause
the same to register inaccurately.
(Prior Code, § 52.19) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 17-537
§ 52.20 FEES AND COLLECTIONS.
   (A)   The City Council has the power and authority to fix the rates to be
paid by the water consumers for the use of water from the Water Department. All
fees shall be on file for public inspection at the office of the City Clerk/
Treasurer. No flat rates for water service shall be quoted or allowed by the
City Council. No water service shall be furnished to any customer at a rate
that is different from other customers of the same class or type.
   (B)   Persons, firms, or corporations desiring to use water temporarily
shall pay such rates as the Utilities Superintendent, with the approval of the
City Council, shall set. Without respect to schedule of rates for other
customers, the City Council may enter into special contracts with large
consumers of water, but never at a rate less than the cost of production;
provided, that the contract shall always provide that the large consumer shall
always pay the minimum rate for other customers and the contract shall be made
on the basis of water consumed in excess of the minimum. A meter shall always
be attached to the water service of the contract consumer and read as in the
case of other classes of water consumers.
   (C)   Water service furnished to the other departments of the municipality
and to other governmental subdivisions of the state shall be measured and
billed for at such rates as the City Council shall set from time to time
without respect to the schedule of rates on file at the office of the City
Clerk/Treasurer, but never at rates that do not cover the cost of providing
water. One bill only shall be computed for each meter.
(Prior Code, § 52.20) (Ord. 2000-1.1, passed 3-13-2000)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 17-540
§ 52.21 SEPARATE PREMISES.
   (A)   Whenever water service is supplied to separate premises as defined in
§
52.01, the owner of the premises shall pay for the total amount of water used
by all consumers receiving water through the same supply or service pipe and
measured by the same meter, at the applicable water usage rate as established
from time to time by the City Council.
   (B)   In addition, the owner shall pay one applicable minimum water rate per
month plus an additional minimum water service fee of $10, or an amount set by
separate resolution, per month for each additional separate premises receiving
water through the same supply or service pipe and measured by the same meter.
(Prior Code, § 52.20.5) (Ord. 2006-10.2, passed 10-16-2006)
§ 52.22 MINIMUM RATES.
   All water consumers shall be liable for the minimum rate provided by
ordinance unless and until the consumer shall, by written order, direct the
Utilities Superintendent to shut off the water at the stop box, in which case
he or she shall not be liable thereafter for water rental until the water is
turned on again.
(Prior Code, § 52.21)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 17-542
§ 52.23 SINGLE PREMISES.
   No consumer shall supply water to other families, or allow them to take
water from his or her premises, nor after water is supplied into a building
shall any person make or employ a plumber or other person to make a tap or
connection with the pipe upon the premises for alteration, extension, or
attachment without the written permission of the Utilities Superintendent. It
shall further be unlawful for any person to tamper with any water meter or by
means of any contrivance or device to divert the water from the service pipe so
that the water will not pass through the meter or while passing through the
meter to cause the meter to register inaccurately.
(Prior Code, § 52.22) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 17-537
§ 52.24 RESTRICTED USE.
   (A)   The City Council or the Utilities Superintendent may order a reduction
in the use of water or shut off the water on any premises in the event of a
water shortage due to fire or other good and sufficient cause.
   (B)   The municipality shall not be liable for any damages caused by
shutting off the supply of water of any consumer while the system or any part
thereof is undergoing repairs or when there is a shortage of water due to
circumstances over which the municipality has no control.
(Prior Code, § 52.23)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 17-537
§ 52.25 FIRE HYDRANTS.
   All hydrants for the purpose of extinguishing fires are hereby declared to
be public hydrants, and it shall be unlawful for any person other than members
of the Fire Department under the orders of the Fire Chief, or the Assistant
Fire Chief; or members of the Water Department to open or attempt to open any
of the hydrants and draw water from the same, or in any manner to interfere
with the hydrants.
(Prior Code, § 52.24) Penalty, see §
10.99
Cross-reference:
   Parking near fire hydrants, see §
72.07
§ 52.26 POLLUTION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to pollute or attempt to pollute any
stream or source of water for the supply of the Water Department.
(Prior Code, § 52.25) Penalty, see §
10.99
Cross-reference:
   Weeds, litter, and stagnant water, see §
91.20
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 17-536
§ 52.27 MANDATORY HOOK-UP.
   All persons within 300 feet of a water main shall be required, upon notice
by the City Council, to hook-up with the municipal water system.
(Prior Code, § 52.26)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 17-532
§ 52.28 WATER SERVICE CONTRACTS.
   (A)   Contracts for water service are not transferable.
   (B)   Any person wishing to change from one location to another shall make a
new application and sign a new contract.
   (C)   If any consumer shall move from the premises where service is
furnished, or if the premises is destroyed by fire or other casualty, he or she
shall at once inform the Utilities Superintendent who shall cause the water
service to be shut off at the premises.
   (D)   If the consumer should fail to give such notice, he or she shall be
charged for all water used on the premises until the Utilities Superintendent
is otherwise advised of such circumstances.
(Prior Code, § 52.27)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 17-537
§ 52.29 INSPECTIONS.
   The Utilities Superintendent, or his or her duly authorized agents, shall
have free access, at any reasonable time, to all parts of each premises and
building to, or in which, water is delivered for the purpose of examining the
pipes, fixtures, and other portions of the system to ascertain whether there is
any disrepair or unnecessary waste of water.
(Prior Code, § 52.28)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 17-537
§ 52.30 REPORTS.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the code enforcement officer or Sheriff’s
Office to report to the Utilities Superintendent all cases of leakage and waste
in the use of water and all violations of the municipal code relating to the
Water Department.
   (B)   They shall have the additional duty of enforcing the observance of all
such regulations.
(Prior Code, § 52.29)
§ 52.31 DESTRUCTION OF PROPERTY.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to willfully or carelessly break,
injure, or deface any building, machinery, apparatus, fixture, attachment, or
appurtenance of the Water Department.
   (B)   No person may deposit anything in a stop box or commit any act tending
to obstruct or impair the intended use of any of the above mentioned property
without the written permission of the Utilities Superintendent.
(Prior Code, § 52.30) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 52.32 TIME.
   All taps or plumbing work done on or to the municipal water system shall be
done between the hours of 8:00 a.m. and 6:00 p.m.
(Prior Code, § 52.31)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 17-537
§ 52.33 BACKFLOW.
   (A)   Devices required.
      (1)   A customer of the Water Department may be required by the Utilities
Superintendent to install and maintain a properly located backflow prevention
device at his or her expense appropriate to the potential hazards set forth in
Title 179, the state’s Department of Health, and approved by the Utilities
Superintendent.
      (2)   The customer shall make application to the Utilities Superintendent
to install a required backflow prevention device on a form provided by the
municipality. The application shall contain at a minimum the name and address
of the applicant, the potential hazard, the type of protection required, and
the type of backflow device to be installed, including brand and model number.
      (3)   The Utilities Superintendent shall approve or disapprove the
application based on his or her opinion of whether the installation will
protect the water distribution system from potential backflow and backsiphonage
hazards.
      (4)   The installation of the device shall be subject to all other
sections of this code dealing with installation of plumbing, including the use
of a plumber licensed by the municipality if applicable.
      (5)   The customer shall also certify to the municipality at least one
time annually that the backflow prevention device has been tested by a state’s
Department of Health Grade VI Certified Water Operator if the device is
equipped with a test port. The certification shall be made on a form available
at the office of the City Clerk/Treasurer.
      (6)   Any decision of the Utilities Superintendent may be appealed to the
City Council.
   (B)   Hazards; customer assessment.
      (1)   No customer or other person shall cause, allow, or create any
physical connection between the water distribution system and any pipes, pumps,
hydrants, tanks, steam condensate returns, engine jackets, heat exchangers,
other water supplies or any other connection whereby potentially unsafe or
contaminating materials may be discharged or drawn into the water distribution
system.
      (2)   At least one time every five years, customers of the municipal
water distribution and supply system shall be required to assess and report
potential backflow and backsiphonage hazards to the municipality on a form
supplied by the municipality to the customer. The customer shall take any steps
necessary for protection of public health and safety as determined by the
Utilities Superintendent.
(Prior Code, § 52.32)
CHAPTER 53: SEWER
Section
General Provisions
   
53.01   Definitions
   
53.02   Application for permit
   
53.03   Sewer contract
   
53.04   Compliance; inspections
   
53.05   Violation; notice and liability
   
53.06   Precedence
Sewer Regulations
   
53.20   Public sewers required
   
53.21   Private sewage disposal system
   
53.22   Building sewer installation
   
53.23   Prohibited water discharges
   
53.24   Hazardous discharges
   
53.25   Grease, oil, and sand interceptors
   
53.26   Preliminary treatment or flow equalizing facilities; maintenance by
owner
   
53.27   Control manholes/sampling stations
   
53.28   Destruction of property
   
53.29   Capping of building sewers
Rates and Charges
   
53.40   User charge system
   
53.41   Operation and maintenance fund; accounts
   
53.42   Rate setting
   
53.43   Surcharges
   
53.44   User charge review
   
53.45   Notification
   
53.46   Sewer rates
 
   
53.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 53.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BOD (BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND). The quantity of oxygen utilized in the
biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory procedure in
five days at 20°C, expressed in milligrams per liter.
   BUILDING DRAIN. The part of the lowest horizontal piping of a drainage
system which receives the discharge from soil, waste, and other drainage pipes
inside the walls of the building and conveys it to the building sewer,
beginning five feet (one and one-half meters) outside the inner face of the
building wall.
   BUILDING SEWER. The extension from the building drain to the public sewer or
other place of disposal.
   COMBINED SEWER. A sewer receiving both surface runoff and sewage.
   GARBAGE. Solid wastes from the domestic and commercial preparation, cooking,
and dispensing of food, and from the handling, storage, and sale of produce.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTES. The liquid wastes from industrial manufacturing
processes, trade, or business as distinct from sanitary sewage.
   NATURAL OUTLET. Any outlet into a watercourse, pond, ditch, lake, or other
of body surface or groundwater.
   NORMAL DOMESTIC WASTEWATER. Wastewater that has a BOD concentration of not
more than 300 mg/l and a suspended solids concentration of not more than 350
mg/l.
   OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE. All expenditures during the useful life of the
treatment works for materials, labor, utilities, and other items which are
necessary for managing and maintaining the sewage works to achieve the capacity
and performance for which such works were designated and constructed.
   PERSON. Any individual, firm, company, association, society, corporation, or
group.
   pH. The logarithm of the reciprocal of the weight of hydrogen ions in grams
per liter of solution.
   PROPERLY SHREDDED GARBAGE. The wastes from the preparation, cooking, and
dispensing of food that have been shredded to such a degree that all particles
will be carried freely under the flow conditions normally prevailing in public
sewers, with no particle greater than one-half inch (1.27 centimeters) in any
dimension.
   PUBLIC SEWER. A sewer in which all owners of abutting properties have equal
rights, and is controlled by public authority.
   REPLACEMENT. Expenditures for obtaining and installing equipment,
accessories or appurtenances which are necessary during the useful life of the
treatment works to maintain the capacity and performance for which such works
were designed and constructed. The term “operation and maintenance” includes
REPLACEMENT.
   RESIDENTIAL CONTRIBUTOR. Any contributor to the city’s treatment works whose
lot, parcel of real estate, or building is used for domestic dwelling purposes
only.
   SANITARY SEWER. A sewer which carries sewage and to which storm, surface,
and groundwaters are not intentionally admitted.
   SEWAGE. A combination of the water-carried wastes from residences, business
buildings, institutions, and industrial establishments, together with such
ground, surface, and stormwaters as may be present.
   SEWAGE TREATMENT PLANT. Any arrangement of devices and structures used for
treating sewage.
   SEWAGE WORKS. All facilities for collecting, pumping, treating and disposing
of sewage.
   SEWER. A pipe or conduit for carrying sewage.
   SLUG. Any discharge of water, sewage, or industrial waste which in
concentration of any given constituent or in quantity of flow exceeds for any
period of duration longer than 15 minutes more than five times the average 24-
hour concentration or flows during normal operation.
   SS (SUSPENDED SOLIDS). Solids that either float on the surface of or are in
suspension in water, sewage, or other liquids and which are removable by
laboratory filtering.
   STORM DRAIN. A sewer which carries storm and surface waters and drainage,
but excludes sewage and industrial wastes, other than unpolluted cooling water.
Sometimes termed STORM SEWER.
   SUPERINTENDENT. The Utilities Superintendent of the city or his or her
authorized deputy, agent, or representative.
   TREATMENT WORKS. Any devices and systems for the storage, treatment,
recycling, and reclamation of municipal sewage, domestic sewage, or liquid
industrial wastes. These include intercepting sewers, outfall sewers, sewage
collection systems, individual systems, pumping, power, and other equipment and
their appurtenances; extensions improvement, remodeling, additions, and
alterations thereof; elements essential to provide a reliable recycled supply
such as standby treatment units and clear well facilities; and any works,
including site acquisition of the land that will be an integral part of the
treatment process or is used for ultimate disposal of residues resulting from
such treatment (including land for composting sludge, temporary storage of
compost, and the land used for the storage of treated wastewater in land
treatment systems before land application); or any other method or system for
preventing, abating, reducing, storing, treating, separating, or disposing of
municipal waste or industrial waste, including waste in combined stormwater and
sanitary sewer systems.
   USEFUL LIFE. The estimated period during which a treatment works will be
operated.
   USER CHARGE. That portion of the total wastewater service charge which is
levied in a proportional and adequate manner for the cost of operation,
maintenance, and replacement of the wastewater treatment works.
   WATER METER. A water volume measuring and recording device, furnished and/or
installed by the city or furnished and/or installed by a user and approved by
the city.
   WATERCOURSE. A channel in which a flow of water occurs, either continuously
or intermittently.
(Prior Code, § 53.01)
§ 53.02 APPLICATION FOR PERMIT.
   Any person wishing to connect with the sewer system shall make an
application therefor to the City Clerk/Treasurer. The City Clerk/Treasurer may
require any applicant to make a service deposit in such amount as has been set
by the City Council and placed on file in the office of the City Clerk/
Treasurer. Sewer service may not be supplied to any house or building except
upon the written order of the Superintendent. The Department shall not supply
sewer service to any person outside the corporate limits without special
permission from the City Council; provided, that the entire cost of pipe and
other installation charges shall be paid by such consumers. Nothing herein
shall be construed to obligate the municipality to provide sewer service to
non-residents.
(Prior Code, § 53.02)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 17-574 and 18-503
§ 53.03 SEWER CONTRACT.
   (A)   The municipality through the Sewer Department shall furnish sewer
services to persons within its corporate limits whose premises abut a street or
alley in which a commercial main is now or may hereafter be laid.
   (B)   The municipality may also furnish sewer service to persons whose
premises are situated outside the corporate limits of the municipality, as and
when, according to law, the City Council may see fit to do so.
   (C)   The rules, regulations, and sewer rental rates hereinafter named in
this chapter, shall be considered a part of every application hereafter made
for sewer service and shall be considered a part of the contract between every
customer now or hereafter served.
   (D)   Without further formality, the making of the application on the part
of any applicant or the use of sewer service by present customers thereof shall
constitute a contract between the customer and the municipality to which the
contract both parties are bound.
   (E)   If the customer shall violate any of the provisions of the contract or
any reasonable rules and regulations that the City Council may hereafter adopt,
the Superintendent, or his or her agent, may cut off or disconnect the sewer
service from the building or premises of such violation.
   (F)   No further connection for sewer service to the building or premises
shall again be made save or except by order of the Superintendent or his or her
agent.
(Prior Code, § 53.03)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 17-901, 17-902, and 18-503
§ 53.04 COMPLIANCE; INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   Generally. The Superintendent and other duly authorized employees of
the city bearing proper credentials and identification shall be permitted to
enter all properties for the purposes of inspection, observation, measurement,
sampling, and testing in accordance with the provisions of this chapter. The
Superintendent or his or her representatives shall have no authority to inquire
into any processes including metallurgical, chemical, oil, refining, ceramic,
paper, or other industries beyond that point having a direct bearing on the
kind and source of discharge to the sewers or waterways or facilities for waste
treatment.
   (B)   Injury liability. While performing the necessary work on private
properties referred to in division (A) above, the Superintendent or duly
authorized employees of the city shall observe all safety rules applicable to
the premises established by the company and the company shall be held harmless
for injury or death to the city employees and the city shall indemnify the
company against loss or damage to its property by employees and against
liability claims and demands for personal injury or property damage assessed
against the company and growing out of the gauging and sampling operation,
except as such may be caused by negligence or failure of the company to
maintain safe conditions as required in §
53.28(A).
   (C)   Easements.
      (1)   The Superintendent and other duly authorized employees of the city
bearing proper credentials and identification shall be permitted to enter all
private properties through which the city holds a duly negotiated easement for
the purposes of, but not limited to, inspection, observation, measurement,
sampling, repair, and maintenance of any portion of the sewage works lying
within the easement.
      (2)   All entry and subsequent work, if any, on the easement, shall be
done in bill accordance with the terms of the duly negotiated easement
pertaining to the private property involved.
(Prior Code, § 53.04)
§ 53.05 VIOLATION; NOTICE AND LIABILITY.
   (A)   (1)   Any person found to be violating any provision of this chapter
except §
53.29 shall be served by the city with written notice stating the nature of the
violation and providing a reasonable time limit for the satisfactory correction
thereof.
      (2)   The offender shall, within the period of time stated in such
notice, permanently cease all violations.
   (B)   Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall
become liable to the city for any expense, loss, or damage occasioned the city
by reason of such violation.
(Prior Code, § 53.05)
§ 53.06 PRECEDENCE.
   This chapter takes precedence over any terms or conditions of agreements, or
contracts between the city and contributors to the treatment works that are
inconsistent with the requirements of § 204(b)(1)(A) of the Clean Water Act,
being 33 USC § 1283(b)(1)(A), and its corresponding regulations.
(Prior Code, § 53.06)
SEWER REGULATIONS
§ 53.20 PUBLIC SEWERS REQUIRED.
   (A)   Unlawful deposit of wastes. It shall be unlawful for any person to
place, deposit, or permit to be deposited in any unsanitary manner on public or
private property within the city or in any area under the jurisdiction of the
city any human or animal excrement, garbage, or other objectionable waste.
   (B)   Unlawful discharge of untreated sewage. It shall be unlawful to
discharge to any natural outlet within the city or in any area under the
jurisdiction of the city any sewage or other polluted waters, except where
suitable treatment has been provided in accordance with subsequent provisions
of this chapter.
   (C)   Cesspools, privies, and septic tanks prohibited. Except as hereinafter
provided, it shall be unlawful to construct or maintain within the city or in
any area under the jurisdiction of the city any privy, privy vault, septic
tank, cesspool, or other facility intended or used for the disposal of sewage.
   (D)   Mandatory hook-up. The owner of all houses, buildings, or properties
used for human employment, recreation, or other purposes, situated within the
city and abutting on any street, alley, or right-of-way in which there is now
located or may in the future be located a public sanitary or combined sewer of
the city is hereby required at his or her expense to install suitable toilet
facilities therein, and to connect such facilities directly with the proper
public sewer in accordance with the provisions of this chapter, within 60 days
after date of official notice to do so, provided that said public sewer is
within 100 feet of the property line and accessible to the owner.
(Prior Code, § 53.20) Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.21 PRIVATE SEWAGE DISPOSAL SYSTEM.
   (A)   When applicable.
      (1)   Where a public sanitary or combined sewer is not available under
the provisions of §
53.20(D), the building sewer shall be connected to a private sewage disposal
system complying with the provisions of this chapter.
      (2)   At such time as a public sewer becomes available to a property
served by a private sewage disposal system, as provided in division (D) below,
a direct connection shall be made to the public sewer in compliance with this
chapter, and any septic tanks, cesspools, and similar private sewage disposal
facilities shall be abandoned and filled with suitable material. When a public
sewer becomes available, the building sewer shall be connected to the sewer
within 60 days, and the private sewage disposal system shall be cleaned of
sludge and filled with clean bankrun gravel or dirt.
   (B)   Permit required; fee. Before commencement of construction of a private
sewage disposal system, the owner shall first obtain a written permit signed by
the Superintendent. The application for such permit shall be made on a form
furnished by the city which the applicant shall supplement by any plans,
specifications, and other information as are deemed necessary by the
Superintendent. A permit and inspection fee of $100, or an amount set by
separate resolution, shall be paid to the city at the time the application is
filed.
   (C)   Permit; when effective; inspections. A permit for a private sewage
disposal shall not become effective until the installation is completed to the
satisfaction of the Superintendent. He or she shall be allowed to inspect the
work at any stage of construction and, in any event, the applicant for the
permit shall notify the Superintendent when the work is ready for final
inspection, and before any underground portions are covered. The inspection
shall be made within 72 hours of the receipt of notice by the Superintendent.
   (D)   Specifications. The type, capacities, location, and layout of a
private sewage disposal system shall comply with all recommendations of the
Department of Environment and Energy (NDEE) of the state. No permit shall be
issued for any private sewage disposal system employing subsurface soil
absorption facilities where the area of the lot is less than 20,000 square
feet. No septic tank or cesspool shall be permitted to discharge to any natural
outlet.
   (E)   Maintenance. The owner shall operate and maintain the private sewage
disposal facilities in a sanitary manner at all times, at no expense to the
city.
   (F)   Additional requirements. No statement contained in this chapter shall
be construed to interfere with any additional requirements that may be imposed
by the Department of Environment and Energy.
(Prior Code, § 53.21) Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.22 BUILDING SEWER INSTALLATION.
   (A)   Permit required. No unauthorized person shall uncover, make any
connections with or opening into, use, alter, or disturb any public sewer or
appurtenance thereof without first obtaining a written permit from the
Superintendent.
   (B)   Classification; permit application; fee. There shall be two classes of
building sewer permits: for residential and commercial service; and for service
to establishments producing industrial wastes. In either case, the owner or his
or her agent shall make application on a special form furnished by the city.
The permit application shall be supplemented by any plans, specifications, or
other information considered pertinent in the judgment of the Superintendent. A
permit and inspection fee for each class of building sewer permits shall be
established by resolution of the City Council and maintained on file in the
office of the City Clerk/Treasurer. The applicable building sewer permit and
inspection fee shall be paid to the city at the time of filing the application.
   (C)   Expense. All costs and expense incident to the installation and
connection of the building sewer shall be borne by the owner. The owner shall
indemnify the city from any loss or damage that may directly or indirectly be
occasioned by the installation of the building sewer.
   (D)   Single premises. A separate and independent building sewer shall be
provided for every building except where one building stands at the rear of
another on an interior lot and no private sewer is available or can be
constructed to the rear building through an adjoining alley, court yard, or
driveway, the building sewer from the front building may be extended to the
rear building and the whole considered as one building sewer.
   (E)   Use of existing sewers. Old building sewers may be used in connection
with new buildings only when they are found, on examination and test by the
Superintendent to meet all requirements of this chapter.
   (F)   Construction codes.
      (1)   The size, slope, alignment, materials of construction of a building
sewer, and the methods to be used in excavating, placing of the pipe, jointing,
testing, and backfilling the trench, shall all conform to the requirements of
the building and plumbing code or other applicable rules and regulations of the
city. In the absence of code provisions or in amplification thereof, the
materials and procedures set forth in appropriate specifications of the
A.S.T.M. and W.P.C.F, Manual of Practice No. 9 shall apply.
      (2)   Whenever possible, the building sewer shall be brought to the
building at an elevation below the basement floor. In all buildings in which
any building drain is too low to permit gravity flow to the public sewer,
sanitary sewage carried by such building drain shall be lifted by an approved
means and discharged to the building sewer.
      (3)   The connection of the building sewer into the public sewer shall
conform to the requirements of the Building and Plumbing Code or other
applicable rules and regulations of the city or the procedures set forth in
appropriate specifications of the A.S.T.M. and the W.P.C.F. Manual of Practice
No. 9. All such connections shall be made gastight and watertight. Any
deviation from the prescribed procedures and materials must be approved by the
Superintendent before installation.
   (G)   Unlawful connection. No person shall make connection of roof
downspouts, interior and exterior foundation drains, areaway drains, or other
sources of surface runoff or groundwater to a building sewer or building drain
which in turn is connected directly or indirectly to a public sanitary sewer.
   (H)   Inspections. The applicant for the building sewer permit shall notify
the Superintendent when the building sewer is ready for inspection and
connection to the public sewer. The connection shall be made under the
supervision of the Superintendent or his or her representative.
   (I)   Excavations. All excavations for building sewer installation shall be
adequately guarded with barricades and lights so as to protect the public from
hazard. Streets, sidewalks, parkways, and other public property disturbed in
the course of the work shall be restored in a manner satisfactory to the
Superintendent.
(Prior Code, § 53.22) (Ord. 1998-4.2, passed 4-13-1998) Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.23 PROHIBITED WATER DISCHARGES.
   (A)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any stormwater,
surface water, groundwater, roof runoff, subsurface drainage, including
interior and exterior foundation drains, uncontaminated cooling water, or
unpolluted industrial process waters to any sanitary sewer.
   (B)   Stormwater and all other unpolluted drainage shall be discharged to
such sewers as are specifically designated as combined sewers or storm sewers,
or to a natural outlet approved by the Superintendent. Industrial cooling water
or unpolluted process waters may be discharged on approval of the
Superintendent to a storm sewer, combined sewer, or natural outlet.
(Prior Code, § 53.23) Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.24 HAZARDOUS DISCHARGES.
   (A)   Flammable, toxic, corrosive, and obstructive substances; preliminary
treatment.
      (1)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any of the
following described waters or wastes to any public sewers:
         (a)   Any gasoline, benzene, naphta, fuel oil, or other flammable or
explosive liquid, solid, or gas;
         (b)   Any waters or wastes containing toxic or poisonous solids,
liquids, or gases in sufficient quantity, either singly or by interaction with
other wastes, to injure or interfere with any sewage treatment process,
constitute a hazard to humans or animals, create a public nuisance, or create
any hazard in the receiving waters of the sewage treatment plant, including but
not limited to cyanides in excess of two mg/l as CN in the wastes as discharged
to the public sewer;
         (c)   Any waters or wastes having a pH lower than 5.5, or having any
other corrosive property capable of causing damage or hazard to structures,
equipment, and personnel of the sewage works;
         (d)   Solid or viscous substances in quantities or of such size
capable of causing obstruction to the flow in sewers, or other interference
with the proper operation of the sewage works such as, but not limited to,
ashes, cinders, sand, mud, straw, shavings, metal, glass, rags, feathers, tar,
plastics, wood, unground garbage, whole blood, paunch manure, hair and
fleshings, entrails, and paper dishes, cups, mild containers, and the like,
either whole or ground by garbage grinders; or
         (e)   Any waters or wastes having a five-day BOD greater than 300
parts per million by weight, or containing more than 350 parts per million by
weight of suspended solids, or having an average daily flow greater than 2% of
the average sewage flow of the city shall be subject to the review of the
Superintendent.
      (2)   Where necessary in the opinion of the Superintendent, the owner
shall provide, at his or her expense, such preliminary treatment as may be
necessary to reduce the biochemical oxygen demand to 300 parts per million by
weight, or reduce the suspended solids to 350 parts per million by weight, or
control the quantities and rates of discharge of such waters or wastes. Plans,
specifications, and any other pertinent information relating to proposed
preliminary treatment facilities shall be submitted for the approval of the
Superintendent and no construction of such facilities shall be commenced until
the approvals are obtained in writing.
   (B)   Specific prohibitions as determined by Superintendent. No person shall
discharge or cause to be discharged the following described substances,
materials, waters, or wastes if it appears likely in the opinion of the
Superintendent that such wastes can harm either the sewers, sewage treatment
process, or equipment, have an adverse effect on the receiving stream, or can
otherwise endanger life, limb, public property, or constitute a nuisance. In
forming his or her opinion as to the acceptability of these wastes, the
Superintendent will give consideration to such factors as the quantities of
subject wastes in relation to flows and velocities in the sewers, materials of
construction of the sewers, nature of the sewage treatment process, capacity of
the sewage treatment plant, degree of treatability of wastes in the sewage
treatment plant, and other pertinent factors. The substances prohibited are:
      (1)   Any liquid or vapor having a temperature higher than 150°F (65°C);
      (2)   Any water or waste containing fats, wax, grease or oils, whether
emulsified or not, in excess of 100 mg/l or containing substances which may
solidify or become viscous at temperatures between 32° and 150°F;
      (3)   Any garbage that has not been properly shredded. The installation
and operation of any garbage grinder equipped with a motor of three-fourths
horsepower (0.76 hp metric) or greater shall be subject to the review and
approval of the Superintendent;
      (4)   Any waters or wastes containing strong acid, iron, pickling wastes,
or concentrated plating solutions whether neutralized or not;
      (5)   Any waters or wastes containing iron, chromium, copper, zinc, and
similar objectionable or toxic substances; or wastes exerting an excessive
chlorine requirement, to such degree that any such material received in the
composite sewage at the sewage treatment works exceeds the limits established
by the state for such materials;
      (6)   Any waters or wastes containing phenols or other taste- or odor-
producing substances, in such concentrations exceeding limits which may be
established by the state as necessary, after treatment of the composite sewage,
to meet the requirements of state, federal, or other public agencies of
jurisdiction for such discharge to the receiving waters;
      (7)   Any radioactive wastes or isotopes of such half-life or
concentration as may exceed limits established by the state in compliance with
applicable state or federal regulations;
      (8)   Any waters or wastes having a pH in excess of 11;
      (9)   Materials which exert or cause:
         (a)   Unusual concentrations of inert suspended solids (such as, but
not limited to, Fullers earth, lime slurries, and lime residues) or of
dissolved solids (such as, but not limited to, sodium chloride or sodium
sulfate);
         (b)   Excessive discoloration (such as, but not limited to, dye wastes
and vegetable tanning solutions);
         (c)   Unusual BOD, chemical oxygen demand, or chlorine requirements in
such quantities as to constitute a significant load on the sewage treatment
works; or
         (d)   Unusual volume of flow or concentration of wastes constituting
“slugs” as defined herein.
      (10)   Waters or wastes containing substances which are not amenable to
treatment or reduction by the sewage treatment processes employed, or are
amenable to treatment only to such degree that the sewage treatment plant
effluent cannot meet the requirements of other agencies having jurisdiction
over discharge to the receiving waters.
   (C)   Rejection, pretreatment, control of discharge, or use fee surcharge.
      (1)   If any waters or wastes are discharged, or are proposed to be
discharged to the public sewers, which waters contain the substances or possess
the characteristics enumerated in division (B) above, and which in the judgment
of the Superintendent may have a deleterious effect upon the sewage works,
processes, equipment, or receiving waters, or which otherwise create a hazard
to life to constitute a public nuisance, the Superintendent may:
         (a)   Reject the wastes;
         (b)   Require pretreatment to an acceptable condition for discharge to
the public sewers;
         (c)   Require control over the quantities and rates of discharge; and/
or
         (d)   Require payment to cover the added cost of handling and treating
the wastes not covered by existing taxes or sewer charges under the provisions
of division (D) below.
      (2)   If the Superintendent permits the pretreatment or equalization of
waste flows, the design and installation of the plants and equipment shall be
subject to the review and approval of the NDEE and subject to the requirements
of all applicable codes, ordinances, and laws.
   (D)   Special exceptions permitted; use fee surcharge. No statement
contained in this chapter shall be construed as preventing any special
agreement or arrangement between the city and any industrial concern whereby an
industrial waste of unusual strength of character may be accepted by the city
for treatment, subject to payment therefore by the industrial concern.
(Prior Code, § 53.24) Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.25 GREASE, OIL, AND SAND INTERCEPTORS.
   (A)   Grease, oil, and sand interceptors shall be provided when, in the
opinion of the Superintendent they are necessary for the proper handling of
liquid wastes containing grease in excessive amounts, or any flammable wastes,
sand, or other harmful ingredients; except that such interceptors shall not be
required for private living quarters or dwelling units.
   (B)   All interceptors shall be of a type and capacity approved by the
Superintendent and shall be located as to be readily and easily accessible for
cleaning and inspection.
(Prior Code, § 53.25)
§ 53.26 PRELIMINARY TREATMENT OR FLOW EQUALIZING FACILITIES; MAINTENANCE BY
OWNER.
   Where preliminary treatment or flow-equalizing facilities are provided for
any waters or wastes, they shall be maintained continuously in satisfactory and
effective operation by the owner at his or her expense.
(Prior Code, § 53.26)
§ 53.27 CONTROL MANHOLES/SAMPLING STATIONS.
   (A)   When required; installation and maintenance. When required by the
Superintendent, the owner of any property serviced by a building sewer carrying
industrial wastes shall install a suitable control manhole together with
necessary meters and other appurtenances in the building sewer to facilitate
observation, sampling, and measurement of the wastes. The manhole, when
required, shall be accessibly and safely located, and shall be constructed in
accordance with plans approved by the Superintendent. The manhole shall be
installed by the owner at his or her expense, and shall be maintained by him or
her so as to be safe and accessible at all times.
   (B)   Method. All measurements, tests, and analyses of the characteristics
of waters and wastes to which reference is made in this chapter shall be
determined in accordance with the latest edition of Standard Methods for the
Examination of Water and Wastewater, published by the American Public Health
Association, and shall be determined at the control manhole provided, or upon
suitable samples taken at the control manhole. In the event that no special
manhole has been required, the control manhole shall be considered to be the
nearest downstream manhole in the public sewer to the point at which the
building sewer is connected. Sampling shall be carried out by customarily
accepted methods to reflect the effect of constituents upon the sewage works
and to determine the existence of hazards to life, limb, and property. (The
particular analyses involved will determine whether a 24-hour composite of all
outfalls of a premises is appropriate or whether a grab sample or samples
should be taken. Normally, but not always, BOD and suspended solids analyses
are obtained from 24-hour composites of all outfalls whereas pH is determined
from periodic grab samples.)
(Prior Code, § 53.27)
§ 53.28 DESTRUCTION OF PROPERTY.
   (A)   No unauthorized person shall maliciously, willfully, or negligently
break, damage, destroy, uncover, deface, or tanker with any structure,
appurtenance, or equipment which is part of the sewage works.
   (B)   Any person violating this provision shall be subject to immediate
arrest under charge of criminal mischief.
(Prior Code, § 53.28) Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.29 CAPPING OF BUILDING SEWERS.
   (A)   In the event that any building which has a building drain connected by
a building sewer to the public sewer is destroyed, demolished, moved from the
premises upon which the building was previously located, or the building sewer
is disconnected, either temporarily or permanently, from the building drain,
the owner of the building shall cause the building sewer to be capped, sealed,
or otherwise abandoned in accord with rules and regulations established by the
Utilities Superintendent and approved by the City Council.
   (B)   The owner of any building who is required by division (A) above to
cap, seal, or otherwise abandon, either temporarily or permanently, any
building sewer, shall obtain a permit from the City Clerk/Treasurer prior to
commencement of the work. Applications for such permits shall be made to the
City Clerk/Treasurer on forms provided by the City Clerk and the permit may be
withheld until the deposit, bond or other guarantee of the timely performance
of the work, as required by the applicable rules and regulations, is provided.
   (C)   The Utility Superintendent shall establish rules and regulations
governing the capping, sealing, or otherwise abandoning of building sewers as
provided in divisions (A) and (B) above. The rules and regulations shall become
effective upon approval of the same by the City Council. The City Clerk/
Treasurer shall maintain a copy of the rules and regulations on file in the
city office and make the same available for public inspection during regular
business hours.
(Prior Code, § 53.29) (Ord. 1996-7.1, passed 9-9-1996)
RATES AND CHARGES
§ 53.40 USER CHARGE SYSTEM.
   (A)   It is determined and declared to be necessary and conducive to the
protection of the public health, safety, welfare, and convenience of the city
to collect charges from all users who contribute wastewater to the city’s
treatment works. The proceeds of such charges so derived will be used for the
purpose of operating, maintaining, and retiring the debt for such public
wastewater treatment works.
   (B)   The user charge system shall generate adequate annual revenues to pay
costs of annual operation and maintenance including replacement and costs
associated with debt retirement of bonded capital associated with financing the
treatment works which the city may by ordinance designate to be paid by the
user charge system. The portion of the total user charge which is designated
for operation and maintenance including replacement of the treatment works
shall be established by ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 53.40)
§ 53.41 OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE FUND; ACCOUNTS.
   (A)   That portion of the total user charge collected which is designated
for operation and maintenance purposes as established by ordinance, shall be
deposited in a separate nonlapsing fund known as the Operation and Maintenance
Fund, and will be kept in two primary accounts as follows:
      (1)   An account designated for the specific purpose of defraying
operation and maintenance costs excluding replacement of the treatment works
(operation and maintenance account); and
      (2)   An account designated for the specific purpose of defraying
replacement costs (replacement account).
   (B)   (1)   Fiscal year-end balances in the operation and maintenance
account and the replacement account shall be carried over to the same accounts
in the subsequent fiscal year, and shall be used for no other purposes than
those designated for these accounts. Monies which have been transferred from
other sources to meet temporary shortages in the Operation, Maintenance, and
Replacement Fund shall be returned to their respective accounts upon
appropriate adjustment of the user charge rates for operation, maintenance, and
replacement.
      (2)   The user charge rates shall be adjusted such that the transferred
monies will be returned to their respective accounts within the fiscal year
following the fiscal year in which the monies were borrowed.
(Prior Code, § 53.41)
§ 53.42 RATE SETTING.
   (A)   (1)   In addition to a monthly minimum basic charge for sanitary sewer
service, each user shall pay for the services provided by the city based on his
or her use of the treatment works as determined by water meter(s) acceptable to
the city.
      (2)   Rates, including monthly minimum basic charges, shall be set by
ordinance of the City Council and on file in the office of the City Clerk/
Treasurer for inspection during office hours.
   (B)   (1)   For residential contributors, monthly user charges will be based
on average monthly water usage during the months of January, February, and
March and shall be determined and established by the City Clerk/Treasurer
during the month of May each year.
      (2)   If a residential user has not established a January, February, and
March average, his or her monthly user charge shall be the median charge of all
other residential contributors as determined by the City Clerk/Treasurer, and
such charge shall continue until such a monthly average is established for such
residential contributor.
   (C)   For industrial, institutional, and commercial contributors, user
charges shall be based on water used during the current month; provided,
however, if a commercial, institutional, or industrial contributor has a
consumptive use of water, or in some other manner uses water which is not
returned to the wastewater collection system, the user charge for that
contributor may be based on a wastewater meter(s) or separate water meter(s)
installed and maintained at the contributor’s expense, and in a manner
acceptable to the city.
(Prior Code, § 53.42) (Ord. 2000-1.3, passed 1-10-1999)
§ 53.43 SURCHARGES.
   (A)   (1)   For those users who contribute wastewater, the strength of which
is greater than normal domestic sewage, a surcharge in addition to the normal
charge will be collected.
      (2)   The surcharge for operation and maintenance including replacement
will be determined by the responsible operating personnel and approved by the
City Council.
   (B)   (1)   Any user which discharges any toxic pollutants which cause an
increase in the cost of managing the effluent or the sludge from the city’s
treatment works, or any user which discharges any substance which singly or by
interaction with other substances causes identifiable increases in the cost of
operation, maintenance, or replacement of the treatment works, shall pay for
such increased costs.
      (2)   The charge to each such user will be determined by the responsible
plant operating personnel and approved by the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 53.43)
§ 53.44 USER CHARGE REVIEW.
   The city will review the user charge system at least every two years and
revise user charge rates as necessary to ensure that the system generates
adequate revenues to pay the costs of operation and maintenance, including
replacement, and that the system continues to provide for the proportional
distribution of operation and maintenance, including replacement costs among
users and user classes.
(Prior Code, § 53.44)
§ 53.45 NOTIFICATION.
   The city will notify each user at least annually, in conjunction with a
regular bill, of the rate being charged for operation, maintenance including
replacement of the treatment works.
(Prior Code, § 53.45)
§ 53.46 SEWER RATES.
   (A)   Residential contributors sewer rate.
      (1)   The residential contributors sewer rate shall be applicable when
the building, premises, or place receiving sanitary sewer service is located
within the corporate limits of the city and is used for dwelling or family
living purposes.
      (2)   Residential contributors shall pay the sewer base rate as set forth
in division (D) below each calendar month. In addition, residential
contributors shall pay a monthly sewer usage fee which shall be calculated by
multiplying the usage fee set forth in division (D) below times each 1,000
gallons of water or any portion thereof used based on the average monthly water
usage as established pursuant to division (E) below for the building, place, or
premises receiving sanitary sewer service.
   (B)   Non-residential contributors sewer rate.
      (1)   The non-residential contributors rate shall be applicable when the
building, premises, or place receiving sanitary sewer service is located within
the corporate limits of the city and is used for commercial, industrial,
institutional, or other non-residential purposes.
      (2)   Non-residential contributors shall pay the sewer base rate as set
forth in division (D) below each calendar month. In addition, non-residential
contributors shall pay a monthly sewer usage fee which shall be calculated by
multiplying the usage fee set forth in division (D) below times each 1,000
gallons of water or any portion thereof used during the month.
   (C)   Non-resident rate.
      (1)   The non-resident contributors sewer rate shall be applicable to all
buildings, premises, or places receiving sanitary sewer service from the city
which are located outside the corporate limits of the city.
      (2)   Non-resident contributors shall pay the sewer base rate as set
forth in division (D) below each calendar month. In addition, non-resident
contributors shall pay a monthly sewer usage fee which shall be calculated by
multiplying the usage fee set forth in division (D) below times each 1,000
gallons of water or any portion thereof used based on the average monthly water
usage as established pursuant to division (E) below for the building, place, or
premises receiving sanitary sewer service.
   (D)   Sewer base rate; usage fee; applicable to all users. The following
base rates and monthly usage fees shall apply to all residential contributors,
non-residential contributors, and non-resident contributors, on the effective
date as listed below:
 
Effective Date Base Rate Usage Fee Per 1,000 Gallons of Water or Portion
                         Thereof
April 1, 2023  $24.00    $6.00
 
   (E)   Monthly sewer usage fee; average monthly water usage; established
yearly. The monthly usage fee for each residential, and non-resident
contributor shall be calculated using the average monthly water usage of the
contributor during the months of January, February, and March. Monthly usage
fees shall be established by the City Clerk/Treasurer during the month of May
in each calendar year and shall continue for one year or until changed by
action of the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 53.46) (Ord. 2018-9.1, passed 11-12-2018; Ord. 2021-9.1, passed
11-8-2021; Ord. 2023-3.1, passed 4-11-2023)
§ 53.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who shall continue any violation beyond the time limit provided
for in §
53.05 shall be guilty of an offense, and on conviction thereof shall be fined
in the amount not exceeding $50 for each violation. Each 24-hour period in
which any such violation shall continue shall be deemed a separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 53.99)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
71.   TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
      
72.   PARKING REGULATIONS
      
73.   RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
      
74.   TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
CHAPTER 70: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
70.01   Definitions
   
70.02   Enforcement
   
70.03   Refusal to obey
   
70.04   Snow emergency
Statutory reference:
   Powers and duties of peace officers, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 60-683
   Powers and duties of State Patrol, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 81-2005
   Regulation of highways by local authorities, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 60-680
§ 70.01 DEFINITIONS.
   The words and phrases used in this title, pertaining to motor vehicles and
traffic regulations, shall be construed as defined in Neb. Rev. Stat. Ch. 60,
Art. 6, as now existing or hereafter amended. If not defined in the designated
statutes, the word or phrase shall have its common meaning.
(Prior Code, § 70.01)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 60-606 through 60-676
§ 70.02 ENFORCEMENT.
   The County Sheriff’s Department shall, by contract, be authorized and
empowered, to exercise all powers and duties with relation to the management of
street traffic and to direct, control, stop, restrict, regulate, and, when
necessary, temporarily divert or exclude in the interest of public safety,
health, and convenience the movement of pedestrian, animal, and vehicular
traffic of every kind in streets, in parks, and on bridges. The driver of any
vehicle shall stop upon the signal of any officer.
(Prior Code, § 70.02)
§ 70.03 REFUSAL TO OBEY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to refuse or fail to comply with any
lawful order, signal, or direction of a code enforcement officer.
(Prior Code, § 70.03) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 70.04 SNOW EMERGENCY.
   (A)   Finding. The City Council finds that parking and operation of vehicles
on streets of the city covered by a heavy accumulation of snow is a matter
affecting the health, safety, and welfare of the citizens of the city for the
reason that parked and stalled vehicles impede snow removal operations and
cause serious traffic congestion and hazard.
   (B)   Declaration of snow emergency. Whenever snow has accumulated or there
is a possibility that snow will accumulate to such a depth that snow removal
operations will be required, the Mayor, or in the absence of the Mayor, the
City Clerk/Treasurer, may declare a snow emergency and, until such snow
emergency is terminated, it shall be unlawful to:
      (1)   Park a vehicle on any street within the corporate limits of the
city; or
      (2)   Operate a motor vehicle on any street within the corporate limits
in such a manner or condition that such motor vehicle stalls or is otherwise
unable to proceed.
   (C)   Notice of snow emergency; termination. Upon declaring a snow
emergency, the Mayor shall forthwith cause appropriate notice thereof to be
given through the local press, radio, or other appropriate media. The snow
emergency shall be terminated by notice given substantially in the same manner
as the snow emergency was declared.
   (D)   Removal of parked vehicles. Any vehicle parked on a street within the
corporate limits must be removed from the street within two hours after notice
of a snow emergency has been given. Any vehicle parked on a street within the
corporate limits of the city after such period of the time may be removed or
cause to be removed by the Sheriff or the Utility Superintendent of the city to
the nearest garage or other place of safety, and the vehicle may not be
recovered until the towing and any storage charges are paid.
(Prior Code, § 70.04) (Ord. 2005-5.1, passed 7-11-2005) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 71: TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
71.01   Truck routes
   
71.02   One-way traffic
   
71.03   Traffic lanes; designation
   
71.04   Crosswalks
   
71.05   Signs; signals
   
71.06   Stop signs
   
71.07   Engine brakes prohibited
Speed Limits
   
71.20   General speed limits
   
71.21   Near schools
Statutory reference:
   Regulation of highways by local authorities, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 60-680
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 71.01 TRUCK ROUTES.
   (A)   The City Council may, by resolution, designate certain streets in the
municipality that trucks shall travel upon, and it shall be unlawful for
persons operating the trucks to travel on other streets than those designated
for trucks, unless to pick up or deliver goods, wares, or merchandise, and in
that event, the operator of the truck shall return to the truck routes as soon
as possible in traveling through or about the municipality.
   (B)   The City Council shall cause notices to be posted or shall erect signs
indicating the streets so designated as truck routes.
(Prior Code, § 71.01) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Truck routes authorized, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 60-681
§ 71.02 ONE-WAY TRAFFIC.
   The City Council may, by resolution, provide for one-way travel in any
street, or alley located in the municipality and shall provide for appropriate
signs and markings when the streets have been so designated by resolution.
(Prior Code, § 71.02)
§ 71.03 TRAFFIC LANES; DESIGNATION.
   The City Council may, by resolution, mark lanes for traffic on street
pavements at the places as it may deem advisable.
(Prior Code, § 71.03)
§ 71.04 CROSSWALKS.
   The City Council may, by resolution, establish and maintain by appropriate
devices, markers, or lines upon the street crosswalks at intersections where
there is particular danger to pedestrians crossing the street, and at the other
places as it may deem necessary.
(Prior Code, § 71.04)
§ 71.05 SIGNS; SIGNALS.
   (A)   The City Council may, by resolution, provide for the placing of stop
signs or other signs, signals, standards, or mechanical devices in any street
or alley under the municipality’s jurisdiction for the purpose of regulating or
prohibiting traffic thereon. The resolution shall describe the portion of the
street or alley wherein traffic is to be regulated or prohibited, the
regulation or prohibition, the location where the sign, signal, standard, or
mechanical device shall be placed, and the hours when the regulation or
prohibition shall be effective.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to fail, neglect, or refuse to
comply with the regulation or prohibition.
(Prior Code, § 71.05) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Obedience to, placement of, and authority over traffic-control devices, see
    Neb. Rev. Stat. 60-6,119 through 60-6,121
§ 71.06 STOP SIGNS.
   (A)   Every person operating any vehicle shall, upon approaching any stop
sign erected in accordance with the resolution prescribed heretofore, cause the
vehicle to come to a complete stop before entering or crossing any street,
highway, or railroad crossing.
   (B)   The vehicle operator shall stop at a marked stop line, or, if there is
no stop line, before entering the crosswalk; but if neither is indicated, then
as near the right-of-way line of the intersecting roadway as possible.
(Prior Code, § 71.06) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 71.07 ENGINE BRAKES PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to retard or attempt to retard the
forward movement of any vehicle within the city limits by using motor vehicle
brakes that are activated or operated by the compression of the engine of any
vehicle or any unit or part thereof.
(Prior Code, § 71.07) (Ord. 2001-6.2, passed 6-11-2001) Penalty, see §
10.99
SPEED LIMITS
§ 71.20 GENERAL SPEED LIMITS.
   (A)   No person shall operate a motor vehicle on any street, alley, or other
place at a rate of speed greater than 25 mph within the residential district,
and 20 mph within the Business District, unless a different rate of speed is
specifically permitted by ordinance.
   (B)   In no instance shall a person drive a vehicle on a highway at a speed
greater than is reasonable and prudent under the conditions. Where a different
maximum speed is set by ordinance, appropriate signs shall be posted.
(Prior Code, § 71.20) (Ord. 2001-4.1, passed 5-21-2001) Penalty, see §
10.99
Cross-reference:
   Schedule of speed limits, see
Ch. 74, Sched. I
§ 71.21 NEAR SCHOOLS.
   It shall be unlawful for the driver of any vehicle, when passing premises on
which school buildings are located, and which are used for school purposes,
during school recess, or while children are going to, or leaving school during
the opening or closing hours to drive the vehicle at a rate of speed in excess
of 15 mph past the premises, and the driver shall stop at all stop signs
located at, or near, the school premises, and it shall be unlawful for the
driver to make a U-turn at any intersection where the stop signs are located
at, or near, the school premises.
(Prior Code, § 71.21) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 72: PARKING REGULATIONS
Section
   
72.01   Brakes and turned wheels required
   
72.02   Parallel parking required; exceptions
   
72.03   Designation of type of parking
   
72.04   Areas of prohibited parking
   
72.05   Alleys; restrictions
   
72.06   Unloading; freight vehicles
   
72.07   Fire hydrants and stations
   
72.08   Schools, theaters
   
72.09   Street intersections
   
72.10   Obstructing traffic
   
72.11   Curb parking; painting of curbs
   
72.12   Display or repair
   
72.13   Current registration
   
72.14   Time limit
   
72.15   Emergency vehicles
   
72.16   Removal of illegally parked vehicles
§ 72.01 BRAKES AND TURNED WHEELS REQUIRED.
   (A)   No person having control or charge of a motor vehicle shall allow the
vehicle to stand unattended without first effectively setting the brakes
thereon and, when standing upon any grade, without turning the front wheels of
the vehicle to the curb or side of the street.
   (B)   The driver of a motor vehicle, when traveling upon a down grade upon
any street, shall not coast with the gears of the vehicle in neutral.
(Prior Code, § 72.01) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 72.02 PARALLEL PARKING REQUIRED; EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   No person shall park any vehicle or approach the curb with a vehicle,
except when headed in the direction of the traffic.
   (B)   Vehicles, when parked, shall stand parallel with and adjacent to the
curb or edge of the roadway in the manner as to have both right wheels within
12 inches of the curb or edge of the roadway and so as to leave at least four
feet between the vehicle so parked and any other parked vehicles, except where
the City Council designates that vehicles shall be parked at an angle so as to
have the front right wheel at the curb or edge of the roadway.
   (C)   Where stalls are designated either on the curb or pavement, vehicles
shall be parked within the stalls. No vehicle shall be parked upon a roadway
when there is a shoulder adjacent to the roadway which is available for
parking.
(Prior Code, § 72.02) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 72.03 DESIGNATION OF TYPE OF PARKING.
   The City Council may, by resolution, designate any street, or portion
thereof, where vehicles shall be parked parallel with and adjacent to the curb
or at an angle so as to have the right front wheel at the curb.
(Prior Code, § 72.03)
§ 72.04 AREAS OF PROHIBITED PARKING.
   The City Council may, by resolution, set aside any street, alley, public
way, or portion thereof where the parking of a particular kind or class of
vehicle shall be prohibited, or where the parking of any vehicle shall be
prohibited. No vehicle prohibited from parking thereon shall stand or be parked
adjacent to the curb of the street, alley, public way, or portion thereof,
longer than a period of time necessary to load and unload freight or
passengers.
(Prior Code, § 72.04) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 72.05 ALLEYS; RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   No vehicle, while parked, shall have any portion thereof projecting
into any alley entrance.
   (B)   No vehicle shall be parked in any alley, except for the purpose of
loading or unloading during the time necessary to load or unload, which shall
not exceed the maximum limit of one-half hour. Every vehicle while loading or
unloading in any alley shall be parked in the manner as will cause the least
obstruction possible to traffic in the alley.
(Prior Code, § 72.05) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 72.06 UNLOADING; FREIGHT VEHICLES.
   Vehicles on an over-all length less than 20 feet, including load, while
discharging or loading freight may back to the curb but shall occupy as little
of the street as possible.
(Prior Code, § 72.06) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 72.07 FIRE HYDRANTS AND STATIONS.
   No vehicle shall be parked within 15 feet in either direction of any fire
hydrant nor within 20 feet of the driveway entrance to any fire station. The
curb space within the area of 15 feet in either direction of the fire hydrant
shall be painted red to indicate the prohibition.
(Prior Code, § 72.07) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 60-6,166
§ 72.08 SCHOOLS, THEATERS.
   The City Council may, by resolution, prohibit the parking or stopping except
for loading or unloading of passengers or freight, of vehicles at the curb on
streets directly in front of any entrance to a school house, school building,
or theater, and the curbs adjacent to the entrance of the school house, school
building, or theater shall be painted red to indicate the prohibition.
(Prior Code, § 72.08)
§ 72.09 STREET INTERSECTIONS.
   Except in compliance with traffic-control devices, no vehicle shall be
parked or left standing for any purpose, except momentarily to load or
discharge passengers, within 25 feet of the intersection or curb lines or, if
none, then within 15 feet of the intersection of property lines, nor where the
curb lines are painted red to indicate the prohibition.
(Prior Code, § 72.09) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 60-6,166
§ 72.10 OBSTRUCTING TRAFFIC.
   No person shall, except in case of an accident or emergency, stop any
vehicle in any location where the stopping will obstruct any street,
intersection, or entrance to an alley or public or private drive.
(Prior Code, § 72.10) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 72.11 CURB PARKING; PAINTING OF CURBS.
   (A)   No vehicle shall park on any street with its left side to the curb,
unless the street has been designated to be a one-way street by the City
Council. Vehicles must not be parked at any curb in a position as to prevent
another vehicle already parked at the curb from moving away.
   (B)   (1)   It shall be the duty of the City Council or its agent to cause
the curb space to be painted and keep the same painted as provided in this
section.
      (2)   No person, firm, or corporation shall paint the curb of any street
or in any manner set aside or attempt to prevent the parking of vehicles in any
street, or part thereof, except at the places where the parking of vehicles is
prohibited by the provisions of this chapter.
      (3)   The marking or designating of portions of streets or alleys where
the parking of vehicles is prohibited or limited shall be done only by the
municipality through its proper officers, at the direction of the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 72.11) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 72.12 DISPLAY OR REPAIR.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to park upon any street, alley, or
public place within the municipality any vehicle displayed for sale.
   (B)   No person shall adjust or repair any automobile or motorcycle, or race
the motor of same, while standing on the public streets or alleys of the
municipality, except in case of breakdown or other emergency requiring same.
   (C)   No person or employee connected with a garage or repair shop shall use
sidewalks, streets, or alleys in the vicinity of the garage or shop for the
purpose of working on automobiles or vehicles of any description.
(Prior Code, § 72.12) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 72.13 CURRENT REGISTRATION.
   It shall be unlawful to park or place on the streets, alleys, or other
public property any vehicle without first securing a current registration as
provided by law.
(Prior Code, § 72.13) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 72.14 TIME LIMIT.
   (A)   The City Council may, by resolution, entirely prohibit or fix a time
limit for the parking and stopping of vehicles on any street, streets, or
district designated by the resolution, and the parking, or stopping, of any
vehicle in any street, streets, or district, for a period of time longer than
fixed in the resolution shall constitute a violation of this chapter.
   (B)   The parking of a motor vehicle on a public street for over 24
consecutive hours is unlawful, except where a different maximum time limit is
posted.
(Prior Code, § 72.14) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 72.15 EMERGENCY VEHICLES.
   The provisions of this chapter regulating the movement, parking, and
standing of vehicles shall not apply to authorized emergency vehicles, as
defined in this traffic code, while the driver of the vehicle is operating the
same in an emergency in the necessary performance of public duties.
(Prior Code, § 72.15)
Statutory reference:
   Privileges of and conditions on authorized emergency vehicles, see Neb. Rev.
Stat. 60-6,114
§ 72.16 REMOVAL OF ILLEGALLY PARKED VEHICLES.
   (A)   Whenever any officer shall find a vehicle standing upon a street or
alley in violation of any of the provisions of this traffic code, the
individual may remove or have the vehicle removed or require the driver or
other person in charge of the vehicle to move the vehicle to a position off the
roadway of the street or alley or from the street or alley.
   (B)   (1)   The owner or other person lawfully entitled to the possession of
any vehicle towed or stored shall be charged with the reasonable cost of towing
and storage fees.
      (2)   Any towing or storage fee shall be a lien upon the vehicle prior to
all other claims.
      (3)   Any person towing or storing a vehicle shall be entitled to retain
possession of the vehicle until the charges are paid.
      (4)   The lien provided for in this section shall not apply to the
contents of any vehicles.
(Prior Code, § 72.16)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 60-6,165
CHAPTER 73: RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
Section
All-Terrain, Utility, and Golf Car Vehicles
   
73.01   Definitions
   
73.02   All-terrain, utility, and golf car vehicle operation on streets
   
73.03   All-terrain, utility vehicle restrictions
   
73.04   Golf car vehicle restrictions
ALL-TERRAIN, UTILITY, AND GOLF CAR VEHICLES
§ 73.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLE. Any motorized off-highway vehicle which:
      (1)   Is 50 inches or less in width;
      (2)   Has a dry weight of 900 pounds or less;
      (3)   Travels on four or more low-pressure tires;
      (4)   Is designed for operator use only with no passengers or is
specifically designed by the original manufacturer for the operator and one
passenger;
      (5)   Has a seat or saddle designed to be straddled by the operator; and
      (6)   Has handlebars or any other steering assembly for steering control.
   GOLF CAR VEHICLE. A vehicle that has at least four wheels, has a maximum
level ground speed of less than 20 mph, has a maximum payload capacity of 1,200
pounds, has a maximum gross vehicle weight of 2,500 pounds, has a maximum
passenger capacity of not more than four persons, and is designed and
manufactured for operation on a golf course for sporting and recreational
purposes.
   STREET or HIGHWAY. The entire width between the boundary limits of any
street, road, avenue, boulevard, or way which is publicly maintained when any
part thereof is open to the use of the public for purposes of vehicular travel.
   UTILITY-TYPE VEHICLE. Any motorized off-highway vehicle which:
      (1)   Is not less than 48 inches nor more than 74 inches in width;
      (2)   Is not more than 135 inches, including the bumper, in length;
      (3)   Has a dry weight of not less than 900 pounds nor more than 2,000
pounds;
      (4)   Travels on four or more low-pressure tires; and
      (5)   Is equipped with a steering wheel and bench or bucket-type seating
designed for at least two people to sit side by side.
(Prior Code, § 74.01) (Ord. 2015-9.3, passed 11-9-2015)
§ 73.02 ALL-TERRAIN, UTILITY, AND GOLF CAR VEHICLE OPERATION ON STREETS.
   All-terrain vehicles, and utility-type vehicles, and golf car vehicles may
be operated on streets and highways within the corporate limits of the city
subject to the provisions of §§
73.03 and
73.04.
(Prior Code, § 74.02) (Ord. 2015-9.3, passed 11-9-2015)
§ 73.03 ALL-TERRAIN, UTILITY VEHICLE RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   An all-terrain vehicle or a utility-type vehicle may be operated only
between the hours of sunrise and sunset and shall not be operated at a speed in
excess of 30 mph. When operating an all-terrain vehicle or a utility-type
vehicle as authorized by §
73.02, the headlight and taillight of the vehicle shall be on and the vehicle
shall be equipped with a bicycle safety flag which extends not less than five
feet above ground attached to the rear of such vehicle. The bicycle safety flag
shall be triangular in shape with an area of not less than 30 square inches and
shall be day-glow in color.
   (B)   Any person operating an all-terrain vehicle or a utility-type vehicle
as authorized by §
73.02 shall have:
      (1)   A valid Class O operator’s license or a farm permit as provided in
Neb. Rev. Stat. 60-4,126; and
      (2)   Liability insurance coverage for the all-terrain vehicle or a
utility-type vehicle while operating the all-terrain vehicle or a utility-type
vehicle on a street or highway. The person operating the all-terrain vehicle or
a utility-type vehicle shall provide proof of such insurance coverage to any
peace officer requesting such proof within five days of such a request.
   (C)   All-terrain vehicles and utility-type vehicles may be operated without
complying with divisions (A) and (B) above on streets and highways in parades
that have been authorized by the state or any department, board, commission, or
political subdivision of the state.
(Prior Code, § 74.03) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 73.04 GOLF CAR VEHICLE RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   (1)   A golf car vehicle may be operated on streets within the
corporate limits of the city if the operation is:
         (a)   Between sunrise and sunset; and
         (b)   On streets with a posted speed limit of 35 mph or less.
      (2)   When operating a golf car vehicle as authorized under this section,
the operator shall not operate such vehicle at a speed in excess of 20 mph. A
golf car vehicle shall not be operated at any time on any state or federal
highway but may be operated upon such highway in order to cross a portion of
the highway system that intersects a street as directed in division (C) below.
   (B)   (1)   Any person operating a golf car vehicle as authorized under this
section shall have a valid Class O operator’s license, and the owner of the
golf car vehicle shall have liability insurance coverage for the golf car
vehicle.
      (2)   The person operating the golf car vehicle shall provide proof of
such insurance coverage to any peace officer requesting such proof within five
days after such a request.
      (3)   The liability insurance coverage shall be subject to limits,
exclusive of interest and costs, as follows:
 
Coverage                                                             Amount
Bodily injury to or death of one person in any one accident and,     $25,000
subject to such limit for one person
Bodily injury to or death of two or more persons in any one accident $50,000
Injury to or destruction of property of others in any one accident   $25,000
 
   (C)   The crossing of a highway shall be permitted by a golf car vehicle
only if:
      (1)   The crossing is made at an angle of approximately 90 degrees to the
direction of the highway and at a place where no obstruction prevents a quick
and safe crossing;
      (2)   The golf car vehicle is brought to a complete stop before crossing
the shoulder or roadway of the highway;
      (3)   The operator yields the right-of-way to all oncoming traffic that
constitutes an immediate potential hazard; and
      (4)   In crossing a divided highway, the crossing is made only at an
intersection of such highway with a street or road, as applicable.
(Ord. 2015-9.3, passed 11-9-2015)
CHAPTER 74: TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
Schedule
      
I.   Speed limits
SCHEDULE I. SPEED LIMITS.
 
Street                           Location                           Speed Limit
                                 Between the east right-of-way line
Cottonwood Street                of Tyler Street and the east       30 mph
                                 corporate limits
                                 Between 260 feet south of the
                                 bridge over the unnamed tributary
State Highway 43 (Monroe Street) and Juniper Street and between     45 mph
                                 Apple Street and 840 feet north of
                                 Apple Street
State Highway 43 (Monroe Street) Between Apple Street and Juniper   35 mph
                                 Street
 
(Prior Code, Ch. 73 Sched. I) (Ord. 2001-4.1, passed 5-21-2001; Ord. 2022-3.1,
passed 3-14-2022) Penalty, see §
10.99
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   FIRE PREVENTION
      
91.   HEALTH AND SAFETY
      
92.   SIDEWALKS AND STREETS
      
93.   PARKS AND PUBLIC WAYS
      
94.   ANIMALS
CHAPTER 90: FIRE PREVENTION
Section
Fireworks
   
90.01   Definitions
   
90.02   Unlawful acts; enumerated
   
90.03   Sale and use of bottle rockets, sky rockets, and the like
   
90.04   Unlawful discharging, firing, launching, or throwing
   
90.05   When prohibition not applicable
   
90.06   Permissible sale and use; hours of sale; use restricted
   
90.07   Retail sale; license; fee
   
90.08   Location of stands
   
90.09   Banning; emergencies
   
90.10   Fees received; deposit
FIREWORKS
§ 90.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, certain words, phrases, and terms shall
be construed as defined in Neb. Rev. Stat. Ch. 28, as now existing or hereafter
amended or as defined below unless the context otherwise requires.
   FIREWORKS. Any combustible or explosive composition, or any substance or
combination of substances, or articles prepared for the purposes of producing a
visible or an audible effect by combustion, explosion, deflagration or
detonation.
   PERMISSIBLE FIREWORKS. Only those defined by Neb. Rev. Stat. 28-1241 or
successive statutes, but excepting therefrom those fireworks specifically
prohibited by this subchapter.
   RETAILER. Any person engaged in the business of making sales of fireworks at
retail.
   SALE. Includes barter, exchange, or gift, or offer therefor, and each
transaction made by any person, whether as principal, proprietor, agent,
servant, or employee.
   SKY LANTERN. A device that requires a flame that produces heated air trapped
in a balloon-type covering allowing the device to float in the air; except that
the term SKY LANTERN shall not include hot air balloons used for the
transportation of persons.
(Prior Code, § 90.01) (Ord. 2015-11.1, passed 11-9-2015)
§ 90.02 UNLAWFUL ACTS; ENUMERATED.
   Except as provided in §
90.05, it shall be unlawful for any person to possess, sell, offer for sale,
bring into the city, or discharge, explode, or use any pyrotechnics, commonly
known as fireworks, other than permissible fireworks, except that this section
shall not be construed to prohibit the transport of fireworks through the city.
(Prior Code, § 90.02) (Ord. 1998-2.1, passed 2-9-1998) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.03 SALE AND USE OF BOTTLE ROCKETS, SKY ROCKETS, AND THE LIKE.
   (A)   Fireworks commonly known as sky rockets, bottle rockets, or any other
form of fireworks consisting of a case containing a combustible composition
fastened to a guiding stick which is designed and manufactured to be projected
through the air by the reaction resulting from the rearward discharge of gases
liberated by combustion and fireworks commonly known as helicopters or any
other form of fireworks which launch in their entirety and leave no base shall
not be permissible fireworks within the city, notwithstanding any action by the
state’s Fire Marshal to the contrary, and it shall be unlawful for any person
to sell at retail, offer for sale at retail, discharge, explode, or use any of
the fireworks within the city.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to sell at retail, offer for sale
at retail, light, launch, release, or otherwise use a sky lantern within the
city, notwithstanding any action by the state’s Fire Marshal to the contrary.
(Prior Code, § 90.03) (Ord. 2015-11.1, passed 11-9-2015) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.04 UNLAWFUL DISCHARGING, FIRING, LAUNCHING, OR THROWING.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to discharge, fire, launch, or
throw any fireworks or any object which explodes upon contact with another
object:
      (1)   From or onto any motor vehicle;
      (2)   Onto any street, highway, or sidewalk;
      (3)   At or near any person;
      (4)   Into or upon any building;
      (5)   Into or at any group of persons; or
      (6)   Into or upon the premises of another person.
   (B)   For the purpose of this section, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      PERSON. Any natural person or any private or public firm, partnership, or
corporation.
   (C)   It shall further be unlawful for any person to discharge, fire,
launch, or throw any fireworks from, to, or on any property without the express
permission of the owner of the property.
(Prior Code, § 90.04) (Ord. 1998-2.1, passed 2-9-1998) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.05 WHEN PROHIBITION NOT APPLICABLE.
   The provisions of this subchapter shall not apply to:
   (A)   Any fireworks for purpose of public exhibition or displays purchased
from a distributor licensed under the state law or the holder of a display
license issued by the state’s Fire Marshal as provided by state law;
   (B)   Any public exhibition or display under the auspices of any
governmental subdivision of the state; or
   (C)   Toy cap pistols or toy caps, each of which does not contain more than
twenty-five hundredths of a gram of explosive material.
(Prior Code, § 90.05)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 28-1245
§ 90.06 PERMISSIBLE SALE AND USE; HOURS OF SALE; USE RESTRICTED.
   Permissible fireworks may be sold at retail, offered for sale at retail,
discharged, exploded, or used within the city only from June 28 through and
including July 4 of each year; provided, it shall be unlawful to discharge,
explode, or use permissible fireworks on the dates before 8:00 a.m. and after
10:00 p.m. except on July 4 when permissible fireworks may be lawfully sold,
discharged, exploded, or used between the hours of 8:00 a.m. and 12:00 p.m.
(Prior Code, § 90.06) (Ord. 1999-9.1, passed 9-15-1999; Ord. 2008-1.3, passed
3-10-2008) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.07 RETAIL SALE; LICENSE; FEE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to sell, hold for sale, or offer
for sale at retail, any permissible fireworks in the city unless the person has
first obtained a license from the city as a retailer.
   (B)   No person or organization may receive more than one license during any
one calendar year. Each license granted shall be for one specific location
identified by an address or suitable area description on the application.
Licenses shall be considered personal to the applicant and may not be assigned
in any manner.
   (C)   (1)   Application. Application for a license required under the
provisions of this section shall be made in the office of the City Clerk/
Treasurer only between January 1 and April 1 of each year. At the time of the
application, an applicant shall furnish to the city a list of all persons who
will be employed by the applicant and who, at any given time, will be in charge
of the place of sale. All persons designated as “in charge” shall be residents
of the city. It shall be incumbent upon the applicant to keep this list current
so that the names of the employees having management responsibilities will
always be on file in the office of the City Clerk/Treasurer.
      (2)   Fees. Each application for a license required by this section shall
be accompanied by the following appropriate non-refundable license fee;
retailer’s license shall be $500, or an amount set by separate ordinance.
      (3)   Consent form; bond required. Before the issuance of any retailer’s
fireworks license, the applicant shall execute a consent form agreeing to abide
by any regulations imposed by the city pertaining to the sale of fireworks and
shall furnish to the city a cash bond in the amount of $500; conditioned that
the licensee shall abide by any and all regulations proposed by the city
pertaining to the sale of fireworks, and that the licensee shall clean the area
in and around any stand where fireworks were sold and remove any portable stand
from its temporary location, the work to be done by July 7 of each succeeding
year.
      (4)   Consent form; bond; forfeiture. Cash bonds, as provided in division
(C)(3) above shall be returned to the licensee when the city’s maintenance
person shall have certified that the conditions of the bond have been
satisfied. In the event any portable stand is not removed from its temporary
location within the allotted time, or the sale area is not cleaned and the
debris and trash not removed therefrom, then the cash bond shall be forfeited
and the proceeds used by the city to clean the area and remove the stand.
      (5)   Retailer’s place of business. A retailer’s license issued under the
provisions of this section shall be conditioned upon the licensee providing an
acceptable fireworks stand or place of business.
      (6)   Inspection required. The license may be obtained at the office of
the City Clerk/Treasurer only after an inspection by the City Clerk/Treasurer
or the city’s maintenance person of the fireworks stand or place of sale to
determine if the stand or place of sale conforms to all city standards,
building codes, and land use regulations.
      (7)   Duty of licensee. The applicant for a license required by the
provisions of this section shall request the city to make the inspection not
later than June 26 of each calendar year, and the inspection shall be made by
the city within 24 hours after the request. In the event of any violation, the
license may not be picked up from the City Clerk/Treasurer until the violation
is corrected.
      (8)   Display. Licenses issued under the provisions of this section shall
be displayed at all times at the place of business of the licensee.
      (9)   Duration. Licenses issued under the provisions of this section
shall be valid only for the calendar year in which issued.
      (10)   Violations. Any person or any licensee who violates any of the
provisions of this section shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and, in
addition to any fine, any person who is licensed shall be subject to the
revocation of the license. Upon complaint being filed with the City Clerk/
Treasurer, the City Clerk/Treasurer shall notify the licensee in writing and
shall order a hearing before the City Council to show cause why the license
should not be revoked. The hearing shall be not less than three days after the
filing of the complaint. The City Council shall conduct a special hearing for
purposes of determining whether the license shall be revoked. The licensee
shall appear in person or by his or her attorney and upon revocation no refund
of any portion of the license fee shall be made to the licensee and he or she
shall immediately close all business at all places under the license.
(Prior Code, § 90.07) (Ord. 2000-9.1, passed 9-13-2000; Ord. 2008-6.3, passed
6-9-2008) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.08 LOCATION OF STANDS.
   (A)   Generally. In addition to all other requirements and regulations of
the city, all fireworks stands, booths or other places of sale of fireworks
shall be located and set back at least 25 feet from the nearest right-of-way
line of any public right-of-way, and be separated from any permanent building
structure by a minimum of 15 feet. Fireworks shall be sold from within a
temporary building structure, utilizing a booth or stand allowing for walkup
sales; a temporary building structure which allows patrons to enter the
structure; or a tent. No structure or tent used for the sale of fireworks shall
exceed a maximum floor space of 1,250 square feet. In addition, structures or
tents used for the sale of fireworks must have a minimum of three entryways
which shall be a minimum of three feet across and be as remote from the other
entryways as is practicable given the size and design of the structure or tent.
Tents used for the sale of fireworks shall be flame retardant and a retailer
using them shall keep proof at the sales location that the tent is flame
retardant. Each applicant shall provide a plat plan showing location of the
stand, address, setback from street right-of-way, distance to nearest building
or structure, and occupancy of newest building.
   (B)   Proximity to certain businesses. Stands and areas where fireworks are
to be sold shall be located at least 75 feet from any gasoline service station
or automotive repair shop using flammable materials. The distance shall be
measured from the closest point where fireworks are sold or stored, to the
closest point where gasoline or combustible material is dispensed or stored
above ground.
   (C)   Fire extinguisher. A minimum ten-pound Class A fire extinguisher must
be kept in each fireworks stand at all times.
   (D)   Compliance with state laws. In addition to all requirements and
regulations of the city, all sellers of fireworks shall comply with all laws,
regulations, and rules of the state dealing with the sale and distribution of
fireworks.
(Prior Code, § 90.08) (Ord. 2020-5.1, passed 5-11-2020) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.09 BANNING; EMERGENCIES.
   The City Council may prohibit the sale of all fireworks at any time during
which the state’s Fire Marshal has declared a fire emergency by virtue of
drought conditions or at any time during which the Lancaster County Sheriff’s
Office deems the banning to be necessary to preserve the life, safety, and
welfare of the population.
(Prior Code, § 90.09)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 17-556
§ 90.10 FEES RECEIVED; DEPOSIT.
   The funds received under the provisions hereof shall be deposited in the
General Fund of the municipality.
(Prior Code, § 90.10) (Ord. 1998-2.1, passed 2-9-1998)
CHAPTER 91: HEALTH AND SAFETY
Section
General Provisions
   
91.01   Health regulations
   
91.02   Enforcement Official
   
91.03   County Health Board
Nuisances
   
91.15   Definition
   
91.16   Abatement procedure
   
91.17   Jurisdiction
   
91.18   Adjoining land owners; intervention before trial
   
91.19   Dead or diseased trees
   
91.20   Weeds; litter; stagnant water
   
91.21   Garbage and refuse
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 91.01 HEALTH REGULATIONS.
   For the purpose of promoting the health and safety of the residents of the
municipality, the Board of Health shall, from time to time, adopt the rules and
regulations relative thereto and shall make the inspections, prescribe the
penalties, and make the reports as may be necessary toward that purpose.
(Prior Code, § 91.01)
Statutory reference:
   Authority to regulate, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 17-208
§ 91.02 ENFORCEMENT OFFICIAL.
   (A)   The Board of Health shall be responsible for enforcing the health
regulations of the city.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of the Board of Health to notify the City Council
of health nuisances within the municipality and its zoning jurisdiction.
(Prior Code, § 91.02)
Statutory reference:
   Quarantine Officer, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 17-208
§ 91.03 COUNTY HEALTH BOARD.
   It shall be the duty of the Board of Health to work closely with the County
Health Board in protecting the health and welfare of the residents of the
municipality.
(Prior Code, § 91.03)
NUISANCES
§ 91.15 DEFINITION.
   (A)   A NUISANCE consists in doing any unlawful act, or omitting to perform
a duty, or suffering or permitting any condition or thing to be or exist, which
act, omission, condition or thing either:
      (1)   Injures or endangers the comfort, repose, health, or safety of
others;
      (2)   Offends decency;
      (3)   Is offensive to the senses;
      (4)   Unlawfully interferes with, obstructs, tends to obstruct, or
renders dangerous for passage any stream, public park, parkway, square, street,
or highway in the municipality;
      (5)   In any way renders other persons insecure in life or the use of
property; or
      (6)   Essentially interferes with the comfortable enjoyment of life and
property, or tends to depreciate the value of the property of others.
   (B)   The maintaining, using, placing, depositing, leaving, or permitting of
any of the following specific acts, omissions, places, conditions, and things
are hereby declared to be NUISANCES:
      (1)   Any odorous, putrid, unsound, or unwholesome grain, meat, hides,
skins, feathers, vegetable matter, or the whole or any part of any dead animal;
fish, or fowl;
      (2)   Privies, vaults, cesspools, dumps, pits, or like places which are
not securely protected from flies or rats, or which are foul or malodorous;
      (3)   Filthy, cluttered, or trash-covered cellars, houseyards, barnyards,
stable-yards, factory-yards, mill yards, vacant areas in rear of stores,
granaries, vacant lots, houses, buildings, or premises;
      (4)   Animal manure in any quantity which is not securely protected from
flies and the elements, or which is kept or handled in violation of any
ordinance of the municipality;
      (5)   Liquid household waste, human excreta, garbage, butcher’s trimmings
and offal, parts of fish, or any waste vegetable or animal matter in any
quantity, provided that nothing herein contained shall prevent the temporary
retention of waste in receptacles in a manner provided by the health officer of
the municipality, nor the dumping of nonputrefying waste in a place and manner
approved by the health officer;
      (6)   Tin cans, bottles, glass, cans, ashes, small pieces of scrap iron,
wire metal articles, bric-a-brac, broken stone or cement, broken crockery,
broken glass, broken plaster, and all trash or abandoned material, unless the
same be kept in covered bins or galvanized iron receptacles;
      (7)   Trash, litter, rags, accumulations of barrels, boxes, crates,
packing crates, mattresses, bedding, excelsior, packing hay, straw or other
packing material, lumber not neatly piled, scrap iron, tin or other metal not
neatly piled, old automobiles or parts thereof, or any other waste materials
when any of the articles or materials create a condition in which flies or rats
may breed or multiply, or which may be a fire danger or which are so unsightly
as to depreciate property values in the vicinity thereof;
      (8)   Any unsightly building, billboard, or other structure, or any old,
abandoned, or partially destroyed building or structure or any building or
structure commenced and left unfinished, which buildings, billboards, or other
structures are either a fire hazard, a menace to the public health or safety,
or are so unsightly as to depreciate the value of property in the vicinity
thereof;
      (9)   All places used or maintained as junk yards, or dumping grounds, or
for the wrecking and dissembling of automobiles, trucks, tractors, or machinery
of any kind, or for the storing or leaving of worn-out, wrecked, or abandoned
automobiles, trucks, tractors, or machinery of any kind, or of any of the parts
thereof, or for the storing or leaving of any machinery or equipment used by
contractors or builders or by other persons, which places are kept or
maintained so as to essentially interfere with the comfortable enjoyment of
life or property by others, or which are so unsightly as to tend to depreciate
property values in the vicinity thereof;
      (10)   Stagnant water permitted or maintained on any lot or piece of
ground;
      (11)   Stockyards, granaries, mills, pig pens, cattle pens, chicken pens,
or any other place, building, or enclosure, in which animals or fowls of any
kind are confined or on which are stored tankage or any other animal or
vegetable matter, or on which any animal or vegetable matter including grain is
being processed, when the places in which the animals are confined, or the
premises on which the vegetable or animal matter is located are maintained and
kept in a manner that foul and noxious odors are permitted to emanate therefrom
to the annoyance of inhabitants of the municipality or are maintained and kept
in a manner as to be injurious to the public health; or
      (12)   All other things specifically designated as nuisances elsewhere in
this code.
(Prior Code, § 91.20) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority to regulate and abate nuisances, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 18-1720
§ 91.16 ABATEMENT PROCEDURE.
   (A)   (1)   It shall be the duty of every owner or occupant of real estate
in the municipality to keep the real estate free of public nuisances.
      (2)   (a)   Upon determination by the Board of Health that the owner or
occupant has failed to keep the real estate free of public nuisances, notice to
abate and remove the nuisance and notice of the right to a hearing before the
City Council and the manner in which it may be requested shall be given to the
owner or occupant, or the owner’s or occupant’s duly authorized agent, by
personal service or certified mail.
         (b)   The notice shall describe the condition as found by the Board of
Health and state that the condition has been declared a public nuisance and
that the condition must be remedied at once.
         (c)   Within ten days after the receipt of the notice, if the owner or
occupant of the real estate does not request a hearing or fails to comply with
the order to abate and remove the nuisance, the municipality shall have the
work done and may levy and assess the costs and expenses of the work upon the
real estate so benefitted in the same manner as other special taxes for
improvements are levied and assessed.
   (B)   (1)   If the owner or occupant requests in writing a hearing with the
City Council, the City Council shall fix a time and place at which a hearing
will be held.
      (2)   Notice of the hearing shall be given by personal service or
certified mail and require the owner or occupant to appear before the City
Council to show cause why the condition should not be found to be a public
nuisance and remedied.
      (3)   The notice shall be given not less than seven nor more than 14 days
before the time of the hearing.
      (4)   Upon the date fixed for the hearing and pursuant to the notice, the
City Council shall hear all objections made by the owner or occupant and shall
hear evidence submitted by the Board of Health.
      (5)   If after consideration of all the evidence the City Council finds
that the condition is a public nuisance, it shall, by resolution, order and
direct the owner or occupant to remedy the public nuisance at once.
      (6)   If the owner or occupant refuses or neglects to promptly comply
with the order of the City Council, the City Council shall proceed to cause the
abatement of the described public nuisance and may levy and assess the costs
and expenses of the work upon the real estate so benefitted in the same manner
as other special taxes for improvements are levied and assessed.
(Prior Code, § 91.21) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority to regulate and abate nuisances, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 18-1720
§ 91.17 JURISDICTION.
   (A)   The Board of Health is directed to enforce this municipal code against
all nuisances.
   (B)   The jurisdiction of the Board of Health and the municipality shall
extend to, and the territorial application of this chapter shall include, all
territory adjacent to the limits of the municipality within one mile thereof
and all territory within the corporate limits.
(Prior Code, § 91.22)
Statutory reference:
   Authority to regulate and abate nuisances, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 18-1720
   Zoning jurisdiction, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 17-1001
§ 91.18 ADJOINING LAND OWNERS; INTERVENTION BEFORE TRIAL.
   In cases of appeal from an action of the City Council condemning real
property as a nuisance or as dangerous under the police powers of the
municipality, the owners of the adjoining property may intervene in the action
at any time before trial.
(Prior Code, § 91.23)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 19-710
§ 91.19 DEAD OR DISEASED TREES.
   (A)   It is hereby declared a nuisance for a property owner to permit,
allow, or maintain any dead or diseased trees within the right-of-way of
streets within the corporate limits of the city or within its extraterritorial
zoning jurisdiction. Notice to abate and remove such nuisance and notice of the
right to a hearing and the manner in which it may be requested shall be given
to each owner or owner’s duly authorized agent and to the occupant, if any. The
city shall establish the method of notice by ordinance. If notice is given by
first-class mail, such mail shall be conspicuously marked as to its importance.
Within five days after receipt of such notice, the owner or occupant of the lot
or piece of ground may request a hearing with the city to appeal the decision
to abate or remove the nuisance by filing a written appeal with the office of
the City Clerk. A hearing on the appeal shall be held within 14 days after the
filing of the appeal and shall be conducted by an elected or appointed officer
as designated in the ordinance. The hearing officer shall render a decision on
the appeal within five business days after the conclusion of the hearing. If
the appeal fails, the city may have the work done to abate and remove the dead
or diseased trees. If the owner or occupant of the lot or piece of ground does
not request a hearing with the city within five days after receipt of such
notice or fails to comply with the order to abate and remove the nuisance, the
city may have such work done. The city may levy and assess all or any portion
of the costs and expenses of the work upon the lot or piece of ground so
benefitted as a special assessment.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. 17-555)
   (B)   It is hereby declared a nuisance for a property owner to permit,
allow, or maintain any dead or diseased trees on private property within the
corporate limits of the city or within its extraterritorial zoning
jurisdiction. The provisions in division (A)(2) above shall apply to such
nuisances. For the purpose of carrying out the provisions of this section, the
city police shall have the authority to enter upon private property to inspect
the trees thereon.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 91.20 WEEDS; LITTER; STAGNANT WATER.
   (A)   Lots or pieces of ground within the city or within its
extraterritorial zoning jurisdiction shall be drained or filled so as to
prevent stagnant water or any other nuisance accumulating thereon.
   (B)   The owner or occupant of any lot or piece of ground within the city or
within its extraterritorial zoning jurisdiction shall keep the lot or piece of
ground and the adjoining streets and alleys free of any growth of six inches or
more in height of weeds, grasses, or worthless vegetation.
   (C)   The throwing, depositing, or accumulation of litter on any lot or
piece of ground within the city or within its extraterritorial zoning
jurisdiction is prohibited.
   (D)   It is hereby declared to be a nuisance to permit or maintain any
growth of six inches or more in height of weeds, grasses, or worthless
vegetation on any lot or piece of ground within the city or within its
extraterritorial zoning jurisdiction or on the adjoining streets or alleys or
to litter or cause litter to be deposited or remain thereon except in proper
receptacles.
   (E)   Any owner or occupant of a lot or piece of ground shall, upon
conviction of violating this section, be guilty of an offense.
   (F)   (1)   Notice to abate and remove such nuisance shall be given to each
owner or owner’s duly authorized agent and to the occupant, if any. The city
shall establish the method of notice by ordinance. If notice is given by first-
class mail, such mail shall be conspicuously marked as to its importance.
Within five days after receipt of such notice, the owner or occupant of the lot
or piece of ground may request a hearing with the city to appeal the decision
to abate or remove a nuisance by filing a written appeal with the office of the
City Clerk. A hearing on the appeal shall be held within 14 days after the
filing of the appeal and shall be conducted by an elected or appointed officer
as designated in the ordinance. The hearing officer shall render a decision on
the appeal within five business days after the conclusion of the hearing. If
the appeal fails, the city may have such work done. Within five days after
receipt of such notice, if the owner or occupant of the lot or piece of ground
does not request a hearing with the city or fails to comply with the order to
abate and remove the nuisance, the city may have such work done.
      (2)   The costs and expenses of any such work shall be paid by the owner.
If unpaid for two months after such work is done, the city may either:
         (a)   Levy and assess the costs and expenses of the work upon the lot
or piece of ground so benefitted as a special assessment in the same manner as
other special assessments for improvements are levied and assessed; or
         (b)   Recover in a civil action the costs and expenses of the work
upon the lot or piece of ground and the adjoining streets and alleys.
   (G)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      LITTER. Includes but is not limited to:
         (a)   Trash, rubbish, refuse, garbage, paper, rags, and ashes;
         (b)   Wood, plaster, cement, brick, or stone building rubble;
         (c)   Grass, leaves, and worthless vegetation except when used as
ground mulch or in a compost pile;
         (d)   Offal and dead animals; and
         (e)   Any machine or machines, vehicle or vehicles, or parts of a
machine or vehicle which have lost their identity, character, utility, or
serviceability as such through deterioration, dismantling, or the ravages of
time, are inoperative or unable to perform their intended functions, or are
cast off, discarded, or thrown away or left as waste, wreckage, or junk.
      WEEDS. Include, but are not limited to: bindweed (Convolvulus arvensis),
puncture vine (Tribulus terrestris), leafy spurge (Euphorbia esula), Canada
thistle (Cirsium arvense), perennial peppergrass (Lepidium draba), Russian
knapweed (Centaurea picris), Johnson grass (Sorghum halepense), nodding or musk
thistle, quack grass (Agropyron repens), perennial sow thistle (Sonchus
arvensis), horse nettle (Solanum carolinense), bull thistle (Cirsium
lanceolatum), buckthorn (Rhamnus sp.) (tourn), hemp plant (Cannabis sativa),
and ragweed (Ambrosiaceae).
(Neb. Rev. Stat. 17-563) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 91.21 GARBAGE AND REFUSE.
   (A)   The owner, duly authorized agent, or tenant of any lot or land within
the corporate limits or extraterritorial zoning jurisdiction of the city shall
remove garbage or refuse found upon the lot, land, streets, roads, or alleys
abutting the lot or land which constitutes a public nuisance.
   (B)   Notice that removal of garbage or refuse is necessary shall be given
to each owner or owner’s duly authorized agent and to the tenant if any. The
notice shall be provided by personal service or by certified mail. After
providing the notice, the city shall, in addition to other proper remedies,
remove the garbage or refuse, or cause it to be removed, from the lot, land,
streets, roads, or alleys.
   (C)   If the Mayor declares that the accumulation of garbage or refuse upon
any lot or land constitutes an immediate nuisance and hazard to public health
and safety, the city shall remove the garbage or refuse, or cause it to be
removed, from the lot or land within 48 hours after notice by personal service
or following receipt of a certified letter in accordance with division (B)
above if the garbage or refuse has not been removed.
   (D)   Whenever the city removes any garbage or refuse, or causes it to be
removed, from any lot or land pursuant to this section, it shall, after a
hearing conducted by the City Council, assess the cost of the removal against
the lot or land.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. 18-1752)
CHAPTER 92: SIDEWALKS AND STREETS
Section
Sidewalks
   
92.01   Kept clean
   
92.02   Maintenance
   
92.03   Repair
   
92.04   Construction at owner’s initiative
   
92.05   Construction at municipal direction
Streets
   
92.20   Addresses
   
92.21   Cutting into paving, curb, or sidewalk
   
92.22   Excavation
   
92.23   Driving stakes
   
92.24   Mixing concrete
   
92.25   Harmful liquids
   
92.26   Heavy equipment; special tires
SIDEWALKS
§ 92.01 KEPT CLEAN.
   It shall be unlawful for the occupant of any lot or lots or the owner of any
vacant lot or lots within the corporate limits to allow snow, sleet, mud, ice,
or other substance to accumulate on the sidewalks or to permit any snow, sleet,
ice, mud, or other substance to remain upon the sidewalk. All sidewalks within
the Business District shall be cleaned within five hours after the cessation of
a storm, unless the storm or fall of snow shall have taken place during the
night, in which case the sidewalk shall be cleaned before 9:00 a.m. the
following day, provided that sidewalks within the residential areas of the
municipality shall be cleaned within 24 hours after the cessation of the storm.
(Prior Code, § 92.25) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority to regulate, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 17-557
§ 92.02 MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   Every owner of any lot, lots, or piece of land within the corporate
limits shall at all times keep and maintain the sidewalk along and contiguous
to the lot, lots, or pieces of land, as the case may be, in good and proper
repair, and in a condition reasonably safe for travel for all travelers
thereon.
   (B)   In the event that the owner or owners of any lot, lots, or lands,
abutting on any street, avenue, or part thereof shall fail to construct or
repair any sidewalk in front of his, her, or their lot, lots, or lands, within
the time and in the manner as directed and required herein after having
received due notice to do so, they shall be liable for all damages or injury
occasioned by reason of the defective or dangerous condition of any sidewalk,
and the City Council shall have power to cause any sidewalks to be constructed
or repaired and assess the costs thereof against the property.
   (C)   In the event the property owner is a non-resident of the county in
which the property lies, the municipality shall, before levying any special
assessment against that property, send a copy of any notice required by law to
be published by means of certified mail, return receipt requested to the last
known address of the non-resident property owner.
   (D)   The last known address shall be that address listed on the current tax
rolls at the time the required notice was first published.
(Prior Code, § 92.26) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.03 REPAIR.
   (A)   The municipal official in charge of sidewalks may require sidewalks of
the municipality to be repaired.
   (B)   Notice to the owners of property upon which the sidewalks in disrepair
are located shall require within 48 hours from issuance of notice the owners to
make arrangements to have the sidewalk repaired.
   (C)   The repairs shall be completed within 21 days after issuance of the
notice.
   (D)   No special assessment shall be levied against the property unless the
owner neglects or refuses to repair within the time prescribed, and in the
event that the owner fails to repair, the municipality shall cause the repairs
to be made and assess the property owner the expense of the repairs.
   (E)   In the event the property owner is a non-resident of the county in
which the property lies, the municipality shall, before levying any special
assessment against that property, send a copy of any notice required by law to
be published by means of certified mail, return receipt requested to the last
known address of the non-resident property owner.
   (F)   The last known address shall be the address listed on the current tax
rolls at the time the required notice was first published.
(Prior Code, § 92.27)
§ 92.04 CONSTRUCTION AT OWNER’S INITIATIVE.
   (A)   Any person desiring to construct, or cause to be constructed, any
sidewalk shall do so only as herein provided. It shall be unlawful for any
person to construct any sidewalk without first having obtained a permit.
   (B)   The owner shall make application in writing for a permit and file the
application in the office of the City Clerk/Treasurer. The permit shall give a
description of the lot or piece of land along which the sidewalk is to be
constructed. The official in charge of sidewalks shall issue the desired permit
unless good cause shall appear why the permit should be denied, provided that
if it is desired to construct the sidewalk at any other than the regularly
prescribed location, grade, or elevation, the municipal official in charge of
sidewalks shall submit the application to the City Council who shall determine
whether the permit should be granted or denied. It shall be unlawful for any
person to construct, or cause to be constructed the sidewalk at any other
location, grade, or elevation than so designated by the municipality. All
sidewalks shall be built and constructed on the established grade or elevation,
and if there is no established grade, then on the grade or elevation indicated
by the municipal official in charge of sidewalks.
(Prior Code, § 92.28) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.05 CONSTRUCTION AT MUNICIPAL DIRECTION.
   (A)   The City Council may, by resolution, order the construction of a
sidewalk on any lot or piece of ground within the municipality. Notice of the
City Council’s intention to construct the sidewalk shall be given by the City
Clerk/Treasurer by publication of notice one time in a legal newspaper of
general circulation in the municipality.
   (B)   A copy of the notice shall be personally served upon the occupant in
possession of the property, or, when personal service is not possible, the
notice shall be posted upon the premises ten days prior to the commencement of
construction. The notice required in this section shall be prepared by the
Municipal Attorney in accordance with the provisions of this section. The
service shall include a form of return evidencing personal service or posting
as herein required.
   (C)   (1)   The notice shall notify the owner of the premises of the passage
of the resolution ordering the owner to construct or cause to be constructed a
sidewalk within 30 days after the date of publication, and further that if the
owner fails to construct the sidewalk or cause the same to be done within the
time allowed, the municipality will cause the sidewalk to be constructed, and
the cost thereof shall be levied and assessed as a special tax against the
premises, provided that the notice shall contain the official estimate of the
cost of construction, and no special assessment in excess of this estimate
shall be assessed against the property.
      (2)   In the event the property owner is a non-resident of the county in
which the property lies, the municipality shall, before levying any special
assessment against that property, send a copy of any notice required by law to
be published by means of certified mail, return receipt requested to the last
known address of the non-resident property owner.
      (3)   The last known address shall be that address listed on the current
tax rolls at the time the required notice was first published.
(Prior Code, § 92.29)
Statutory reference:
   Authority to construct and repair, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 17-522 through 17-524
   Authority to construct or otherwise improve through Sidewalk District, see
Neb. Rev. Stat. 19-2417 through 19-2419
STREETS
§ 92.20 ADDRESSES.
   (A)   The City Council may at any time, by ordinance, rename any street or
provide a name for any new street.
   (B)   Buildings used for residence or business purposes and located along
the streets shall retain the numbers as the City Council may require. It shall
be the duty of the municipal official in charge of streets, upon the erection
of any new building or buildings, to assign the proper numbers to the building
or buildings and give notice to the owner or owners and occupant or occupants
of the same.
   (C)   As Lincoln's GIS Project Manager has the capability, knowledge, and
software to create a database of all public and private street addresses for
all residential and commercial properties in the county; having all street
addresses in the city listed on a database will improve law enforcement and
fire protection for the citizens of the city when NextGen911 services become
available; and the city desires to have Lincoln include all of its addresses in
the database to be created by Lincoln, the city has entered into an interlocal
agreement with the City of Lincoln, which has been adopted in full by reference
and a copy of which is on file in the office of the City Clerk/Treasurer.
(Prior Code, § 92.45) (Ord. passed 9-12-2022) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority to improve, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 17-509
§ 92.21 CUTTING INTO PAVING, CURB, OR SIDEWALK.
   (A)   (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to cut into any paving,
curb, or sidewalk for the purpose of constructing a driveway or any other
purpose whatsoever without first having obtained a written permit therefor from
the city.
      (2)   The application for a permit shall be filed with the City Clerk/
Treasurer, in writing, on forms approved by the City Clerk/Treasurer, showing
the place where the cutting is to be done, and it shall be the Utilities
Superintendent’s duty to inspect the place of entry into the paving, sidewalk,
or curb, before the same is cut.
      (3)   Before any permit is issued by the City Clerk/Treasurer, the
applicant shall deposit with the City Clerk/Treasurer a sum as may be set by
resolution of the City Council for all paving, curb, or sidewalk to be cut.
      (4)   The sum shall be set on a per linear foot cost of construction for
curb cuts and a per square foot cost of construction for paving and sidewalk
cuts.
      (5)   The deposit shall be retained by the city until the work is
completed to the satisfaction of the Utilities Superintendent, and if not
satisfactorily completed with a reasonable time, the city may proceed to
complete the work itself and retain the deposit for the purpose of defraying
the cost of the work.
   (B)   (1)   When cutting into any paving, it shall be the duty of the party
to cut the paving under the rules and regulations as may be prescribed by the
City Engineer.
      (2)   When the applicant has completed the opening made, the applicant
shall inform the Utilities Superintendent, who shall supervise and inspect the
materials used and the work done.
   (C)   (1)   Notwithstanding the above, it shall be discretionary with the
city to order the Utilities Superintendent to perform the work of cutting the
paving and charge the cost thereof to the permittee.
      (2)   In the event that the city elects to have the work performed by the
Utilities Superintendent, the required deposit shall be retained by the city
for the purpose of replacing the paving, curb, or sidewalk.
   (D)   No curb cut shall exceed 20 feet in width unless a greater width is
specially approved by resolution of the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 92.46) (Ord. 2001-6.1, passed 6-11-2001) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 17-567
§ 92.22 EXCAVATION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to make an excavation in any street or
streets for any purpose whatsoever unless a written permit is issued by the
Utilities Superintendent authorizing the excavations.
(Prior Code, § 92.47) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 17-557
§ 92.23 DRIVING STAKES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to drive any peg or stake of any kind
into the pavement in any street or alley without first procuring the written
consent of the Utilities Superintendent.
(Prior Code, § 92.48) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 17-557
§ 92.24 MIXING CONCRETE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to mix any concrete or plastering
material directly on the street pavement for any reason whatsoever.
(Prior Code, § 92.49) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 17-557
§ 92.25 HARMFUL LIQUIDS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to place or permit to leak in the gutter
of any street any waste gasoline, kerosene, or high lubricating oils, which
damage or act as a solvent upon the streets.
(Prior Code, § 92.50) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 17-557
§ 92.26 HEAVY EQUIPMENT; SPECIAL TIRES.
   (A)   It shall hereafter be unlawful for any person or persons to move or
operate heavy equipment across any curb, gutter, bridge, culvert, sidewalk,
crosswalk, or crossing on any unpaved street without first having protected the
curb, gutter, bridge, culvert, sidewalks, crosswalk, or crossing with heavy
plank sufficient in strength to warrant against the breaking or damaging of the
curb, gutter, bridge, culvert, sidewalk, crosswalk, or crossing.
   (B)   Hereafter, it shall be unlawful to run, drive, move, operate, or
convey over or across any paved street a vehicle, machine, or implement with
sharp discs or sharp wheels that bear upon the pavement, with wheels having
cutting edges, with wheels having lugs, any protruding parts, or bolts thereon
that extend beyond a plain tire so as to cut, mark, mar, indent, or otherwise
injure or damage any pavement, gutter, or curb, provided that, where heavy
vehicles, structures, and machines move along paved or unpaved streets, the
County Sheriff is hereby authorized and empowered to choose the route over
which the moving of the vehicles, structures, or machines will be permitted and
allowed.
   (C)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to apply to pneumatic tires
with metal or metal-type studs not exceeding five-sixteenths of an inch in
diameter inclusive of the stud-casting with an average protrusion beyond the
tread surface of not more than seven-sixty-fourths of an inch between November
1 and March 15; provided that school buses and emergency vehicles shall be
permitted to use metal or metal-type studs all year; it shall be permissible to
use farm machinery with tires having protuberances which will not injure the
streets.
   (D)   It shall be permissible to use a rubber-tired crane with a fixed load
when the vehicle will be transported on a state highway or on any road within
the corporate limits of the municipality, the municipality in which the crane
is intended to be transported has authorized a one-day permit for the
transportation of the crane and specified the route to be used and the hours
during which the crane can be transported, the vehicle is escorted by another
vehicle or vehicles assigned by the municipality, and the vehicle’s gross
weight does not exceed the limits set out in Neb. Rev. Stat. 60-6,294(3), and
it shall be permissible to use tire chains of reasonable proportions upon any
vehicle when required for safety because of snow, ice, or other condition
tending to cause a vehicle to slide or skid.
(Prior Code, § 92.51) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Rubber-tired cranes, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 60-6,288(2)(j)
   Tire requirements, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 60-6,250
CHAPTER 93: PARKS AND PUBLIC WAYS
Section
Parks
   
93.01   Operation and funding
   
93.02   Injury to property
   
93.03   Vehicles in parks
Municipal Property
   
93.15   Definition
   
93.16   Maintenance and control
   
93.17   Obstructions
   
93.18   Overhanging branches
   
93.19   Sale and conveyance of real property
   
93.20   Sale and conveyance of personal property
   
93.21   Acquisition of real property
   
93.22   Public works involving architecture or engineering; requirements
   
93.23   Trees
PARKS
§ 93.01 OPERATION AND FUNDING.
   (A)   (1)   The municipality owns municipal parks and other recreational
areas and causes the same to be operated and maintained by the Utilities
Superintendent.
      (2)   The City Council, for the purpose of defraying the cost of the
care, management, and maintenance of such municipal parks and recreational
areas may each year levy a tax not exceeding the maximum limit prescribed by
state law on the taxable value of all taxable property within the corporate
limits.
      (3)   The revenue from the tax shall be known as the Park Fund and shall
remain in the custody of the City Clerk/Treasurer.
   (B)   The City Council shall have the authority to adopt rules and
regulations for the efficient management of the municipal parks and other
recreational areas of the municipality.
(Prior Code, § 94.01)
Statutory reference:
   Levy limits, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 77-3442
   Recreation centers and areas generally, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 17-948 through
17-952
§ 93.02 INJURY TO PROPERTY.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person maliciously or willfully to cut
down, injure, or destroy any tree, plant, or shrub in any park.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to injure or destroy any sodded or
planted area or injure or destroy any building, structure, equipment, fence,
bench, table, or any other property of the municipal parks and recreational
areas. No person shall commit any waste on or litter the municipal parks or
other public grounds.
(Prior Code, § 94.02) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Littering of public and private property, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 28-523
§ 93.03 VEHICLES IN PARKS.
   Except for personnel assigned to work in a park and individuals with
mobility disabilities utilizing wheelchairs or other power-driven mobility
devices, it shall be unlawful for any person to operate any motorized vehicle
in or through any park owned or operated by the city except on a street or
other roadway specifically designated for use by motor vehicles.
(Ord. 2017-10.2, passed 10-16-2017) Penalty, see §
10.99
MUNICIPAL PROPERTY
§ 93.15 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   SIDEWALK SPACE. The portion of a street between curb lines and adjacent
property lines.
(Prior Code, § 92.01)
§ 93.16 MAINTENANCE AND CONTROL.
   The City Council shall have the care, supervision, and control of all public
highways, bridges, streets, alleys, public squares, and commons within the
municipality and shall cause the same to be kept open and in repair and free
from nuisances.
(Prior Code, § 92.02)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 17-567(1)
§ 93.17 OBSTRUCTIONS.
   (A)   Trees and shrubs growing upon or near the lot line, or upon public
ground, and interfering with the use or construction of any public improvements
shall be deemed an obstruction under this chapter.
   (B)   The trees and shrubs and their roots may be removed by the
municipality at the expense of the owner of the property upon which the tree is
located should the owner fail, or neglect, after notice, to do so.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person, persons, firm, or corporation to
obstruct, or encumber, by fences, gates, buildings, structures, or otherwise,
any of the streets, alleys, or sidewalks.
(Prior Code, § 92.03) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority to regulate and abate obstructions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 17-557 and
17-557.01
   Authority to remove obstructions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 17-555
§ 93.18 OVERHANGING BRANCHES.
   (A)   The owner or occupant of any lot, piece, or parcel of ground abutting
or adjacent to any street or sidewalk over which there extends the branches of
trees shall at all times keep the branches or limbs thereof trimmed to the
height of at least eight feet above the surface of the walk and at least 14
feet above the surface of the street.
   (B)   Whenever the limbs or branches of any tree or trees extend over
streets or sidewalks contrary to the provisions herein so as to interfere with
the lighting of the street from street lights or with the convenience of the
public using the street or sidewalk, the City Council at any regular or special
meeting may pass a resolution ordering the owner or occupant to cut or remove
the obstructions within five days after having received a copy thereof from the
Utilities Superintendent stating that the municipality will remove the branches
and charge the costs thereof to the owner or occupant as a special assessment
for improvements as herein provided, if the resolution is not complied with.
   (C)   In the event the property owner is a non-resident of the county in
which the property lies, the municipality shall, before levying any special
assessment against that property, send a copy of any notice required by law to
be published by means of certified mail, return receipt requested to the last
known address of the non-resident property owner.
   (D)   The last known address shall be that address listed on the current tax
rolls at the time the required notice was first published.
(Prior Code, § 92.04) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority to regulate, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 17-557 and 17-557.01
§ 93.19 SALE AND CONVEYANCE OF REAL PROPERTY.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (G) below, the power of the city to
convey any real property owned by it, including land used for park purposes and
public squares, except real property used in the operation of public utilities,
shall be exercised by resolution, directing the sale at public auction or by
sealed bid of the real and personal property and the manner and terms thereof,
except that the real property shall not be sold at public auction or by sealed
bid when:
      (1)   The property is being sold in compliance with the requirements of
federal or state grants or programs;
      (2)   The property is being conveyed to another public agency; or
      (3)   The property consists of streets and alleys.
   (B)   The City Council may establish a minimum price for the real property
at which bidding shall begin or shall serve as a minimum for a sealed bid.
   (C)   After the passage of the resolution directing the sale, notice of all
proposed sales of real property described in division (A) above and the terms
thereof shall be published once each week for three consecutive weeks in a
legal newspaper published in or of general circulation in the city.
   (D)   If a remonstrance against the sale, signed by registered voters
thereof equal in number to 30% of the registered voters of the city voting at
the last regular city election held therein, be filed with the City Council
after the third publication notice, the property shall not then, nor within one
year thereafter, be sold. If the date for filing the remonstrance falls upon a
Saturday, Sunday, or legal holiday, the signatures shall be collected within
the 30-day period, but the filing shall be considered timely if filed or
postmarked on or before the next business day.
   (E)   Upon the receipt of the remonstrance, the City Council, with the aid
and assistance of the Election Commissioner or County Clerk, shall determine
the validity and sufficiency of signatures on the remonstrance. The City
Council shall deliver the remonstrance to the Election Commissioner or County
Clerk by hand carrier, by use of law enforcement officials, or by certified
mail, return receipt requested, for comparison of names and addresses with the
voter registration records and certification as required by Neb. Rev. Stat. 17-
503. The City Council shall, within 30 days after the receipt of the
remonstrance and certifications from the Election Commissioner or a County
Clerk, hold a public hearing to review the remonstrance and certifications and
receive testimony regarding them, the City Council, shall, following the
hearing, vote on whether or not the remonstrance is valid and shall uphold the
remonstrance if sufficient valid signature have been received.
   (F)   Following passage of the resolution directing a sale, publishing of
the notice of the proposed sale, and passing of the 30-day right-of-
remonstrance period, the property shall then be sold. The sale shall be
confirmed by passage of an ordinance stating the name of the purchaser and
terms of the sale.
   (G)   (1)   Divisions (A) through (F) above shall not apply to the sale of
real property if the authorizing resolution directs the sale of an item or
items of real property, the total fair market value of which is less than
$5,000.
      (2)   Following passage of the resolution directing the sale of the
property, notice of the sale shall be posted in three prominent places within
the city for a period of not less than seven days prior to the sale of the
property, giving a general description of the property offered for sale and the
terms and conditions thereof.
   (H)   Real estate now owned or hereafter owned by the city may be conveyed
without consideration to the state for state armory sites or, if acquired for
state armory sites, the property shall be conveyed strictly in accordance with
the conditions of Neb. Rev. Stat. 18-1001 et seq.
(Prior Code, § 92.05) (Ord. 1999-7.27, passed 7-12-1999; Ord. 2004-2.2, passed
2-9-2004)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 17-503 and 17-503.01
§ 93.20 SALE AND CONVEYANCE OF PERSONAL PROPERTY.
   (A)   The power of the city to convey any personal property owned by it
shall be exercised by resolution directing the sale and the manner and terms
thereof.
   (B)   Following passage of the resolution directing the sale of the
property, notice of the sale shall be posted in three prominent places within
the city for a period of not less than seven days prior to the sale of the
property.
   (C)   If the fair market value of the property is greater than $5,000,
notice of the sale shall also be published once in a legal newspaper published
in or of general circulation in the city at least seven days prior to the sale
of the property.
   (D)   The notice shall give a general description of the property offered
for sale and state the terms and conditions of sale.
(Prior Code, § 92.06) (Ord. 2004-2.2, passed 2-9-2004)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 17-503.2
§ 93.21 ACQUISITION OF REAL PROPERTY.
   (A)   Acquisition of property; construction; elections, when required.
      (1)   The municipality is authorized and empowered to purchase, accept by
gift or devise, purchase real estate upon which to erect, and erect a building
or buildings for an auditorium, fire station, municipal building, or community
house for housing municipal enterprises and social and recreation purposes, and
other public buildings, and maintain, manage, and operate the same for the
benefit of the inhabitants of the municipality.
      (2)   Except as provided in division (A)(3) below, before any purchase
can be made or building erected, the question shall be submitted to the
electors of the municipality at a general municipal election or at an election
duly called for that purpose, or as set forth in Neb. Rev. Stat. 17-954 and be
adopted by a majority of the electors voting on the question.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. 17-953)
      (3)   If the funds to be used to finance the purchase or construction of
a building pursuant to this section are available other than through a bond
issue, then either:
         (a)   Notice of the proposed purchase or construction shall be
published in a newspaper of general circulation in the municipality, and no
election shall be required to approve the purchase or construction unless
within 30 days after the publication of the notice, a remonstrance against the
purchase or construction is signed by registered voters of the municipality
equal in number to 15% of the registered voters of the municipality voting at
the last regular municipal election held therein and is filed with the City
Council. If the date for filing the remonstrance falls upon a Saturday, Sunday,
or legal holiday, the signatures shall be considered timely if filed or
postmarked on or before the next business day. If a remonstrance with the
necessary number of qualified signatures is timely filed, the question shall be
submitted to the voters of the municipality at a general municipal election or
a special election duly called for that purpose. If the purchase or
construction is not approved, the property involved shall not then, nor within
one year following the election, be purchased or constructed; or
         (b)   The City Council may proceed without providing the notice and
right of remonstrance required in this division (A)(3) if the property can be
purchased below the fair market value as determined by an appraisal, there is a
willing seller, and the purchase price is less than $25,000. The purchase shall
be approved by the City Council after notice and public hearing as provided in
Neb. Rev. Stat. 18-1755.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. 17-953.01) (Prior Code § 92.07)
   (B)   Acquisition of real property; appraisal. The municipality shall not
purchase, lease-purchase, or acquire for consideration real property having an
estimated value of $100,000 or more unless an appraisal of the property has
been performed by a certified real estate appraiser.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. 13-403) (Prior Code, § 92.08)
   (C)   Acquisition of real property; public meeting. When acquiring an
interest in real property by purchase or eminent domain, the municipality shall
do so only after the City Council has authorized the acquisition by action
taken in a public meeting after notice and public hearing.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. 18-1755) (Prior Code, § 92.09)
§ 93.22 PUBLIC WORKS INVOLVING ARCHITECTURE OR ENGINEERING; REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (B) below, the municipality shall not
engage in the construction of any public works involving architecture or
engineering unless the plans, specifications, and estimates have been prepared
and the construction has been observed by an architect, a professional
engineer, or a person under the direct supervision of an architect,
professional engineer, or those under the direct supervision of an architect or
professional engineer.
   (B)   Division (A) above shall not apply to the following activities:
      (1)   Any public works project with contemplated expenditures for the
completed project that do not exceed $100,000;
      (2)   Any alteration, renovation, or remodeling of a building if the
alteration, renovation, or remodeling does not affect architectural or
engineering safety features of the building;
      (3)   Performance of professional services for itself if the municipality
appoints a municipal engineer or employs a full-time person licensed under the
Engineers and Architects Regulation Act, being Neb. Rev. Stat. 81-3401 et seq.,
who is in responsible charge of architectural or engineering work;
      (4)   The practice of any other certified trade or legally recognized
profession;
      (5)   Earthmoving and related work associated with soil and water
conservation practices performed on any land owned by the municipality that is
not subject to a permit from the Department of Natural Resources;
      (6)   The work of employees and agents of the municipality performing, in
accordance with other requirements of law, their customary duties in the
administration and enforcement of codes, permit programs, and land use
regulations and their customary duties in utility and public works
construction, operation, and maintenance;
      (7)   Those services ordinarily performed by subordinates under direct
supervision of a professional engineer or those commonly designated as
locomotive, stationary, marine operating engineers, power plant operating
engineers, or manufacturers who supervise the operation of or operate machinery
or equipment or who supervise construction within their own plant;
      (8)   The construction of municipal water wells as defined in Neb. Rev.
Stat. 46-1212, the installation of pumps and pumping equipment into municipal
water wells, and the decommissioning of municipal water wells, unless the
construction, installation, or decommissioning is required by the municipality
to be designed or supervised by an engineer or unless legal requirements are
imposed upon the municipality as a part of a public water supply; and
      (9)   Any other activities described in Neb. Rev. Stat. 81-3449 to 81-
3453.
(Prior Code, § 92.10) (Ord. 1999-7.28, passed 7-12-1999)
Statutory reference:
   Public service provider defined, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 81-3423
   Similar provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 81-3423, 81-3445, 81-3449(3), 81-
3449(4), 81-3449(9),
    81-3449(11), 81-3449(13), 81-3449(14), 81-3453(3), 81-3453(4), 81-3453(6),
81-3453(7),
    81-3453(10), 81-3453(12), 81-3453(13), and 81-3453(15)
§ 93.23 TREES.
   (A)   No person, or persons, shall plant, or allow to grow, any tree within
the sidewalk space without first making a written, or verbal, application to,
and receiving a written permit from the City Council. Any tree planted within
the sidewalk space after the adoption date of this section shall be deemed to
be unlawfully planted and growing and shall, at the discretion of the City
Council, be deemed to be a nuisance.
   (B)   When any tree is declared to be a nuisance, the City Council shall
order, with proper notice, the tree removed at the expense of the owner of the
property adjacent to the sidewalk space upon which the tree has been unlawfully
planted.
   (C)   If the property owner fails or neglects to remove or cause to be
removed, the tree, the City Council shall order the same removed and assess the
expense of the removal against the property adjacent to the sidewalk space
wherein the tree is planted and growing.
   (D)   In the event the property owner is a non-resident of the county in
which the property lies, the municipality shall, before levying any special
assessment against that property, send a copy of any notice required by law to
be published by means of certified mail, return receipt requested to the last
known address of the non-resident property owner.
   (E)   The last known address shall be the address listed on the current tax
rolls at the time the required notice was first published.
   (F)   No fee shall be charged for the permit, and nothing in this section
shall be construed to apply to any existing trees now growing within the
sidewalk space.
(Prior Code, § 92.11) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 17-557.01 and 18-1720
CHAPTER 94: ANIMALS
Section
General Provisions
   
94.001   Definitions
   
94.002   Large animal permit requirements
   
94.003   Small animal and fowl permit requirements
   
94.004   Calculating minimums and maximums; exclusions
   
94.005   Sanitary regulations
   
94.006   Exemptions
   
94.007   Application for permit
   
94.008   Issuance of permit
   
94.009   Permit fees
   
94.010   Revocation and suspension of permit
   
94.011   Term of permit; not transferable
   
94.012   Running at large prohibited
   
94.013   Dead animals
   
94.014   Offensive odors from animal enclosures
   
94.015   Animals on premises as of effective date; nuisance
   
94.016   Unusual animals prohibited
Dogs; General Provisions
   
94.030   Owner defined
   
94.031   Running at large
   
94.032   Rabies threat; proclamation; inspection
   
94.033   Capture impossible
   
94.034   Dangerous dogs
   
94.035   Liability of owner
   
94.036   Impounding
   
94.037   Barking
Dogs; Licensing
   
94.050   License required
   
94.051   Dog guides, hearing aid dogs, and service dogs; exempt from license
tax
   
94.052   License tags
   
94.053   Wrongful licensing
   
94.054   Uncollared dogs
   
94.055   Removal of tags
   
94.056   Kennels; license
Cats; Licensing
   
94.070   License required; fees; application; rabies certificate
   
94.071   License tags; duplicates
   
94.072   Running at large
   
94.073   Impounding
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 94.001 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ANIMALS. Any vertebra member of the animal kingdom excluding humans.
   FOWL. Chickens, ducks, geese, turkeys, pigeons, pheasants, quail, partridge,
guineas, or other domesticated or wild birds.
   LARGE ANIMALS. Cattle, horses, mules, sheep, goats, swine, llamas, or any
other domesticated animals weighing more than 20 pounds (typical adult weight),
except pet animals or fowl.
   PET ANIMALS. Dogs, cats, birds, guinea pigs, hamsters, mice, snakes, iguana,
and turtles. PET ANIMALS shall also include domesticated animals, other than
those listed above, weighing 20 pounds or less (typical adult weight) that are
typically owned or sold, or offered for sale, as indoor household pets, not
including unusual animals as defined in §
94.016.
   SMALL ANIMALS. Any animal, including rabbits, weighing 20 pounds or less
(typical adult weight), except pet animals or fowl.
(Prior Code, § 93.01) (Ord. 2004-5.1, passed 5-17-2004; Ord. 2012-8.1, passed
10-8-2012)
§ 94.002 LARGE ANIMAL PERMIT REQUIREMENTS.
   It shall be unlawful to keep any large animal within the limits of the city
without having procured a permit therefor and without adhering to the following
requirements.
   (A)   The minimum premises area or lot size upon which any large animal is
kept shall be the area set forth in the following table:
 
Number of Large Animals Minimum Acres Required
1-2                     1
3 or more               1.5 acres per animal
 
   (B)   Every large animal kept upon such premises or lot shall be kept
confined within an exercise area, corral, pen, shelter structure, or pasture;
provided, however, that no exercise area, corral, pen, shelter structure, or
pasture shall be nearer than 75 feet to any building or structure used for
residential purposes, either when located on the same lot or plot of ground or
on adjoining property.
(Prior Code, § 93.02) (Ord. 2004-5.1, passed 5-17-2004) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 94.003 SMALL ANIMAL AND FOWL PERMIT REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to keep or harbor small animals or
fowl, without a permit, in numbers equal to or greater than the minimum
provided in the table in division (B) below.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to keep or harbor small animals or
fowl as follows:
      (1)   In numbers greater than the maximum provided in the following
table;
      (2)   Within pens, enclosures or shelters closer than 50 feet to a
neighboring residence; or
      (3)   Within pens, enclosures, or shelters closer than five feet to a
neighboring property line.
 
                    Type of Small        Minimum and Maximum Exercise/Shelter
Property Size       Animals or Fowl      Number of Animals   Area (Square Feet)
                                         Allowed
1 acre or less      Rabbits or other     3-20                3 times number of
                    small animals                            small animals
                    Bantam, miniatures,
                   or other fowl        7-30                2 times number of
                    weighing less than 3                     fowl
                    lbs.
                    Chickens, ducks, or                      3 times number of
                   other fowl weighing  3-20                fowl
                    3-5 lbs.
                   Pigeons              14-200              1 times number of
                                                             pigeons
                    Turkey, geese, or                        7 times number of
                   other fowl weighing  2-5                 fowl
                    5-20 lbs.
For each additional                     2 times the number  Same as above
1 acre                                   per each category
 
(Prior Code, § 93.03) (Ord. 2004-5.1, passed 5-17-2004) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 94.004 CALCULATING MINIMUMS AND MAXIMUMS; EXCLUSIONS.
   In calculating the minimum and maximum numbers of animals for purposes of §§
94.002 and
94.003, such numbers shall not include:
   (A)   Large animals under the age of 180 days if the animal’s biological
parent is lawfully kept upon the premises;
   (B)   Small animals under the age of 60 days or kept within a dwelling; and/
or
   (C)   Fowl under the age of 30 days or kept within a dwelling.
(Prior Code, § 93.04) (Ord. 2004-5.1, passed 5-17-2004)
§ 94.005 SANITARY REGULATIONS.
   (A)   The owner of any large or small animal or fowl shall keep all pens,
enclosures, and shelter structures wherein such animals or fowl are kept in a
clean and sanitary condition so as not to give off offensive odors which are a
source of discomfort to persons residing in the vicinity thereof.
   (B)   The owner of any large or small animal or fowl shall not allow offal,
manure, and waste material of such animal to accumulate or remain in the pens,
enclosures, and shelter areas, excluding pasture acreage, upon which such
animal or fowl resides or is confined in any manner which is conducive to the
breeding or attraction of flies, mosquitoes, or other noxious insects or in any
manner which endangers the public health or safety or which creates an
unhealthy environment.
   (C)   The maintenance or permitting of any of the foregoing conditions on
any such lot or parcel of ground is hereby declared to be a public nuisance.
   (D)   The owner of any large or small animal or fowl shall in a sanitary
manner remove or dispose of all offal, manure, and waste material accumulating
from such animal or fowl at least once every seven days.
   (E)   The flooring or pads of all such pens, enclosures, and shelters shall
be of a hard-surface material if the total area of the premises is less than
7,500 square feet.
(Prior Code, § 93.05) (Ord. 2004-5.1, passed 5-17-2004)
§ 94.006 EXEMPTIONS.
   The provisions of §§
94.002 and
94.003 shall not apply to:
   (A)   Commercial establishments killing and processing animals under federal
inspection;
   (B)   Animal research facilities;
   (C)   Farmsteads of 20 acres or more;
   (D)   Animal shelters;
   (E)   Animal hospitals operated by veterinarians duly licensed under the
laws of the state;
   (F)   Owners of raptors licensed under the laws of the state;
   (G)   Wildlife rescue organizations licensed by the federal government or
state; and
   (H)   Educational institutions created by law or incorporated for that
purpose.
(Prior Code, § 93.06) (Ord. 2004-5.1, passed 5-17-2004)
§ 94.007 APPLICATION FOR PERMIT.
   (A)   Application for a permit to keep any large or small animals, or fowl
shall be made to the City Clerk, in writing, upon forms provided for that
purpose by the City Clerk/Treasurer.
   (B)   The application shall contain the following information in addition to
such other information as the City Clerk/Treasurer may desire:
      (1)   Name and residence of applicant;
      (2)   Location of premises where large or small animals or fowl are to be
kept;
      (3)   Species of large or small animals or fowl to be kept;
      (4)   Number of large or small animals or fowl to be kept;
      (5)   Statement of the method in which offal, manure and waste material
accumulating from such large or small animals or fowl will be sanitarily
disposed of; and
      (6)   An attached diagram or plat of premises, showing dimensions of
premises, the location and dimensions of the enclosure, corral, pen, or
shelter, and the distance from residence buildings, and property lot line,
either on the same lot or on adjacent property.
(Prior Code, § 93.07) (Ord. 2004-5.1, passed 5-17-2004)
§ 94.008 ISSUANCE OF PERMIT.
   (A)   Prior to the issuance of any permit for the keeping of large or small
animals or fowl, the City Clerk/Treasurer shall investigate the application for
the permit and determine whether the premises conform to the requirements of
this chapter and other ordinances of the city with respect to zoning and
building regulations, sanitation, and location of enclosures and shelters.
   (B)   No permit shall be issued by City Clerk/Treasurer until proper
facilities are provided for the care and protection of the large or small
animals or fowl to be cared for on the premises and the location of the
premises is deemed to be proper and suitable for the keeping of such large or
small animals or fowl and the application has been approved as to proper
zoning.
(Prior Code, § 93.08) (Ord. 2004-5.1, passed 5-17-2004)
§ 94.009 PERMIT FEES.
   (A)   A permit shall be issued to keep or harbor large or small animals or
fowl upon the finding that the applicant satisfies the requirements of this
chapter and upon payment of a fee of an amount set by separate resolution.
   (B)   (1)   Fees shall be per premises covered regardless of the number of
animals or fowl to be kept or harbored.
      (2)   A permit holder who fails to renew the permit within 30 days of the
permit expiration date shall pay a late fee of an amount set by separate
resolution in addition to the annual permit fee.
(Prior Code, § 93.09) (Ord. 2004-5.1, passed 5-17-2004)
§ 94.010 REVOCATION AND SUSPENSION OF PERMIT.
   Any permit issued to keep any large or small animal or fowl shall be subject
to revocation or suspension by the City Clerk/Treasurer for violation by the
permittee of any of the provisions of this chapter, or other ordinances of the
city with respect to the keeping of large or small animals or fowl, now in
effect or hereafter enacted.
(Prior Code, § 93.10) (Ord. 2004-5.1, passed 5-17-2004)
§ 94.011 TERM OF PERMIT; NOT TRANSFERABLE.
   All permits issued to keep any large or small animal or fowl shall expire on
May 31 following the date of issuance, unless sooner revoked, and no permit
shall be assignable or transferable either as to permittee, location, or
species of animals.
(Prior Code, § 93.11) (Ord. 2004-5.1, passed 5-17-2004)
§ 94.012 RUNNING AT LARGE PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person keeping or harboring any animal or fowl shall permit such
animal or fowl except pigeons to go loose or run at large in any of the public
ways of the city or upon the property of another, except in enclosures on the
private property owned or leased by the person keeping or harboring such animal
or fowl.
   (B)   In the event that an unusual or other nondomesticated or wild animal
found running at large is creating a hazard to life or property, such animal
shall be destroyed if it cannot be confined or captured.
   (C)   The city shall not be required to give notice to the owner of such an
animal prior to its destruction.
(Prior Code, § 93.12) (Ord. 2004-5.1, passed 5-17-2004) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 94.013 DEAD ANIMALS.
   (A)   Duty to remove. Except as permitted by division (B) below, if any
animals or fowl shall die in the possession of any person in this city, it
shall be the duty of such person to cause the same to be at once removed to a
site approved by the city and buried or otherwise disposed of. In case the
owner or person having charge of any such animal or fowl shall neglect or
refuse to remove the dead animal or fowl within 24 hours after its death, the
city shall cause the same to be removed at the expense of such owner or person
having charge of the same, such expenditure to be recovered in a civil action.
Whenever the owner or other person having charge of any dead animal or fowl
cannot be found, it shall be the duty of the city to cause the animal to be
removed and buried at the expense of the city.
(Prior Code, § 93.13)
   (B)   Dead animals; unlawful acts.
      (1)   Except as permitted by division (B)(2) below, it shall be unlawful
for any person to deposit or bury on any of the streets or alleys or other
places within the corporate limits of the city, or cause to be buried, any
carcass of any dead animal or fowl of any kind, and it shall be unlawful for
the owner or person having possession of any animal that shall die to suffer
the carcass of any such animal to remain within the corporate limits of the
city for more than 24 hours after the death of the animal or fowl.
      (2)   Nothing in this section shall prevent burial of any dog, cat, or
other animal on the residential premises of the owner of such animal if such
animal weighs less than 150 pounds and the animal is a household pet. Any such
animal shall be buried within 24 hours after its death, and all parts of any
animal shall be covered by at least two feet of fine soil.
(Prior Code, § 93.14)
(Ord. 2004-5.1, passed 5-17-2004) Penalty, see §
10.99
Cross-reference:
   Disposal of, see §
51.03
§ 94.014 OFFENSIVE ODORS FROM ANIMAL ENCLOSURES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to keep any cattle, horses,
goats, dogs, cats, rabbits, or other animals, chickens, ducks, geese, turkeys,
or any other fowl in any pen, shed, or yard within the city from which any
deleterious or offensive odor shall be emitted; and the maintaining of any of
the above-mentioned animals or fowl in such condition shall of itself
constitute a nuisance.
(Prior Code, § 93.15) (Ord. 2004-5.1, passed 5-17-2004) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 94.015 ANIMALS ON PREMISES AS OF EFFECTIVE DATE; NUISANCE.
   (A)   Notwithstanding any of the provisions of this chapter to the contrary,
any animals lawfully kept or harbored on premises within the limits of the city
as of the effective date of this chapter, or any amendment thereto, may
lawfully be kept or harbored upon such premises notwithstanding that the
requirements of §
94.002 regarding a minimum acreage for large animals or §
94.003 regarding maximum numbers of animals or square footage requirements for
exercise/shelter areas for small animals or fowl are not met for a period of
not to exceed 60 days from the effective date of the adoption of the provision
declaring the keeping or harboring of such animals to be unlawful.
   (B)   This exclusion shall not exempt the owner from the requirement that a
permit to maintain such animals be obtained in accordance with the provisions
of this chapter and that appropriate permit fees are paid.
   (C)   Except as provided in divisions (A) and (B) above, animals kept or
harbored on premises within the limits of the city in violation of any of the
provisions of this chapter are declared to be a nuisance and such nuisance may
be abated by the city in accordance with Neb. Rev. Stat. 18-1720.
(Prior Code, § 93.16) (Ord. 2004-5.1, passed 5-17-2004; Ord. 2012-8.1, passed
10-8-2012)
§ 94.016 UNUSUAL ANIMALS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to own, keep, or harbor
any unusual animal within the corporate limits of the city, except that this
section shall not be construed to prohibit a public zoo, circus, humane
society, or carnival from displaying unusual animals as exhibits, or to
prohibit any wildlife rescue organizations with appropriate permits from the
state’s Game and Parks Commission from rehabilitating or sheltering unusual
animals.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to sell, give away,
transfer, or import into the city, any unusual animal as defined in this
section, excluding a public zoo from doing business with another public zoo.
   (C)   (1)   In the event the City Clerk/Treasurer or Animal Control Officer
determines an unusual animal is being owned, kept, or harbored by any person in
violation of this section, the City Clerk/Treasurer or Animal Control Officer
may have the person prosecuted for the violation and may order the person to
remove the unusual animal from the city, or destroy it.
      (2)   The order shall be contained in a written notice to remove or
destroy the unusual animal within ten days and shall be delivered in person or
by certified mail, return receipt requested.
      (3)   If the owner or person keeping or harboring of the unusual animal
shall have failed to remove or destroy the unusual animal after the expiration
of ten days from the receipt of the notice and no appeal is taken to the city’s
City Council, the City Council shall cause the unusual animal to be destroyed.
   (D)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      DOMESTICATED. A tame animal that is subject to the dominion and control
of an owner or person keeping or harboring the animal, and accustomed to living
in or near human habitation without requiring extraordinary restraint for the
protection of humans or unreasonably disturbing the human habitation.
      UNUSUAL ANIMAL. Any poisonous or potentially dangerous animal not
normally considered domesticated, and shall include animals prohibited by the
city, state, or federal requirements, and also:
         (a)   Class mammalia; order carnivora, family felidae (such as lions,
tigers, jaguars, leopards, bobcats, and cougars), except commonly accepted
domesticated cats and hybrids involving the same; family canidae (such as
wolves, coyotes, and fox), except domesticated dogs and hybrids involving the
same; family mustedilae (such as weasels, martins, fishers, skunks, wolverines,
mink, and badgers), except ferrets; family procyonidae (such as raccoon);
family ursidae (such as bears); order primata (such as monkeys and
chimpanzees); and order chiroptera (such as bats);
         (b)   Poisonous reptiles, cobras, and their allies (elapidae,
hydrophiidae); vipers and their allies (crotiladae, viperidae); boonslang and
kirkland’s tree snake; and gila monster (heleodermatidae); and
         (c)   Nonpoisonous reptiles or snakes that will grow to more than six
feet in length at maturity.
(Prior Code, § 93.17) (Ord. 2000-10.1, passed 10-10-2000) Penalty, see §
10.99
DOGS; GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 94.030 OWNER DEFINED.
   Any person who shall harbor or permit any dog to be for ten days or more in
or about his or her house, store, or enclosure, or to remain to be fed, shall
be deemed the OWNER and possessor of the dog and shall be deemed to be liable
for all penalties herein prescribed.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. 54-606) (Prior Code, § 93.25)
§ 94.031 RUNNING AT LARGE.
   It shall be unlawful for the owner of any dog to allow such dog to run at
large at any time within the corporate limits of the city. It shall be the duty
of the Utilities Superintendent or any law enforcement officer to cause any dog
found to be running at large within the city to be taken up and impounded.
RUNNING AT LARGE shall mean any dog found off the premises of the owner, and
not under control of the owner or a responsible person, either by leash, cord,
chain, wire, rope, cage, or other suitable means of physical restraint. An
electronic pet containment system shall be considered a suitable means of
physical restraint provided that signs or markings clearly show that such a
system has been installed on the premises.
(Prior Code, § 93.26) (Ord. 2006-3.2, passed 3-16-2006) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 17-526
   Dog collars required, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 54-605
§ 94.032 RABIES THREAT; PROCLAMATION; INSPECTION.
   (A)   (1)   It shall be the duty of the City Council whenever, in its
opinion, the danger to the public safety from rabid dogs is great or imminent,
to issue a proclamation ordering all persons owning, keeping, or harboring any
dog to muzzle the same, or to confine it for a period of not less than 30 days
or more than 90 days from the date of the proclamation, or until the danger is
passed.
      (2)   The dogs may be harbored by any good and sufficient means in a
house, garage, or yard on the premises wherein the owner may reside.
      (3)   Upon issuing the proclamation it shall be the duty of all persons
owning, keeping, or harboring any dog to confine the same as herein provided.
   (B)   (1)   Any dog suspected of being afflicted with rabies, or any dog not
vaccinated in accordance with the provisions of this chapter which has bitten
any person and caused an abrasion of the skin, shall be seized and impounded
under the supervision of the Board of Health for a period of not less than ten
days.
      (2)   If upon examination by a veterinarian, the dog has no clinical
signs of rabies at the end of the impoundment, it may be released to the owner,
or, in the case of an unlicensed dog, it shall be disposed of in accordance
with the provisions herein. If the owner of the dog has proof of vaccination,
it shall be confined by the owner or some other responsible person for a period
of at least ten days, at which time the dog shall be examined by a licensed
veterinarian at the owner’s expense. If no signs of rabies are observed, the
dog may be released from confinement.
(Prior Code, § 93.27)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 71-4406
§ 94.033 CAPTURE IMPOSSIBLE.
   The County Sheriff or designated Animal Control Officer shall have the
authority to kill any animals showing vicious tendencies, or characteristics of
rabies which make capture impossible because of the danger involved.
(Prior Code, § 93.28) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 94.034 DANGEROUS DOGS.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      ANIMAL CONTROL AUTHORITY. An entity authorized to enforce the animal
control laws of the city, and includes any local law enforcement agency or
other agency designated by the city to enforce the animal control laws of the
city.
      ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER. Any individual employed, appointed, or authorized
by an animal control authority for the purpose of aiding in the enforcement of
this section or any other law or ordinance relating to the licensing of
animals, control of animals, or seizure and impoundment of animals and includes
any state or local law enforcement or other employee whose duties in whole or
in part include assignments that involve the seizure and impoundment of any
animal.
      DANGEROUS DOG.
         (a)   Any dog that, according to the records of the animal control
authority:
            1.   Has killed a human being;
            2.   Has inflicted injury on a human being that requires medical
treatment;
            3.   Has killed a domestic animal without provocation; or
            4.   Has been previously determined to be a potentially dangerous
dog by an animal control authority, the owner has received notice of such
determination from an animal control authority or an animal control officer,
and the dog inflicts an injury on a human being that does not require medical
treatment, injures a domestic animal, or threatens the safety of humans or
domestic animals.
         (b)   A dog shall not be defined as a DANGEROUS DOG if the individual
was tormenting, abusing, or assaulting the dog at the time of the injury or
has, in the past, been observed or reported to have tormented, abused, or
assaulted the dog.
         (c)   A dog shall not be defined as a DANGEROUS DOG if the injury,
damage, or threat was sustained by an individual who, at the time, was
committing a willful trespass as defined in Neb. Rev. Stat. 20-203, 28-520, or
28-521, was committing any other tort upon the property of the owner of the
dog, was tormenting, abusing, or assaulting the dog, or has, in the past, been
observed or reported to have tormented, abused, or assaulted the dog, or was
committing or attempting to commit a crime.
         (d)   A dog shall not be defined as a DANGEROUS DOG if the dog is a
police animal as defined in Neb. Rev. Stat. 28-1008.
      DOMESTIC ANIMAL. A cat, a dog, or livestock. Livestock includes buffalo,
deer, antelope, fowl, and any other animal in any zoo, wildlife park, refuge,
wildlife area, or nature center intended to be on exhibit.
      MEDICAL TREATMENT. Treatment administered by a physician or other
licensed health care professional that results in sutures or surgery or
treatment for one or more broken bones.
      OWNER. Any person, firm, corporation, organization, political
subdivision, or department possessing, harboring, keeping, or having control or
custody of a dog.
      POTENTIALLY DANGEROUS DOG.
         (a)   Any dog that when unprovoked:
            1.    Inflicts an injury on a human being that does not require
medical treatment; or
            2.   Injures a domestic animal; or
            3.   Chases or approaches a person upon streets, sidewalks, or any
public grounds in a menacing fashion or apparent attitude of attack.
         (b)   Any specific dog with a known propensity, tendency, or
disposition to attack when unprovoked, to cause injury, or to threaten the
safety of humans or domestic animals.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. 54-617)
   (B)   (1)   A dangerous dog that has been declared as such shall be spayed
or neutered and implanted with a microchip identification number by a licensed
veterinarian within 30 days after such declaration. The cost of both procedures
is the responsibility of the owner of the dangerous dog. Written proof of both
procedures and the microchip identification number shall be provided to the
animal control authority after the procedures are completed.
      (2)   No owner of a dangerous dog shall permit the dog to go beyond the
property of the owner unless the dog is restrained securely by a chain or
leash.
      (3)   Except as provided in division (B)(4) below or for a reasonable
veterinary purpose, no owner of a dangerous dog shall transport such dog or
permit such dog to be transported to another county, city, or village in the
state.
      (4)   An owner of a dangerous dog may transport such dog or permit such
dog to be transported to another county, city, or village in this state for the
purpose of permanent relocation of the owner if the owner has obtained written
permission prior to such relocation from the animal control authority of the
county, city, or village in which the owner resides and from the county, city,
or village in which the owner will reside. Each animal control authority may
grant such permission based upon a reasonable evaluation of both the owner and
the dog, including if the owner has complied with the laws of the state and of
the county, city, or village in which he or she resides with regard to
dangerous dogs after the dog was declared dangerous. An animal control
authority shall not grant permission under this section if the county, city, or
village has an ordinance or resolution prohibiting the relocation of dangerous
dogs. After the permanent relocation, the animal control authority of the
county, city, or village in which the owner resides shall monitor the owner and
such dog for a period of at least 30 days but not to exceed 90 days to ensure
the owner’s compliance with the laws of the state and of such county, city, or
village with regard to dangerous dogs. Nothing in this division (B) shall
permit the rescindment of the declaration of dangerous dog.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. 54-618)
   (C)   (1)   No person, firm, partnership, limited liability company, or
corporation shall own, keep, or harbor or allow to be in or on any premises
occupied by him, her, or it or under his, her, or its charge or control any
dangerous dog without such dog being confined so as to protect the public from
injury.
      (2)   While unattended on the owner’s property, a dangerous dog shall be
securely confined, in a humane manner, indoors or in a securely enclosed and
locked pen or structure suitably designed to prevent the entry of young
children and to prevent the dog from escaping. The pen or structure shall have
secure sides and a secure top. If the pen or structure has no bottom secured to
the sides, the sides shall be embedded into the ground at least one foot. The
pen or structure shall also protect the dog from the elements. The pen or
structure shall be at least ten feet from any property line of the owner.
      (3)   The owner of a dangerous dog shall post warning signs on the
property where the dog is kept that are clearly visible from all areas of
public access and that inform persons that a dangerous dog is on the property.
Each warning sign shall be no less than ten inches by twelve inches and shall
contain the words warning and dangerous animal in high-contrast lettering at
least three inches high on a black background.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. 54-619)
   (D)   Failure to comply.
      (1)   Any dangerous dog may be immediately confiscated by an animal
control officer if the owner is in violation of this section. The owner shall
be responsible for the reasonable costs incurred by the animal control
authority for the care of a dangerous dog confiscated by an animal control
officer or for the destruction of any dangerous dog if the action by the animal
control authority is pursuant to law and if the owner violated this section.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. 54-620)
      (2)   In addition to any other penalty, a court may order the animal
control authority to dispose of a dangerous dog in an expeditious and humane
manner.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. 54-621)
   (E)   (1)   Any owner whose dangerous dog inflicts on a human being a
serious bodily injury as defined in Neb. Rev. Stat. 28-109 is guilty of a Class
I misdemeanor for the first offense, whether or not the same dangerous dog is
involved.
      (2)   It is a defense to a violation of division (E)(1) above that the
dangerous dog was, at the time of the infliction of the serious bodily injury,
in the custody of or under the direct control of a person other than the owner
or the owner’s immediate family.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. 54-622.01)
   (F)   Effect of prior conviction. If a dangerous dog of an owner with a
prior conviction under this section attacks or bites a human being or domestic
animal, in addition to any other penalty, the dangerous dog shall be
immediately confiscated by an animal control authority, placed in quarantine
for the proper length of time, and thereafter destroyed in an expeditious and
humane manner.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. 54-623) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Owner felony liability; serious bodily injury second offense, see Neb. Rev.
Stat. 54-622.01
   Prior conviction; ownership of dangerous dog prohibited for ten years after,
see Neb. Rev. Stat. 54-623
§ 94.035 LIABILITY OF OWNER.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to allow a dog owned, kept, or
harbored by the owner, or under his or her charge or control, to injure or
destroy any real or personal property of any description belonging to another
person.
   (B)   The owner or possessor of the dog, in addition to the usual judgment
upon conviction, may be made to be liable to the persons so injured in an
amount equal to the value of the damage so sustained.
(Prior Code, § 93.30) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Joint liability, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 54-602
   Statutory liability, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 54-601
§ 94.036 IMPOUNDING.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the Utilities Superintendent to capture,
secure, and impound in a humane manner any dog violating any of the provisions
of this chapter.
   (B)   (1)   The dogs so impounded shall be treated in a humane manner and
shall be provided with a sufficient supply of food and fresh water each day.
      (2)   Impounded dogs bearing a current license issued by the city shall
be kept and maintained at the city’s animal shelter for a period of not less
than three days after public notice has been given unless reclaimed earlier by
the owner.
   (C)   Any dog not bearing a current license by the city may be immediately
impounded at the Capital Humane Society or other impoundment facility.
   (D)   Notice of impoundment of all animals, including any significant marks
or identifications, shall be posted at the office of the City Clerk/Treasurer
within 24 hours after impoundment as public notification of the impoundment.
   (E)   Any dog may be reclaimed by its owner during the period of impoundment
by payment of a general impoundment fee and daily board fee as set by
resolution of the City Council and on file at the office of the City Clerk/
Treasurer.
   (F)   The owner of any unvaccinated dog shall, in addition to the payment of
such fees, comply with the licensing requirements of the city and the rabies
vaccination requirements of Neb. Rev. Stat. 71-4401 et seq. within 72 hours
after release.
   (G)   Any dog not claimed at the end of the required waiting period after
public notice, and not previously impounded at the Capital Humane Society or
other impoundment facility, shall be transferred to the Capital Humane Society
or such other impoundment facility and, if the dog remains unclaimed at the end
of five days from its original impoundment, the city may dispose of the dog in
a humane fashion.
(Prior Code, § 93.31) (Ord. 2006-3.2, passed 3-13-2006)
Statutory reference:
   Pounds authorized, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 17-548
   Pounds created by rabies control authorities, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 71-4408
§ 94.037 BARKING.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to own, keep, or harbor any dog
which by loud, continued, or frequent barking, howling, or yelping shall annoy
or disturb any neighborhood, or person, or which habitually barks at or chases
pedestrians, drivers, or owners of horses or vehicles while they are on any
public sidewalks, streets, or alleys in the city.
   (B)   The provisions of this section shall not be construed to apply to the
city’s dog shelter.
(Prior Code, § 93.32) (Ord. 2006-3.2, passed 3-13-2006) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 17-526
DOGS; LICENSING
§ 94.050 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (A)   Any person who shall own, keep, or harbor a dog over the age of six
months within the municipality shall within 30 days after acquisition of the
dog acquire a license for each dog annually by or before April 1 of each year.
   (B)   Licenses shall be issued by the City Clerk/Treasurer upon the payment
of a license tax of an amount set by separate resolution for each dog, provided
that the tax shall be an amount set by separate resolution for each dog for
every license issued after the tax has become delinquent.
   (C)   The tax shall be delinquent from and after April 10, provided that the
possessor of any dog brought into or harbored within the corporate limits
subsequent to April 1 of any year, shall be liable for the payment of the dog
tax levied herein and the tax shall be delinquent if not paid within ten days
thereafter.
   (D)   The license shall not be transferable, and no refund will be allowed
in case of death, sale, or other disposition of the licensed dog.
   (E)   The owner shall state at the time the application is made and upon
printed forms provided for the purpose his or her name and address and the
name, breed, color, and sex of each dog owned and kept by the owner.
   (F)   A certificate that the dog has had a rabies shot, effective for the
ensuing year of the license, shall be presented when the license is applied
for, and no license or tag shall be issued until the certificate is shown.
(Prior Code, § 93.45) (Ord. 2007-5.1, passed 5-14-2007) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 17-526 and 54-603
§ 94.051 DOG GUIDES, HEARING AID DOGS, AND SERVICE DOGS; EXEMPT FROM LICENSE
TAX.
   (A)   Every dog guide for a blind or visually impaired person, hearing aid
dog for a deaf or hearing impaired person, and service dog for a physically
limited person shall be licensed as required by the municipal code, but no
license tax shall be charged upon a showing by the owner that the dog is a
graduate of a recognized training school for dog guides, hearing aid dogs, or
service dogs.
   (B)   Upon the retirement or discontinuance of the dog as a dog guide,
hearing aid dog, or service dog, the owner of the dog shall be liable for the
payment of the required license tax.
(Prior Code, § 93.46)
Statutory reference:
   Statutory fee exemption, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 54-603
§ 94.052 LICENSE TAGS.
   (A)   (1)   Upon the payment of the license tax, the person designated by
the licensing authority shall issue to the owner of a dog a license certificate
and a metallic tag for each dog so licensed.
      (2)   The metallic tags shall be properly attached to the collar or
harness of all dogs so licensed and shall entitle the owner to keep or harbor
the dog until March 31 following the licensing.
   (B)   (1)   In the event that a license tag is lost and upon satisfactory
evidence that the original tag was issued in accordance with the provisions
herein, the person designated by the licensing authority shall issue a
duplicate or new tag for the balance of the year for which the license tax has
been paid and shall charge and collect a fee set by resolution of the City
Council for each duplicate or new tag so issued.
      (2)   All license taxes and collections shall be immediately credited to
the General Fund. It shall be the duty of the person designated by the
licensing authority to issue tags of a suitable design that are different in
appearance each year.
(Prior Code, § 93.47) (Ord. 2007-5.1, passed 5-14-2007)
Statutory reference:
   Authority, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 17-526 and 54-603
§ 94.053 WRONGFUL LICENSING.
   It shall be unlawful for the owner, keeper, or harborer of any dog to permit
or allow the dog to wear any license, metallic tag, or other municipal
identification than that issued by the City Clerk/Treasurer for dogs, nor shall
the owner, keeper, or harborer wrongfully and knowingly license an unneutered
dog with a license prescribed for a neutered dog.
(Prior Code, § 93.48) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 94.054 UNCOLLARED DOGS.
   (A)   All dogs found running at large upon the streets and public grounds of
the municipality without a collar or harness are hereby declared a public
nuisance.
   (B)   Uncollared dogs found running at large shall be destroyed or impounded
by the person so designated by the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 93.49)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 54-605
§ 94.055 REMOVAL OF TAGS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to remove or cause to be removed, the
collar, harness, or metallic tag from any licensed dog without the consent of
the owner, keeper, or possessor thereof.
(Prior Code, § 93.50) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 94.056 KENNELS; LICENSE.
   (A)   Any person who shall own, keep, or harbor four or more dogs over the
age of six months within the municipality shall be deemed to be operating a
kennel.
   (B)   (1)   Within 30 days after acquisition of each dog, the owner shall
acquire a license for each dog annually by or before April 1 of each year.
      (2)   Licenses shall be issued by the City Clerk/Treasurer upon the
payment of a license fee of an amount set by separate resolution for each dog
up to three dogs.
      (3)   The license fee for the fourth and any additional dogs shall be an
amount set by separate resolution for each dog.
      (4)   License fees not paid before April 30 shall be deemed to be
delinquent. Upon being deemed to be delinquent, a late penalty of an amount set
by separate resolution per license shall be assessed.
      (5)   The licenses shall not be transferable and no refund will be
allowed in case of death, sale, or other disposition of a licensed dog.
   (C)   The owner shall state at the time the application is made and upon
printed forms provided for the purpose, his or her name and address and the
name, breed, color, and sex of each dog owned and kept by him or her.
   (D)   A certificate that each dog has had a rabies shot, effective for the
ensuing year of the license, shall be presented when the license is applied for
and no license or tag shall be issued until the certificate is shown.
(Prior Code, § 93.51)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 17-526, 54-603, and 71-4412
CATS; LICENSING
§ 94.070 LICENSE REQUIRED; FEES; APPLICATION; RABIES CERTIFICATE.
   (A)   Any person who shall own, keep, or harbor a cat over the age of six
months within the city shall, within 30 days after acquisition of the cat,
acquire a license for each cat annually by or before April 1 of each year.
   (B)   Licenses shall be issued by the City Clerk/Treasurer upon the payment
of a license tax of an amount set by separate resolution for each cat, provided
that the tax shall be an amount set by separate resolution for each cat for
every license issued after the tax has become delinquent.
   (C)   All license taxes shall be credited to the General Fund.
   (D)   The tax shall be delinquent from and after April 10, provided that the
possessor of any cat brought into or harbored within the corporate limits
subsequent to April 1 of any year, shall be liable for the payment of the cat
tax levied herein and the tax shall be delinquent if not paid within ten days
thereafter.
   (E)   The license shall not be transferable, and no refund will be allowed
in case of death, sale, or other disposition of the licensed cat.
   (F)   The owner shall state at the time the application is made and upon
printed forms provided for the purpose his or her name and address and the
name, breed, color, and sex of each cat owned and kept by the owner.
   (G)   A certificate that the cat has had a rabies shot, effective for the
ensuing year of the license, shall be presented when the license is applied
for, and no license or tag shall be issued until the certificate is shown,
(Prior Code, § 93.52) (Ord. 2010-9.1, passed 11-8-2010)
§ 94.071 LICENSE TAGS; DUPLICATES.
   (A)   Upon the payment of the license tax, the City Clerk/Treasurer shall
issue to the owner of a cat a license certificate and a metallic tag for each
cat so licensed. The metallic tags shall be properly attached to the collar or
harness of all cats so licensed and shall entitle the owner to keep or harbor
the cat until March 31 following the licensing.
   (B)   In the event that a license tag is lost and upon satisfactory evidence
that the original tag was issued in accordance with the provisions of this
subchapter, the City Clerk/Treasurer shall issue a duplicate or new tag for the
balance of the year for which the license tax has been paid.
   (C)   It shall be the duty of the City Clerk/Treasurer to issue tags of a
suitable design that are different in appearance each year.
(Prior Code, § 93.53) (Ord. 2010-9.1, passed 11-8-2010)
§ 94.072 RUNNING AT LARGE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the owner of any cat to allow such cat to run
at large at any time within the corporate limits of the city.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of the Utilities Superintendent or any law
enforcement officer to cause any cat found to be running at large within the
city to be taken up and impounded.
   (C)   RUNNING AT LARGE shall mean any cat found off the premises of the
owner, and not under control of the owner or a responsible person, either by
leash, cord, chain, wire, rope, cage, or other suitable means of physical
restraint.
   (D)   An electronic pet containment system shall be considered a suitable
means of physical restraint provided that signs or markings clearly show that
such a system has been installed on the premises.
(Prior Code, § 93.54) (Ord. 2010-9.1, passed 11-8-2010) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 94.073 IMPOUNDING.
   (A)   Any cat running at large in violation of any of the provisions of this
subchapter is declared to be a public nuisance.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of the Utilities Superintendent to capture,
secure, and impound in a humane manner any cat violating any of the provisions
of this subchapter.
   (C)   The cats so impounded shall be treated in a humane manner and shall be
provided with a sufficient supply of food and fresh water each day.
   (D)   Impounded cats bearing a current license issued by the city shall be
kept and maintained at the city’s animal shelter for a period of not less than
three days after public notice has been given unless reclaimed earlier by the
owner.
   (E)   Any cat not bearing a current license issued by the city may be
immediately impounded at the Capital Humane Society or other impoundment
facility.
   (F)   Notice of impoundment of all animals, including any significant marks
or identifications, shall be posted at the office of the City Clerk/Treasurer
within 24 hours after impoundment as public notification of such impoundment.
   (G)   Any cat may be reclaimed by its owner during the period of impoundment
by payment of a general impoundment fee and daily board fee as set by
resolution of the City Council and on file in the office of the City Clerk/
Treasurer.
   (H)   The owner of any unvaccinated cat shall, in addition to the payment of
such fees, comply with the licensing requirements of the city and the rabies
vaccination requirements of Neb. Rev. Stat. 71-4401 et seq. within 72 hours
after release.
   (I)   Any cat not claimed at the end of the required waiting period after
public notice, and not previously impounded at the Capital Humane Society or
other impoundment facility shall be transferred to the Capital Humane Society
or such other impoundment facility and, if the cat remains unclaimed at the end
of five days from its original impoundment, the city may dispose of the cat in
a humane fashion.
(Prior Code, § 93.55) (Ord. 2010-9.1, passed 11-8-2010)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   OCCUPATION TAXES
      
111.   SOLICITATION
      
112.   LIQUOR CONTROL
      
113.   AMUSEMENTS AND LEISURE
CHAPTER 110: OCCUPATION TAXES
Section
General Provisions
   
110.01   Alcoholic liquor; refuse collection; levy amount
   
110.02   Fire Department Fund
   
110.03   Collection date
   
110.04   Certificates
   
110.05   Failure to pay
Telecommunications Occupation Tax
   
110.20   Telecommunications Occupation Tax, generally
   
110.21   Credit; payments
   
110.22   Reports; contents
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 110.01 ALCOHOLIC LIQUOR; REFUSE COLLECTION; LEVY AMOUNT.
   (A)   For the purpose of raising revenue:
      (1)   There is hereby levied an annual occupation tax equal to two times
the amount of the liquor license fee as established by state law on the
business of selling or offering for sale alcoholic liquor, whether at wholesale
or retail, and including sales for consumption on and off the licensed
premises; and
      (2)   Commencing January 1, 2010, there is hereby levied an occupation
tax of 5% on the business of hauling or collecting refuse from premises located
within the corporate limits of the city. Any refuse hauler engaging in the
business of hauling or collecting refuse within the corporate limits of the
city shall first register with the City Clerk/Treasurer on a form provided by
the City Clerk/Treasurer. On or before the tenth day of each month, every
registered hauler shall submit a statement showing the amount of gross receipts
received from the business of hauling or collecting refuse from premises within
the corporate limits of the city for the immediately preceding calendar month,
together with the amount of occupation tax due and owing. The statement of
gross receipts and any supporting documentation related thereto shall be
subject to audit by the City Clerk/Treasurer or his or her designated agent.
For purposes of this section, REFUSE shall mean and include garbage, building
rubbish, demolition debris, putrescible waste, commercial waste, industrial
waste, waste papers and cardboards, animal, food or vegetable waste, and any
other waste matter or material.
   (B)   This chapter shall not apply to the hauling of refuse from the city-
owned refuse site in accordance with a contract with the city.
(Prior Code, § 110.01) (Ord. 2009-7.1, passed 9-14-2009; Ord. 2009-11.1, passed
1-11-2010) Penalty, see §
10.99
Cross-reference:
   Liquor control, see
Ch. 112
§ 110.02 FIRE DEPARTMENT FUND.
   For the use, support, and benefit of the Volunteer Fire Department, the City
Clerk/Treasurer shall take the proceeds of the occupation tax on fire insurance
corporations, companies, and associations and credit them to the Special
Occupation Tax Fund for benefit of the Volunteer Fire Department.
(Prior Code, § 110.02)
Statutory reference:
   Taxing authority, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 35-106
§ 110.03 COLLECTION DATE.
   (A)   Unless specifically provided otherwise, all occupation taxes shall be
due and payable as follows.
      (1)   Daily occupation taxes shall be due and payable daily.
      (2)   Annual occupation taxes shall be due and payable on May 1 each
year.
      (3)   Occupation taxes on establishments holding liquor licenses shall be
due and payable upon the date of issuance or renewal of the license.
      (4)   Telecommunications occupation taxes shall be due and payable on the
last day of each month for the preceding month’s gross receipts.
   (B)   Upon the payment thereof by any person or persons to the City Clerk/
Treasurer, the City Clerk/Treasurer shall issue a receipt, properly dated, and
specifying the person paying the tax, and the amount paid. All receipts shall
be issued in duplicate, with one copy provided to the taxpayer and one retained
in the records of the city. The City Clerk/Treasurer shall keep an accurate
account of all revenue received from such occupation taxes and the revenue so
collected shall then be immediately deposited by the City Clerk/Treasurer into
the General Fund.
(Prior Code, § 110.07) (Ord. 2008-2.2, passed 4-14-2008; Ord. 2009-11.1, passed
1-11-2010)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 17-525
§ 110.04 CERTIFICATES.
   The receipt issued after the payment of any occupation tax shall constitute
the occupation tax certificate. The certificate shall specify the amount of the
tax and the name of the person and business that paid the tax. The occupation
tax certificate shall then be displayed in a prominent place or carried in a
way as to be easily accessible while business is being conducted.
(Prior Code, § 110.08) (Ord. 2008-2.2, passed 4-14-2008)
§ 110.05 FAILURE TO PAY.
   If any person, company, or corporation fails or neglects to pay the
occupation taxes as provided herein on or before the day they become due and
payable, the city may then proceed by civil suit to collect the amount due. All
delinquent taxes shall bear interest at the rate of 1% per month until paid.
After default for six months, a penalty of 5% shall be added in addition to the
interest charge.
(Prior Code, § 110.09) (Ord. 2008-2.2, passed 4-14-2008) Penalty, see §
10.99
TELECOMMUNICATIONS OCCUPATION TAX
§ 110.20 TELECOMMUNICATIONS OCCUPATION TAX, GENERALLY.
   (A)   Commencing May 1, 2008, there is hereby levied upon every person,
firm, partnership, corporation, or association engaged in the business of
offering or providing telecommunications services to the public for hire in the
city (“telecommunications service provider”) an occupation tax of 5% on the
gross receipts resulting from any toll services and charges for basic local
exchange services, inter-exchange services, mobile telecommunications services,
and other telecommunications services, as more particularly described below.
      (1)   BASIC LOCAL EXCHANGE SERVICES shall include the access and
transmission of two-way switched communications within the city, including
local telephone and telecommunications services.
      (2)   INTER-EXCHANGE SERVICES shall mean the access and transmission of
communications between two or more local exchange areas, provided that such
inter-exchange service either:
         (a)   Originates from an end user within the city; or
         (b)   Terminates with an end user within the city, and is charged to a
service address within the city, regardless of where the charges are actually
paid.
      (3)   MOBILE TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICE shall have the meaning set forth
in 4 U.S.C. § 124 and shall include, but not be limited to, cellular, radio
paging, and mobile radio services charged to a service address within the city
by a customer’s home service provider, as defined in 4 U.S.C. § 124, regardless
of where the charges are actually paid.
      (4)   Any other similar telecommunications services involving any
electronic or electromagnetic transmission of messages originating or
terminating in the city and charged to a service address in the city,
regardless of where the charges are actually paid.
   (B)   Gross receipts shall not include any toll services and charges as
follows:
      (1)   For local carrier access charges, transmission facilities, and
switching services provided to telecommunications companies;
      (2)   From accounts charged to the United States government or any of its
departments, or the state, or any of its agencies, subdivisions, or
departments; or
      (3)   For interstate telecommunications between persons in the city and
persons outside the state.
   (C)   No part or portion of the tax provided for in this subchapter shall be
levied upon or assessed against or taken from any such gross receipts so
excepted from the provisions of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 110.04) (Ord. 2008-2.1, passed 4-14-2008)
§ 110.21 CREDIT; PAYMENTS.
   (A)   On or before the last day of each month, each telecommunications
service provider shall pay to the city 5% of the gross receipts as provided for
in §
110.20 from the preceding month as an occupation tax; provided that such
telecommunications service provider shall be entitled to a credit for any
occupation tax or other similar tax based on gross receipts, satisfactorily
documented or verified as paid to any other jurisdiction upon any gross
receipts taxed herein.
   (B)   All deferred payments shall draw interest at the rate of 1% per month.
   (C)   After default for six months, a penalty of 5% shall be added in
addition to the interest charge.
(Prior Code, § 110.05) (Ord. 2008-2.1, passed 4-14-2008)
§ 110.22 REPORTS; CONTENTS.
   (A)   All telecommunications service providers shall, on the last day of
each month, submit to the City Clerk/Treasurer a full, complete, and detailed
statement of the income and gross receipts, omitting any exemptions provided
for in §
110.20, and said statement shall be duly verified and sworn to by the officer
or officers in charge of the business.
   (B)   All such telecommunications service providers shall, at any reasonable
time during business hours, permit the city, through its officers, agents, or
representatives, to inspect the books and records of any such
telecommunications service provider for the purpose of verifying such report or
reports.
(Prior Code, § 110.06) (Ord. 2008-2.1, passed 4-14-2008)
CHAPTER 111: SOLICITATION
Section
   
111.01   Definition
   
111.02   Regulation
   
111.03   Qualifications
   
111.04   Registration fee
   
111.05   Hours of solicitation
§ 111.01 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PEDDLER.
      (1)   Includes any person traveling by foot, motor vehicle, or other type
of conveyance from residence to residence carrying, conveying, or transporting
goods, wares, products, merchandise, or provisions of whatever nature, offering
and exposing the same for sale, or making sales and delivering such articles to
purchasers, or offering to furnish or perform services.
      (2)   PEDDLER shall also include any person traveling either by foot,
motor vehicle, or other type of conveyance from residence to residence taking
or attempting to take orders for sale of goods, wares, products, merchandise or
provisions of whatever nature for future delivery, or for services to be
furnished or performed in the future, whether or not such person has, carries,
or exposes for sale a sample of the subject of such sale or whether or not such
person is collecting advance payment on such sales.
(Prior Code, § 111.01) (Ord. 2009-7.1, passed 9-14-2009)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 17-134 and 17-525
§ 111.02 REGULATION.
   (A)   To prevent the sale of fraudulent, dangerous, and unhealthful goods
and services, and to protect the public by maintaining records of the products
sold and the persons and companies responsible for such sales, all peddlers
shall, before doing business within the municipality, make application for and
receive a registration certificate from the City Clerk/Treasurer.
   (B)   The application forms, supplied by the City Clerk/Treasurer, shall
contain the following information:
      (1)   Name of applicant;
      (2)   Address of applicant;
      (3)   Telephone number of applicant;
      (4)   Name and address of the firm, company, or organization employing
the applicant;
      (5)   Brief description of the nature of the business and goods to be
sold or services to be provided;
      (6)   If a vehicle is to be used, a description of the same, together
with the license number; and
      (7)   Current photograph of the applicant.
(Prior Code, § 111.01) (Ord. 2009-7.1, passed 9-14-2009)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 17-134 and 17-525
§ 111.03 QUALIFICATIONS.
   (A)   All registration certificates issued under the provisions of this
section shall expire on the date specified in the registration certificate, but
in no event later than one year after the issuance of the same.
   (B)   At the time of filing the application, a non-refundable registration
fee of an amount set by separate resolution shall be paid to the City Clerk/
Treasurer.
(Prior Code, § 111.01) (Ord. 2009-7.1, passed 9-14-2009)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 17-134 and 17-525
§ 111.04 REGISTRATION FEE.
   Notwithstanding the above, the conduct of door-to-door sales or taking of
orders therefor in conjunction with a charitable solicitation by a not-for-
profit organization that is exempt from the payment of income taxes pursuant to
I.R.C. § 501(c) shall be exempt from the requirements of this chapter; provided
that such organization notifies the City Clerk/Treasurer in writing, in
advance, of its intention to conduct such solicitations within the city and the
anticipated date or dates of such solicitations.
(Prior Code, § 111.01) (Ord. 2009-7.1, passed 9-14-2009)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 17-134 and 17-525
§ 111.05 HOURS OF SOLICITATION.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any peddler to solicit any individual between
the hours of 6:00 p.m. and 8:00 a.m., unless he or she has a previous
appointment with the resident or residents of the premises solicited.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful at any hour for a peddler to solicit without a
proper permit on his or her person at all times.
(Prior Code, § 111.02) (Ord. 2009-7.1, passed 9-14-2009) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 17-134
CHAPTER 112: LIQUOR CONTROL
Section
General Provisions
   
111.01   Definitions
   
111.02   Sale or gift to minor or mentally incompetent person prohibited
   
111.03   Consumption in public places or places open to the public;
restrictions
   
111.04   Removal of intoxicated persons from public or quasi-public property
Licenses Required
   
111.15   Manufacture, sale, delivery, and possession; general prohibitions;
exceptions
   
111.16   Acquisition and possession; restrictions
   
111.17   Licensee requirements
   
111.18   Licenses; city powers and duties
   
111.19   Licensed premises; inspections
   
111.20   License renewal; city powers and duties
   
111.21   Catering licenses
   
111.22   Display of license
   
111.23   Owner of premises or agent; liability
   
111.24   Licensee; liability for acts of officer, agent, or employee
   
111.25   Citizen complaints
Retail Establishments
   
111.40   Location
   
111.41   Access to dwellings
   
111.42   Sanitary conditions
   
111.43   Hours of sale
   
111.44   Credit sales prohibited
   
111.45   Original package required
   
111.46   Minor’s presence restricted
   
111.47   Keg sales; requirements; prohibited acts
Cross-reference:
   Alcoholic liquor; refuse collection; levy amount, see §
110.01
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 111.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For purposes of this chapter, the definitions found in Neb. Rev. Stat. 53-
103.01 through 53-103.42 shall be used.
§ 111.02 SALE OR GIFT TO MINOR OR MENTALLY INCOMPETENT PERSON PROHIBITED.
   No person shall sell, furnish, give away, dispose of, exchange, or deliver,
or permit the sale, gift, or procuring of any alcoholic liquors, to or for any
minor or to any person who is mentally incompetent.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. 53-180) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.03 CONSUMPTION IN PUBLIC PLACES OR PLACES OPEN TO THE PUBLIC;
RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   Except when the State Liquor Control Commission has issued a license
as provided in Neb. Rev. Stat. 53-186(2) or as provided in Neb. Rev. Stat. 60-
6,211.08, it is unlawful for any person to consume alcoholic liquor upon
property owned or controlled by the state or any governmental subdivision
thereof unless authorized by the governing bodies having jurisdiction over such
property.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. 53-186)
   (B)   It is unlawful for any person owning, operating, managing, or
conducting any bottle club, dance hall, restaurant, café, or club or any place
open to the general public to permit or allow any person to consume alcoholic
liquor upon the premises except as permitted by a license issued for such
premises pursuant to the state’s Liquor Control Act. It is unlawful for any
person to consume alcoholic liquor in any dance hall, restaurant, café, or club
or any place open to the general public except as permitted by a license issued
for such premises pursuant to the Act. This division (B) does not apply to a
retail licensee while lawfully engaged in the catering of alcoholic beverages
or to limousines or buses operated under Neb. Rev. Stat. 60-6,211.08.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. 53-186.01)
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.04 REMOVAL OF INTOXICATED PERSONS FROM PUBLIC OR QUASI-PUBLIC PROPERTY.
   (A)   Any law enforcement officer with the power to arrest for traffic
violations may take a person who is intoxicated and in the judgment of the
officer dangerous to himself, herself, or others, or who is otherwise
incapacitated, from any public or quasi-public property. An officer removing an
intoxicated person from public or quasi-public property shall make a reasonable
effort to take the intoxicated person to his or her home or to place the person
in any hospital, clinic, or mental health substance use treatment center, or
with a medical doctor as may be necessary to preserve life or to prevent
injury. The effort at placement shall be deemed reasonable if the officer
contacts such facilities or doctor which have previously represented a
willingness to accept and treat such individuals and which regularly do accept
such individuals. If these efforts are unsuccessful or are not feasible, the
officer may then place the intoxicated person in civil protective custody,
except that civil protective custody shall be used only as long as is necessary
to preserve life or to prevent injury, and under no circumstances longer than
24 hours.
   (B)   The placement of the person in civil protective custody shall be
recorded at the facility or jail at which he or she is delivered and
communicated to his or her family or next of kin, if they can be located, or to
the person designated by the person taken into civil protective custody.
   (C)   The law enforcement officer who acts in compliance with this section
shall be deemed to be acting in the course of his or her official duty and
shall not be criminally or civilly liable for these actions.
   (D)   The taking of an individual into civil protective custody under this
section shall not be considered an arrest. No entry or other record shall be
made to indicate that the person has been arrested or charged with a crime.
   (E)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      MENTAL HEALTH SUBSTANCE USE TREATMENT CENTER. Has the same meaning as in
Neb. Rev. Stat. 71-423.
      PUBLIC PROPERTY. Any public right-of-way, street, highway, alley, park,
or other state, county, or city-owned property.
      QUASI-PUBLIC PROPERTY. Private or publicly owned property utilized for
proprietary or business uses which invites patronage by the public or which
invites public ingress and egress.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. 53-1,121) Penalty, see §
10.99
LICENSES REQUIRED
§ 111.15 MANUFACTURE, SALE, DELIVERY, AND POSSESSION; GENERAL PROHIBITIONS;
EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   No person shall manufacture, bottle, blend, sell, barter, transport,
deliver, furnish, or possess any alcoholic liquor for beverage purposes except
as specifically provided in this chapter and the state’s Liquor Control Act.
   (B)   Nothing in this chapter shall prevent:
      (1)   The possession of alcoholic liquor legally obtained as provided in
this chapter or the Act for the personal use of the possessor and his or her
family or guests;
      (2)   The making of wine, cider, or other alcoholic liquor by a person
from fruits, vegetables, or grains, or the product thereof, by simple
fermentation and without distillation, if made solely for the use of the maker
and his or her family and guests;
      (3)   Any duly licensed practicing physician or dentist from possessing
or using alcoholic liquor in the strict practice of his or her profession, any
hospital or other institution caring for the sick and diseased persons from
possessing and using alcoholic liquor for the treatment of bona fide patients
of that hospital or other institution, or any drug store employing a licensed
pharmacist from possessing or using alcoholic liquor in the compounding of
prescriptions of licensed physicians;
      (4)   The possession and dispensation of alcoholic liquor by an
authorized representative of any religion on the premises of a place of
worship, for the purpose of conducting any bona fide religious rite, ritual, or
ceremony;
      (5)   Persons who are 16 years old or older from carrying alcoholic
liquor from licensed establishments when they are accompanied by a person not a
minor;
      (6)   Persons who are 16 years old or older from handling alcoholic
liquor containers and alcoholic liquor in the course of their employment;
      (7)   Persons who are 16 years old or older from removing and disposing
of alcoholic liquor containers for the convenience of the employer and
customers in the course of their employment;
      (8)   Persons who are 16 years old or older from completing a transaction
for the sale of alcoholic liquor in the course of their employment if they are
not handling or serving alcoholic liquor; or
      (9)   Persons who are 19 years old or older from serving or selling
alcoholic liquor in the course of their employment.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. 53-168.06) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.16 ACQUISITION AND POSSESSION; RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to purchase, receive, acquire,
accept, or possess any alcoholic liquor acquired from any other person other
than one duly licensed to handle alcoholic liquor under this chapter and the
state’s Liquor Control Act unless within specific exemptions or exceptions
provided in this chapter or the Act.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. 53-175)
   (B)   (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this section, it shall be
unlawful for any person to transport, import, bring, ship, or cause to be
transported, imported, brought, or shipped into this state for the personal use
of the possessor, his or her family, or guests a quantity of alcoholic liquor
in excess of nine liters in any one calendar month.
      (2)   Division (B)(1) above does not apply to a person importing
alcoholic liquor from a holder of a retail direct sales shipping license or its
equivalent, which alcoholic liquor is for personal use or for use by such
person’s family or guests, if the total amount imported by such person in any
one calendar year does not exceed 108 liters.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. 53-194.03)
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.17 LICENSEE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   No license shall be issued to:
      (1)   A person who is not a resident of the state, except in case of
railroad, airline, boat, or special party bus licenses;
      (2)   A person who is not of good character and reputation in the
community in which he or she resides;
      (3)   A person who is not a resident of this state and legally able to
work in this state;
      (4)   A person who has been convicted of or has pleaded guilty to a
felony under the laws of this state, any other state, or the United States;
      (5)   A person who has been convicted of or has pleaded guilty to any
Class I misdemeanor pursuant Neb. Rev. Stat. Ch. 28, Art. 3, 4, 7, 8, 10, 11,
or 12, or any similar offense under a prior criminal statute or in another
state, except that any additional requirements imposed by this division (A)(5)
on May 18, 1983, shall not prevent any person holding a license on that date
from retaining or renewing that license if the conviction or plea occurred
prior to May 18, 1983;
      (6)   A person whose license issued under the state’s Liquor Control Act
has been revoked for cause;
      (7)   A person who at the time of application for renewal of any license
issued under the Act would not be eligible for that license upon initial
application;
      (8)   A partnership, unless one of the partners is a resident of the
state and unless all the members of that partnership are otherwise qualified to
obtain a license;
      (9)   A limited liability company, unless one of the members is a
resident of the state and unless all the members of that company are otherwise
qualified to obtain a license;
      (10)   A corporation, if any officer or director of the corporation or
any stockholder owning in the aggregate more than 25% of the stock of that
corporation would be ineligible to receive a license under this section for any
reason other than the reasons stated in divisions (A)(1) and (A)(3) above, or
if a manager of a corporate licensee would be ineligible to receive a license
under this section for any reason. This division (A)(10) shall not apply to
railroad licenses;
      (11)   A person whose place of business is conducted by a manager or
agent, unless that manager or agent possesses the same qualifications required
of the licensee;
      (12)   A person who does not own the premises for which a license is
sought or does not have a lease or combination of leases on the premises for
the full period for which the license is to be issued;
      (13)   Except as provided in this division (A)(13), an applicant whose
spouse is ineligible under this section to receive and hold a liquor license.
Such an applicant shall become eligible for a liquor license only if the State
Liquor Control Commission finds from the evidence that the public interest will
not be infringed upon if the license is granted. It shall be prima facie
evidence that when a spouse is ineligible to receive a liquor license, the
applicant is also ineligible to receive a liquor license. This prima facie
evidence shall be overcome if it is shown to the satisfaction of the
Commission:
         (a)   The licensed business will be the sole property of the
applicant; and
         (b)   The licensed premises will be properly operated.
      (14)   A person seeking a license for premises which do not meet
standards for fire safety as established by the State Fire Marshal;
      (15)   A law enforcement officer, except that this division (A)(15) shall
not prohibit a law enforcement officer from holding membership in any nonprofit
organization holding a liquor license or from participating in any manner in
the management or administration of a nonprofit organization; or
      (16)   A person less than 21 years of age.
   (B)   When a trustee is the licensee, the beneficiary or beneficiaries of
the trust shall comply with the requirements of this section, but nothing in
this section shall prohibit any such beneficiary from being a minor or person
who is mentally incompetent.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. 53-125)
§ 111.18 LICENSES; CITY POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   The City Council is authorized to regulate by ordinance, not
inconsistent with the state’s Liquor Control Act, the business of all retail,
bottle club, craft brewery, and microdistillery licensees carried on within the
corporate limits of the city.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. 53-134.03)
   (B)   During the period of 45 days after the date of receipt by mail or
electronic delivery from the State Liquor Control Commission notice and a copy
of an application for a new license to sell alcoholic liquor at retail, a craft
brewery license, or a microdistillery license, the City Council may make and
submit to the Commission recommendations relative to the granting or refusal to
grant the license to the applicant.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. 53-131)
   (C)   The City Council, with respect to licenses within the corporate limits
of the city, has the following powers, functions, and duties with respect to
retail, bottle club, craft brewery, and microdistillery licenses:
      (1)   To cancel or revoke for cause retail, craft brewery, or
microdistillery licenses to sell or dispense alcoholic liquor or bottle club
licenses issued to persons for premises within its jurisdiction, subject to the
right of appeal to the State Liquor Control Commission;
      (2)   To enter or to authorize any law enforcement officer to enter at
any time upon any premises licensed under the state’s Liquor Control Act to
determine whether any provision of the Act, any rule or regulation adopted and
promulgated pursuant to the Act, or any ordinance, resolution, rule, or
regulation adopted by the City Council has been or is being violated, and at
that time examine the premises of the licensee in connection with such
determination. Any law enforcement officer who determines that any provision of
the Act, any rule or regulation adopted and promulgated pursuant to the Act, or
any ordinance, resolution, rule, or regulation adopted by the local governing
body has been or is being violated shall report such violation in writing to
the Executive Director of the Commission:
         (a)   Within 30 days after determining that such violation has
occurred;
         (b)   Within 30 days after the conclusion of an ongoing police
investigation; or
         (c)   Within 30 days after the verdict in a prosecution related to
such an ongoing police investigation if the prosecuting attorney determines
that reporting such violation prior to the verdict would jeopardize such
prosecution, whichever is later;
      (3)   To receive a signed complaint from any citizen within its
jurisdiction that any provision of the Act, any rule or regulation adopted and
promulgated pursuant to the Act, or any ordinance, resolution, rule, or
regulation relating to alcoholic liquor has been or is being violated and to
act upon these complaints in the manner provided in the Act;
      (4)   To receive retail, bottle club, craft brewery, and microdistillery
license fees as provided in Neb. Rev. Stat. 53-124 and 53-124.01 and pay the
same, after the license has been delivered to the applicant, to the City
Treasurer;
      (5)   To examine or cause to be examined any applicant or any retail,
bottle club, craft brewery, or microdistillery licensee upon whom notice of
cancellation or revocation has been served as provided in the Act, to examine
or cause to be examined the books and records of any applicant or licensee,
except as otherwise provided for bottle club licensees under state law, and to
hear testimony and to take proof for its information in the performance of its
duties. For purposes of obtaining any of the information desired, the City
Council may authorize its agent or attorney to act on its behalf;
      (6)   To cancel or revoke on its own motion any license if, upon the same
notice and hearing as provided in §
111.25, it determines that the licensee has violated any of the provisions of
the state’s Liquor Control Act or any valid and subsisting ordinance,
resolution, rule, or regulation duly enacted, adopted, and promulgated relating
to alcoholic liquor. The order of cancellation or revocation may be appealed to
the Commission within 30 days after the date of the order by filing a notice of
appeal with the Commission. The Commission shall handle the appeal in the
manner provided for hearing on an application in Neb. Rev. Stat. 53-133;
      (7)   Upon receipt from the Commission of the notice and copy of
application as provided in Neb. Rev. Stat. 53-131, to fix a time and place for
a hearing at which the City Council shall receive evidence, either orally or by
affidavit from the applicant and any other person, bearing upon the propriety
of the issuance of a license. Notice of the time and place of the hearing shall
be published in a legal newspaper in or of general circulation in the city, one
time not less than seven and not more than 14 days before the time of the
hearing. The notice shall include, but not be limited to, a statement that all
persons desiring to give evidence before the City Council in support of or in
protest against the issuance of the license may do so at the time of the
hearing. The hearing shall be held not more than 45 days after the date of
receipt of the notice from the Commission, and after the hearing the City
Council shall cause to be recorded in the minute record of its proceedings a
resolution recommending either issuance or refusal of the license. The City
Clerk shall mail to the Commission by first class mail, postage prepaid, a copy
of the resolution which shall state the cost of the published notice, except
that failure to comply with this provision shall not void any license issued by
the Commission. If the Commission refuses to issue such a license, the cost of
publication of notice shall be paid by the Commission from the security for
costs;
      (8)   To review and authorize an application by a retail, bottle club,
craft brewery, farm winery, or microdistillery licensee for a temporary
expansion of its licensed premises within the jurisdiction of the local
governing body to an immediately adjacent area owned or leased by the licensee
or to an immediately adjacent street, parking lot, or alley, not to exceed 50
days for calendar year 2020 and, for each calendar year thereafter, not to
exceed 15 days per calendar year, as provided in Neb. Rev. Stat. 53-123.12 and
Neb. Rev. Stat. 53-129; and
      (9)   To review and authorize an application by a craft brewery, farm
winery, or microdistillery licensee that holds a promotional farmers market
special designated license for a permit to use such promotional farmers market
special designated license to sell or dispense alcoholic liquor, which the
holder is licensed to produce, at a farmers market within the jurisdiction of
the local governing body as provided in Neb. Rev. Stat. 53-124.17. The local
governing body shall electronically notify the commission within five days
after authorization of any permit pursuant to this subdivision.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. 53-134)
   (D)   (1)   When the State Liquor Control Commission mails or delivers to
the City Clerk a retail, craft brewery, or microdistillery license issued or
renewed by the Commission, the City Clerk shall deliver the license to the
licensee upon receipt from the licensee of proof of payment of:
         (a)   The license fee if by the terms of Neb. Rev. Stat. 53-124 the
fee is payable to the City Treasurer;
         (b)   Any fee for publication of notice of hearing before the City
Council upon the application for the license;
         (c)   The fee for publication of notice of renewal, if applicable, as
provided in Neb. Rev. Stat. 53-135.01; and
         (d)   Occupation taxes, if any, imposed by the city, except that Class
J retail licensees shall not be subject to occupation taxes.
      (2)   Notwithstanding any ordinance or charter power to the contrary, the
city shall not impose an occupation tax on the business of any person, firm, or
corporation licensed under the state’s Liquor Control Act and doing business
within the corporate limits of the city in any sum which exceeds two times the
amount of the license fee required to be paid under the Act to obtain that
license.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. 53-132)
§ 111.19 LICENSED PREMISES; INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   (1)   The City Council shall cause frequent inspection to be made on
the premises of all retail licensees and bottle club licensees.
      (2)   If it is found that any such licensee is violating any provision of
this chapter, the state’s Liquor Control Act, or the rules and regulations of
the State Liquor Control Commission, or is failing to observe in good faith the
purposes of this chapter or the Act, the license may be suspended, canceled, or
revoked after the licensee is given an opportunity to be heard in his or her
defense.
   (B)   The City Council may inspect a charter bus providing service under a
certificate of public convenience and necessity granted by the Public Service
Commission when the owner or operator of the charter allows the consumption of
alcoholic liquor in the charter bus by an individual who is 21 years of age or
older so long as the inspection is performed when the bus has stopped for the
purpose of allowing passengers to embark or disembark.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. 53-116.01)
§ 111.20 LICENSE RENEWAL; CITY POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   A retail or bottle club license issued by the State Liquor Control
Commission and outstanding may be automatically renewed by the Commission in
the absence of a written request by the City Council to require the licensee to
submit an application for renewal. Any licensed retail premises located in an
area which is annexed to the city shall file a formal application for a
license, and while the application is pending, the licensee may continue all
license privileges until the original license expires or is canceled or
revoked. If that license expires within 60 days following the annexation date
of the area, the license may be renewed by order of the Commission for not more
than one year.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. 53-135)
   (B)   (1)   The City Clerk shall cause to be published in a legal newspaper
in or of general circulation in the city, one time between January 10 and
January 30 of each year, individual notice in the form prescribed by law of the
right of automatic renewal of each retail liquor and beer license within the
city, except that notice of the right of automatic renewal of Class C licenses
shall be published between the dates of July 10 and July 30 of each year.
      (2)   If written protests to the issuance of automatic renewal of a
license are filed in the office of the City Clerk by three or more residents of
the city on or before February 10, or August 10 for Class C licenses, the City
Council shall hold a hearing to determine whether continuation of the license
should be allowed. Upon the conclusion of any hearing required by this section,
the City Council may request a licensee to submit an application as provided in
Neb. Rev. Stat. 53-135.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. 53-135.01)
§ 111.21 CATERING LICENSES.
   (A)   The holder of a license to sell alcoholic liquor at retail issued
under Neb. Rev. Stat. 53-124, a craft brewery license, a microdistillery
license, or a farm winery license may obtain an annual catering license by
filing an application and license fee with the State Liquor Control Commission.
   (B)   Upon receipt from the Commission of the notice and a copy of the
application as provided in Neb. Rev. Stat. 53-124.12, the City Council shall
process the application in the same manner as provided in §
111.23.
   (C)   The City Council, with respect to catering licensees within its
corporate limits, may cancel a catering license for cause for the remainder of
the period for which that catering license is issued. Any person whose catering
license is canceled may appeal to the District Court.
   (D)   The City Council may impose an occupation tax on the business of a
catering licensee doing business within the liquor license jurisdiction of the
City Council. The tax may not exceed double the license fee for a catering
license.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. 53-124.12)
§ 111.22 DISPLAY OF LICENSE.
   Every licensee under the state’s Liquor Control Act shall cause his or her
license to be framed and hung in plain view in a conspicuous place on the
licensed premises.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. 53-148) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.23 OWNER OF PREMISES OR AGENT; LIABILITY.
   If the owner of the licensed premises or any person from whom the licensee
derives the right to possession of the premises, or the agent of that owner or
person, knowingly permits the licensee to use the licensed premises in
violation of the terms of the state’s Liquor Control Act or any city ordinance,
that owner, agent, or other person shall be deemed guilty of a violation of the
Act or ordinance to the same extent as the licensee and be subject to the same
punishment.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. 53-1,101) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.24 LICENSEE; LIABILITY FOR ACTS OF OFFICER, AGENT, OR EMPLOYEE.
   Every act or omission of whatsoever nature constituting a violation of any
of the provisions of the state’s Liquor Control Act or any city ordinance by
any officer, director, manager, or other agent or employee of any licensee, if
the act is committed or omission is made with the authorization, knowledge, or
approval of the licensee, shall be deemed and held to be the act of the
employer or licensee, and the employer or licensee shall be punishable in the
same manner as if the act or omission had been done or omitted by the licensee
personally.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. 53-1,102) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.25 CITIZEN COMPLAINTS.
   (A)   Any five residents of the city shall have the right to file a
complaint with the City Council stating that any retail licensee or bottle club
licensee subject to the jurisdiction of the City Council has been or is
violating any provision of the state’s Liquor Control Act or the rules or
regulations issued pursuant to the Act.
   (B)   The complaint shall be in writing in the form prescribed by the City
Council and shall be signed and sworn to by the parties complaining.
   (C)   The complaint shall state the particular provision, rule, or
regulation believed to have been violated and the facts in detail upon which
belief is based.
   (D)   If the City Council is satisfied that the complaint substantially
charges a violation and that from the facts alleged there is reasonable cause
for that belief, it shall set the matter for hearing within ten days from the
date of the filing of the complaint and shall serve notice upon the licensee of
the time and place of the hearing and of the particular charge in the
complaint.
   (E)   The complaint shall in all cases be disposed of by the City Council
within 30 days from the date the complaint was filed by resolution thereof,
which resolution shall be deemed the final order for purposes of appeal to the
State Liquor Control Commission as provided in Neb. Rev. Stat. 53-1,115.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. 53-134.04)
RETAIL ESTABLISHMENTS
§ 111.40 LOCATION.
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided in division (B) below, no license shall
be issued for the sale at retail of any alcoholic liquor or for a bottle club
within 150 feet of any church, school, hospital, or home for indigent persons
or for veterans and their wives or children. This prohibition does not apply to
any location within such distance of 150 feet:
      (1)   For which a license to sell alcoholic liquor at retail or for a
bottle club has been granted by the State Liquor Control Commission for two
years continuously prior to making of application for license;
      (2)   To hotels offering restaurant service, to regularly organized
clubs, or to restaurants, food shops, or other places where sale of alcoholic
liquor is not the principal business carried on, if such place of business so
exempted was established for such purposes prior to May 24, 1935; or
      (3)   To a college or university in the state which is subject to Neb.
Rev. Stat. 53-177.01.
   (B)   If a proposed location for the sale at retail of any alcoholic liquor
or for a bottle club is within 150 feet of any church, a license may be issued
if the commission gives notice to the affected church and holds a hearing as
prescribed in Neb. Rev. Stat. 53-133 if the affected church submits a written
request for a hearing.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. 53-177)
   (C)   No alcoholic liquor, other than beer, shall be sold for consumption on
the premises within 300 feet from the campus of any college or university
within the city, and no bottle club shall be operated within 300 feet from the
campus of any college, except that this section:
      (1)   Does not prohibit a nonpublic college or university from
contracting with an individual or corporation holding a license to sell
alcoholic liquor at retail for the purpose of selling alcoholic liquor at
retail on the campus of such college or university at events sanctioned by such
college or university but does prohibit the sale of alcoholic liquor at retail
by such licensee on the campus of such nonpublic college or university at
student activities or events; and
      (2)   Does not prohibit sales of alcoholic liquor by a community college
culinary education program pursuant to Neb. Rev. Stat. 53-124.15.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. 53-177.01)
Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   State commission may waive 300-feet requirement, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 53-
177.01
§ 111.41 ACCESS TO DWELLINGS.
   Except in the case of hotels and clubs, no alcoholic liquor shall be
manufactured or sold at retail or wholesale upon any premises which have any
access which leads from the premises to any other portion of the same building
or structure used for dwelling or lodging purposes and permitted to be used or
kept accessible for use by the public. This section does not prevent any
connection between the premises and such other portion of the building or
structure which is used only by the licensee, his or her family, or personal
guests.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. 53-178) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.42 SANITARY CONDITIONS.
   It shall be unlawful to open for public use any retail liquor establishment
that is not in a clean and sanitary condition. Toilet facilities shall be
adequate and convenient for customers and patrons. The licensed premises shall
be subject to any health inspections the City Council or the city police may
make or cause to be made. All applications for liquor licenses shall be viewed
in part from the standpoint of the sanitary conditions, and a report concerning
the sanitary conditions shall be made at all hearings concerning the
application for or renewal of a liquor license.
Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority to regulate licensed premises, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 53-134.03
   State sanitary rules and regulations authorized, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 53-118
§ 111.43 HOURS OF SALE.
   (A)   Alcoholic liquor, including beer, may be sold at retail or dispensed
for consumption on or off the premises during the following hours:
      (1)   On Sunday, between the hours of 12:00 p.m. and 2:00 a.m. the
following day; and
      (2)   On Monday through Saturday, between the hours of 6:00 a.m. and 2:00
a.m. the following day.
   (B)   (1)   No person shall consume any alcoholic liquor, including beer, on
licensed premises where it is sold for consumption on the premises for a period
of time longer than 15 minutes after the time fixed herein for stopping the
sale of alcoholic liquors, including beer, on the premises.
      (2)   No person shall permit or allow any beer, bottles, glasses, or
containers of any kind to be or remain upon any table, booth, counter, or bar
on his or her licensed premises for a period of time longer than 15 minutes
after the time fixed for stopping the sale of alcoholic liquor, including beer,
on the premises.
      (3)   No person except the licensee or his or her employees shall remain
on the licensed premises where alcoholic liquor, including beer, is legally
sold, 15 minutes after the time fixed for stopping the sale of alcoholic
liquor, including beer, on the premises; and all such licensed premises shall
be closed and securely locked during the hours fixed herein when it is unlawful
for persons to remain on the premises, unless the recipient of the license has
some other lawful business in connection therewith.
(Prior Code, § 112.28) (Ord. 1997-10.2, passed 11-17-1997; Ord. 2005-12.1,
passed 12-12-2005; Ord. 2006-6.1, passed 8-16-2006; Ord. 2011-6.1, passed 8-15-
2011) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 53-179
§ 111.44 CREDIT SALES PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person shall sell or furnish alcoholic liquor at retail to any
person on credit, on a passbook, on an order on a store, in exchange for any
goods, wares, or merchandise, or in payment for any services rendered, and if
any person extends credit for any such purpose, the debt thereby attempted to
be created shall not be recoverable at law.
   (B)   Nothing in this section shall prevent the following:
      (1)   Any club holding a Class C license from permitting checks or
statements for alcoholic liquor to be signed by members or bona fide guests of
members and charged to the account of such members or guests in accordance with
the bylaws of such club;
      (2)   Any hotel or restaurant holding a retail license from permitting
checks or statements for liquor to be signed by regular guests residing at such
hotel or eating at such restaurant and charged to the accounts of such guests;
or
      (3)   Any licensed retailer engaged in the sale of wine or distilled
spirits from issuing tasting cards to customers.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. 53-183) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.45 ORIGINAL PACKAGE REQUIRED.
   (A)   No person, except a manufacturer or wholesaler, shall fill or refill,
in whole or in part, any original package of alcoholic liquor with the same or
any other kind or quality of alcoholic liquor.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to have in his or her possession
for sale at retail any bottles, casks, or other containers containing alcoholic
liquor except in original packages.
   (C)   Nothing in this section shall prohibit the refilling of original
packages of alcoholic liquor for strictly private use and not for resale.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. 53-184) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.46 MINOR’S PRESENCE RESTRICTED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person who owns, manages, or leases an
establishment selling alcoholic beverages at retail to allow any minor under
the age of 18 years of age to frequent or otherwise remain in the establishment
unless the minor is accompanied by his or her parent or legal guardian, and
unless the minor remains seated with and under the immediate control of the
parent or legal guardian.
Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority to regulate, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 53-134.03
§ 111.47 KEG SALES; REQUIREMENTS; PROHIBITED ACTS.
   (A)   When any person licensed to sell alcoholic liquor at retail sells
alcohol for consumption off the premises in a container with a liquid capacity
of five or more gallons or 18.92 or more liters, the seller shall record the
date of the sale, the keg identification number, the purchaser’s name and
address, and the number of the purchaser’s motor vehicle operator’s license,
state identification card, or military identification, if the military
identification contains a picture of the purchaser, together with the
purchaser’s signature. This record shall be on a form prescribed by the State
Liquor Control Commission and shall be kept by the licensee at the retail
establishment where the purchase was made for not less than six months. The
records kept pursuant to this section shall be available for inspection by any
law enforcement officer during normal business hours or at any other reasonable
time. Any person violating this section shall be guilty of an offense.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. 53-167.02)
   (B)   Any person who unlawfully tampers with, alters, or removes the keg
identification number from a container described in division (A) above or is in
possession of a container described in division (A) above with an altered or
removed keg identification number after the container has been taken from the
licensed premises pursuant to a retail sale and before its return to the
licensed premises or other place where returned kegs are accepted shall be
guilty of an offense.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. 53-167.03)
Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 113: AMUSEMENTS AND LEISURE
Section
Mobile Food Vendors
   
113.01   Permit
   
113.02   Application
   
113.03   Issuance
   
113.04   Qualifications of applicant
   
113.05   Transfer
   
113.06   Exhibition of permit
   
113.07   Vendor’s truck; safety equipment required
   
113.08   Expiration of permit
   
113.09   Vending rules
   
113.10   Hours of operation
   
113.11   Litter control
   
113.12   Revocation of permit
   
113.13   Appeal
Lotteries
   
113.25   Keno lottery established
   
113.26   Age requirement
   
113.27   Restrictions
   
113.28   Sales outlet locations
   
113.29   Approval required
   
113.30   Qualification standards
MOBILE FOOD VENDORS
§ 113.01 PERMIT.
   (A)   Every owner and operator desiring to engage in mobile food vending in
the city, whether on public or private property, shall obtain a permit therefor
as hereinafter provided.
   (B)   For purposes of this subchapter, MOBILE FOOD VENDING shall mean
traveling from place to place selling or offering for sale prepared foodstuffs
directly from a motor vehicle.
(Ord. 2021-6.1, passed 6-14-2021)
§ 113.02 APPLICATION.
   Applications for permits under this subchapter shall be filed with the City
Clerk/Treasurer on a form to be furnished by the City Clerk/Treasurer which
shall require, at a minimum, the following information:
   (A)   Name, age, and description of the applicant;
   (B)   Address;
   (C)   Brief description of the nature of the business and the foods to be
sold;
   (D)   If employed, the name and address of the employer, together with
documents verifying such employment;
   (E)   The length of time (not to exceed one year) for which the right to do
operate a food truck in the city is desired;
   (F)   A description of the vehicle to be used, together with the license
number;
   (G)   A photograph of the applicant, taken within 60 days immediately prior
to the date of the filing of the application, which picture shall be two inches
by two inches showing the head and shoulders of the applicant in a clear and
distinguishing manner;
   (H)   A statement as to whether or not the applicant has been convicted of
any crime or misdemeanor, the nature of the offense, and the punishment or
penalty assessed therefor; and
   (I)   At the time of filing the application, a non-refundable permit fee of
an amount set by separate resolution shall be paid to the City Clerk/Treasurer.
(Ord. 2021-6.1, passed 6-14-2021)
§ 113.03 ISSUANCE.
   (A)   Upon receipt of an application as described in §
113.02, the City Clerk/Treasurer shall endeavor to determine if the statements
contained within the application are true and correct and shall approve or deny
such application within 30 days as provided herein.
   (B)   If, as a result of such investigation, the City Clerk/Treasurer finds
that the statements within the application are materially untrue or incorrect,
or if it is found that the applicant has been convicted within the past ten
years of a felony or a crime involving moral turpitude, the City Clerk/
Treasurer shall deny such application and provide written reasons for the
disapproval, and notify the applicant that his or her application is
disapproved and that no permit will be issued.
   (C)   If, as a result of such investigation, the statements contained in the
application are found to be true and correct, and the applicant has not been
convicted within the past ten years of any felony or any crime involving moral
turpitude, the City Clerk/Treasurer shall approve the application and issue the
permit.
   (D)   The permit shall contain the signature and seal of the issuing officer
and shall show the name and address of the permittee and the kind of foods to
be sold thereunder, the date of issuance, and the length of time the same shall
be operative. The City Clerk/Treasurer shall keep a permanent record of all
permits issued.
(Ord. 2021-6.1, passed 6-14-2021)
§ 113.04 QUALIFICATIONS OF APPLICANT.
   (A)   No permit shall be issued to any person who:
      (1)   Has been convicted of a felony or a crime involving moral turpitude
within the ten years immediately preceding the date of the filing of such
application with the City Clerk/Treasurer; or
      (2)   Is under the age of 16 years unless the applicant first obtains an
employment certificate as required by state law.
   (B)   Additionally, any person whose permit has been revoked pursuant to §
113.12 shall not be eligible for the issuance of a new permit for a period of
six months from the date of such revocation and only upon meeting the other
qualifications required hereunder.
(Ord. 2021-6.1, passed 6-14-2021)
§ 113.05 TRANSFER.
   Permits issued under this subchapter shall be nontransferable and no such
permit shall be used at any time by any person other than the one to whom it
was issued.
(Ord. 2021-6.1, passed 6-14-2021)
§ 113.06 EXHIBITION OF PERMIT.
   Vendors shall exhibit their permit at the request of any city officer or at
the request of any customer.
(Ord. 2021-6.1, passed 6-14-2021)
§ 113.07 VENDOR’S TRUCK; SAFETY EQUIPMENT REQUIRED.
   In addition to other equipment required by law, every vendor’s truck shall
be equipped with a convex mirror mounted on the front so that the driver in his
or her normal seating position can see the area in front of the truck obscured
by the hood.
(Ord. 2021-6.1, passed 6-14-2021)
§ 113.08 EXPIRATION OF PERMIT.
   All permits issued under the provisions of this subchapter shall expire on
the date specified in the permit, but in no event later than one year after the
issuance of the same.
(Ord. 2021-6.1, passed 6-14-2021)
§ 113.09 VENDING RULES.
   It shall be unlawful to engage in vending except in accordance with the
following rules.
   (A)   A permittee engaged in vending shall have in full force and effect a
permit issued by the City Clerk/Treasurer as herein provided; a sales tax
permit from the state (or showing of exemption) and a permit issued by the
Department of Agriculture of the state, as required by the state’s Pure Foods
Act, being Neb. Rev. Stat. 81-2,239 et seq.
   (B)   A permittee shall vend only when the vendor’s truck is lawfully parked
or stopped.
   (C)   A permittee shall vend only from the side of the vendor’s truck away
from moving traffic and at the curb or edge of the roadway.
   (D)   A permittee shall not vend to a person standing in the roadway.
   (E)   A permittee shall not vend on a street unless there is a clear view of
the vendor’s truck for a distance of 200 feet in each direction.
   (F)   A permittee shall not vend on state highways, or on streets where the
speed limit exceeds 25 mph.
   (G)   A permittee shall not allow a vendor’s truck to stand in any roadway
longer than four hours in any one location.
   (H)   A permittee shall not allow a vendor’s truck to park or stop for any
period of time on or within 150 feet of a portion of a street or roadway which
is adjacent to any school grounds during the period of time from 8:00 a.m. to
4:30 p.m.
   (I)   A permittee shall comply with all applicable local, county, and state
noise ordinances, and shall use no loud or offensive device to attract
customers.
(Ord. 2021-6.1, passed 6-14-2021) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 113.10 HOURS OF OPERATION.
   (A)   Mobile food vendors are not allowed to operate in the public right-of-
way between the hours of 9:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m. the following day, seven days
a week.
   (B)   Mobile food vendors are not allowed to operate on private property
between the hours of 12:00 a.m. and the following 6:00 a.m., seven days a week.
(Ord. 2021-6.1, passed 6-14-2021) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 113.11 LITTER CONTROL.
   (A)   Mobile food vendors shall be responsible for providing a trash bin for
public use with a capacity of not less than 30 gallons.
   (B)   All litter within 25 feet of the mobile food vending unit shall be
removed by the mobile food vendor upon closing.
   (C)   Litter shall be removed at the mobile food vendors expense and shall
not be placed in an unauthorized private or city receptacle.
(Ord. 2021-6.1, passed 6-14-2021) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 113.12 REVOCATION OF PERMIT.
   (A)   Permits issued under the provisions of this subchapter may be revoked
by the City Clerk/Treasurer of the city after notice and hearing for any of the
following causes:
      (1)   Fraud, misrepresentation, or false statement contained in the
application for the permit;
      (2)   Fraud, misrepresentation, or false statement made in the course of
carrying on the permittee’s business;
      (3)   Any violation of this ordinance; or
      (4)   Conviction of any felony or crime involving moral turpitude.
   (B)   (1)   Notice of the hearing for revocation of the permit shall be
given in writing, setting forth specifically the grounds of complaint and the
time and place of hearing.
      (2)   Such notice shall be mailed, postage prepaid, to the permittee at
his or her last known address at least five days prior to the date set for
hearing.
(Ord. 2021-6.1, passed 6-14-2021)
§ 113.13 APPEAL.
   (A)   Any person aggrieved by the action of the County Sheriff’s Office or
the City Clerk/Treasurer in denial of an application for a permit, or in a
decision with reference to the revocation of a permit under this chapter, shall
have the right of appeal to the City Council.
   (B)   Such appeal shall be taken by filing with the City Clerk/Treasurer,
within 14 days after notice of the action complained of has been mailed to such
person’s last known address, a written statement setting forth the grounds for
the appeal.
   (C)   The City Council shall set a time and place for hearing on such appeal
and notice of such hearing shall be given to the person aggrieved. The City
Council shall render a decision within 30 days after the hearing.
(Ord. 2021-6.1, passed 6-14-2021)
LOTTERIES
§ 113.25 KENO LOTTERY ESTABLISHED.
   As authorized by the state’s County and City Lottery Act (Neb. Rev. Stat. 9-
601 et seq.) and as duly approved by a majority of the registered voters of the
city, the city hereby establishes a keno-style municipal lottery for the
purpose of “community betterment” as that term is defined by the state’s County
and City Lottery Act.
(Ord. 2015-8.2, passed 8-10-2015)
§ 113.26 AGE REQUIREMENT.
   (A)   No person under 19 years of age shall play or participate in any way
in the lottery established and conducted by the city.
   (B)   Nothing shall prohibit the following persons from playing the lottery
conducted by the city as long as such person is 19 years of age or older;
      (1)   Any member of the City Council, a city official, or the immediate
family member or official; or
      (2)   An owner or officer of an authorized sales outlet location for the
city.
   (C)   No person, or employee or agent of any person or the city, shall
knowingly permit an individual under 19 years of age to play or participate any
way in the lottery conducted by the city.
(Ord. 2015-8.2, passed 8-10-2015) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 113.27 RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   No owner or officer of a lottery operator with whom the city contracts
to conduct its lottery shall play the lottery conducted by the city. No
employee or agent of the city, lottery operator, or authorized sales outlet
location shall play the lottery of the city during such time as he or she is
actually working at such lottery or while on duty.
   (B)   For purposes of this section, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      IMMEDIATE FAMILY OF A MEMBER OF THE CITY COUNCIL OR A CITY OFFICIAL.
         (a)   A person who is related to the member of official by blood,
marriage, or adoption and resides in the same household; or
         (b)   A person who is claimed by the member or official, or the spouse
of the member or official, as a dependent for federal income tax purposes.
(Ord. 2015-8.2, passed 8-10-2015) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 113.28 SALES OUTLET LOCATIONS.
   The lottery operator with whom the city contracts to conduct its lottery
shall not operate the lottery at a sales outlet location other than the
location of the lottery operator without prior approval of the sales outlet
location by the City Council, The City Council shall approve or disapprove each
sales outlet location and individual, sole proprietorship, partnership, limited
liability company, or corporation which desires to conduct the lottery at its
sales outlet location solely on the basis of the qualification standards
prescribed in §
113.29.
(Ord. 2015-8.2, passed 8-10-2015)
§ 113.29 APPROVAL REQUIRED.
   (A)   Any individual, sole proprietorship, partnership, limited liability
company, or corporation which seeks to have its location approved as an
authorized sales outlet location shall:
      (1)   Obtain a retail liquor license for consumption on the premises
pursuant to Neb. Rev. Stat. Ch. 53, Art. 1;
      (2)   Not have been convicted of, forfeited bond upon a charge of, or
pleaded guilty or nolo contendere to any offense or crime, whether a felony or
a misdemeanor, involving any gambling activity or fraud, theft, willful failure
to make required payments or reports, or filing false reports with a
governmental agency at any level;
      (3)   Not have been convicted of, forfeited bond upon a charge of, or
pleaded guilty or nolo contendere to any felony other than those described in
division (A)(2) above within the ten years preceding the filing of this
application;
      (4)   Not have had a gaming license revoked or canceled under the state’s
Bingo Act (Neb. Rev. Stat. 9-201 et seq.), the state’s County and City Lottery
Act (Neb. Rev. Stat. 9-601 et seq.), the state’s Lottery and Raffle Act (Neb.
Rev. Stat. 9-401 et seq.), or the state’s Pickle Card Lottery Act (Neb. Rev.
Stat. 9-301 et seq.); and
      (5)   Be fit, willing, and able to properly provide the service proposed
in conformance with all provisions and requirements of the state’s County and
City Lottery Act and the rules and regulations adopted and promulgated pursuant
to the Act.
   (B)   The city shall notify the Department of Revenue of all approved
lottery locations within 30 days of approval.
(Ord. 2015-8.2, passed 8-10-2015)
§ 113.30 QUALIFICATION STANDARDS.
   If the person seeking to have its location approved as an authorized sales
outlet location is a partnership, limited liability company, or corporation,
the qualification standards shall apply to every partner of such partnership,
every member of such limited liability company, every officer of such
corporation and every stockholder owning more than 10% of the stock of such
corporation.
(Ord. 2015-8.2, passed 8-10-2015)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   OFFENSES GENERALLY
CHAPTER 130: OFFENSES GENERALLY
Section
General Offenses
   
130.01   Disorderly conduct
   
130.02   Obstruction of public ways
   
130.03   Disturbing the peace
   
130.04   Maintaining a nuisance
   
130.05   Appliances in a yard
   
130.06   Discharge of firearms
   
130.07   Slingshots, air guns, and BB guns
   
130.08   Sexual predator residency regulations
Abandoned and Junked Automobiles
   
130.20   Abandoned automobiles
   
130.21   Unlicensed or inoperable automobiles
   
130.22   Hobbyist permit
 
   
130.99   Penalty
GENERAL OFFENSES
§ 130.01 DISORDERLY CONDUCT.
   Any person who shall knowingly start a fight, fight, commit assault or
battery, make unnecessary noise, or otherwise conduct themselves in such a way
to breach the peace shall be deemed to be guilty of an offense.
(Prior Code, § 130.01) Penalty, see §
130.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 17-556
§ 130.02 OBSTRUCTION OF PUBLIC WAYS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to erect, maintain, or suffer to remain
on any street or public sidewalk a stand, wagon, display, or other obstruction
inconvenient to or inconsistent with the public use of the same.
(Prior Code, § 130.02) Penalty, see §
130.99
Statutory reference:
   Additional authority, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 17-555 and 17-557
   Authority to regulate, excavation and obstruction of streets, see Neb. Rev.
Stat. 17-142
   Penalties for injuring or obstructing roads, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 39-301 and
39-302
§ 130.03 DISTURBING THE PEACE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to assemble or gather
within the municipality with the intent to do an unlawful or disorderly act or
acts, by force or violence against the municipality, or residents therein, or
who shall disturb the public peace, quiet, security, repose, or sense of
morality.
   (B)   Any person or persons so assembled or gathered shall be deemed to be
guilty of an offense.
(Prior Code, § 130.03) Penalty, see §
130.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 28-1322
§ 130.04 MAINTAINING A NUISANCE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to erect, keep up, or continue and
maintain any nuisance to the injury of any part of the citizens of the
municipality.
(Prior Code, § 130.04) Penalty, see §
130.99
Cross-reference:
   Nuisances, generally, see §§
91.15 through
91.21
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 28-1321(1)
§ 130.05 APPLIANCES IN A YARD.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to permit a refrigerator, icebox,
freezer, or any other dangerous appliance to be in the open and accessible to
children whether on private or public property unless the person first removes
all doors and makes the same reasonably safe.
(Prior Code, § 130.05) Penalty, see §
130.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority to prohibit nuisances within zoning jurisdiction, see Neb. Rev.
Stat. 18-1720 and 28-1321
§ 130.06 DISCHARGE OF FIREARMS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, except an officer of the law in
the discharge of official duty, to fire or discharge any gun, pistol, or other
fowling piece within the municipality.
   (B)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to apply to officially
sanctioned public celebrations if the persons so discharging firearms have
written permission from the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 130.08) Penalty, see §
130.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority to regulate, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 17-556
§ 130.07 SLINGSHOTS, AIR GUNS, AND BB GUNS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to discharge a slingshot, air gun, BB
gun, or the like loaded with rock or other dangerous missiles at any time or
under any circumstances within the municipality.
(Prior Code, § 130.09) Penalty, see §
130.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority to regulate, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 17-556
§ 130.08 SEXUAL PREDATOR RESIDENCY REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      CHILD CARE FACILITY. A facility licensed pursuant to the Child Care
Licensing Act, being Neb. Rev. Stat. 71-1908 et seq.
      RESIDE. To sleep, live, or dwell at a place, which may include more than
one location, and may be mobile or transitory.
      RESIDENCE. A place where an individual sleeps, lives, or dwells, which
may include more than one location, and may be mobile or transitory.
      SCHOOL. A public, private, denominational, or a parochial school which
meets the requirements for state accreditation or approval.
      SEX OFFENDER. An individual who has been convicted of a crime listed in
Neb. Rev. Stat. 29-4003 and who is required to register as a SEX OFFENDER
pursuant to the Sex Offender Registration Act, being Neb. Rev. Stat. 29-4001.
      SEXUAL PREDATOR. An individual who is required to register under the Sex
Offender Registration Act, who has been classified as Level 3 because of a high
risk of recidivism as determined by the State Patrol under Neb. Rev. Stat. 29-
4013, and who has victimized a person 18 years of age or younger.
   (B)   Prohibited location of residence. It is unlawful for any sexual
predator to reside within 500 feet from a school or child care facility.
   (C)   Measure of distance. For purposes of determining the minimum distance
separation, the distance shall be measured by following a straight line from
the outer property line of the residence to the nearest outer boundary line of
the school or child care facility.
   (D)   Exceptions. This section shall not apply to a sexual predator who:
      (1)   Resides within a prison or correctional or treatment facility
operated by the state or a political subdivision;
      (2)   Established a residence before July 1, 2006, and has not moved from
that residence; or
      (3)   Established a residence after July 1, 2006, and the school or child
care facility triggering the restriction was established after the initial date
of the sexual predator’s residence at that location.
(Prior Code, § 130.10) (Ord. 2006-11.1, passed 11-13-2006) Penalty, see §
130.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 29-4015 et seq.
ABANDONED AND JUNKED AUTOMOBILES
§ 130.20 ABANDONED AUTOMOBILES.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      ABANDONED VEHICLE.
         (a)   A motor vehicle is an ABANDONED VEHICLE:
            1.   If left unattended, with no license plates or valid In Transit
stickers issued pursuant to the Motor Vehicle Registration Act affixed thereto,
for more than six hours on any public property;
            2.   If left unattended for more than 24 hours on any public
property, except a portion thereof on which parking is legally permitted;
            3.   If left unattended for more than 48 hours, after the parking
of such vehicle has become illegal, if left on a portion of any public property
on which parking is legally permitted;
            4.   If left unattended for more than seven days on private
property if left initially without permission of the owner, or after permission
of the owner is terminated;
            5.   If left for more than 30 days in the custody of a city law
enforcement agency after the agency has sent a letter to the last-registered
owner and lienholder under division (D) below; or
            6.   If removed from private property by the city pursuant to a
city ordinance or this code.
         (b)   An all-terrain vehicle or minibike is an ABANDONED VEHICLE:
            1.   If left unattended for more than 24 hours on any public
property, except a portion thereof on which parking is legally permitted;
            2.   If left unattended for more than 48 hours, after the parking
of such vehicle has become illegal, if left on a portion of any public property
on which parking is legally permitted;
            3.   If left unattended for more than seven days on private
property if left initially without permission of the owner, or after permission
of the owner is terminated;
            4.   If left for more than 30 days in the custody of a city law
enforcement agency after the agency has sent a letter to the last-registered
owner and lienholder under division (D) below; or
            5.   If removed from private property by the city pursuant to a
city ordinance or this code.
         (c)   A MOBILE HOME is an abandoned vehicle if left in place on
private property for more than 30 days after a local governmental unit,
pursuant to an ordinance or resolution, has sent a certified letter to each of
the last-registered owners and posted a notice on the mobile home, stating that
the mobile home is subject to sale or auction or vesting of title as set forth
in Neb. Rev. Stat. 60-1903.
         (d)   No motor vehicle subject to forfeiture under Neb. Rev. Stat. 28-
431 shall be an ABANDONED VEHICLE under this section.
      MOBILE HOME. A movable or portable dwelling constructed to be towed on
its own chassis, connected to utilities, and designed with or without a
permanent foundation for year-round living. It may consist of one or more units
that can be telescoped when towed and expanded later for additional capacity,
or of two or more units, separately towable but designed to be joined into one
integral unit, and shall include a manufactured home as defined in Neb. Rev.
Stat. 71-4603. MOBILE HOME does not include a mobile home or manufactured home
for which an affidavit of affixture has been recorded pursuant to Neb. Rev.
Stat. 60-169.
      PRIVATE PROPERTY. Any privately owned property which is not included
within the definition of public property.
      PUBLIC PROPERTY. Any public right-of-way, street, highway, alley, or park
or other state, county, or city-owned property.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. 60-1901)
   (B)   If an abandoned vehicle, at the time of abandonment, has no license
plates of the current year or valid In Transit stickers issued pursuant to Neb.
Rev. Stat. 60-376 affixed and is of a wholesale value, taking into
consideration the condition of the vehicle, of $500 or less, title shall
immediately vest in the city. Any certificate of title issued under this
division (B) to the city shall be issued at no cost to the city.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. 60-1902)
   (C)   (1)   Except for vehicles governed by division (B) above, the city
shall make an inquiry concerning the last-registered owner of such vehicle as
follows:
         (a)   Abandoned vehicle with license plates affixed, to the
jurisdiction which issued such license plates; or
         (b)   Abandoned vehicle with no license plates affixed, to the
Department of Motor Vehicles.
      (2)   The city shall notify the last-registered owner, if any, and any
lienholder, if any, within 15 business days that the vehicle in question has
been determined to be an abandoned vehicle and that, if unclaimed, either:
         (a)   It will be sold or will be offered at public auction after five
days from the date such notice was mailed; or
         (b)   Title will vest in the city 30 days after the date such notice
was mailed.
      (3)   If the agency described in division (C)(1)(a) or (b) above also
notifies the city that a lien or mortgage exists, such notice shall also be
sent to the lienholder or mortgagee. Any person claiming such vehicle shall be
required to pay the cost of removal and storage of such vehicle.
      (4)   Title to an abandoned vehicle, if unclaimed, shall vest in the
city:
         (a)   Five days after the date the notice is mailed if the vehicle
will be sold or offered at public auction under division (C)(2)(a) above;
         (b)   Thirty days after the date the notice is mailed if the city will
retain the vehicle; or
         (c)   If the last-registered owner cannot be ascertained, when notice
of such fact is received.
      (5)   After title to the abandoned vehicle vests pursuant to division (C)
(4) above, the city may retain for use, sell, or auction the abandoned vehicle.
If the city has determined that the vehicle should be retained for use, the
city shall, at the same time that the notice, if any, is mailed, publish in a
newspaper of general circulation in the jurisdiction an announcement that the
city intends to retain the abandoned vehicle for its use and that title will
vest in the city 30 days after the publication.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. 60-1903)
   (D)   (1)   If a city law enforcement agency has custody of a motor vehicle
for investigatory purposes and has no further need to keep it in custody, it
shall send a certified letter to each of the last-registered owners, if any,
and lienholders, if any, within 15 calendar days stating that the vehicle is in
the custody of the law enforcement agency, that the vehicle is no longer needed
for law enforcement purposes, and that after 30 days the agency will dispose of
the vehicle.
      (2)   This division (D) shall not apply to motor vehicles subject to
forfeiture under Neb. Rev. Stat. 28-431.
      (3)   No storage fees shall be assessed against the registered owner of a
motor vehicle held in custody for investigatory purposes under this division
(D) unless the registered owner or the person in possession of the vehicle when
it is taken into custody is charged with a felony or misdemeanor related to the
offense for which the law enforcement agency took the vehicle into custody. If
a registered owner or the person in possession of the vehicle when it is taken
into custody is charged with a felony or misdemeanor but is not convicted, the
registered owner shall be entitled to a refund of the storage fees.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. 60-1903.01)
   (E)   (1)   A law enforcement agency is authorized to remove an abandoned or
trespassing vehicle from private property upon the request of the private
property owner on whose property the vehicle is located and upon information
indicating that the vehicle is an abandoned or trespassing vehicle. After
removal, the law enforcement agency with custody of the vehicle shall follow
the procedures in Neb. Rev. Stat. 60-1902 and 60-1903.
      (2)   A law enforcement agency is authorized to contact a private towing
service in order to remove an abandoned or trespassing vehicle from private
property upon the request of the private property owner on whose property the
vehicle is located and upon information indicating that the vehicle is an
abandoned or trespassing vehicle. A vehicle towed away under this division (E)
is subject to Neb. Rev. Stat. 52-601.01 to 52-605 and 60-2410 by the private
towing service which towed the vehicle.
      (3)   A private property owner is authorized to remove or cause the
removal of an abandoned or trespassing vehicle from such property and may
contact a private towing service for such removal. A private towing service
that tows the vehicle shall notify, within 24 hours, the designated law
enforcement agency in the jurisdiction from which the vehicle is removed and
provide the registration plate number, the vehicle identification number, if
available, the make, model, and color of the vehicle, and the name of the
private towing service and the location, if applicable, where the private
towing service is storing the vehicle. A vehicle towed away under this division
(E) is subject to Neb. Rev. Stat. 52-601.01 to 52-605 and 60-2410 by the
private towing service that towed the vehicle.
      (4)   For purposes of this section, a trespassing vehicle is a vehicle
that is parked without permission on private property that is not typically
made available for public parking.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. 60-1903.02)
   (F)   If a state agency caused an abandoned vehicle described in division
(A)(a)(5) or (A)(b)(4) above to be removed from public property in this city,
the state agency shall be entitled to custody of the vehicle. If a state agency
caused an abandoned vehicle described in division (A)(a)(1), (2), (3), or (4)
or (A)(b)(1), (2), or (3) above to be removed from public property in the city,
the state agency shall deliver the vehicle to the city which shall have
custody.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. 60-1904)
   (G)   Any proceeds from the sale of an abandoned vehicle in the city’s
custody less any expenses incurred by the city shall be held by the city
without interest, for the benefit of the owner or lienholders of such vehicle
for a period of two years. If not claimed within such two-year period, the
proceeds shall be paid into the General Fund of the city.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. 60-1905)
   (H)   Neither the owner, owner’s agent, owner’s employee, lessee, nor
occupant of the premises from which any abandoned vehicle is removed, nor the
city, shall be liable for any loss or damage to such vehicle which occurs
during its removal or while in the possession of the city or its contractual
agent, while in the possession of a private towing service, or as a result of
any subsequent disposition.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. 60-1906)
   (H)   No person shall cause any vehicle to be an abandoned vehicle as
described in division (A)(a)(1), (2), (3), or (4) or (A)(b)(1), (2), or (3)
above.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. 60-1907)
   (I)   No person other than one authorized by the city or appropriate state
agency shall destroy, deface, or remove any part of a vehicle which is left
unattended on a highway or other public place without license plates affixed or
which is abandoned. Anyone violating this division (I) shall be guilty of an
offense.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. 60-1908)
   (J)   The last-registered owner of an abandoned vehicle shall be liable to
the city for the costs of removal and storage of such vehicle.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. 60-1909)
   (K)   Any person violating the provisions of this section shall be guilty of
an offense.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. 60-1911) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Motor Vehicle Registration Act, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 60-301
§ 130.21 UNLICENSED OR INOPERABLE VEHICLES
   (A)   No person in charge or control of any property within the city, other
than city property, whether as owner, tenant, occupant, lessee, or otherwise,
shall allow any partially dismantled, inoperable, wrecked, junked, or discarded
vehicle to remain on that property longer than 30 days.
   (B)   No unlicensed vehicle shall be permitted to remain on any private or
public property for any length of time, provided that this section shall not
apply to the following:
      (1)   A vehicle bearing a valid In Transit sticker;
      (2)   A vehicle in an enclosed building;
      (3)   A vehicle on the premises of a business enterprise operated in a
lawful place and manner when the vehicle is necessary to the lawful operation
of the business; or
      (4)   A vehicle in an appropriate storage place or depository maintained
in a lawful place and manner by the city.
   (C)   Any vehicle allowed to remain on property in violation of this section
shall constitute a nuisance and shall be abated, and any person violating this
section shall be guilty of an offense.
Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   In Transit stickers, see Neb. Rev. Stat. 60-376
§ 130.22 HOBBYIST PERMIT.
   A hobbyist permit for the restoration or repair of up to two nonoperating,
wrecked, junked, or partially dismantled vehicles on any premises used for
residential purposes may be granted to the resident of such premises as
follows.
   (A)   Application for a hobbyist permit shall be filed in writing with the
City Clerk/Treasurer on a form provided by the city and shall contain the name
and address of the applicant and the make, model, year, and vehicle
identification number of each vehicle to be restored or repaired.
   (B)   The vehicle(s) to be restored or repaired shall be owned by the
applicant.
   (C)   The permit shall cover the vehicles only and does not authorize the
storage of miscellaneous vehicle parts or junk contained in, on, or near the
vehicle(s).
   (D)   The vehicle(s) shall not be located within any required front yard,
except as permitted by the Zoning Code.
   (E)   The applicant shall pay a permit fee set by separate resolution per
vehicle, which fee shall accompany the application. All hobbyist permits shall
expire on the one-hundred-eightieth day following the date of issuance thereof
and shall be renewable one time only upon payment of an additional fee set by
separate resolution per vehicle for each permit renewed.
(Ord. 2017-9.1, passed 10-16-2017)
§ 130.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   A person who violates §
130.08 is guilty of an offense and shall be punished as provided generally in
the code.
(Prior Code, § 130.10)
(Ord. 2000-7.7, passed 7-10-2000)
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   BUILDING CODES AND REGULATIONS
      
151.   MINIMUM HOUSING CODE
      
152.   SUBDIVISIONS
      
153.   ZONING CODE
      
154.   FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT
CHAPTER 150: BUILDING CODES AND REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
150.001   Building Official; designation
   
150.002   Appeals
   
150.003   Permits; sewer capacity
   
150.004   Building permit; duplicate to County Assessor
   
150.005   Protection of excavations
   
150.006   Construction noise; limitation of hours
   
150.007   Receptacles for building rubbish and demolition debris
   
150.008   Comprehensive Plan
Moving of Buildings
   
150.020   Regulations
   
150.021   Inspection; release of deposit
Unsafe Buildings
   
150.035   Definition
   
150.036   Prohibited
   
150.037   Determination; notice and appeal
   
150.038   Emergency
   
150.039   Removal by city; special assessment
Radon Standards
   
150.055   Standards; applicability; exceptions
   
150.056   Definitions
   
150.057   Minimum requirements
Adoption of Codes
   
150.070   International Building Code; adopted by reference
   
150.071   International Residential Code; adopted by reference
   
150.072   International Mechanical Code; adopted by reference
   
150.073   International Fuel Gas Code; adopted by reference
   
150.074   Uniform Plumbing Code; adopted by reference
   
150.075   International Property Maintenance Code; adopted by reference
   
150.076   International Existing Building Code; adopted by reference
   
150.077   International Energy Conservation Code; adopted by reference
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 150.001 BUILDING OFFICIAL; DESIGNATION.
   Notwithstanding any provisions of the International Building Code, 2018
Edition, International Residential Code, 2018 Edition, International Existing
Building Code, 2018 Edition, International Mechanical Code, 2018 Edition,
Uniform Plumbing Code, 2018 Edition, International Energy Conservation Code,
2018 Edition, or International Fuel Gas Code, 2018 Edition to the contrary, the
City Clerk/Treasurer is hereby designated as the Building Official and Code
Official for purposes of administration of the codes. Any reference in any of
said codes to the Department of Building Safety shall be deemed to mean and
refer to the Office of the City Clerk/Treasurer. The city may employ, by
contract or otherwise, individuals to provide inspection services as required
under the codes, and the persons, when so employed or contracted, shall be
under the supervision and direction of the City Clerk/Treasurer.
(Prior Code, § 145.01) (Ord. 2021-6.10, passed 6-14-2021)
§ 150.002 APPEALS.
   (A)   In order to hear and decide appeals of orders, decisions, or
determinations made by the Building Official relative to the application and
interpretation of the Building Code, Residential Code, Existing Building Code,
Mechanical Code, Plumbing Code, Energy Code, or Fuel Gas Code, there is hereby
created a Board of Appeals. The Board of Appeals shall consist of the inspector
having responsibility for the code involved and two members of the City Council
designated to serve on the Board of Appeals.
   (B)   An application for appeal shall be based upon a claim that the true
intent of the code provision in question has been incorrectly interpreted, the
provisions of the code in question do not fully apply, or an equally good or
better form of construction is proposed. The appeal shall be filed on a form
obtained from the Building Official within 20 days after the order, decision or
determination appealed from.
   (C)   The Board shall hear the appeal in an informal setting, without the
application of formal rules of evidence. The party appealing shall be heard by
the Board and may present relevant testimony and documentary support for the
appeal. The Board shall render an opinion in writing within three days after
the hearing upon the appeal.
(Prior Code, § 145.02) (Ord. 2021-6.10, passed 6-14-2021; Ord. 2023-6.2, passed
6-12-2023)
§ 150.003 PERMITS; SEWER CAPACITY.
   Notwithstanding anything in this code to the contrary, no building permit
shall be issued for any residential or other structure requiring connection to
the municipal sewer system, unless there is adequate capacity in the city’s
waste water treatment facilities to accommodate the additional load as
determined by the state’s Department of Environment and Energy and in
accordance with permits issued to the city by the Department of Environment and
Energy.
(Prior Code, § 145.03) (Ord. 2013-8.6, passed 10-14-2013)
§ 150.004 BUILDING PERMIT; DUPLICATE TO COUNTY ASSESSOR.
   Whenever a building permit is issued for the erection, alteration, or repair
of any building within the jurisdiction of the city, and the improvement is
$2,500 or more, a duplicate of such permit shall be issued to the County
Assessor.
(Prior Code, § 145.04) (Ord. 2013-8.6, passed 10-14-2013)
§ 150.005 PROTECTION OF EXCAVATIONS.
   Every open excavation on any construction site within the city, including
but not limited to excavations for basements and cellars, having a depth of
three feet or more shall be completely surrounded by temporary fencing, such as
silt or snow fence, at all times that construction work is not actively
occurring on the site.
(Prior Code, § 145.05) (Ord. 2013-8.6, passed 10-14-2013)
§ 150.006 CONSTRUCTION NOISE; LIMITATION OF HOURS.
   No person shall operate or permit the operation of any tools or equipment
used in construction, drilling, or demolition work within the city between the
hours of 10:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m. the following day on any day in such a manner
as to create a noise disturbance across a residential real property boundary or
within any residentially zoned area, except for emergency work. For purposes of
this section, a NOISE DISTURBANCE shall mean any sounds not occurring in the
natural environment that would tend to annoy or disturb persons with reasonable
sensitivities, or which injures or endangers the comfort, health, welfare,
hearing, peace, or safety of other persons.
(Prior Code, § 145.06) (Ord. 2013-8.6, passed 10-14-2013)
§ 150.007 RECEPTACLES FOR BUILDING RUBBISH AND DEMOLITION DEBRIS.
   No person, shall commence or continue any construction, reconstruction,
remodeling, reroofing, or demolition project on any property within the city
without first providing an adequate receptacle located upon the property for
the storage of building rubbish or demolition debris generated by such
activity. For purposes of this section, a receptacle shall be deemed adequate
if it is of sufficient storage capacity to contain all building rubbish or
demolition debris generated as the work progresses, with regular collection of
the rubbish or debris or regular removal of the receptacle from the property.
(Prior Code, § 145.07) (Ord. 2013-8.6, passed 10-14-2013)
§ 150.008 COMPREHENSIVE PLAN.
   The “Bennet, Nebraska, Comprehensive Plan 2019-2029” is hereby adopted by
reference and incorporated herein as if set out in full.
(Ord. 2019-11.2, passed 11-11-2019)
MOVING OF BUILDINGS
§ 150.020 REGULATIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to move any
building or structure within the city without a written permit to do so. The
fee for such permit shall be established by resolution adopted by the City
Council.
   (B)   Application may be made to the City Clerk/Treasurer and shall include
the present and future location of the building to be moved, the proposed
route, the equipment to be used, and the other information as the City Council
may require. The application shall be accompanied by a certificate issued by
the County Treasurer to the effect that all the provisions regulating the
moving of buildings have been complied with on the part of the owner of the
real estate upon which the building is presently located. The City Clerk/
Treasurer shall refer the application to the City Council for approval of the
proposed route over which the building is to be moved. Upon approval of the
City Council, the City Clerk/Treasurer shall then issue the permit, provided
that a good and sufficient corporate surety bond, check, or cash in an amount
set by motion of the City Council and conditioned upon moving the building
without doing damage to any private or city property is filed with the City
Clerk/Treasurer prior to the granting of any permit.
   (C)   No moving permit shall be required to move a building that is ten feet
wide or less, and 20 feet long or less, and when in a position to move, 15 feet
high or less.
   (D)   In the event it will be necessary for any licensed building mover to
interfere with the telephone or telegraph poles and wires, or a gas line, the
company or companies owning, using, or operating the poles, wires, or line
shall upon proper notice of at least 24 hours, be present and assist by
disconnecting the poles, wires, or line relative to the building moving
operation. All expense of the disconnection, removal, or related work shall be
paid in advance by the licensee unless the disconnection or work is furnished
on different terms as provided in the company’s franchise.
   (E)   Whenever the moving of any building necessitates interference with a
water main, sewer main, pipes, or wire belonging to the city, notice in writing
of the time and route of the building moving operation shall be given to the
various city officials in charge of the city utility departments who shall
proceed in behalf of the city and at the expense of the mover to make the
disconnections and do the work as is necessary.
   (F)   Any building proposed to be moved within or into the corporate limits
of the city must first be inspected for compliance with all applicable codes
and if not in compliance, any violations must be corrected to the satisfaction
of the Building Official.
(Prior Code, § 146.01) (Ord. 2013-8.7, passed 10-14-2013)
§ 150.021 INSPECTION; RELEASE OF DEPOSIT.
   (A)   At the time as the building moving has been completed, the designated
official shall inspect the premises and report to the City Clerk/Treasurer as
to the extent of damages, if any, resulting from the relocation and whether any
city laws have been violated during the operation.
   (B)   Upon a satisfactory report from the designated official, the City
Clerk/Treasurer shall return the corporate surety bond, cash, or check
deposited by the applicant.
   (C)   In the event the basement, foundation, or portion thereof is not
properly filled, covered, or in a clean and sanitary condition, the City
Council may apply the money deposited for the purpose of defraying the expense
of correcting the conditions.
   (D)   If the expense of correcting the hazardous condition is greater than
the amount of the deposit set by the City Council, as required herein, the City
Council may recover the excess expense by civil suit or otherwise as prescribed
by law.
(Prior Code, § 146.02) (Ord. 2013-8.7, passed 10-14-2013)
UNSAFE BUILDINGS
§ 150.035 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   UNSAFE BUILDING.
      (1)   Any building, shed, fence, or other human-made structure:
         (a)   Which is dangerous to the public health because of its condition
and which may cause or aid in the spread of disease or injury to the health of
the occupants of it or neighboring structures;
         (b)   Which because of faulty construction, age, lack of proper
repair, or any other cause is especially liable to fire and constitutes or
creates a fire hazard; or
         (c)   Which by reason of faulty construction or any other cause is
liable to cause injury or damage by the collapse or fall of all or any part of
the structure.
      (2)   Any UNSAFE BUILDING in the city is hereby declared to be a
nuisance.
(Prior Code, § 147.01) (Ord. 2013-8.8, passed 10-14-2013)
§ 150.036 PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful to maintain or permit the existence of any unsafe
building in the city, and it shall be unlawful for the owner, occupant, or
person in custody of any dangerous building to permit the same to remain in an
unsafe condition or to occupy the building or permit it to be occupied while it
is in an unsafe condition.
(Prior Code, § 147.02) (Ord. 2013-8.8, passed 10-14-2013) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority to prevent and abate nuisances and unsafe buildings, see Neb. Rev.
Stat. 18-1720, 18-1722, and 18-1722.01
§ 150.037 DETERMINATION; NOTICE AND APPEAL.
   (A)   Notice.
      (1)   Whenever the Board of Health or designated official is of the
opinion that any building or structure in the city is an unsafe building, he or
she shall file a written statement to this effect with the City Clerk/
Treasurer. The City Clerk/Treasurer shall thereupon cause the property to be
posted accordingly, shall file a copy of the determination in the office of the
County Register of Deeds, and shall serve written notice upon the owner
thereof, and upon the occupant thereof, if any, by certified mail or by
personal service.
      (2)   The notice shall state that the building has been declared to be in
an unsafe condition, that the dangerous condition must be removed or remedied
by repairing or altering the building or by demolishing it, and that the
condition must be remedied within 60 days from the date of receipt. The notice
may be in the following terms:
 
“To (owner-occupant of premises) of the premises known and described as
_______________________
“You are hereby notified that ______________(describe building) on the premises
above mentioned has been determined to be an unsafe building and a nuisance after
inspection by_______________. The causes for this decision are
_______________________(here insert the facts as to the dangerous condition).
“You must remedy this condition or demolish the building within 60 days from the
date of receipt of this notice or the city will proceed to do so. Appeal of this
determination may be made to the City Council, acting as the Board of Appeals, by
filing with the City Clerk/Treasurer within ten days from the date of receipt of
this notice a request for a hearing.”
 
      (3)   If the person receiving the notice has not complied therewith
within 60 days from the date of receipt of the notice, or taken an appeal from
the determination that a dangerous building exists within ten days from the
time when this notice is served upon the person by personal service or
certified mail, the designated official may, upon orders of the City Council,
proceed to remedy the condition or demolish the unsafe building.
(Prior Code, § 147.03)
   (B)   Appeal.
      (1)   Upon receiving the notice to repair or demolish the building, the
owner of the building, within the time stipulated, may in writing to the City
Clerk/Treasurer request a hearing before the City Council, sitting as the Board
of Appeals, to present reasons why the building should not be repaired or
demolished.
      (2)   The City Council shall grant the hearing within ten days from the
date of receiving the request.
      (3)   A written notice of the City Council’s decision following the
hearing shall be sent to the property owner by certified mail.
      (4)   If the City Council rejects the appeal, the owner shall have 60
days from the sending of the decision to begin repair or demolition and
removal.
      (5)   If after the 60-day period the owner has not begun work, the City
Council shall proceed to cause the work to be done, provided that the property
owner may appeal the decision to the appropriate court for adjudication, during
which proceedings the decision of the City Council shall be stayed.
      (6)   Where the city has not adopted a Building Code, the statutes of the
state relating to bonded indebtedness and collection of delinquent taxes shall
apply.
(Prior Code, § 147.04)
(Ord. 2013-8.8, passed 10-14-2013)
Statutory reference:
   Authority to prevent and abate nuisances and unsafe buildings, see Neb. Rev.
Stat. 18-1720, 18-1722, and 18-1722.01
§ 150.038 EMERGENCY.
   Where any unsafe building or structure poses an immediate danger to the
health, safety, or general welfare of any person or persons and the owner fails
to remedy the situation in a reasonable time after notice to do so, the city
may summarily repair or demolish and remove the building or structure.
(Prior Code, § 147.05) (Ord. 2013-8.8, passed 10-14-2013)
§ 150.039 REMOVAL BY CITY; SPECIAL ASSESSMENT.
   (A)   (1)   If any owner of any building or structure fails, neglects, or
refuses to comply with notice by or on behalf of the city to repair,
rehabilitate, or demolish and remove a building or structure which is unsafe
and a public nuisance, the city may proceed with the work specified in the
notice to the property owner.
      (2)   A statement of the cost of the work shall be transmitted to the
City Council.
   (B)   The City Council may:
      (1)   Levy the cost as a special assessment against the lot or real
estate upon which the building or structure is located; or
      (2)   Collect the cost from the owner of the building or structure and
enforce the collection by civil action in any court of competent jurisdiction.
   (C)   Any special assessment shall be a lien on the real estate and shall be
collected in the manner provided for special assessments.
(Prior Code, § 147.06) (Ord. 2013-8.8, passed 10-14-2013)
Statutory reference:
   Authority to prevent and abate nuisances and unsafe buildings, see Neb. Rev.
Stat. 18-1720, 18-1722, and 18-1722.01
RADON STANDARDS
§ 150.055 STANDARDS; APPLICABILITY; EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   All new construction in the city that is intended to be regularly
occupied by people shall include radon resistant new construction in
conformance with the requirements of this subchapter, and any other applicable
state or federal law.
   (B)   Exceptions are as follows.
      (1)   The construction project is not required to include radon resistant
new construction if it utilizes the design of an architect or professional
engineer licensed under the state’s Engineers and Architects Regulation Act,
being Neb. Rev. Stat. 81-3401 et seq.
      (2)   The construction project is not required to include radon resistant
construction if the state’s Department of Health and Human Services determines
that the average radon concentration is less than two and seven-tenths
picocuries per liter of air in the county.
(Ord. 2021-6.13, passed 6-14-2021)
§ 150.056 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACTIVE RADON MITIGATION SYSTEM. A family of radon mitigation systems
involving mechanically driven soil depressurization, including subslab
depressurization, drain tile depressurization, block wall depressurization, and
submembrane depressurization. ACTIVE RADON MITIGATION SYSTEM is also known as
active soil depressurization.
   BUILDING CONTRACTOR. Any individual, corporation, partnership, limited
liability company, or other business entity that engages in new construction.
   DEPARTMENT. The Building and Safety Department.
   NEW CONSTRUCTION.
      (1)   Any original construction of a single-family home or a multifamily
dwelling, including apartments, group homes, condominiums, and townhouses, or
any original construction of a building used for commercial, industrial,
educational, or medical purposes.
      (2)   NEW CONSTRUCTION does not include additions to existing structures
or remodeling of existing structures.
   PASSIVE RADON MITIGATION SYSTEM. A pipe installed in new construction that
relies solely on the convective flow of air upward for soil gas
depressurization and may consist of multiple pipes routed through conditioned
space from below the foundation to above the roof.
   RADON MITIGATION SPECIALIST. An individual who is licensed by the department
as a radon mitigation specialist in accordance with the Radiation Control Act,
being Neb. Rev. Stat. 71-3501 et seq.
   RADON RESISTANT NEW CONSTRUCTION. Construction that utilizes design elements
and construction techniques that passively resist radon entry and prepare a
building for an active post-construction mitigation system.
(Ord. 2021-6.13, passed 6-14-2021)
§ 150.057 MINIMUM REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Sumps. Any sump included in new construction that is exposed to soil
or granular subslab material that may or may not be connected to a subsurface
drainage system shall be covered with a gasketed or otherwise sealed lid and,
if applicable, shall be constructed to accommodate a vent pipe for a passive
radon mitigation system, a sump pump with discharge pipe, and or a trapped
inlet when used a floor drain.
   (B)   Passive radon mitigation system. Unless specifically exempted by this
chapter, all new construction shall include, at a minimum a passive radon
mitigation system. A passive radon mitigation system shall consist of the
following:
      (1)   Vent pipe. The vent pipe shall be a minimum three-inch diameter
acrylonitrile butadiene styrene (ABS), polyvinyl chloride (PVQ), or an approved
equivalent gas-tight pipe.
         (a)   For vent pipes that are connected to a subsoil drainage system,
the vent pipe shall be inserted directly into an interior perimeter drainage
pipe loop or through a sealed sump cover if the sump is exposed to the subslab
permeable material directly or if it’s connected to a subsoil drainage system.
         (b)   For vent pipes that are embedded directly into the subslab
permeable material, prior to the pouring of the basement slab, the vent pipe
shall be installed vertically with a “T” fitting of the same size (or
equivalent method) such that the horizontal openings are 100% exposed to the
subslab permeable material.
         (c)   1.   In buildings where interior footings or other barriers
separate the subslab gas-permeable material, each area shall be fitted with an
individual vent pipe.
            2.   Individual vent pipes shall either connect to a single vent
pipe that terminates above the roof or shall terminate separately above the
roof.
         (d)   1.   All vent pipes shall be extended up through the building
floors and terminate at least 12 inches above the surface of the roof in a
location at least ten feet away from any window or other opening into the
conditioned spaces of the building that is less than two feet below the exhaust
point and ten feet from any window or other opening in adjoining or adjacent
buildings.
            2.   The vent pipe shall be located within the attic space in an
area that will allow 30-inch clearance height or other approved location.
      (2)   Power source. In order to provide for the future installation of an
active radon mitigation system, an electrical circuit terminated in an approved
box shall be installed during construction in the attic or other anticipated
location of vent pipe fans.
(Ord. 2021-6.13, passed 6-14-2021)
ADOPTION OF CODES
§ 150.070 INTERNATIONAL BUILDING CODE; ADOPTED BY REFERENCE
   The International Building Code, 2018 Edition, as published by the
International Code Council, Inc. and amended as necessary by the city, a copy
of which is on file in the office of the City Clerk/Treasurer, be and the same
is hereby adopted as the Building Code for the City of Bennet and for the area
within its extraterritorial zoning jurisdiction for regulating and governing
the construction, alteration, enlargement, replacement, and repair of buildings
and structures, by providing the standards for supplied utilities and
facilities and other physical things and conditions essential to ensure that
structures are safe, sanitary, and fit for occupation and use; and the
demolition of structures as herein provided; providing for the issuance of
permits and collection of fees therefor; provided however, detached one or two
family dwellings and townhouses not more than three stories above grade plane
and height with a separate means of egress, and their accessory structures not
more than three stories above grade plane and height shall comply with this
code or the International Residential Code as adopted by the City of Bennet.
(Ord. 2005-11.1, passed 11-14-2005; Ord. 2005-12.2, passed 12-12-2005; Ord.
2013-8.1, passed 10-14-2013; Ord. 2021-6.5, passed 6-14-2021; Ord. 2023-5.1,
passed 5-8-2023)
§ 150.071 INTERNATIONAL RESIDENTIAL CODE; ADOPTED BY REFERENCE
   The International Residential Code, 2018 Edition, as published by the
International Code Council, Inc., and amended as necessary by the city, a copy
of which is on file in the office of the City Clerk/Treasurer, be and the same
is hereby adopted as the Bennet Residential Code for the City of Bennet and for
the area within its extraterritorial zoning jurisdiction, for the purpose of
regulating and governing the construction, alteration, enlargement,
replacement, repair, equipment, location, removal, and demolition of detached
one and two single-family dwellings and townhouses not more than three stories
in height with separate means of egress as herein provided; providing for the
issuance of permits and collection of fees therefor.
(Prior Code, § 141.01) (Ord. 2021-6.6, passed 6-14-2021; Ord. 2023-5.2, passed
5-8-2023)
§ 150.072 INTERNATIONAL MECHANICAL CODE; ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The International Mechanical Code, 2018 Edition, as published by the
International Code Council, Inc., a copy of which is on file in the office of
the City Clerk/Treasurer, be and the same is hereby adopted as the Bennet
Mechanical Code for the City of Bennet and for the area within its
extraterritorial zoning jurisdiction, for the purpose of regulating and
governing the design, construction, quality of materials, erection,
installation, alteration, repair, location, relocation, replacement addition
to, use, or maintenance of mechanical systems as herein provided; providing for
the issuance of permits and collection of fees therefor.
(Prior Code, § 142.01) (Ord. 2005-11.1, passed 11-14-2005; Ord. 2005-12.2,
passed 12-12-2005; Ord. 2013-8.3, passed 10-14-2013; Ord. 2021-6.7, passed 6-
14-2021; Ord. 2023-5.3, passed 5-8-2023)
§ 150.073 INTERNATIONAL FUEL GAS CODE; ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The International Fuel Gas Code, 2018 Edition, as published by the
International Code Council, Inc., and amended as necessary by the city, a copy
of which is on file in the office of the City Clerk/Treasurer, is hereby
adopted as the Bennet Fuel Gas Code.
(Prior Code, § 143.01) (Ord. 2005-11.1, passed 11-14-2005; Ord. 2013-8.4,
passed 10-14-2013; Ord. 2021-6.8, passed 6-14-2021)
§ 150.074 UNIFORM PLUMBING CODE; ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The Uniform Plumbing Code, 2018 Edition, as published by the International
Association of Plumbing and Mechanical Officials, and amended as necessary by
the city, a copy of which is on file in the office of the City Clerk/Treasurer,
is hereby adopted as the Bennet Plumbing Code for the City of Bennet and for
the area within its extraterritorial zoning jurisdiction, for the purpose of
regulating and governing the erection, installation, alteration, repair,
location, relocation, replacement, addition to, use, or maintenance of plumbing
systems within the jurisdiction of the City of Bennet; providing for the
issuance of permits and collection of fees therefor.
(Prior Code, § 144.01) (Ord. 2013-8.5, passed 10-14-2013; Ord. 2021-6.9, passed
6-14-2021; Ord. 2023-5.4, passed 5-8-2023)
§ 150.075 INTERNATIONAL PROPERTY MAINTENANCE CODE; ADOPTED BY REFERENCE
   The International Property Maintenance Code, 2018 Edition (Second Version),
as published by the International Code Council, Inc., and amended as necessary
by the city, a copy of which is on file in the office of the City Clerk/
Treasurer, is hereby adopted as the Bennet Property Maintenance Code.
(Ord. 2021-7.1, passed 7-12-2021)
§ 150.076 INTERNATIONAL EXISTING BUILDING CODE; ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The International Existing Building Code, 2018 Edition, as published by the
International Code Council, Inc. and amended as necessary by the city, a copy
of which is on file in the office of the City Clerk/Treasurer, is hereby
adopted as the Existing Building Code for the City of Bennet and for the area
within its extraterritorial zoning jurisdiction, for the purpose of regulating
the repair, alteration, change of occupancy, addition and relocation of
existing buildings, regardless of occupancy; providing for the issuance of
permits and collection of fees therefore.
(Ord. 2021-6.11, passed 6-14-2021; Ord. 2023-5.5, passed 5-8-2023)
§ 150.077 INTERNATIONAL ENERGY CONSERVATION CODE; ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   Except as hereinafter provided by specific amendment, the International
Energy Conservation Code, 2018 Edition, as published by the International Code
Council, a copy of which is on file in the office of the City Clerk/Treasurer,
be and the same is hereby adopted as the Bennet Energy Code for the City of
Bennet and for the area within its extraterritorial jurisdiction.
(Ord. 2021-6.12, passed 6-14-2021; Ord. 2023-5.6, passed 5-8-2023)
CHAPTER 151: MINIMUM HOUSING CODE
Section
   
151.01   Minimum Housing Code; adopted by reference
§ 151.01 MINIMUM HOUSING CODE; ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   Any minimum housing regulations, as set out under the building codes adopted
in §§
150.070 through
150.077 of this code of ordinances, are hereby adopted by reference and
incorporated herein as if set out in full.
(Ord, 2012-3.1, passed 5-14-2012)
CHAPTER 152: SUBDIVISIONS
Section
   
152.01   Subdivision regulations; adopted by reference
§ 152.01 SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS; ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   Subdivision regulations for the city are hereby adopted by reference and
incorporated herein as if set out in full.
(Ord. 1997-7.1, passed 7-14-1997; Ord. 2004-10.1, passed 11-15-2004; Ord. 2007-
1.1, passed 1-8-2007; Ord. 2008-5.1, passed 8-11-2008; Ord. 2017-10.1, passed
11-13-2017; Ord. 2021-3.1, passed 3-15-2021; Ord. 2022-1.1, passed 1-10-2022;
Ord. 2023-3.5, passed 3-13-2023)
CHAPTER 153: ZONING CODE
Section
   
153.01   Zoning Code; adopted by reference
   
153.02   Zoning map; adopted by reference
§ 153.01 ZONING CODE; ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The Zoning Code for the city is hereby adopted by reference and incorporated
herein as if set out in full.
(Ord. 1997-7.1, passed 7-14-1997; Ord. 2000-9.2, passed 9-13-2000; Ord. 2003-
5.1, passed 5-12-2003; Ord. 2003-5.2, passed 5-12-2003; Ord. 2003-10.1, passed
10-20-2003; Ord. 2005-2.1, passed 2-16-2005; Ord. 2007-1.2, passed 2-12-2007;
Ord. 2008-1.1, passed 3-10-2008; Ord. 2010-2.1, passed 7-12-2010; Ord. 2010-
12.1, passed 12-13-2010; Ord. 2011-8.1, passed 10-10-2011; Ord. 2012-12.2,
passed 2-11-2013; Ord. 2016-10.1, passed 1-9-2017; Ord. 2017-6.1, passed 6-12-
2017; Ord. 2019-11.1, passed 1-13-2020; Ord. 2020-6.01, passed 8-10-2020; Ord.
2021-3.2, passed 3-15-2021; Ord. 2021-3.3, passed 3-15-2021; Ord. 2022-4.1,
passed 4-11-2022; Ord. 2023-3.4, passed 3-13-2023)
§ 153.02 ZONING MAP; ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   A zoning map shall be adopted by the city and shall by this reference be
incorporated into these zoning regulations as if fully set forth herein.
CHAPTER 154: FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT
Section
General Provisions
   
154.01   Statutory authorization
   
154.02   Findings of fact
   
154.03   Statement of purpose
   
154.04   Adherence to regulations
   
154.05   Lands to which this chapter applies
   
154.06   Rules for interpretation of district boundaries
   
154.07   Compliance
   
154.08   Abrogation and greater restrictions
   
154.09   Interpretation
   
154.10   Warning and disclaimer of liability
   
154.11   Establishment of zoning districts
Floodplain Management Administration
   
154.25   Designation of floodplain administrator
   
154.26   Permits required
   
154.27   Duties of floodplain administrator
   
154.28   Application for permit and demonstration of compliance
   
154.29   Floodplain data required
   
154.30   Variance and appeals procedure
   
154.31   Conditions for variances
   
154.32   Enforcement
Standards for Floodplain Development
   
154.45   General standards
   
154.46   Elevation and floodproofing requirements
   
154.47   Design and construction standards
   
154.48   Nonconforming use
   
154.49   Amendments
   
154.50   Definitions
 
   
154.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 154.01 STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION.
   The Legislature of the State has delegated the responsibility to local
governmental units to adopt zoning regulations designed to protect the public
health, safety, general welfare, and property of the people of the state. The
Legislature, in Neb. Rev. Stat. 31-1001 to 31-1023 (as amended), has further
assigned the responsibility to adopt, administer, and enforce floodplain
management regulations to the county, city, or village with zoning jurisdiction
over the floodprone area.
(Ord. 2023-1.1, passed 1-9-2023)
§ 154.02 FINDINGS OF FACT.
   (A)   Flood losses resulting from periodic inundation. The flood hazard
areas of city are subject to inundation that results in loss of life and
property, health and safety hazards, disruption of commerce and governmental
services, extraordinary public expenditures for flood protection and relief,
and impairment of the tax base, all of which adversely affect the public
health, safety, and general welfare.
   (B)   General causes of the flood losses. These flood losses are caused by
the cumulative effect of obstructions in floodplains causing increases in flood
heights and velocities as well as the occupancy of flood hazard areas by uses
vulnerable to floods or hazardous to others that are inadequately elevated or
otherwise unprotected from flood damages.
(Ord. 2023-1.1, passed 1-9-2023)
§ 154.03 STATEMENT OF PURPOSE.
   It is the purpose of this chapter to promote the public health, safety, and
general welfare and to minimize the losses described in §
154.02 by applying the provisions of this chapter to:
   (A)   Restrict or prohibit uses that are dangerous to health, safety, or
property in times of flooding or cause undue increases in flood heights or
velocities;
   (B)   Require that uses vulnerable to floods, including public facilities
that service such uses, be provided with flood protection at the time of
initial construction;
   (C)   Reduce financial burdens from flood damage borne by the community, its
governmental units, is residents, and its businesses by preventing excessive
and unsafe development in areas subject to flooding; and
   (D)   Assure that eligibility is maintained for property owners in the
community to purchase flood insurance from the National Flood Insurance
Program.
(Ord. 2023-1.1, passed 1-9-2023)
§ 154.04 ADHERENCE TO REGULATIONS.
   The regulations of this chapter are in compliance with the National Flood
Insurance Program Regulations as published in 44 C.F.R. and the state’s Minimum
Standards for Floodplain Management Programs as published in the state’s
Administrative Code Title 455, Chapter 1.
(Ord. 2023-1.1, passed 1-9-2023)
§ 154.05 LANDS TO WHICH THIS CHAPTER APPLIES.
   (A)   This chapter shall apply to all lands within the jurisdictions of the
city identified on the Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM) panels 31109C0459G,
31109C0467G, 31109C0478G, 31109C0486G dated April 16, 2013 as Zones A, Al-30,
AE, AO, or AH and within the Zoning Districts FW and FF established in §
154.11.
   (B)   In all areas covered by this chapter, no development shall be allowed
except upon the issuance of a floodplain development permit to develop, granted
by the floodplain administrator or the governing body under such safeguards and
restrictions as the City Council or the designated representative may
reasonably impose for the promotion and maintenance of the general welfare,
health of the inhabitants of the community and where specifically noted in this
chapter.
(Ord. 2023-1.1, passed 1-9-2023)
§ 154.06 RULES FOR INTERPRETATION OF DISTRICT BOUNDARIES.
   (A)   The boundaries of the floodway and the flood fringe overlay districts
shall be determined by scaling distances on the official zoning map of on the
effective Flood Insurance Rate Map. Where interpretation is needed to the exact
location of the boundaries of the districts as shown on the zoning or other
community map, the floodplain administrator shall make the necessary
interpretation. In such cases where the interpretation is contested, the Board
of Adjustment will resolve the dispute.
   (B)   The regulatory flood elevation for the point in question shall be the
governing factor in locating the district boundary on the land. The person
contesting the location of the district boundary shall be given a reasonable
opportunity to present their case to the Board of Adjustment and to submit
their own technical evidence, if so desired.
(Ord. 2023-1.1, passed 1-9-2023)
§ 154.07 COMPLIANCE.
   Within identified floodplains of this community, no development shall be
located, extended, converted, or structurally altered without full compliance
with the terms of this chapter and other applicable regulations.
(Ord. 2023-1.1, passed 1-9-2023)
§ 154.08 ABROGATION AND GREATER RESTRICTIONS.
   This chapter does not intend to repeal, abrogate, or impair any existent
easements, covenants, or deed restrictions. However, where this chapter imposes
greater restrictions, the provision of this chapter shall prevail. All other
ordinances inconsistent with this chapter are hereby repealed to the extent of
the inconsistency only.
(Ord. 2023-1.1, passed 1-9-2023)
§ 154.09 INTERPRETATION.
   In their interpretation and application, the provisions of this chapter
shall be held to be minimum requirements and shall be liberally construed in
favor of the governing body and shall not be deemed a limitation or repeal of
any other powers granted by state statutes.
(Ord. 2023-1.1, passed 1-9-2023)
§ 154.10 WARNING AND DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY.
   (A)   The degree of flood protection required by this chapter is considered
reasonable for regulatory purposes and is based on engineering and scientific
methods of study. Larger floods may occur or the flood height may be increased
by human-made or natural causes, such as ice jams and bridge openings
restricted by debris.
   (B)   This chapter does not imply that areas outside floodway and flood
fringe district boundaries or land uses permitted within such districts will be
free from flooding or flood damage.
   (C)   This chapter shall not create liability on the part of city or any
officer or employee thereof for any flood damages that may result from reliance
on this chapter or any administrative decision lawfully made thereunder.
(Ord. 2023-1.1, passed 1-9-2023)
§ 154.11 ESTABLISHMENT OF ZONING DISTRICTS.
   Along watercourses where a floodway has been established, the mapped
floodplain areas are hereby divided into the two following districts: a
floodway overlay district (FW) and a flood fringe overlay district (FF) as
identified in the Flood Insurance Study dated April 16, 2013 and on
accompanying FIRM panels as established in §
154.05. The flood fringe overlay district shall correspond to flood zones A,
AE, A1-30, AH, AO, AR, A99, and floodway areas in Zone AE that are identified
on FIRM panels. The floodway overlay district shall correspond to the floodway
areas in Zone AE that are identified on the FIRM panels. Within these
districts, all uses not meeting the standards of this chapter and those
standards of the underlying zoning district shall be prohibited.
(Ord. 2023-1.1, passed 1-9-2023)
FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT ADMINISTRATION
§ 154.25 DESIGNATION OF FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR.
   (A)   The Zoning Administrator of the community is hereby designated as the
community’s local floodplain administrator. The floodplain administrator is
authorized and directed to administer, implement, and enforce all provisions of
this chapter.
   (B)   If the local floodplain administrator position is unfilled, the
community CEO shall assume the duties and responsibilities herein.
(Ord. 2023-1.1, passed 1-9-2023)
§ 154.26 PERMITS REQUIRED.
   A floodplain development permit shall be required before any development,
construction, or substantial improvement is undertaken. No person, firm,
corporation, government agency, or other entity shall initiate any floodplain
development without first obtaining a floodplain development permit.
(Ord. 2023-1.1, passed 1-9-2023)
§ 154.27 DUTIES OF FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR.
   Duties of the Floodplain Administrator shall include, but not be limited to
the following:
   (A)   Review, approve, or deny all applications for floodplain development
permits;
   (B)   Review all development permit applications to assure that sites are
reasonably safe from flooding and that the permit requirements of this chapter
have been satisfied;
   (C)   Review applications for proposed development to assure that all
necessary permits have been obtained from those federal, state, or local
government agencies from which prior approval is required;
   (D)   Review all subdivision proposals and other proposed new development,
including manufactured home parks or subdivisions, to determine whether such
proposals will be reasonably safe from flooding;
   (E)   Notify adjacent communities and the state’s Department of Natural
Resources prior to any alteration or relocation of a watercourse and submit
evidence of such notification to the Federal Emergency Management Agency;
   (F)   Assure that maintenance is provided within the altered or relocated
portion of the watercourse so that the flood carrying capacity is not
diminished;
   (G)   Verify, record, and maintain record of the actual elevation (in
relation to mean sea level) of the lowest floor, including basement, of all new
or substantially improved structures in the floodplain;
   (H)   Verify, record, and maintain record of the actual elevation (in
relation to mean sea level) to which all new or substantially improved
structures have been floodproofed;
   (I)   Verify, record, and maintain record of all improved or damaged
structures to ensure compliance with standards in applicable sections. Track
value of improvements and market value with permits. Also, ensure consistent
market value estimations to evaluate against damaged or improved values;
   (J)   Ensure comprehensive development plan as amended is consistent with
this chapter; and
   (K)   In the event the floodplain administrator discovers work done that
does not comply with applicable laws or ordinances, the floodplain
administrator shall revoke the permit and work to correct any possible
violation in accordance with this chapter.
(Ord. 2023-1.1, passed 1-9-2023)
§ 154.28 APPLICATION FOR PERMIT AND DEMONSTRATION OF COMPLIANCE.
   (A)   To obtain a floodplain development permit, the applicant shall first
file an application in writing on a form furnished for that purpose. Every such
application shall:
      (1)   Identify and describe the proposed development and estimated cost
to be covered by the floodplain development permit;
      (2)   Describe the land on which the proposed development is to be done
by lot, block, tract, and house and streets address, or similar description
that will readily identify and definitely locate the proposed building or
development;
      (3)   Indicate the use or occupancy for which the proposed development is
intended;
      (4)   Be accompanied by plans and specifications for proposed
construction; and
      (5)   Be signed by the permittee and authorized agent who may be required
to submit evidence to indicate such authority.
   (B)   If any proposed development is located entirely or partially within a
floodplain, applicants shall provide all information in sufficient detail and
clarity to enable the floodplain administrator to determine that:
      (1)   All such proposals are consistent with the need to minimize flood
damage;
      (2)   All utilities and facilities such as sewer, gas, water, electrical,
and other systems are located and constructed to minimize or eliminate flood
damage;
      (3)   Structures will be anchored to prevent flotation, collapse, or
lateral movement;
      (4)   Construction materials are flood resistant;
      (5)   Appropriate practices to minimize flood damage have been utilized;
and
      (6)   Electrical, heating, ventilation, air conditioning, plumbing, and
any other service facilities have been designed and located to prevent entry of
floodwaters.
   (C)   For all new and substantially improved structures, an elevation
certificate based upon the finished construction certifying the elevation of
the lowest floor, including basement, and other relevant building components
shall be provided to the floodplain administrator and be completed by a
licensed surveyor, engineer, or architect.
   (D)   When floodproofing is utilized for an applicable structure, a
floodproofing certificate shall be provided to the floodplain administrator and
be completed by a licensed professional engineer or architect.
   (E)   For all development proposed in the floodway, no-rise certification
shall be provided to the floodplain administrator and be completed by a
licensed professional engineer.
   (F)   Any other such information as reasonably may be required by the
floodplain administrator shall be provided.
   (G)   Letters of Map Revision: Federal regulations in 44 C.F.R. Ch. 1 §§
65.5 and 65.6 allow for changes to the special flood hazard area through a
Letter of Map Revision (LOMR) or a Letter of Map Revision Based on Fill (LOMR-
F), provided the community determines that the land and any existing or
proposed structures that would be removed from the floodplain are “reasonably
safe from flooding.” The community acknowledgment form asserting this is
required for LOMR and LOMR-F applications and must be signed by the floodplain
administrator. The floodplain administrator shall not sign a community
acknowledgment form unless all criteria set forth in the following paragraphs
are met:
      (1)   Applicant shall obtain floodplain development permit before
applying for a LOMR or LOMR-F.
      (2)   Applicant shall demonstrate that the property and any existing or
proposed structures will be “reasonably safe from flooding,” according to the
minimum design standards in FEMA Technical Bulletin 10-01.
      (3)   All requirements listed in the Simplified Approach in FEMA
Technical Bulletin 10-01 shall be met and documentation from a registered
professional engineer shall be provided. If all of these requirements are not
met, applicant must provide documentation in line with the Engineered Approach
outlined in FEMA Technical Bulletin 10-01.
(Ord. 2023-1.1, passed 1-9-2023)
§ 154.29 FLOODPLAIN DATA REQUIRED.
   (A)   All Zone A areas on the FIRM are subject to inundation of the base
flood; however, the base flood elevations are not provided. Zone A areas shall
be subject to all development provisions of this chapter. If Flood Insurance
Study data is not available, the community shall utilize any base flood
elevation or floodway data currently available from federal, state, or other
sources, including from a study commissioned by the applicant pursuant to best
technical practices.
   (B)   Until a floodway has been designated, no development or substantial
improvement may be permitted within the floodplain unless the applicant has
demonstrated that the proposed development or substantial improvement, when
combined with all other existing and reasonably anticipated developments or
substantial improvements, will not increase the water surface elevation of the
base flood more than one foot at any location as shown in the Flood Insurance
Study or on base flood elevation determinations.
(Ord. 2023-1.1, passed 1-9-2023)
§ 154.30 VARIANCE AND APPEALS PROCEDURE.
   (A)   The Board of Adjustment as established by the City Council shall hear
and decide appeals and requests for variances from the requirements of this
chapter.
   (B)   The Board of Adjustment shall hear and decide appeals when it is
alleged that there is an error in any requirement, decision, or determination
made by the Floodplain Administrator in the enforcement or administration of
this chapter.
   (C)   Any person aggrieved by the decision of the Board of Adjustment or any
taxpayer may appeal such decision to the District Court as provided in Neb.
Rev. Stat. 23-168 (for counties) and Neb. Rev. Stat. 19-192 (for
municipalities).
   (D)   In evaluating such appeals and requests, the Board of Adjustment shall
consider technical evaluation, all relevant factors, standards specified in
other sections of this chapter, and:
      (1)   The danger to life and property due to flooding or erosion damage;
      (2)   The danger that materials may be swept onto other lands to the
injury of others;
      (3)   The susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents to
flood damage and the effect of such damage on the individual owner, future
owners, and neighboring properties;
      (4)   The importance of the services provided by the proposed facility to
the community;
      (5)   The necessity of the facility to have a waterfront location, where
applicable;
      (6)   The availability of alternative locations that are not subject to
flooding or erosion damage for the proposed use;
      (7)   The compatibility of the proposed use with existing and anticipated
development;
      (8)   The relationship of the proposed use to the comprehensive plan and
the floodplain management program for that area;
      (9)   The safety of access to the property in times of flood for ordinary
and emergency vehicles;
      (10)   The expected heights, velocity, duration, rate of rise, and
sediment transport of the floodwaters and the effects of wave action, if
applicable, expected at the site; and,
      (11)   The costs of providing government services during and after flood
conditions including emergency management services and maintenance and repair
of public utilities and facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical, water
systems, streets, and bridges.
(Ord. 2023-1.1, passed 1-9-2023)
§ 154.31 CONDITIONS FOR VARIANCES.
   (A)   Variances shall only be issued upon a showing of good and sufficient
cause and also upon a determination that failure to grant the variance would
result in an exceptional hardship to the applicant.
   (B)   Variances shall only be issued based upon a determination that the
granting of a variance will not result in increased flood heights.
   (C)   Variances shall only be issued based upon a determination that the
granting of a variance will not result in additional threats to public safety,
extraordinary public expense, create nuisances, cause fraud on or victimization
of the public, or conflict with existing local laws or ordinances.
   (D)   Generally, variances may be issued for new construction and
substantial improvements to be erected on a lot of one-half acre or less in
size contiguous to and surrounded by lots with existing structures constructed
below the base flood level, providing divisions (E) through (I) below have been
fully considered. As the lot size increases beyond one-half acre, the technical
justification required for issuing the variance increases.
   (E)   Variances may be issued for the repair or rehabilitation of historic
structures upon a determination that the proposed repair or rehabilitation will
not preclude the structure’s continued designation as an historic structure on
the National Register of Historic Places and the variance is the minimum
necessary to preserve the historic character and design of the structure.
   (F)   Variances shall not be issued within any designated floodway if any
increase in water surface elevations along the floodway profile during the base
flood discharge would result.
   (G)   Variances shall only be issued upon a determination that the variance
in the minimum necessary, considering the flood hazard, to afford relief.
   (H)   The applicant shall be given a written notice over the signature of a
community that the issuance of a variance to construct a structure below the
base flood elevation will result in increased premium rates for flood insurance
up to amounts as high as $25 for $100 of insurance coverage and also that such
construction below the base flood elevation increases risks to life and
property. Such notification shall be maintained with the record of all variance
actions as required by this chapter.
   (I)   All requests for variances and associated actions and documents,
including justification for their issuance, shall be maintained by the
community.
   (J)   A variance is authorized to be issued for the construction or
substantial improvement of agricultural structures provided the requirements of
this section and the following are satisfied:
      (1)   Is used exclusively in connection with the production, harvesting,
storage, raising, or drying of agricultural commodities and livestock, or
storage of tools or equipment used in connection with these purposes or uses,
and will be restricted to such exclusive uses;
      (2)   Has low damage potential (amount of physical damage, contents
damage, and loss of function);
      (3)   Does not increase risks and pose a danger to public health, safety,
and welfare if flooded and contents are released, including but not limited to
the effects of flooding on manure storage, livestock confinement operations,
liquified natural gas terminals, and production and storage of highly volatile,
toxic, or water-reactive materials; and
      (4)   Complies with the wet floodproofing construction requirements of §
154.46(C).
(Ord. 2023-1.1, passed 1-9-2023)
§ 154.32 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Violations. Failure to obtain a floodplain development permit or the
failure of a structure or other development to be fully compliant with the
provisions of this chapter shall constitute a violation. A structure or other
development without a floodplain development permit, elevation certificate,
certification by a licensed professional engineer of compliance with these
regulations, or other evidence of compliance is presumed to be in violation
until such time as documentation is provided.
   (B)   Notices. When the floodplain administrator or other authorized
community representative determines, based on reasonable grounds, that there
has been a violation of the provisions of this chapter, the floodplain
administrator shall give notice of such alleged violation as hereinafter
provided. Such notice shall:
      (1)   Be in writing;
      (2)   Include an explanation of the alleged violation;
      (3)   Allow a reasonable time for the performance of any remedial act
required;
      (4)   Be served upon the property owner or their agent as the case may
require; and
      (5)   Contain an outline of remedial actions that, if taken, will bring
the development into compliance with the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 2023-1.1, passed 1-9-2023)
STANDARDS FOR FLOODPLAIN DEVELOPMENT
§ 154.45 GENERAL STANDARDS.
   (A)   Alteration or relocation of a watercourse.
      (1)   A watercourse or drainway shall not be altered or relocated in any
way that in the event of a base flood or more frequent flood will alter the
flood carrying characteristics of the watercourse or drainway to the detriment
of upstream, downstream, or adjacent locations.
      (2)   No alteration or relocation shall be made until all adjacent
communities that may be affected by such action and the state’s Department of
Natural Resources have been notified and all applicable permits obtained.
Evidence of such notification shall be submitted to the Federal Emergency
Management Agency.
   (B)   Encroachments.
      (1)   When proposing to permit any of the following encroachments, the
standards in division (B)(2) below shall apply:
         (a)   Any development that will cause a rise in the base flood
elevations within the floodway; or
         (b)   Any development in Zones A, A1-30, and Zone AE without a
designated floodway that will cause a rise of more than one foot in the base
flood elevation; or
         (c)   Alteration or relocation of a stream.
      (2)   The applicant shall:
         (a)   Apply to FEMA for conditional approval of such action via the
Conditional Letter of Map Revision process (as per 44 C.F.R. Ch. 1 § 65.12)
prior to the permit for the encroachments; and
         (b)   Supply the fully approved package to the floodplain
administrator including any required notifications to potentially affected
property owners.
   (C)   Floodway Overlay District.
      (1)   Within any floodway, any new construction or substantial
improvements shall be prohibited; except that the municipality may maintain,
repair, or improve any existing infrastructure without the requirement of
obtaining a variance. Any such maintenance, repairs, or improvements to
infrastructure in the floodway must follow the provisions of division (C)(2)
below.
      (2)   All encroachments, including fill, new construction, substantial
improvements, and other development must be prohibited unless certification by
a registered professional engineer or architect is provided demonstrating that
the development shall not result in any increase in water surface elevations
along the floodway profile during the occurrence of the base flood discharge.
These developments are also subject to all the standards of this subchapter.
(Ord. 2023-1.1, passed 1-9-2023) Penalty, see §
154.99
§ 154.46 ELEVATION AND FLOODPROOFING REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Residential structures.
      (1)   In Zones A, AE, A1-30, and AH, all new construction and substantial
improvements shall have the lowest floor, including basement, elevated to or
above two feet above the base flood elevation.
      (2)   In Zone AO, all new construction and substantial improvements shall
have the lowest floor, including basement, elevated above the highest adjacent
grade at least as high as two feet above the depth number specified in feet on
the FIRM or, if no depth number is specified on the FIRM, at least as high as
three feet.
      (3)   In the floodway, new structures for human habitation are
prohibited.
   (B)   Non-residential structures.
      (1)   In Zones A, AE, A1-30, and AH, all new construction and substantial
improvements shall have the lowest floor, including basement, elevated to or
above two feet above the base flood elevation.
      (2)   In Zone AO, all new construction and substantial improvements shall
have the lowest floor elevated above the highest adjacent grade at least as
high as two feet above the depth number specified in feet on the FIRM or, if no
depth number is specified on the FIRM, at least as high as three feet.
   (C)   Wet floodproofing for agricultural structures by variance. When owners
elect to wet floodproof agricultural structures, the structure shall:
      (1)   Be anchored to resist flotation, collapse, and lateral movement;
      (2)   Have flood damage-resistant materials below the base flood
elevation in compliance with the definition in §
154.50;
      (3)   Have mechanical, electrical, and utility equipment elevated to or
above two feet above the base flood elevation or floodproofed so that below two
feet above the base flood elevation they are:
         (a)   Watertight and substantially impermeable to the passage of
water;
         (b)   Capable of resisting hydrostatic and hydrodynamic loads and
effects of buoyancy; and
         (c)   A registered professional engineer or architect shall certify
that the standards of this division (C) are satisfied. A floodproofing
certificate shall be provided to the floodplain administrator as set forth in
§§
154.25 through
154.32.
      (4)   Have flood openings in compliance with the following requirements:
the structure shall be designed to automatically provide for the entry and exit
of floodwaters for the purpose of equalizing hydrostatic forces. Designs for
meeting this requirement must either be certified by a registered professional
engineer or architect or meet or exceed the following minimum criteria.
         (a)   A minimum of two openings having a net area of not less than one
square inch for every one square foot of enclosed space.
         (b)   The bottom of all openings shall not be higher than one foot
above grade.
         (c)   Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, valves, or other
coverings or devices provided that they allow the automatic entry and exit of
floodwaters.
      (5)   If the structure is converted to another use, it must be brought
into full compliance with the minimum standards governing such use.
   (D)   Critical facilities. New construction or substantial improvement of
any critical facility is prohibited in all areas of the floodplain and the 0.2%
annual chance floodplain, unless all of the following provisions are met.
      (1)   No feasible alternative site exists for the construction of an
equivalent facility within the corporate or extraterritorial jurisdiction
boundaries of the city.
      (2)   The facility has the lowest floor, including basement, of all
structures elevated to one foot above the 0.2% annual chance flood elevation
or, together with attendant utility and sanitary facilities, floodproofed so
that below one foot above the 0.2% annual chance flood elevation:
         (a)   The structure is watertight with walls substantially impermeable
to the passage of water;
         (b)   The structure has structural components with the capability of
resisting hydrostatic and hydrodynamic loads and effects of buoyancy; and
         (c)   A registered professional engineer or architect shall certify
that the standards of the subsection are satisfied. Such certification shall be
provided to the floodplain administrator as set forth in §§
154.25 through
154.32.
      (3)   If the 0.2% annual chance floodplain is not identified, the
facility shall have the lowest floor, including basement, elevated to three
feet above the base flood elevation or be floodproofed to three feet above the
base flood elevation with the standards in division (C)(2) above.
      (4)   The facility has at least one access road connected to land outside
the 0.2% annual chance floodplain that is capable of carrying emergency support
vehicles and the top of the access road is no lower than the 0.2% annual chance
flood elevation.
   (E)   Space below lowest floor.
      (1)   Fully enclosed areas below the lowest floor (excluding basements)
and below the base flood elevation shall be used solely for the parking of
vehicles, building access, or limited storage of readily removable items.
      (2)   Fully enclosed areas below the lowest floor (excluding basements)
and below the base flood elevation shall be designed to automatically equalize
hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls by allowing for the entry and exit
of floodwaters. Designs for meeting this requirement must either be certified
by a registered professional engineer or architect or meet or exceed the
following minimum criteria.
         (a)   A minimum or two openings having a net total area of not less
than one square inch for every one square foot of enclosed space.
         (b)   The bottom of all openings shall not be higher than one foot
above grade.
         (c)   Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, valves, or other
coverings or devices; provided that they allow the automatic entry and exit of
floodwaters.
   (F)   Accessory structures. Structures accessory to a principal building may
have the lowest floor below one foot above base flood elevation provided that
the structure complies with the following requirements.
      (1)   The structure shall not be used for human habitation.
      (2)   The use of the structure must be limited to parking of vehicles or
storage of items readily removable in the event of a flood warning.
      (3)   The floor area shall not exceed 800 square feet.
      (4)   The structure shall have a low damage potential.
      (5)   The structure must be adequately anchored to prevent flotation,
collapse, or other lateral movement.
      (6)   The structure shall be designed to automatically provide for the
entry and exit of floodwaters for the purpose of equalizing hydrostatic forces.
Designs for meeting this requirement must either be certified by a registered
professional engineer or architect or meet or exceed the following minimum
criteria.
         (a)   A minimum of two openings having a net area of not less than one
square inch for every one square foot of enclosed space.
         (b)   The bottom of all openings shall not be higher than one foot
above grade.
         (c)   Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, valves, or other
coverings or devices provided that they allow the automatic entry and exit of
floodwaters.
      (7)   No utilities shall be installed except electrical fixtures in the
structure, which must be elevated to or above two feet above the base flood
elevation or floodproofed so that below two feet above the base flood elevation
they are:
         (a)   Watertight and substantially impermeable to the passage of
water;
         (b)   Capable of resisting hydrostatic and hydrodynamic loads and
effects of buoyancy; and
         (c)   A registered professional engineer or architect shall certify
that the standards of this division (F) are satisfied. A floodproofing
certificate shall be provided to the floodplain administrator as set forth in
§§
154.25 through
154.32.
      (8)   The structure shall be constructed and placed on the building site
so as to offer the minimum resistance to the flow of floodwaters.
      (9)   If the structure is converted to another use, it must be brought
into full compliance with the minimum standards governing such use.
   (G)   Manufactured homes. Within any floodplain, manufactured homes shall be
prohibited.
   (H)   Existing structures.
      (1)   The provisions of this chapter do not require any changes or
improvements to be made to lawfully existing structures. However, when an
improvement is made to a structure in the floodplain, a floodplain development
permit is required.
      (2)   Any addition, alteration, reconstruction, or improvement of any
kind to an existing structure where the costs of which would equal or exceed
50% of the pre-improvement market value shall constitute a substantial
improvement and shall fully comply with the provisions of this chapter.
      (3)   Any addition, alteration, reconstruction, or improvement of any
kind to an existing structure in the floodway shall be prohibited.
      (4)   Any addition, alteration, reconstruction, or improvement of any
kind to an existing structure that will change the compliance requirements of
the building shall require applicable documentation including an elevation
certificate, floodproofing certificate, or no rise certification.
(Ord. 2023-1.1, passed 1-9-2023) Penalty, see §
154.99
§ 154.47 DESIGN AND CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS.
   (A)   Anchoring. All buildings or structures shall be firmly anchored to
prevent flotation, collapse, or lateral movement of the structure resulting
from hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads, including the effects of buoyancy.
   (B)   Building materials and utilities.
      (1)   All buildings or structures shall be constructed with materials and
utility equipment resistant to flood damage. All buildings or structures shall
also be constructed by methods and practices that minimize flood and flood-
related damages.
      (2)   All buildings or structures shall be constructed with electrical,
heating, ventilation, plumbing, air conditioning equipment, and other service
facilities that are designed and/or located so as to prevent water from
entering or accumulating within the components during conditions of flooding.
   (C)   Drainage. Within Zones AO and AH, adequate drainage paths around
structures on slopes shall be required in order to guide floodwaters around and
away from proposed structures.
   (D)   Water supply and sanitary sewer systems. New or replaced septic
systems in floodplains are prohibited.
   (E)   Other utilities. All other utilities such as gas lines, electrical,
telephone, and other utilities shall be located and constructed to minimize or
eliminate flood damage to such utilities and facilities.
   (F)   Storage of materials. The storage or processing of materials that are
in time of flooding buoyant, flammable, explosive, or could be injurious to
human, animal, or plant life is prohibited. The storage of other material or
equipment may be allowed if not subject to major damage by floods and firmly
anchored to prevent flotation or if readily removable from the area within the
time available after flood warning.
   (G)   Recreational vehicles.
      (1)   Within any floodway, recreational vehicles and recreational vehicle
parks shall be prohibited.
      (2)   Recreational vehicles to be placed on sites within the floodplain
shall:
         (a)   Be on site for fewer than 60 consecutive days; and
         (b)   Be fully licensed and ready for highway use, which shall mean it
is on its wheels or jacking system, is attached to the site by only quick-
disconnect type utilities and security devices, and no permanently attached
additions.
   (H)   Subdivisions. Subdivision proposals and other proposed new
development, including manufactured home parks or subdivisions, shall require
assurance that:
      (1)   All such proposals are consistent with the need to minimize flood
damage;
      (2)   All public utilities and facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical,
and water systems are located, elevated, and constructed to minimize or
eliminate flood damage;
      (3)   Adequate drainage is provided so as to reduce exposure to flood
hazards; and
      (4)   Proposals for development (including proposals for manufactured
home parks and subdivisions) of five acres or 50 lots, whichever is less, where
base flood elevation data are not available, shall be supported by hydrologic
and hydraulic analyses that determine base flood elevations and floodway
information. The analyses shall be prepared by a licensed professional engineer
in a format required by FEMA for Conditional Letters of Map Revision and a
Letters of Map Revision.
(Ord. 2023-1.1, passed 1-9-2023) Penalty, see §
154.99
§ 154.48 NONCONFORMING USE.
   (A)   A structure or use of a structure or premises that was lawful before
the passage or amendment of this chapter, but that is not in conformity with
the provisions of this chapter may be continued subject to the following
conditions:
      (1)   If such use is discontinued for six consecutive months, any future
use of the building premises shall conform to this chapter. The Utility
Department shall notify the Floodplain Administrator in writing of instances of
nonconforming uses where utility services have been discontinued for a period
of six months.
      (2)   Uses or adjuncts thereof that are or become nuisances shall not be
entitled to continue as nonconforming uses.
   (B)   If any nonconforming use or structure is destroyed by any means,
including flood, it shall not be reconstructed if the cost is more than 50% of
the market value of the structure before the damage occurred except that if it
is reconstructed in conformity with the provisions of this chapter. This
limitation does not include the cost of any alteration to comply with existing
state or local health, sanitary, or safety code or regulations or the cost of
any alteration of a structure listed on the National Register of Historic
Places, provided that the alteration shall not preclude its continued
designation.
(Ord. 2023-1.1, passed 1-9-2023)
§ 154.49 AMENDMENTS.
   (A)   The regulations, restrictions, and boundaries set forth in this
chapter may from time to time be amended, supplemented, changed, or appealed to
reflect any and all changes in federal, state, or local regulations provided,
however, that no such action may be taken until after a public hearing in
relation thereto, at which citizens and parties in interest shall have an
opportunity to be heard. Notice of the time and place of such hearing shall be
published in a newspaper of general circulation in the city. At least ten days
shall elapse between the date of this publication and the public hearing.
   (B)   A copy of such amendments will be provided to the state’s Department
of Natural Resources and the Federal Emergency Management Agency for review and
approval before being adopted.
(Ord. 2023-1.1, passed 1-9-2023)
§ 154.50 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   0.2% ANNUAL CHANCE FLOODPLAIN. The floodplain that would be inundated by the
0.2% annual chance flood and delineated on the Flood Insurance Rate Maps.
   0.2% ANNUAL CHANCE FLOOD ELEVATION. The elevation to which floodwaters are
expected to rise during a 0.2% annual chance flood.
   ACCESSORY STRUCTURE. A structure on the same parcel of property as the
principal structure, the use of which is incidental to the use of the principal
structure. Also shall be known as APPURTENANT STRUCTURE.
   AGRICULTURAL STRUCTURE. For floodplain management purposes, a walled and
roofed structure used exclusively for agricultural purposes or uses in
connection with the production, harvesting, storage, raising, or drying of
agricultural commodities and livestock, including aquatic organisms. Structures
that house tools or equipment used in connection with these purposes or uses
are also considered to have agricultural purposes or uses.
   AREA OF SHALLOW FLOODING. A designated AO or AH zone on a community’s Flood
Insurance Rate Map (FIRM) with a 1% or greater annual chance of flooding to an
average depth of one to three feet where a clearly defined channel is
unpredictable and where velocity flow may be evident. Such flooding is
characterized by ponding or sheet flow.
   BASE FLOOD. The flood having 1% chance of being equaled or exceeded in any
given year.
   BASE FLOOD ELEVATION. The elevation to which floodwaters are expected to
rise during the base flood.
   BASEMENT. Any area of the building having its floor subgrade (below ground
level) on all sides.
   BUILDING. See definition for STRUCTURE.
   CRITICAL FACILITY. Any property that, if flooded, would result in severe
consequences to public health and safety. CRITICAL FACILITIES include, but are
not limited to: facilities that produces, use, or store hazardous materials;
hospitals, nursing homes, and housing likely to contain vulnerable populations;
emergency support function facilities like police stations, fire stations,
vehicle and equipment storage facilities, and emergency operations centers;
public and private utility facilities vital to maintaining or restoring normal
services to flooded areas before, during, and after a flood.
   DEVELOPMENT. Any human-made change to improved or unimproved real estate,
including but not limited to the construction, reconstruction, renovation,
repair, expansion, or alteration of buildings or other structures; the
placement of manufactured homes; streets and other paving; utilities; filling,
grading, and excavation; mining; dredging; drilling operations; storage of
equipment or materials; or obstructions.
   EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including, at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is complete before the effective date
of the floodplain management regulations adopted by a community.
   EXPANSION TO AN EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. The
preparation of additional sites by the construction of facilities for servicing
the lots on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads).
   FLOOD or FLOODING. A general and temporary condition of partial or complete
inundation of normally dry land areas.
   FLOOD FRINGE. The area of the floodplain, outside of the floodway, that has
a 1% chance of flood occurrence in any one year.
   FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (FIRM). An official map of a community, on which
the Flood Insurance Study has delineated the special flood hazard area
boundaries and the risk premium zones applicable to the community.
   FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY (FIS). The official report provided by the Federal
Emergency Management Agency. The report contains flood profiles, as well as the
Flood Insurance Rate Map and the water surface elevation of the base flood.
   FLOODPLAIN. Any land area susceptible to being inundated by water from any
source (see definition of “flooding”). FLOODPLAIN includes flood fringe and
floodway. FLOODPLAIN and SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA are the same for use by this
chapter.
   FLOODPROOFING. Any combination of structural and nonstructural additions,
changes, or adjustments to structures that reduce or eliminate flood damage to
real estate or improved real property, water and sanitary facilities, and
structures and their contents.
   FLOODWAY or REGULATORY FLOODWAY. The channel of a river or other watercourse
and the adjacent land areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the
base flood without cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation more
than one foot.
   FREEBOARD. A factor of safety usually expressed in feet above a flood level
for purposes of floodplain management. FREEBOARD tends to compensate for the
many unknown factors that could contribute to flood heights greater than the
height calculated for a selected size flood and floodway conditions, such as
wave action, clogged bridge openings, and the hydrological effect of
urbanization of the watershed.
   HIGHEST ADJACENT GRADE. The highest natural elevation of the ground surface
prior to construction next to the proposed walls of a structure.
   HISTORIC STRUCTURE. Any structure that is:
      (1)   Listed individually in the National Register of Historic Places (a
listing maintained by the Department of Interior) or preliminarily determined
by the Secretary of the Interior as meeting the requirements for individual
listing on the National Register;
      (2)   Certified or preliminarily determined by the Secretary of the
Interior as contributing to the historical significance of a registered
historic district or a district preliminarily determined by the Secretary to
qualify as a registered historic district;
      (3)   Individually listed on a state inventory of historic places in
states with historic preservation programs which have been approved by the
Secretary of the Interior; or
      (4)   Individually listed on a local inventory of historic places in
communities with historic preservation programs that have been certified
either:
         (a)   By an approved state program as determined by the Secretary of
the Interior; or
         (b)   Directly by the Secretary of the Interior in states without
approved programs.
   LOWEST FLOOR. The lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area (including
basement). An unfinished or flood-resistant enclosure, usable solely for
parking of vehicles, building access or storage, in an area other than a
basement area, is not considered a building’s LOWEST FLOOR, provided that such
enclosure is not built or modified so as to render the structure in violation
of the applicable non-elevation design requirements of this chapter.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. A structure, transportable in one or more sections, which
is built on a permanent chassis and is designed for use with or without a
permanent foundation when attached to the required utilities. The term
MANUFACTURED HOME does not include a RECREATIONAL VEHICLE.
   MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A parcel (or contiguous parcels) of
land divided into two or more manufactured home lots for rent or sale.
   NEW CONSTRUCTION. For floodplain management purposes, structures for which
the “start of construction” commenced on or after the effective date of the
floodplain management regulation adopted by a community and includes any
subsequent improvements to such structures.
   NEW MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed on or after the effective
date of floodplain management regulations adopted by a community.
   OBSTRUCTION. Any wall, wharf, embankment, levee, dike, pile, abutment,
projection, excavation (including the alteration or relocation of a watercourse
or drainway), channel rectification, bridge, conduit, culvert, building, stored
equipment or material, wire, fence, rock, gravel, refuse, fill, or other
analogous structure or matter which may impede, retard, or change the direction
of the flow of water, either in itself or by catching or collecting debris
carried by such water, or that is placed where the natural flow of the water
would carry such structure or matter downstream to the damage or detriment of
either life or property. Dams designed to store or divert water are not
OBSTRUCTIONS if permission for the construction thereof is obtained from the
Department of Natural Resources pursuant to the Safety of Dams and Reservoirs
Act (Neb. Rev. Stat. 46-1601 to 46-1670 as amended).
   OVERLAY DISTRICT. A district in which additional requirements act in
conjunction with the underlying zoning district(s). The original zoning
district designation does not change.
   POST-FIRM STRUCTURE. A building that was constructed or substantially
improved after December 31, 1974 or on or after the community’s initial Flood
Insurance Rate Map dated April 16, 2013, whichever is later.
   PRE-FIRM STRUCTURE. A building that was constructed or substantially
improved on or before December 31, 1974 or before the community’s initial Flood
Insurance Rate Map dated April 16, 2013, whichever is later.
   PRINCIPALLY ABOVE GROUND. At least 51% of the actual cash value of the
structure is above ground.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. A vehicle which is:
      (1)   Built on a single chassis;
      (2)   Four hundred square feet or less when measured at the largest
horizontal projections;
      (3)   Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light
duty truck; and
      (4)   Designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling but as
temporary living quarters for recreational, camping, travel, or seasonal use.
   REGULATORY FLOOD ELEVATION. The base flood elevation (BFE) plus a freeboard
factor as specified in this chapter.
   SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA (SFHA). The land in the floodplain within a
community subject to 1% or greater chance of flooding in any given year.
   START OF CONSTRUCTION. The date the floodplain development permit was
issued, provided the actual start of construction, repair, reconstruction,
rehabilitation, addition, placement, or other improvement was within 180 days
of the permit date. START OF CONSTRUCTION also includes substantial
improvement, and means the date the building permit was issued, provided the
actual start of construction, repair, reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition,
placement, or other improvement was within 180 days of the permit date. The
actual start means the first placement of permanent construction of a structure
on a site, such as the pouring of slab or footings, the installation of piles,
the construction of columns, or any work beyond the stage of excavation; or the
placement of a manufactured home on a foundation. Permanent construction does
not include land preparation, such as clearing, grading and filling; nor does
it include the installation of streets and/or walkways; nor does it include
excavation for a basement, footings, piers, or foundations or the erection of
temporary forms; nor does it include the installation on the property of
accessory buildings, such as garages or sheds not occupied as dwelling units or
not part of the main structure. For a substantial improvement, the actual START
OF CONSTRUCTION means the first alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor, or
other structural part of a building, whether or not the alteration affects the
external dimensions of the building.
   STRUCTURE. A walled and roofed building that is principally above ground, as
well as a manufactured home and a gas or liquid storage tank that is
principally above ground.
   SUBDIVISION. The division or re-division of a lot, tract, or parcel of land
by any means into two or more lots, tracts, parcels, or other divisions of land
including changes in existing lot lines for the purpose, whether immediate or
future, of lease, partition by the court for distribution to heirs or devisees,
transfer of ownership, or building or lot development.
   SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE. Damage of any origin sustained by a structure whereby
the cost of restoring the structure to its before-damage condition would equal
or exceed 50% of the market value of the structure before the damage occurred.
   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT. Any reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition, or
other improvement of a structure, the cost of which equals or exceeds 50% of
the market value of the structure before start of construction of the
improvement. This includes structures which have incurred substantial damage,
regardless of the actual repair work performed. The term does not, however,
include either:
      (1)   Any project for improvement of a structure to correct existing
violations of state or local health, sanitary, or safety code specifications
which have been identified by the local code enforcement official and which are
the minimum necessary to assure safe living conditions; or
      (2)   Any alteration of a historic structure, provided that the
alteration will not preclude the structure’s continued designation as a
historic structure.
   VARIANCE. A grant of relief to an applicant from the requirements of this
chapter that allows construction in a manner otherwise prohibited by this
chapter where specific enforcement would result in unnecessary hardship.
   VIOLATION. A failure of a structure or other development to be fully
compliant with the community’s floodplain management regulations. A structure
or other development without the Elevation Certificate, other certifications,
or other evidence of compliance required in this chapter is presumed to be in
VIOLATION until such time as that documentation is provided.
   WATERCOURSE. Any depression two feet or more below the surrounding land that
serves to give direction to a current of water at least nine months of the year
and that has a bed and well-defined banks.
(Ord. 2023-1.1, passed 1-9-2023)
§ 154.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   (1)   Violation of the provisions of this chapter or failure to comply
with any of its requirements (including violations of conditions and safeguards
established in connection with grants of variances or special exceptions) shall
constitute a misdemeanor.
      (2)   Any person, firm, corporate, or other entity that violates this
chapter or fails to comply with any of its requirements shall upon conviction
thereof be fined not more than $500, and in addition, shall pay all costs and
expenses involved in the case. Each day such violation continues shall be
considered a separate offense.
   (B)   The imposition of such fines or penalties for any violation or non-
compliance with this chapter shall not excuse the violation or non-compliance
or allow it to continue. All such violations or non-compliant actions shall be
remedied within an established and reasonable time.
   (C)   Nothing herein contained shall prevent the city or other appropriate
authority from taking such other lawful action as is necessary to prevent or
remedy any violation.
(Ord. 2023-1.1, passed 1-9-2023)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
[Reserved]
   PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Nebraska Revised Statutes
References to Prior Code
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO NEBRASKA REVISED STATUTES
Neb. Rev. Stat. Cites Code Section
Neb. Rev. Stat. Cites                  Code Section
Ch. 28                                 90.01
Ch. 28, Art. 3, 4, 7, 8, 10, 11, or 12 111.17
Ch. 53, Art. 1                         113.29
Ch. 60, Art. 6                         70.01
9-201 et seq.                          113.29
9-301 et seq.                          113.29
9-401 et seq.                          113.29
9-601 et seq.                          113.25,
                                       113.29
10-101 through 10-143                  34.12
10-606 through 10-612                  34.12
11-101                                 33.26
11-104                                 33.25
11-105                                 33.25
11-109                                 33.25
11-110                                 33.25
11-111                                 33.25
11-112                                 33.25
11-113                                 33.25
11-114                                 33.25
11-115                                 33.25
11-116                                 33.25
11-117                                 33.25
11-118                                 33.25
13-403                                 93.21
13-503                                 34.01
13-504                                 34.28
13-505                                 34.28
13-506                                 34.29
13-507                                 34.29
13-508                                 34.30,
                                       34.56
13-509                                 34.30,
                                       34.55
13-509.01                              34.27
13-509.02                              34.27
13-510                                 34.33
13-511                                 34.34
                                       34.29,
13-518 to 13-522                       34.34,
                                       34.30
13-606                                 34.02
13-609                                 34.14
13-903                                 34.05
16-691.01                              34.11
16-714 through 16-716                  34.10
16-318(3)                              31.05
17-102                                 30.15
17-103                                 30.15
17-104                                 30.15
17-105                                 33.04
17-106                                 33.04
                                       30.01,
17-107                                 30.03,
                                       31.01
17-108                                 33.40
                                       30.02,
17-108.02                              30.15,
                                       31.03
17-110                                 30.02
17-111                                 30.02
17-112                                 30.02
17-113                                 30.02
17-114                                 30.02
17-117                                 30.02
17-121                                 32.03,
                                       51.03
17-134                                 111.01-
                                       111.05
17-142                                 130.02
17-148                                 30.16
17-150                                 31.09
17-208                                 91.01,
                                       91.02
17-405                                 31.09
17-501 to 17-560                       31.07
17-503                                 93.18,
                                       93.19
17-503.01                              93.19
17-503.2                               93.20
17-505                                 10.99,
                                       30.40
17-506                                 34.50
17-507                                 34.51
17-509                                 92.20
17-522 through 17-524                  92.05
                                       110.03,
17-525                                 111.01-
                                       111.04
                                       94.031,
                                       94.037,
17-526                                 94.050,
                                       94.052,
                                       94.056
17-532                                 52.27
17-536                                 52.26
                                       52.18,
                                       52.19,
                                       52.23,
17-537                                 52.24,
                                       52.28,
                                       52.29,
                                       52.32
17-538                                 50.05
17-540                                 34.11,
                                       52.20
17-541                                 31.07
17-542                                 52.18,
                                       52.22
17-543                                 31.07
17-548                                 94.036
                                       91.19,
17-555                                 93.17,
                                       130.02
                                       90.09,
17-556                                 130.01,
                                       130.06,
                                       130.07
                                       92.01,
                                       92.22-
17-557                                 92.25,
                                       93.17,
                                       93.18,
                                       130.02
                                       93.17,
17-557.01                              93.18,
                                       93.23
17-563                                 91.20
17-567                                 92.21
17-568                                 31.09
17-568.01                              31.09,
                                       34.03
17-568.02                              34.03
17-574                                 53.02
                                       31.01,
17-604                                 33.25,
                                       33.40
17-605                                 31.03
17-606                                 31.05
17-607                                 34.08,
                                       34.09
17-608                                 34.11
17-609                                 34.11
17-610                                 31.06
17-611                                 33.40
17-612                                 33.40
                                       30.43,
17-613                                 30.45-
                                       30.47,
                                       34.03
                                       10.15,
17-614                                 30.43,
                                       30.44,
                                       30.48
17-615                                 30.46
17-616                                 30.44
17-701                                 34.25
17-702                                 34.08,
                                       34.54
17-703                                 34.06
17-706                                 34.31
17-708                                 34.04
17-709                                 34.04
17-710                                 34.07
17-711                                 34.04
17-714                                 34.05
17-715                                 34.05
17-720                                 34.10
17-801                                 32.04
17-802                                 32.04
17-802.01                              32.04
17-803                                 34.11
17-804                                 31.07
17-805                                 32.04
17-806                                 32.04
17-807                                 32.04
17-808                                 32.04
17-810                                 32.04
17-901                                 53.03
17-902                                 53.03
17-919                                 31.09
17-925.01                              50.05
17-948 through 17-952                  93.01
17-953                                 93.21
17-953.01                              93.21
17-954                                 93.21
17-1001                                91.17
17-567(1)                              93.16
17-606(2)                              31.05
17-614(3)                              30.44
18-131                                 30.45
18-132                                 10.16,
                                       30.40
18-305 through 18-312                  33.41
18-412.01                              34.03
                                       50.05,
18-503                                 53.02,
                                       53.03
18-1001 et seq.                        93.18
18-1214                                34.57
18-1216                                34.06
18-1701                                31.04
                                       91.15-
                                       91.17,
                                       93.23,
18-1720                                94.015,
                                       130.05,
                                       150.036,
                                       150.037,
                                       150.039
                                       10.99,
18-1722                                150.036,
                                       150.037,
                                       150.039
                                       150.036,
18-1722.01                             150.037,
                                       150.039
18-1752                                91.21
18-1755                                93.21
18-1756                                34.03
18-1801 through 18-1805                34.12
18-2102.01                             32.01
18-2715                                32.01
18-2803                                34.35
18-2804                                34.02,
                                       34.35
18-2805                                34.35
18-2806                                34.35
18-2807                                34.35
18-2808                                34.35
19-192                                 154.30
19-613                                 30.15
19-710                                 91.18
19-901                                 32.02
19-901 et seq.                         32.01,
                                       32.02
19-901 to 19-914                       32.02
19-901 to 19-915                       32.02
19-903                                 32.01
19-903 to 19-904.01                    32.02
19-907                                 32.02
19-908                                 32.02
19-909                                 32.02
19-910                                 32.02
19-912                                 32.02
19-912.01                              32.02
19-915                                 30.48
19-916                                 32.01
19-922                                 30.40
19-925 through 19-933                  32.01
19-926                                 32.01
19-927                                 32.01
19-928                                 32.01
19-929                                 32.01
19-930 to 19-933                       32.01
19-1101                                31.05
19-1102                                31.03
19-1103                                31.04,
                                       31.05
19-1301                                34.08
19-1302                                34.08
19-1303                                34.08
19-1304                                34.08
19-1309                                34.52
19-1310                                34.52
19-1311                                34.52
19-1312                                34.52
19-2106                                51.02
19-2417 through 19-2419                92.05
19-2902                                34.02
19-2903                                34.02
19-2904                                34.02
19-2905                                34.02
19-2906 through 19-2909                34.02
19-3101                                30.19
19-3701                                30.47
19-929(3)                              32.02
20-203                                 94.034
23-114.02                              32.02
23-122                                 31.03
23-168                                 154.30
25-1801                                50.04
25-2703                                30.40
25-21,275                              50.04
25-21,276                              50.04
25-21,277                              50.04
25-21,278                              50.04
28-109                                 94.034
28-431                                 130.20
28-515.02                              50.04
28-520                                 94.034
28-521                                 94.034
28-523                                 93.02
28-1008                                94.034
28-1241                                90.01
28-1245                                90.05
28-1321                                130.05
28-1322                                130.03
28-1321(1)                             130.04
29-4001                                130.08
29-4003                                130.07
29-4013                                130.08
29-4015 et seq.                        130.08
31-1001 to 31-1023                     154.01
32-101                                 30.15
32-109                                 30.02,
                                       30.15
32-533                                 30.01,
                                       30.15
32-552                                 30.15
32-553                                 30.15
32-554                                 30.15
32-557                                 30.15
                                       30.03,
32-560                                 30.18,
                                       30.19
32-560 through 32-572                  30.03,
                                       30.18
32-561                                 30.03,
                                       30.18
32-568                                 30.03,
                                       30.18
32-569                                 30.18
32-603                                 30.02,
                                       30.15
32-604                                 30.02,
                                       30.15
32-628 through 32-631                  34.53
32-802                                 34.53
32-1308                                30.03,
                                       30.18
33-141                                 31.05
35-106                                 110.02
39-301                                 130.02
39-302                                 130.02
45-623                                 34.13
46-1212                                93.22
46-1601 to 46-1670                     154.50
48-1503                                34.03
49-1408                                33.40
49-1425                                33.40
49-1499.03 through 49-14,103           33.41
49-1499.04                             33.40
49-14,102                              33.40
49-14,103.01                           33.40
49-14,103.02                           33.40
49-14,103.03                           33.40
49-14,103.04                           33.41
49-14,103.05                           33.40
49-14,103.06                           33.41
49-801(16)                             10.05
51-201                                 34.53
51-215                                 34.08
51-216                                 34.08
51-501                                 34.53
52-601.01 to 52-605                    130.20
53-103.01 through 53-103.42            111.01
53-116.01                              111.19
53-118                                 111.42
53-123.12                              111.18
53-124                                 111.18,
                                       111.21
53-124.01                              111.18
53-124.12                              111.21
53-124.15                              111.40
53-124.17                              111.18
53-125                                 111.17
53-129                                 111.18
53-131                                 111.18
53-132                                 111.18
53-133                                 111.18,
                                       111.40
53-134                                 111.18
                                       111.18,
53-134.03                              111.42,
                                       111.46
53-134.04                              111.25
53-135                                 111.20
53-135.01                              111.18,
                                       111.20
53-148                                 111.22
53-167.02                              111.47
53-167.03                              111.47
53-168.06                              111.15
53-175                                 111.16
53-177                                 111.40
53-177.01                              111.40
53-178                                 111.41
53-179                                 111.43
53-180                                 111.02
53-183                                 111.44
53-184                                 111.45
53-186                                 111.03
53-186.01                              111.03
53-194.03                              111.16
53-1,101                               111.23
53-1,102                               111.24
53-1,115                               111.25
53-1,121                               111.04
53-186(2)                              111.03
54-601                                 94.035
54-602                                 94.035
                                       94.050-
54-603                                 94.052,
                                       94.056
54-605                                 94.031,
                                       94.054
54-606                                 94.030
54-617                                 94.034
54-618                                 94.034
54-619                                 94.034
54-620                                 94.034
54-621                                 94.034
54-622.01                              94.034
54-623                                 94.034
60-169                                 130.20
60-301                                 34.57,
                                       130.20
60-376                                 130.20,
                                       130.21
60-606 through 60-676                  70.01
60-680                                 Ch. 70,
                                       Ch. 71
60-681                                 71.01
60-683                                 Ch. 70
60-1901                                130.20
60-1902                                130.20
60-1903                                130.20
60-1903.01                             130.20
60-1903.02                             130.20
60-1904                                130.20
60-1905                                130.20
60-1906                                130.20
60-1907                                130.20
60-1908                                130.20
60-1909                                130.20
60-1911                                130.20
60-2410                                130.20
60-3,104                               34.57
60-4,126                               73.03
60-6,114                               72.15
60-6,119 through 60-6,121              71.05
60-6,165                               72.16
60-6,166                               72.07,
                                       72.09
60-6,211.08                            111.03
60-6,250                               92.26
60-6,288(2)(j)                         92.26
60-6,294(3)                            92.26
70-624.04                              33.40
70-1601                                50.01
70-1601 to 70-1615                     50.04
70-1602 et seq.                        50.03
71-423                                 111.04
71-1637                                34.53
71-1908 et seq.                        130.07
71-3501 et seq.                        150.056
71-4401 et seq.                        94.036,
                                       94.073
71-4406                                94.032
71-4408                                94.036
71-4412                                94.056
71-4603                                130.20
73-101 et seq.                         34.03
77-1601                                34.55
77-1606                                34.53
77-1632                                34.55
77-1633                                34.56
77-1702                                34.14
77-2201                                31.05
77-2201 through 77-2215                31.05
77-2202                                31.05
77-2209                                31.05
77-2210                                31.05
77-2212                                31.05
77-2337                                34.08
77-2341                                34.11
77-2362                                34.08,
                                       34.09
77-2363                                34.09
77-2364                                34.09
77-2365.01                             34.08,
                                       34.10
77-2366                                34.08,
                                       34.10
77-2386                                34.09
77-3442                                34.53,
                                       93.01
77-3443                                34.53
77-3444                                34.53
80-202                                 34.53
81-145 through 81-162                  34.03
81-829.51                              34.34
81-2005                                Ch. 70
81-2,239 et seq.                       113.09
81-3401 et seq.                        93.22,
                                       150.055
81-3423                                93.22
81-3445                                93.22
81-3449 to 81-3453                     93.22
81-3449(3)                             93.22
81-3449(4)                             93.22
81-3449(9)                             93.22
81-3449(11)                            93.22
84-712 through 84-712.09               31.04,
                                       31.05
84-712(2)                              31.04
84-1408                                33.02
84-1409                                33.01
84-1410                                33.07,
                                       33.08
                                       33.02,
84-1411                                33.03,
                                       33.05,
                                       33.06
84-1411(7)                             33.02
84-1412                                33.09
84-1413                                33.11 ,
                                       33.13
                                       
 
REFERENCES TO PRIOR CODE
Prior Code 2022 Code
Prior Code      2022 Code
Ch. 73 Sched. I 73.04
11.01           11.01
11.02           11.02
50.01           50.01
50.02           50.02
50.03           50.03
50.04           50.04
50.05           50.04
50.06           50.05
50.07           50.06
51.01           51.01
51.02           51.02
51.03           51.03
51.08           51.04
52.01           52.01
52.15           52.15
52.16           52.16
52.17           52.17
52.18           52.18
52.19           52.19
52.20           52.20
52.20.5         52.21
52.21           52.22
52.22           52.23
52.23           52.24
52.24           52.25
52.25           52.26
52.26           52.27
52.27           52.28
52.28           52.29
52.29           52.30
52.30           52.31
52.31           52.32
52.32           52.33
52.45           52.02
53.01           53.01
53.02           53.02
53.03           53.03
53.04           53.04
53.05           53.05
53.06           53.06
53.20           53.20
53.21           53.21
53.22           53.22
53.23           53.23
53.24           53.24
53.25           53.25
53.26           53.26
53.27           53.27
53.28           53.28
53.29           53.29
53.40           53.40
53.41           53.41
53.42           53.42
53.43           53.43
53.44           53.44
53.45           53.45
53.46           53.46
53.99           53.99
70.01           70.01
70.02           70.02
70.03           70.03
70.04           70.04
71.01           71.01
71.02           71.02
71.03           71.03
71.04           71.04
71.05           71.05
71.06           71.06
71.07           71.07
71.20           71.20
71.21           71.21
72.01           72.01
72.02           72.02
72.03           72.03
72.04           72.04
72.05           72.05
72.06           72.06
72.07           72.07
72.08           72.08
72.09           72.09
72.10           72.10
72.11           72.11
72.12           72.12
72.13           72.13
72.14           72.14
72.15           72.15
72.16           72.16
74.01           73.01
74.02           73.02
74.03           73.03
90.01           90.01
90.02           90.02
90.03           90.03
90.04           90.04
90.05           90.05
90.06           90.06
90.07           90.07
90.08           90.08
90.09           90.09
90.10           90.10
91.01           91.01
91.02           91.02
91.03           91.03
91.20           91.15
91.21           91.16
91.22           91.17
91.23           91.18
92.01           93.15
92.02           93.16
92.03           93.17
92.04           93.18
92.05           93.19
92.06           93.20
92.07           93.21
92.08           93.21
92.09           93.21
92.10           93.22
92.11           93.23
92.25           92.01
92.26           92.02
92.27           92.03
92.28           92.04
92.29           92.05
92.45           92.20
92.46           92.21
92.47           92.22
92.48           92.23
92.49           92.24
92.50           92.25
92.51           92.26
93.01           94.001
93.02           94.002
93.03           94.003
93.04           94.004
93.05           94.005
93.06           94.006
93.07           94.007
93.08           94.008
93.09           94.009
93.10           94.010
93.11           94.011
93.12           94.012
93.13           94.013
93.14           94.013
93.15           94.014
93.16           94.015
93.17           94.016
93.25           94.030
93.26           94.031
93.27           94.032
93.28           94.033
93.30           94.035
93.31           94.036
93.32           94.037
93.45           94.050
93.46           94.051
93.47           94.052
93.48           94.053
93.49           94.054
93.50           94.055
93.51           94.056
93.52           94.070
93.53           94.071
93.54           94.072
93.55           94.073
94.01           93.01
94.02           93.02
110.01          110.01
110.02          110.02
110.04          110.20
110.05          110.21
110.06          110.22
110.07          110.03
110.08          110.04
110.09          110.05
111.01          111.01-
                111.04
111.02          111.05
112.28          111.43
130.01          130.01
130.02          130.02
130.03          130.03
130.04          130.04
130.05          130.05
130.08          130.06
130.09          130.07
130.10          130.08,
                130.99
141.01          150.071
142.01          150.072
143.01          150.073
144.01          150.074
145.01          150.001
145.02          150.002
145.03          150.003
145.04          150.004
145.05          150.005
145.06          150.006
145.07          150.007
146.01          150.020
146.02          150.021
147.01          150.035
147.02          150.036
147.03          150.037
147.04          150.037
147.05          150.038
147.06          150.039
 
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No.  Date Passed Description
1996-7.1  9-9-1996    53.29
1997-7.1  7-14-1997   152.01,
                      153.01
1997-8.14 8-11-1997   50.03
1997-10.2 11-17-1997  111.43
                      90.02,
1998-2.1  2-9-1998    90.04,
                      90.10
1998-4.2  4-13-1998   52.18,
                      53.22
1998-4.3  4-13-1998   51.04
2000-1.2  1-10-1999   52.02
2000-1.3  1-10-1999   53.42
1999-7.27 7-12-1999   93.19
1999-7.28 7-12-1999   93.22
1999-7.6  9-15-1999   50.06
1999-9.1  9-15-1999   90.06
2000-1.1  3-13-2000   52.20
2000-7.7  7-10-2000   130.99
2000-9.1  9-13-2000   90.07
2000-9.2  9-13-2000   153.01
2000-10.1 10-10-2000  94.016
2001-4.1  5-21-2001   71.20,
                      73.04
2001-6.1  6-11-2001   92.21
2001-6.2  6-11-2001   71.07
2001-11.1 11-12-2001  50.02
2003-5.1  5-12-2003   153.01
2003-5.2  5-12-2003   153.01
2003-10.1 10-20-2003  153.01
2004-2.2  2-9-2004    93.19,
                      93.20
2004-5.1  5-17-2004   94.001-
                      94.015
2004-10.1 11-15-2004  152.01
2005-2.1  2-16-2005   153.01
2005-5.1  7-11-2005   70.04
                      150.070,
2005-11.1 11-14-2005  150.072,
                      150.073
2005-12.1 12-12-2005  111.43
2005-12.2 12-12-2005  150.070,
                      150.072
2006-3.2  3-13-2006   94.036,
                      94.037
2006-3.2  3-16-2006   94.031
2006-6.1  8-16-2006   111.43
2006-10.2 10-16-2006  50.02,
                      52.21
2006-11.1 11-13-2006  130.08
2007-1.1  1-8-2007    152.01
2007-1.2  2-12-2007   153.01
2007-5.1  5-14-2007   94.050,
                      94.052
2008-1.1  3-10-2008   153.01
2008-1.3  3-10-2008   90.06
2008-2.1  4-14-2008   110.20-
                      110.22
2008-2.2  4-14-2008   110.03-
                      110.05
2008-6.3  6-9-2008    90.07
2008-5.1  8-11-2008   152.01
2008-10.1 12-8-2008   52.02
                      110.01,
2009-7.1  9-14-2009   111.01-
                      111.05
2009-11.1 1-11-2010   110.01,
                      110.03
2010-2.1  7-12-2010   153.01
2010-9.1  11-8-2010   94.070-
                      94.073
2010-12.1 12-13-2010  153.01
2011-6.1  8-15-2011   111.43
                      153.01,
2011-8.1  10-10-2011  94.001,
                      94.015
2012-12.2 2-11-2013   153.01
2013-8.1  10-14-2013  150.070
2013-8.3  10-14-2013  150.072
2013-8.4  10-14-2013  150.073
2013-8.5  10-14-2013  150.074
2013-8.6  10-14-2013  150.003-
                      150.007
2013-8.7  10-14-2013  150.020,
                      150.021
2013-8.8  10-14-2013  150.035-
                      150.039
2015-8.2  8-10-2015   113.25-
                      113.30
                      73.01,
2015-9.3  11-9-2015   73.02,
                      73.04
2015-11.1 11-9-2015   90.01,
                      90.03
2016-10.1 1-9-2017    153.01
2017-6.1  6-12-2017   153.01
2017-9.1  10-16-2017  130.22
2017-10.2 10-16-2017  93.03
2017-10.1 11-13-2017  152.01
2018-9.1  11-12-2018  53.46
2019-11.2 11-11-2019  150.008
2019-11.1 1-13-2020   153.01
2020-5.1  5-11-2020   90.08
2020-6.01 8-10-2020   153.01
2021-3.1  3-15-2021   152.01
2021-3.2  3-15-2021   153.01
2021-3.3  3-15-2021   153.01
2021-6.1  6-14-2021   113.01-
                      113.13
2021-6.5  6-14-2021   150.070
2021-6.6  6-14-2021   150.071
2021-6.7  6-14-2021   150.072
2021-6.8  6-14-2021   150.073
2021-6.9  6-14-2021   150.074
2021-6.10 6-14-2021   150.001,
                      150.002
2021-6.11 6-14-2021   150.076
2021-6.12 6-14-2021   150.077
2021-6.13 6-14-2021   150.055-
                      150.057
2021-7.1  7-12-2021   150.075
2021-9.1  11-8-2021   53.46
2022-1.1  1-10-2022   152.01
2022-3.1  3-14-2022   73.04
2022-4.1  4-11-2022   153.01
2022-4.3  4-11-2022   52.15,
                      52.16
-         9-12-2022   92.20
2022-12.1 12-12-2022  30.17
                      154.01-
                      154.11,
2023-1.1  1-9-2023    154.25-
                      154.32,
                      154.45-
                      154.50
2023-3.1  4-11-2023   53.46
2023-3.2  3-13-2023   52.02
2023-3.3  3-13-2023   Adopting Ordinance
2023-3.4  3-13-2023   153.01
2023-3.5  3-13-2023   152.01
2023-5.1  5-8-2023    150.070
2023-5.2  5-8-2023    150.071
2023-5.3  5-8-2023    150.072
2023-5.4  5-8-2023    150.074
2023-5.5  5-8-2023    150.076
2023-5.6  5-8-2023    150.077
2023-6.2  6-12-2023   150.002
                     
 
