BLOOMFIELD, NEBRASKA
CODE OF ORDINANCES
Local legislation current through Ord. 18-1, passed 6-4-2018
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing Corporation
525 Vine Street, Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio  45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Internet: www.amlegal.com
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
CHAPTER 10:  RULES OF CONSTRUCTION;
GENERAL PENALTY
Section
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Interpretation
   
10.03   Application to future ordinances
   
10.04   Captions
   
10.05   Definitions
   
10.06   Rules of interpretation
   
10.07   Severability
   
10.08   Reference to other sections
   
10.09   Reference to offices
   
10.10   Errors and omissions
   
10.11   Official time
   
10.12   Reasonable time
   
10.13   Ordinances repealed
   
10.14   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.15   Repeal or modification of ordinance
   
10.16   Section histories; statutory references
   
10.17   Local changes to this code of ordinances
 
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01  TITLE OF CODE.
   This codification of ordinances shall be designated as the “Bloomfield Code
of Ordinances” and may be so cited.
§ 10.02  INTERPRETATION.
   Unless otherwise provided herein, or by law or implication required, the
same rules of construction, definition and application shall govern the
interpretation of this code as those governing the interpretation of state law.
§ 10.03  APPLICATION TO FUTURE ORDINANCES.
   All provisions of Title I compatible with future legislation shall apply to
ordinances hereafter adopted amending or supplementing this code unless
otherwise specifically provided.
§ 10.04  CAPTIONS.
   Headings and captions used in this code other than the title, chapter and
section numbers are employed for reference purposes only and shall not be
deemed a part of the text of any section.
§ 10.05  DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   General rule. Words and phrases shall be taken in their plain,
ordinary and usual sense. However, technical words and phrases having a
peculiar and appropriate meaning in law shall be understood according to their
technical import.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this code, the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      CITY, MUNICIPAL CORPORATION or MUNICIPALITY. The City of Bloomfield,
Nebraska.
      CITY COUNCIL or GOVERNING BODY. The City Council of Bloomfield, Nebraska.
      CODE,THIS CODE or THIS CODE OF ORDINANCES. This city code, as modified by
amendment, revision and adoption of new titles, chapters or sections.
      COUNTY. The County of Knox, Nebraska.
      MAY. The act referred to is permissive.
      MONTH. A calendar month.
      OATH. Includes an affirmation in all cases in which, by law, an
affirmation may be substituted for an oath and, in such cases, the words SWEAR
and SWORN shall be equivalent to the words AFFIRM and AFFIRMED.
      OFFICER, OFFICE, EMPLOYEE, COMMISSION or DEPARTMENT. An officer, office,
employee, commission or department of the city unless the context clearly
requires otherwise.
      PERSON. Includes bodies politic and corporate, societies, communities,
the public generally, individuals, partnerships, limited liability companies,
joint-stock companies and associations.
(Neb. RS 49-801(16))
      PRECEDING or FOLLOWING. Next before or next after, respectively.
      SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory.
      SIGNATURE or SUBSCRIPTION. Includes a mark when the person cannot write.
      STATE. The State of Nebraska.
      SUBCHAPTER. A division of a chapter, designated in this code by a heading
in the chapter analysis and a capitalized heading in the body of the chapter,
setting apart a group of sections related by the subject matter of the heading.
Not all chapters have SUBCHAPTERS.
      WRITTEN. Any representation of words, letters or figures, whether by
printing or otherwise.
      YEAR. A calendar year, unless otherwise expressed.
§ 10.06  RULES OF INTERPRETATION.
   The construction of all ordinances of this city shall be by the following
rules, unless that construction is plainly repugnant to the intent of the Mayor
and City Council or of the context of the same ordinance.
   (A)   ANDorOR. Either conjunction shall include the other as if written
“and/or”, if the sense requires it.
   (B)   Acts by assistants. When a statute or ordinance requires an act to be
done which, by law, an agent or deputy as well may do as the principal, the
requisition shall be satisfied by the performance of the act by an authorized
agent or deputy.
   (C)   Gender; singular and plural; tenses. Words denoting the masculine
gender shall be deemed to include the feminine and neuter genders; words in the
singular shall include the plural, and words in the plural shall include the
singular; the use of a verb in the present tense shall include the future, if
applicable.
   (D)   General term. A general term following specific enumeration of terms
is not to be limited to the class enumerated unless expressly so limited.
§ 10.07  SEVERABILITY.
   If any provision of this code as now or later amended or its application to
any person or circumstance is held invalid, the invalidity does not affect
other provisions that can be given effect without the invalid provision or
application.
§ 10.08  REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   Whenever a section refers to another section hereof, that reference shall
extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently amended, revised,
recodified or renumbered unless the subject matter is materially altered by the
amendment or revision.
§ 10.09  REFERENCE TO OFFICES.
   Reference to a public office or officer shall be deemed to apply to any
office, officer or employee of the city exercising the powers, duties or
functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any transfer of
functions or change in the official title of the functionary.
§ 10.10  ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error is discovered, consisting of the misspelling of any
words; the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention of
the provisions affected; the use of a word or words to which no meaning can be
attached; or the use of a word or words when another word or words was clearly
intended to express the intent, the spelling shall be corrected and the word or
words supplied, omitted or substituted as will conform with the manifest
intention, and the provisions shall have the same effect as though the correct
words were contained in the text as originally published. No alteration shall
be made or permitted if any question exists regarding the nature or extent of
the error.
§ 10.11  OFFICIAL TIME.
   The official time, as established by applicable state/federal laws, shall be
the official time within the city for the transaction of all city business.
§ 10.12  REASONABLE TIME.
   (A)   In all cases where an ordinance requires an act to be done in a
reasonable time or requires reasonable notice to be given, REASONABLE TIME OR
NOTICE shall be deemed to mean the time which is necessary for a prompt
performance of the act or the giving of the notice.
   (B)   The time within which an act is to be done, as herein provided, shall
be computed by excluding the first day and including the last. If the last day
is Sunday, it shall be excluded.
§ 10.13  ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   This code contains all of the provisions of a general nature pertaining to
the subjects enumerated and embraced in this code. All prior ordinances
pertaining to the subjects treated by this code are repealed; except that,
nothing shall affect any rights acquired under, actions involving or fines,
penalties, forfeitures or liabilities incurred pursuant to those ordinances
prior to repeal.
§ 10.14  ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not embraced in this code, including ordinances
specified in this section, shall remain in full force and effect unless
repealed expressly or by necessary implication:
   (A)   Vacating or setting the boundaries of streets, alleys or other public
places;
   (B)   Annexing or detaching territory;
   (C)   Granting or accepting easements, plats or dedication of land to public
use;
   (D)   Providing for the acquisition or conveyance of real or personal
property;
   (E)   Authorizing or directing public improvements to be made;
   (F)   Levying taxes or special assessments;
   (G)   Appropriating money;
   (H)   Granting franchises or special licenses; or
   (I)   Providing for the issuance of bonds or other instruments of
indebtedness.
§ 10.15  REPEAL OR MODIFICATION OF ORDINANCE.
   (A)   Whenever any ordinance or part of an ordinance is repealed or modified
by a subsequent ordinance, the ordinance or part of an ordinance thus repealed
or modified shall continue in force until the publication of the ordinance
repealing or modifying it to give effect thereto.
   (B)   No suit, proceedings, right, liability, fine, forfeiture or penalty
instituted, created, given, secured or accrued under any ordinance previous to
its repeal shall in any way be affected, released or discharged, but may be
prosecuted, enjoyed and recovered as fully as if the ordinance had continued in
force, unless it is otherwise expressly provided.
   (C)   When any ordinance repealing a former ordinance, clause or provision
is itself repealed, the repeal shall not be construed to revive the former
ordinance, clause or provision, unless it is expressly provided.
Statutory reference:
   Requirements for amendments and revisions, see Neb. RS 17-614
§ 10.16  SECTION HISTORIES; STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   A statutory cite included in the history indicates that the text of
the section reads substantially the same as the statute. Example: (Neb. RS 18-
132)
   (B)   A statutory cite set forth as a “statutory reference” following the
text of the section indicates that the reader should refer to that statute for
further information. Example:
      § 39.01  PUBLIC RECORDS AVAILABLE.
         This municipality shall make available to any person for inspection or
         copying all public records, unless otherwise exempted by state law.
         Statutory reference:
            Inspection of public records, see Neb. RS 84-712 et seq.
§ 10.17  LOCAL CHANGES TO THIS CODE OF ORDINANCES.
   Any provision of this code of ordinances may be repealed, modified or
superseded by an ordinance passed by the City Council.
§ 10.99  GENERAL PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, or any person’s agent or servant, who violates any of the
provisions of this code of ordinances, unless otherwise specifically provided
herein, shall be deemed guilty of an offense and, upon conviction thereof,
shall be fined in any sum not exceeding $500. A new violation shall be deemed
to have been committed every 24 hours of failure to comply with the provisions
of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   (1)   Whenever a nuisance exists, as defined in this code of
ordinances, the city may proceed by a suit in equity to enjoin, abate and
remove the same in the manner provided by law.
      (2)   Whenever, in any action, it is established that a nuisance exists,
the court may, together with the fine or penalty imposed, enter an order of
abatement as a part of the judgment in the case.
(Prior Code, § 1-1001)  (Ord. 2000-16, passed 5-1-2000)
Statutory reference:
   Authority to abate nuisances, see Neb. RS 18-1720 and 18-1722
   Authority to impose fines, see Neb. RS 17-505
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   GOVERNING BODY
      
31.   ELECTIONS
      
32.   OFFICIALS AND EMPLOYEES
      
33.   ORGANIZATIONS
      
34.   LAW ENFORCEMENT AND PUBLIC SAFETY
      
35.   FINANCE AND REVENUE; TAXATION
      
36.   GENERAL ADMINISTRATIVE POLICIES
CHAPTER 30:  GOVERNING BODY
Section
Mayor
   
30.01   Election; qualifications; term
   
30.02   Powers and duties
   
30.03   Vacancy
City Council
   
30.15   Election; qualifications; terms
   
30.16   President; Acting President
   
30.17   Standing committees
   
30.18   Vacancy; general provisions
   
30.19   Vacancy due to unexcused absences
Ordinances, Resolutions and Motions
   
30.30   Grant of power
   
30.31   Introduction
   
30.32   Resolutions and motions
   
30.33   Ordinances; style, title
   
30.34   Ordinances, resolutions, orders, bylaws; reading; passage
   
30.35   Publication or posting
   
30.36   Certificate of publication or posting
   
30.37   Effective date; emergency ordinances
   
30.38   Amendments and revisions
Meetings
   
30.50   Definitions
   
30.51   Open to public; notice; agenda
   
30.52   Notice to news media
   
30.53   Council meetings; when; quorum; votes
   
30.54   Emergency meetings
   
30.55   Attendance other than in person
   
30.56   Closed sessions
   
30.57   Prohibited acts; exempt events
   
30.58   Public participation
   
30.59   City Council; order of business
   
30.60   Votes
   
30.61   City Council; parliamentary procedure   
   
30.62   Minutes
   
30.63   Change in office
MAYOR
§ 30.01  ELECTION; QUALIFICATIONS; TERM.
   (A)   The Mayor shall be elected as provided in the Election Act. The Mayor
shall take office on the date of the first regular meeting of the City Council
held in December following the statewide general election. The Mayor shall be a
resident and registered voter of the city.
(Neb. RS 17-107)
   (B)   The Mayor shall serve for a term of four years or until his or her
successor is elected and qualified.
(Neb. RS 32-533)
§ 30.02  POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   (1)   The Mayor shall preside at all meetings of the City Council.
      (2)   The Mayor may vote when his or her vote would provide the
additional vote required to attain the number of votes equal to a majority of
the number of members elected to the City Council on any pending matter,
legislation or transaction, and the Mayor shall, for the purpose of such vote,
be deemed to be a member of the Council.
      (3)   He or she shall have superintendence and control of all the
officers and affairs of the city, and shall take care that the ordinances of
the city and all laws governing cities of the second class are complied with.
(Neb. RS 17-110)
   (B)   (1)   The Mayor shall have the power to veto or sign any ordinance
passed by the City Council and to approve or veto any order, bylaw, resolution,
award of or vote to enter into any contract, or the allowance of any claim.
      (2)   If the Mayor approves the ordinance, order, bylaw, resolution,
contract or claim, he or she shall sign it and it shall become effective. If
the Mayor vetoes the ordinance, order, bylaw, resolution, contract or any item
or items of appropriations or claims, he or she shall return it to the City
Council stating that the measure is vetoed. The Mayor may issue the veto at the
meeting at which the measure passed or within seven calendar days after the
meeting. If the Mayor issues the veto after the meeting, the Mayor shall notify
the City Clerk of the veto in writing. The Clerk shall notify the City Council
in writing of the Mayor’s veto. Any order, bylaw, resolution, award of or vote
to enter into any contract, or the allowance of any claim vetoed by the Mayor
may be passed over his or her veto by a vote of two-thirds of the members of
the Council. If the Mayor neglects or refuses to sign any ordinance, order,
bylaw, resolution, award of or vote to enter into any contract, or the
allowance of any claim, but fails to veto the measure within the time required
by this section, the measure shall become effective without his or her
signature.
      (3)   The Mayor may veto any item or items of any appropriation bill or
any claims bill, and approve the remainder thereof, and the item or items
vetoed may be passed by the Council over the veto as in other cases.
(Neb. RS 17-111)
   (C)   The Mayor shall, from time to time, communicate to the City Council
such information and recommend such measures as, in his or her opinion, may
tend to the improvement of the finances, the police, health, security,
ornament, comfort and general prosperity of the city.
(Neb. RS 17-112)
   (D)   The Mayor shall have the power, when he or she deems it necessary, to
require any officer of the city to exhibit his or her accounts or other papers,
and to make reports to the Council, in writing, touching any subject or matter
pertaining to his or her office.
(Neb. RS 17-113)
   (E)   The Mayor shall have such jurisdiction as may be vested in him or her
by ordinance, over all places within five miles of the corporate limits of the
city, for the enforcement of any health or quarantine ordinance and regulation
thereof, and shall have jurisdiction in all matters vested in him or her by
ordinance, excepting taxation, within the extraterritorial zoning jurisdiction
of the city.
(Neb. RS 17-114)
   (F)   The Mayor shall have the power to remit fines and forfeitures, and to
grant reprieves and pardons for all offenses arising under the ordinances of
the city.
(Neb. RS 17-117)
   (G)   The Mayor shall hold no other elective or appointive office or
employment with the city.
   (H)   The Mayor shall sign the City Clerk’s minutes of all meetings of the
City Council, and he or she shall sign all resolutions that have been passed
and warrants for the payment of money when ordered by the Council.
   (I)   The Mayor shall have such other duties as are reposed in the Mayor by
the laws of the state or as the Council may, by resolution, confer upon the
Mayor.
(Prior Code, § 1-101)
Statutory reference:
   Restrictions on holding other office or employment, see Neb. RS 17-108.02,
32-109, 32-603 and 32-604
§ 30.03  VACANCY.
   (A)   The office of Mayor shall be vacant upon the happening of any of the
events specified in Neb. RS 32-560, except as provided in Neb. RS 32-561.
   (B)   (1)   In case of any vacancy in the office of Mayor or, in case of his
or her disability or absence, the President of the City Council shall exercise
the office of Mayor for the unexpired term, until such disability is removed,
or in case of temporary absence, until the Mayor returns.
(Neb. RS 32-568)
      (2)   If the President of the Council assumes the office of Mayor for the
unexpired term, there shall be a vacancy on the Council.
(Neb. RS 17-107, 32-568)  (Prior Code, § 1-106)
Statutory reference:
   Additional and similar provisions, see Neb. RS 32-560 through 32-572
   Ineligibility of person subjected to recall, see Neb. RS 32-1308
CITY COUNCIL
§ 30.15  ELECTION; QUALIFICATIONS; TERMS.
   (A)   The City Council shall consist of not less than four, nor more than
12, residents of the city who are registered voters.
(Neb. RS 17-103)
   (B)   All Council members shall be nominated and elected on a non-partisan
ballot unless the city provides for a partisan ballot by ordinance.
(Neb. RS 32-557)
   (C)   If members of the Council are not elected at large:
      (1)   Unless the city elects Council members at large as provided in Neb.
RS 32-554, the city shall be divided into not less than two, nor more than six
wards, as provided by ordinance of the City Council. Each ward shall contain,
as nearly as practicable, an equal portion of the population;
(Neb. RS 17-102)
      (2)   Unless the city elects Council members at large as provided in Neb.
RS 32-554, each ward of the city shall have at least two Council members
elected in the manner provided in the Election Act. No person shall be eligible
to the office of Council member who is not at the time of the election an
actual resident of the ward for which he or she is elected and a registered
voter; and
(Neb. RS 17-104)
      (3)   Such wards shall be substantially equal in population as determined
by the most recent federal decennial census.
(Neb. RS 32-553)
   (D)   The term of office shall begin on the first regular meeting of the
Council in December following the statewide general election.
(Neb. RS 17-104)
   (E)   Members of the Council shall serve for terms of four years or until
their successors are elected and qualified.
(Neb. RS 32-533)
   (F)   If the city operates under a city manager plan, members of the City
Council shall be residents and registered voters of the city and shall hold no
other employment with the city. Any Council member who ceases to possess any of
the qualifications required by this section or who has been convicted of a
felony or of any public offense involving the violation of the oath of office
of such member while in office shall forthwith forfeit such office.
(Neb. RS 19-613)  (Prior Code, § 1-103)
Statutory reference:
   Ability to elect council members at large or by ward, see Neb. RS 32-554
   Election Act, see Neb. RS 32-101
   Other requirements for wards, see Neb. RS 32-552 and 32-553
   Restrictions on holding other office or employment, see Neb. RS 17-108.02,
32-109, 32-603, 32-604
§ 30.16  PRESIDENT; ACTING PRESIDENT.
   (A)   The City Council shall elect one of its own body who shall be styled
the President of the Council and who shall preside at all meetings of the
Council in the absence of the Mayor.
   (B)   In the absence of the President, the Council shall elect one of its
own body to occupy his or her place temporarily, who shall be styled Acting
President of the Council.
   (C)   The President, and Acting President, when occupying the place of the
Mayor, shall have the same privileges as other members of the Council; and all
acts of the President or Acting President, while so acting, shall be as binding
upon the Council and upon the city as if done by the Mayor.
(Prior Code, § 1-102)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-148
§ 30.17  STANDING COMMITTEES.
   At the organizational meeting of the City Council, the Mayor shall appoint
members of such standing committees as the Council may create by ordinance or
resolution. The membership of such standing committees may be changed at any
time by the Mayor. The Mayor shall be an ex officio member of each standing
committee. The members of the standing committees shall serve a term of office
of one year, unless reappointed.
§ 30.18  VACANCY; GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   The office of member of the City Council shall be vacant upon the
happening of any of the events specified in Neb. RS 32-560, except as provided
in Neb. RS 32-561.
   (B)   Any vacancy on the City Council shall be filled as provided in
division (C) below.
(Neb. RS 32-568)
   (C)   (1)   (a)   Except as otherwise provided in divisions (C)(2) or (C)(3)
below or §
30.03 of this chapter, vacancies in city elective offices shall be filled by
the Mayor and Council for the balance of the unexpired term. Notice of a
vacancy, except a vacancy resulting from the death of the incumbent, shall be
in writing and presented to the Council at a regular or special meeting and
shall appear as a part of the minutes of such meeting. The Council shall at
once give public notice of the vacancy by causing to be published in a
newspaper of general circulation within the city or by posting in three public
places in the city the office vacated and the length of the unexpired term.
         (b)   The Mayor shall call a special meeting of the Council or place
the issue of filling such vacancy on the agenda at the next regular meeting at
which time the Mayor shall submit the name of a qualified registered voter to
fill the vacancy for the balance of the unexpired term. The regular or special
meeting shall occur upon the death of the incumbent or within four weeks after
the meeting at which such notice of vacancy has been presented. The Council
shall vote upon the nominee and, if a majority votes in favor of the nominee,
the vacancy shall be declared filled. If the nominee fails to receive a
majority of the votes, the nomination shall be rejected and the Mayor shall, at
the next regular or special meeting, submit the name of another qualified
registered voter to fill the vacancy. If the subsequent nominee fails to
receive a majority of the votes, the Mayor shall continue at that meeting to
submit the names of qualified registered voters in nomination and the Council
shall continue to vote upon the nominations at such meeting until the vacancy
is filled. The Mayor shall cast his or her vote for or against the nominee in
case of a tie vote of the Council. All Council members present shall cast a
ballot for or against the nominee. Any member of the Council who has been
appointed to fill a vacancy on the Council shall have the same rights,
including voting, as if that person were elected.
      (2)   The Mayor and Council may, in lieu of filling a vacancy in a city
elected office as provided in division (C)(1) above, call a special city
election to fill such vacancy.
      (3)   If vacancies exist in the offices of one-half or more of the
members of the City Council, the Secretary of State shall conduct a special
city election to fill such vacancies.
(Neb. RS 32-569)
Statutory reference:
   Additional and similar provisions, see Neb. RS 32-560 through 32-572
   Ineligibility of person subjected to recall, see Neb. RS 32-1308
§ 30.19  VACANCY DUE TO UNEXCUSED ABSENCES.
   (A)   In addition to the events listed in Neb. RS 32-560 and any other
reasons for a vacancy provided by law, after notice and a hearing, a vacancy on
the City Council shall exist if a member is absent from more than five
consecutive regular meetings of the Council unless the absences are excused by
a majority vote of the remaining members.
(Neb. RS 19-3101)
   (B)   The City Council shall take a vote on whether to excuse a member’s
absence from a meeting upon either:
      (1)   A written request from the member submitted to the City Clerk; or
      (2)   A motion of any other Council member.
   (C)   If a Council member has been absent from six consecutive regular
meetings and none of the absences have been excused by a majority vote of the
remaining members, the City Clerk shall include this as an item on the agenda
for the next regular meeting. At that meeting, the Council shall set a date for
a hearing and direct the City Clerk to give the member notice of the hearing by
personal service or first class mail to the member’s last known address.
   (D)   At the hearing, the Council member shall have the right to present
information on why one or more of the absences should be excused. If the
Council does not excuse one or more of the member’s absences by a majority vote
at the conclusion of the hearing, there shall be a vacancy on the Council.
ORDINANCES, RESOLUTIONS AND MOTIONS
§ 30.30  GRANT OF POWER.
   The governing body may make all ordinances, bylaws, rules, regulations and
resolutions, not inconsistent with the laws of the state, as may be expedient
for maintaining the peace, good government and welfare of the municipality and
its trade, commerce and manufactories.
(Prior Code, § 1-601)  (Ord. 97-5, passed 9-8-1997)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-505
§ 30.31  INTRODUCTION.
   Ordinances shall be introduced by members of the governing body in one of
the following ways:
   (A)   With the recognition of the Mayor, a member may, in the presence and
hearing of a majority of the members elected to the governing body, read aloud
the substance of the proposed ordinance and file a copy with the Municipal
Clerk for future consideration; or
   (B)   With the recognition of the Mayor, a member may present the proposed
ordinance to the Clerk, who, in the presence and hearing of a majority of the
members elected to the governing body, shall read aloud the substance of the
ordinance and file it for future consideration.
(Prior Code, § 1-602)  (Ord. 97-6, passed 9-8-1997)
§ 30.32  RESOLUTIONS AND MOTIONS.
   Resolutions and motions shall be introduced in one of the methods prescribed
for the introduction of ordinances. After their introduction, they shall be
fully and distinctly read one time in the presence and hearing of a majority of
the members elected to the Council. The issue raised by said resolutions or
motions shall be disposed of in accordance with the usage of parliamentary law
adopted for the guidance of the Council. A majority vote shall be required to
pass any resolution or motion. The vote on any resolution or motion shall be by
roll call vote.
(Prior Code, § 1-603)
§ 30.33  ORDINANCES; STYLE, TITLE.
   (A)   The style of all municipal ordinances shall be: “Be it ordained by the
Mayor and Council of the City of Bloomfield, Nebraska...”
(Prior Code, § 1-604)
   (B)   No ordinance shall contain a subject not clearly expressed in its
title.
(Prior Code, § 1-605)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-613, 17-614
§ 30.34  ORDINANCES, RESOLUTIONS, ORDERS, BYLAWS; READING; PASSAGE.
   (A)   Ordinances of a general or permanent nature shall be read by title on
three different days unless three-fourths of the governing body vote to suspend
this requirement; except that, such requirement shall not be suspended for any
ordinance for the annexation of territory.
   (B)   In case such requirement is suspended, the ordinance shall be read by
title and then moved for final passage.
   (C)   Three-fourths of the governing body may require a reading of any
ordinance in full before enactment under either procedure set out in this
section. All ordinances and resolutions or order for the appropriation or
payment of money shall require for their passage or adoption the concurrence of
a majority of all members elected to the governing body.
   (D)   On the passage or adoption of every bylaw or ordinance, and every
resolution or order to enter into a contract by the governing body, the yeas
and nays shall be called and recorded. To pass or adopt any bylaw, ordinance or
any such resolution or order, a concurrence of a majority of the whole number
of members elected to the governing body shall be required. All appointments of
the officers by the governing body shall be made viva voce; and the concurrence
of a like majority shall be required, and the name of those, and for whom they
voted, on the vote resulting in an appointment, shall be recorded.
   (E)   The requirements of a roll call or viva voce vote shall be satisfied
by a municipality which utilizes an electronic voting device which allows the
yeas and nays of each member of the governing body to be readily seen by the
public.
(Prior Code, § 1-606)  (Ord. 3-95, passed 2-6-1995; Ord. 97-7, passed 9-8-1997)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-614, 17-616
§ 30.35  PUBLICATION OR POSTING.
   All ordinances of a general nature shall, before they take effect, be
published one time, within 15 days after they are passed:
   (A)   In some newspaper published in the municipality or, if no paper is
published in the municipality, then by posting a written or printed copy in
each of three public places in the municipality; or
   (B)   In book or pamphlet form.
(Prior Code, § 1-607)  (Ord. 97-8, passed 9-8-1997)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-613
§ 30.36  CERTIFICATE OF PUBLICATION OR POSTING.
   The passage, approval, and publication or posting of all ordinances shall be
sufficiently proven by a certificate under the seal of the municipality from
the Municipal Clerk showing that the said ordinance was passed and approved,
and when, and in what paper the same was published, or when, and by whom, and
where the same was posted.
(Prior Code, § 1-608)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-613
§ 30.37  EFFECTIVE DATE; EMERGENCY ORDINANCES.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (B) below, an ordinance for the
government of the municipality which has been adopted by the governing body
without submission to the voters of the municipality shall not go into effect
until 15 days after the passage of the ordinance.
   (B)   (1)   In the case of riot, infectious or contagious diseases, or other
impending danger, failure of a public utility, or any other emergency requiring
its immediate operation, an ordinance shall take effect upon the proclamation
of the Mayor and the posting thereof in at least three of the most public
places in the municipality.
      (2)   Such emergency ordinance shall recite the emergency, be passed by a
three-fourths vote of the governing body, and be entered of record on the
Municipal Clerk’s minutes.
(Prior Code, § 1-609)  (Ord. 97-9, passed 9-8-1997)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-613, 19-3701
§ 30.38  AMENDMENTS AND REVISIONS.
   No ordinance or section thereof shall be revised or amended unless the new
ordinance contains the entire ordinance or section as revised or amended and
the ordinance or section so amended is repealed; except that, an ordinance
revising all the ordinances of the municipality and modifications to zoning or
building districts may be adopted as otherwise provided by law.
(Prior Code, § 1-610)  (Ord. 97-10, passed 9-8-1997)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-614
MEETINGS
§ 30.50  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   MEETING. All regular, special or called meetings, formal or informal, of a
public body for the purposes of briefing, discussion of public business,
formation of tentative policy or the taking of any action.
(Prior Code, § 1-501)
   PUBLIC BODY.
      (1)   (a)   The City Council;
         (b)   All independent boards, commissions, bureaus, committees,
councils, subunits or any other bodies created by the Constitution of the
state, statute, ordinance or otherwise pursuant to law; and
         (c)   Advisory committees of the bodies listed above.
      (2)   PUBLIC BODY does not include subcommittees of such bodies unless a
quorum of the public body attends a subcommittee meeting or unless the
subcommittees are holding hearings, making policy or taking formal action on
behalf of their parent body.
(Neb. RS 84-1409)  (Prior Code, § 1-502)
§ 30.51  OPEN TO PUBLIC; NOTICE; AGENDA.
   (A)   The formation of public policy is public business and may not be
conducted in secret. Every meeting of a public body shall be open to the public
in order that citizens may exercise their democratic privilege of attending and
speaking at meetings of public bodies, except as otherwise provided by the
Constitution of the state, federal statutes and the Open Meetings Act.
(Neb. RS 84-1408)
   (B)   Each public body shall give reasonable advance publicized notice of
the time and place of each meeting by a method designated by the public body
and recorded in its minutes. The notice shall be transmitted to all members of
the public body and to the public. The notice shall contain an agenda of
subjects known at the time of the publicized notice or a statement that the
agenda, which shall be kept continually current, is readily available for
public inspection at the office of the public body during normal business
hours. Agenda items shall be sufficiently descriptive to give the public
reasonable notice of the matters to be considered at the meeting. Except for
items of an emergency nature, the agenda shall not be altered later than 24
hours before the scheduled commencement of the meeting or 48 hours before the
scheduled commencement of a meeting of the City Council scheduled outside the
corporate limits of the city. The public body shall have the right to modify
the agenda to include items of an emergency nature only at such public meeting.
(Neb. RS 84-1411)  (Prior Code, § 1-509)
§ 30.52  NOTICE TO NEWS MEDIA.
   The City Clerk, in the case of the City Council, and the Secretary or other
designee of each other public body shall maintain a list of the news media
requesting notification of meetings and shall make reasonable efforts to
provide advance notification to them of the time and place of each meeting and
the subjects to be discussed at that meeting.
(Neb. RS 84-1411)  (Prior Code, § 1-508)
§ 30.53  COUNCIL MEETINGS; WHEN; QUORUM; VOTES.
   (A)   (1)   The meetings of the City Council shall be held in the meeting
place of the municipality. Regular meetings shall be held on the first Monday
of each month at the hour of 7:00 p.m.
      (2)   A majority of all the members elected to the City Council shall
constitute a quorum for the transaction of any business, but a fewer number may
adjourn from time to time and compel the attendance of absent members. Unless a
greater vote is required by law, an affirmative vote of at least one-half of
the elected members shall be required for the transaction of any business.
(Prior Code, § 1-510)
   (B)   (1)   The Mayor or any three Council members shall have power to call
special meetings of the City Council, the object of which shall be submitted to
the Council in writing; and the call and object, as well as the disposition
thereof, shall be entered upon the journal by the City Clerk.
(Neb. RS 17-106)
      (2)   On filing the call for a special meeting, the City Clerk shall
notify the Mayor and Council members of the special meeting, stating the time
and purpose.
   (C)   Unless otherwise provided by the Council, on the request of any two
members, whether a quorum is present or not, all absent members shall be sent
for and compelled to attend.
   (D)   At the hour appointed for a meeting, the City Clerk shall proceed to
call the roll of members and announce whether a quorum is present. If a quorum
is present, the Council shall be called to order by the Mayor, if present, or,
if absent, by the President of the Council.
(Ord. 22-95, passed 12-4-1995)
§ 30.54  EMERGENCY MEETINGS.
   (A)   When it is necessary to hold an emergency meeting without reasonable
advance public notice, the nature of the emergency shall be stated in the
minutes and any formal action taken in that meeting shall pertain only to the
emergency.
   (B)   Such emergency meetings may be held by means of electronic or
telecommunication equipment.
   (C)   The provisions of §
30.03 of this chapter shall be complied with in conducting emergency meetings.
   (D)   Complete minutes of such emergency meetings specifying the nature of
the emergency and any formal action taken at the meeting shall be made
available to the public by no later than the end of the next regular business
day.
(Neb. RS 84-1411)  (Prior Code, § 1-505)
§ 30.55  ATTENDANCE OTHER THAN IN PERSON.
   (A)   Videoconferencing, when allowed.
      (1)   A meeting of an organization created under the Interlocal
Cooperation Act, being Neb. RS 13-801 through 13-827, the Joint Public Agency
Act, being Neb. RS 13-2501 through 13-2550, or the Municipal Cooperative
Financing Act, being Neb. RS 18-2401 through 18-2485, or of the governing body
of a risk management pool or its advisory committees organized in accordance
with the Intergovernmental Risk Management Act, being Neb. RS 44-4301 through
44-4339, may be held by means of videoconferencing if:
         (a)   Reasonable advance publicized notice is given;
         (b)   Reasonable arrangements are made to accommodate the public’s
right to attend, hear and speak at the meeting, including seating, recordation
by audio or visual recording devices and a reasonable opportunity for input
such as public comment or questions to at least the same extent as would be
provided if videoconferencing were not used;
         (c)   At least one copy of all documents being considered is available
to the public at each site of the videoconference;
         (d)   At least one member of the governing body or advisory committee
is present at each site of the videoconference; and
         (e)   No more than one-half of the governing body’s or advisory
committee’s meetings in a calendar year are held by videoconference.
      (2)   Videoconferencing shall not be used to circumvent any of the public
government purposes established in Neb. RS 84-1408 to 84-1414.
      (3)   For the purpose of this section, the following definition shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
         VIDEOCONFERENCING. Conducting a meeting involving participants at two
or more locations through the use of audio-video equipment which allows
participants at each location to hear and see each meeting participant at each
other location, including public input. Interaction between meeting
participants shall be possible at all meeting locations.
(Prior Code, § 1-514)
   (B)   Telephone conference calls; when allowed.
      (1)   A meeting of the governing body of a joint entity formed under the
Interlocal Cooperation Act or of the governing body of a risk management pool
or its advisory committees organized in accordance with the Intergovernmental
Risk Management Act may be held by telephone conference call if:
         (a)   The territory represented by the member public agencies of the
entity or pool covers more than one county;
         (b)   Reasonable advance publicized notice is given which identifies
each telephone conference location at which a member of the entity’s or pool’s
governing body will be present;
         (c)   All telephone conference meeting sites identified in the notice
are located within public buildings used by members of the entity or pool or at
a place which will accommodate the anticipated audience;
         (d)   Reasonable arrangements are made to accommodate the public’s
right to attend, hear and speak at the meeting, including seating, recordation
by audio recording devices and a reasonable opportunity for input such as
public comment or questions to at least the same extent as would be provided if
a telephone conference call was not used;
         (e)   At least one copy of all documents being considered is available
to the public at each site of the telephone conference call;
         (f)   At least one member of the governing body of the entity or pool
is present at each site of the telephone conference call identified in the
public notice;
         (g)   The telephone conference call lasts no more than one hour; and
         (h)   No more than one-half of the entity’s or pool’s meetings in a
calendar year are held by telephone conference call.
      (2)   Nothing in this section shall prevent the participation of
consultants, members of the press, and other non-members of the governing body
at sites not identified in the public notice. Telephone conference calls shall
not be used to circumvent any of the public government purposes established in
Neb. RS 84-1408 to 84-1414.
(Prior Code, § 1-515)  (Ord. 97-4, passed 9-8-1997; Ord. 2000-13, passed 5-1-
2000; Ord. 2000-14, passed 5-1-2000)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 84-1409, 84-1411, 84-1411(3)
§ 30.56  CLOSED SESSIONS.
   (A)   (1)   Any public body may hold a closed session by the affirmative
vote of a majority of its voting members if a closed session is clearly
necessary for the protection of the public interest or for the prevention of
needless injury to the reputation of an individual and if such individual has
not requested a public meeting. Closed sessions may be held for, but shall not
be limited to, such reasons as:
         (a)   Strategy sessions with respect to collective bargaining, real
estate purchases, pending litigation or litigation which is imminent as
evidenced by communication of a claim or threat of litigation to or by the
public body;
         (b)   Discussion regarding deployment of security personnel or
devices;
         (c)   Investigative proceedings regarding allegations of criminal
misconduct; or
         (d)   Evaluation of the job performance of a person when necessary to
prevent needless injury to the reputation of a person and if such person has
not requested a public meeting.
      (2)   Nothing in this section shall permit a closed meeting for
discussion of the appointment or election of a new member to any public body.
   (B)   The vote to hold a closed session shall be taken in open session. The
vote of each member on the question of holding a closed session, the reason for
the closed session, and the time when the closed session commenced and
concluded shall be recorded in the minutes. The public body holding such a
closed session shall restrict its consideration to matters during the closed
portions to only those purposes set forth in the minutes as the reason for the
closed session. The meeting shall be reconvened in open session before any
formal action may be taken. For purposes of this section, FORMAL ACTION shall
mean a collective decision or a collective commitment or promise to make a
decision on any question, motion, proposal, resolution, order or ordinance or
formation of a position or policy, but shall not include negotiating guidance
given by members of the public body to legal counsel or other negotiators in
closed sessions authorized under division (A) above.
   (C)   (1)   Any member of the public body shall have the right to challenge
the continuation of a closed session if the member determines that the session
has exceeded the reason stated in the original motion to hold a closed session
or if the member contends that the closed session is neither clearly necessary
for:
         (a)   The protection of the public interest; or
         (b)   The prevention of needless injury to the reputation of an
individual.
      (2)   Such challenge shall be overruled only by a majority vote of the
members of the public body.
      (3)   Such challenge and its disposition shall be recorded in the
minutes.
   (D)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to require that any meeting
be closed to the public. No person or public body shall fail to invite a
portion of its members to a meeting and no public body shall designate itself a
subcommittee of the whole body for the purpose of circumventing the provisions
of this subchapter. No closed session, informal meeting, chance meeting, social
gathering or electronic communication shall be used for the purpose of
circumventing the provisions of this subchapter.
   (E)   The provisions of this subchapter shall not apply to chance meetings,
or to attendance at or travel to conventions or workshops of members of a
public body at which there is no meeting of the body then intentionally
convened and there is no vote or other action taken regarding any matter over
which the public body has supervision, control, jurisdiction or advisory power.
(Prior Code, § 1-504)  (Ord. 11-93, passed 10-4-1993; Ord. 2-95, passed 2-6-
1995)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 84-1410
§ 30.57  PROHIBITED ACTS; EXEMPT EVENTS.
   (A)   No person or public body shall fail to invite a portion of its members
to a meeting, and no public body shall designate itself a subcommittee of the
whole body for the purpose of circumventing this subchapter or the Open
Meetings Act. No closed session, informal meeting, chance meeting, social
gathering, email, fax or electronic communication shall be used for the purpose
of circumventing the requirements of this subchapter or the Act.
   (B)   This subchapter and the Act do not apply to chance meetings or to
attendance at or travel to conventions or workshops of members of a public body
at which there is no meeting of the body then intentionally convened, if there
is no vote or other action taken regarding any matter over which the public
body has supervision, control, jurisdiction or advisory power.
(Neb. RS 84-1410)
§ 30.58  PUBLIC PARTICIPATION.
   (A)   Subject to this subchapter and the Open Meetings Act, the public has
the right to attend and the right to speak at meetings of public bodies, and
all or any part of a meeting of a public body, except for closed sessions
called pursuant hereto, may be videotaped, televised, photographed, broadcast
or recorded by any person in attendance by means of a tape recorder, camera,
video equipment or any other means of pictorial or sonic reproduction or in
writing.
   (B)   It shall not be a violation of division (A) above for any public body
to make and enforce reasonable rules and regulations regarding the conduct of
persons attending, speaking at, videotaping, televising, photographing,
broadcasting or recording its meetings. A body may not be required to allow
citizens to speak at each meeting, but it may not forbid public participation
at all meetings.
   (C)   No public body shall require members of the public to identify
themselves as a condition for admission to the meeting, nor shall such body
require that the name of any member of the public be placed on the agenda prior
to such meeting in order to speak about items on the agenda. The body may
require any member of the public desiring to address the body to identify
himself or herself.
   (D)   No public body shall, for the purpose of circumventing this subchapter
or the Open Meetings Act, hold a meeting in a place known by the body to be too
small to accommodate the anticipated audience.
   (E)   No public body shall be deemed in violation of this section if it
holds its meeting in its traditional meeting place which is located in this
state.
   (F)   No public body shall be deemed in violation of this section if it
holds a meeting outside of the state if, but only if, a member entity of the
public body is located outside of the state and the other requirements of Neb.
RS 84-1412 are met.
   (G)   The public body shall, upon request, make a reasonable effort to
accommodate the public’s right to hear the discussion and testimony presented
at the meeting.
   (H)   Public bodies shall make available at the meeting, for examination and
copying by members of the public, at least one copy of all reproducible written
material to be discussed at an open meeting. Public bodies shall make available
at least one current copy of the Open Meetings Act posted in the meeting room
at a location accessible to members of the public. At the beginning of the
meeting, the public shall be informed about the location of the posted
information.
(Neb. RS 84-1412)  (Prior Code, § 1-509)
§ 30.59  CITY COUNCIL; ORDER OF BUSINESS.
   Promptly at the hour set by law on the day of each regular meeting, the
members of the City Council, the Mayor, the City Clerk and such other city
officials that may be required shall take their regular stations in the meeting
place, and the business of the city shall be taken up for consideration and
disposition in the manner prescribed by the official agenda on file at the
office of the City Clerk.
(Prior Code, § 1-511)
§ 30.60  VOTES.
   (A)   Any action taken on any question or motion duly moved and seconded
shall be by roll call vote of the public body in open session, and the record
shall state how each member voted, or if the member was absent or not voting.
The requirements of a roll call or viva voce vote shall be satisfied by a city
which utilizes an electronic voting device which allows the yeas and nays of
each member of the City Council to be readily seen by the public.
   (B)   The vote to elect leadership within a public body may be taken by
secret ballot, but the total number of votes for each candidate shall be
recorded in the minutes.
(Neb. RS 84-1413)  (Prior Code, § 1-507)
§ 30.61  CITY COUNCIL; PARLIAMENTARY PROCEDURE.
   Unless the City Council provides otherwise, the rules of parliamentary
procedure specified in this section shall apply to meetings of the City
Council. The Mayor shall preserve order during meetings of the City Council and
shall decide all questions of order, subject to an appeal to the Council. When
any person is called to order, he or she shall be seated until the point is
decided. When the Mayor is putting the question, no person shall leave the
meeting room. Every person present, previous to speaking, shall rise from his
or her seat and address the presiding officer and while speaking shall confine
his or her comments to the question. When two or more persons rise at once, the
Mayor shall recognize the one who spoke first. All resolutions or motions shall
be reduced to writing before being acted upon, if requested by the City Clerk
or any member of the Council. Every member of the Council who is present when a
question is voted upon shall cast his or her vote unless excused by a majority
of the members of the Council present. No motion shall be put or debated unless
seconded. When seconded, it shall be stated by the Mayor before being
debatable. In all cases where a motion or resolution is entered on the minutes,
the name of the member of the Council making the motion or resolution shall be
entered also. After each vote, the “yeas” and “nays” shall be taken and entered
in the minutes. Before the vote is actually taken, any resolution, motion or
proposed ordinance may be withdrawn from consideration by the sponsor with the
consent of the member of the Council seconding the resolution, motion or
ordinance. When, in the consideration of an ordinance, different times or
amounts are proposed, the question shall be put on the largest sum or the
longest time. A question to reconsider shall be in order when made by a member
voting with the majority, but the motion to reconsider must be made before the
expiration of the third regular meeting after the initial consideration of the
question. When any question is under debate, no motion shall be made,
entertained or seconded except the previous question, a motion to table, and to
adjourn. Each of those motions shall be decided without debate. Any of the
rules of the Council for meetings may be suspended by a two-thirds vote of the
members present. In all cases in which provisions are not made by these rules,
Robert’s Rules of Order is the authority by which the Council shall decide all
procedural disputes that may arise.
§ 30.62  MINUTES.
   (A)   Each public body shall keep minutes of all meetings showing the time,
place, members present and absent, and the substance of all matters discussed.
   (B)   The minutes of all meetings and evidence and documentation received or
disclosed in open session shall be public records and open to public inspection
during normal business hours.
   (C)   Minutes shall be written and available for inspection within ten
working days or prior to the next convened meeting, whichever occurs earlier;
except that, the city may have an additional ten working days if the employee
responsible for writing the minutes is absent due to a serious illness or
emergency.
(Neb. RS 84-1413)  (Prior Code, § 1-506)
§ 30.63  CHANGE IN OFFICE.
   (A)   The Mayor and City Council shall meet at the time and place of the
first regular meeting in December in each election year, and the outgoing
officers and the outgoing members of the Council shall present their reports.
Upon the outgoing Council having completed its business, the outgoing members
of the Council shall surrender their offices to the incoming members, and the
outgoing officers shall thereupon each surrender to their successors in office
all property, records, papers and moneys belonging to the same.
   (B)   The newly elected members of the Council and those continuing in
office shall convene immediately after the prior Council adjourns and proceed
to organize themselves for the ensuing year. The Mayor shall call the meeting
to order. The Clerk shall report to the Council the names of all Council
members-elect who have qualified for their respective offices. The Council
shall examine the credentials of its members and any other elective officers of
the city to see that each has been duly and properly elected and to see that
such oaths and bonds as are required have been given. The Clerk’s report shall
be spread upon the minutes of the meeting preceding the roll call.
   (C)   After ascertaining that all Council members and officers are duly
qualified and after the Clerk has called the roll, the Council shall elect a
President of the Council. The Mayor shall nominate his or her candidates for
appointive offices in which the terms of incumbents are expired and call for a
vote on approval of the candidates. The Mayor shall then proceed with the
regular order of business.
(Prior Code, § 1-512)
CHAPTER 31:  ELECTIONS
Section
   
31.01   Generally
   
31.02   Notice
   
31.03   Registered voters; qualifications
   
31.04   Special and joint elections
   
31.05   Election of officers; certifications required
   
31.06   Partisan ballot; when allowed; requirements
   
31.07   Candidate filing forms; deadlines; filing officer
   
31.08   Filing fee
   
31.09   Petition, write-in and other candidates for general election ballot;
procedures
   
31.10   Recall procedure
   
31.11   Exit polls
   
31.12   Wards
Statutory reference:
   Election Act, see Neb. RS 32-101
§ 31.01  GENERALLY.
   (A)   (1)   All city issues and offices shall be combined on the statewide
primary and general election ballots whenever possible.
      (2)   The issuance of separate ballots shall be avoided in a statewide
election if city offices or issues can reasonably be combined with the non-
partisan ballot and state law does not require otherwise.
      (3)   All city elections involving the election of officers shall be held
in accordance with the Election Act and in conjunction with the statewide
primary or general election.
(Neb. RS 32-556)
   (B)   When the city holds an election in conjunction with the statewide
primary or general election, the election shall be held as provided in the
Election Act. Any other election held by the city shall be held as provided in
the Election Act unless otherwise provided by the charter, code or bylaws of
the city.
(Neb. RS 32-404)  (Prior Code, § 1-701)
§ 31.02  NOTICE.
   The notice of election required to be published by the Election Commissioner
or County Clerk pursuant to Neb. RS 32-802 shall serve as the notice
requirement for all city elections which are held in conjunction with the
statewide primary or general election.
§ 31.03  REGISTERED VOTERS; QUALIFICATIONS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      REGISTERED VOTER. An elector who has a current voter registration record
on file with the Election Commissioner or County Clerk in the county of his or
her residence.
(Neb. RS 32-115)
   (B)   All registered voters residing within the corporate limits of the city
on or before election day shall be entitled to vote at all city elections.
(Neb. RS 17-602)  (Prior Code, § 1-711)
Statutory reference:
   Definition of elector, see Neb. RS 32-110
§ 31.04  SPECIAL AND JOINT ELECTIONS.
   (A)   Any issue to be submitted to the registered voters at a special
election by the municipality shall be certified by the Municipal Clerk to the
Election Commissioner or County Clerk at least 50 days prior to the election. A
special election may be held by mail as provided in Neb. RS 32-952 through 32-
959. No special election to be conducted by the Election Commissioner or County
Clerk shall be held within 30 days prior to or 60 days after the statewide
general election.
   (B)   In lieu of submitting the issue at a special election, the
municipality may submit the issue at a statewide primary or general election or
at any scheduled county election; except that, no such issue shall be submitted
at a statewide election or scheduled county election unless the issue to be
submitted has been certified by the Municipal Clerk to the Election
Commissioner or County Clerk by March 1 for the primary election and by
September 1 for the general election.
   (C)   After the Election Commissioner or County Clerk has received the
certification of the issue to be submitted, he or she shall be responsible for
all matters relating to the submission of the issue to the registered voters;
except that, the Municipal Clerk shall be responsible for the publication or
posting of any required special notice of the submission of such issue other
than the notice required to be given of the statewide election issues. The
Election Commissioner or County Clerk shall prepare the ballots and issue
absentee ballots and shall also conduct the submission of the issue, including
the receiving and counting of ballots on the issue. The election returns shall
be made to the Election Commissioner or County Clerk. The ballots, including
absentee ballots, shall be counted and canvass of the vote by the County
Canvassing Board, the Election Commissioner or County Clerk shall certify the
election results to the governing body. The canvass by the County Canvassing
Board shall have the same force and effect as if made by the governing body.
(Prior Code, § 1-708)  (Ord. 97-11, passed 9-8-1997)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 32-559
§ 31.05  ELECTION OF OFFICERS; CERTIFICATIONS REQUIRED.
   No later than January 5 of each even-numbered year, the City Council shall
certify to the Secretary of State, the Election Commissioner or the County
Clerk the name of the city, the number of officers to be elected, the length of
the terms of office, the vacancies to be filled by election and length of
remaining term and the number of votes to be cast by a registered voter for
each office. The Secretary of State, Election Commissioner and County Clerk
shall prescribe the forms to be used for certification to him or her.
(Neb. RS 32-404)
§ 31.06  PARTISAN BALLOT; WHEN ALLOWED; REQUIREMENTS.
   All elective city officers shall be nominated and elected on a non-partisan
basis unless the city provides for a partisan ballot by ordinance. No ordinance
providing for nomination and election on a partisan ballot shall permit
affiliation with any party not recognized as a political party for purposes of
the Election Act. Such ordinance providing for nomination and election on a
partisan ballot shall be adopted and effective not less than 60 days prior to
the filing deadline.
(Neb. RS 32-557)
§ 31.07  CANDIDATE FILING FORMS; DEADLINES; FILING OFFICER.
   (A)   Any candidate may place his or her name on the primary election ballot
by filing a candidate filing form prescribed by the Secretary of State as
provided in division (B) below. If a candidate is an incumbent of any elective
office, the filing period for filing the candidate filing form shall be between
December 1 and February 15 prior to the date of the primary election. No
incumbent who resigns from elective office prior to the expiration of his or
her term shall file for any office after February 15 of that election year. All
other candidates shall file for office between December 1 and March 1 prior to
the date of the general election.
(Neb. RS 32-606)
   (B)   Candidate filing forms shall be filed in the office of the Election
Commissioner or County Clerk.
(Neb. RS 32-607)
Statutory reference:
   Filling of vacancy on ballot, see Neb. RS 32-625 and 32-627
   Withdrawal after filing, see Neb. RS 32-622
§ 31.08  FILING FEE.
   (A)   Except as provided in divisions (D) or (E) below, a filing fee shall
be paid to the City Treasurer by or on behalf of each candidate for city office
prior to filing for office. The fee shall be placed in the general fund of the
city. No candidate filing forms shall be filed until the proper payment or the
proper receipt showing the payment of such filing fee is presented to the
filing officer. On the day of the filing deadline, the City Treasurer’s office
shall remain open to receive filing fees until the hour of the filing deadline.
   (B)   Except as provided in divisions (D) or (E) below, the filing fee shall
be a sum equal to 1% of the annual salary as of November 30 of the year
preceding the election for the office for which he or she files as a candidate.
   (C)   All declared write-in candidates shall pay the filing fees that are
required for the office at the time that they present the write-in affidavit to
the filing officer. Any undeclared write-in candidate who is nominated or
elected by write-in votes shall pay the filing fee required for the office
within ten days after the canvass of votes by the county canvassing board and
shall file the receipt with the person issuing the certificate of nomination or
the certificate of election prior to the certificate being issued.
   (D)   No filing fee shall be required for any candidate filing for an office
in which a per diem is paid rather than a salary or for which there is a salary
of less than $500 per year.
   (E)   (1)   No filing fee shall be required of any candidate completing an
affidavit requesting to file for elective office in forma pauperis.
      (2)    For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
         AVAILABLE RESOURCES. Includes every type of property or interest in
property that an individual owns and may convert into cash except:
            1.   Real property used as a home;
            2.   Household goods of a moderate value used in the home; and
            3.   Assets to a maximum value of $3,000 used by a recipient in a
planned effort directed towards self-support.
         PAUPER. A person whose income and other resources for maintenance are
found under assistance standards to be insufficient for meeting the cost of his
or her requirements and whose reserve of cash or other available resources does
not exceed the maximum available resources that an eligible individual may own.
   (F)   If any candidate dies prior to an election, the spouse of the
candidate may file a claim for refund of the filing fee with the City Council
prior to the date of the election. Upon approval of the claim by the City
Council, the filing fee shall be refunded.
(Neb. RS 32-608)  (Prior Code, § 1-706)
§ 31.09  PETITION, WRITE-IN AND OTHER CANDIDATES FOR GENERAL ELECTION BALLOT;
PROCEDURES.
   (A)   (1)   Any registered voter who was not a candidate in the primary
election and who was not registered to vote with a party affiliation on or
after March 1 and before the general election in the calendar year of the
general election may have his or her name placed on the general election ballot
for a partisan office by filing petitions as prescribed in this section and
Neb. RS 32-621 or by nomination by political party convention or committee
pursuant to Neb. RS 32-627 or 32-710.
      (2)   Any candidate who was defeated in the primary election and any
registered voter who was not a candidate in the primary election may have his
or her name placed on the general election ballot if a vacancy exists on the
ballot under Neb. RS 32-625(2) and the candidate files for the office by
petition as prescribed in divisions (B) and (C) below, files as a write-in
candidate as prescribed in Neb. RS 32-615, or is nominated by political party
convention or committee pursuant to Neb. RS 32-710.
(Neb. RS 32-616)
   (B)   Petitions for nomination shall conform to the requirements of Neb. RS
32-628. Petitions shall state the office to be filled and the name and address
of the candidate. Petitions for partisan office shall also indicate the party
affiliation of the candidate. A sample copy of the petition shall be filed with
the filing officer prior to circulation. Petitions shall be signed by
registered voters residing in the city, if candidates are chosen at large, or
in the ward in which the officer is to be elected, if candidates are chosen by
ward, and shall be filed with the filing officer in the same manner as provided
for candidate filing forms in §
31.07 of this chapter. Petition signers and petition circulators shall conform
to the requirements of Neb. RS 32-629 and 32-630. No petition for nomination
shall be filed unless there is attached thereto a receipt showing the payment
of the filing fee required pursuant to Neb. RS 32-608. The petitions shall be
filed by September 1 in the year of the general election.
(Neb. RS 32-617)
   (C)   (1)   The number of signatures of registered voters needed to place
the name of a candidate upon the non-partisan ballot for the general election
shall be at least 10% of the total number of registered voters voting for
Governor or President of the United States at the immediately preceding general
election in the city or in the ward in which the officer is to be elected, not
to exceed 2,000.
      (2)   The number of signatures of registered voters needed to place the
name of a candidate for an office upon the partisan ballot for the general
election shall be as follows:
         (a)   For each partisan office to be filled by the registered voters
of the entire state, at least 4,000, and at least 750 signatures shall be
obtained in each congressional district in the state;
         (b)   For each partisan office to be filled by the registered voters
of a county, at least 20% of the total number of registered voters voting for
Governor or President of the United States at the immediately preceding general
election within the county, not to exceed 2,000; except that, the number of
signatures shall not be required to exceed 25% of the total number of
registered voters voting for the office at the immediately preceding general
election; and
         (c)   For each partisan office to be filled by the registered voters
of a political subdivision other than a county, at least 20% of the total
number of registered voters voting for Governor or President of the United
States at the immediately preceding general election within the political
subdivision, not to exceed 2,000.
(Neb. RS 32-618)  (Prior Code, §§ 1-704, 1-710)
§ 31.10  RECALL PROCEDURE.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      FILING CLERK. The Election Commissioner or County Clerk.
(Neb. RS 32-1301)
   (B)   (1)   The Mayor, any member of the City Council and any other elected
official of the city may be removed from office by recall pursuant to this
section.
      (2)   The recall procedure and special election provisions of this
section shall apply to members of the City Council who are elected by ward.
Only registered voters of such member’s ward may sign a recall petition or vote
at the recall election. The recall election shall be held within the member’s
ward. When a member of the City Council is nominated by ward in the primary
election and elected at large in the general election, the recall provisions
shall apply to the registered voters at the general election.
(Neb. RS 32-1302)
   (C)   (1)   A petition demanding that the question of removing the Mayor, a
member of the City Council or any other elected official be submitted to the
registered voters shall be signed by registered voters equal in number to at
least 35% of the total vote cast for that office in the last general election;
except that, for City Council office for which more than one candidate is
chosen, the petition shall be signed by registered voters equal in number to at
least 35% of the number of votes cast for the person receiving the most votes
for such office in the last general election. The signatures shall be affixed
to petition papers and shall be considered part of the petition.
      (2)   Petition circulators shall conform to the requirements of Neb. RS
32-629 and 32-630.
      (3)   The petition papers shall be procured from the filing clerk. Prior
to the issuance of such petition papers, a recall petition filing form shall be
signed and filed with the filing clerk by at least one registered voter. Such
voter or voters shall be deemed to be the principal circulator or circulators
of the recall petition. The filing form shall state the name and office of the
official sought to be removed, shall include in concise language of 60 words or
less the reason or reasons for which recall is sought, and shall request that
the filing clerk issue initial petition papers to the principal circulator for
circulation. The filing clerk shall notify the official sought to be removed by
any method specified in Neb. RS 25-505.01 or, if notification cannot be made
with reasonable diligence by any of the methods specified in Neb. RS 25-505.01,
by leaving a copy of the filing form at the official’s usual place of residence
and mailing a copy by first-class mail to the official’s last-known address. If
the official chooses, he or she may submit a defense statement in concise
language of 60 words or less for inclusion on the petition. Any such defense
statement shall be submitted to the filing clerk within 20 days after the
official receives the copy of the filing form. The filing clerk shall prepare
the petition papers within 5 business days after receipt of the defense
statement. The principal circulator or circulators shall gather the petition
papers within 20 days after being notified by the filing clerk that the
petition papers are available. The filing clerk shall notify the principal
circulator or circulators that the necessary signatures must be gathered within
30 days from the date of issuing the petitions.
      (4)   The filing clerk, upon issuing the initial petition papers or any
subsequent petition papers, shall enter in a record, to be kept in his or her
office, the name of the principal circulator or circulators to whom the papers
were issued, the date of issuance, and the number of papers issued. The filing
clerk shall certify on the papers the name of the principal circulator or
circulators to whom the papers were issued and the date they were issued. No
petition paper shall be accepted as part of the petition unless it bears such
certificate. The principal circulator or circulators who check out petitions
from the filing clerk may distribute such petitions to persons who may act as
circulators of such petitions.
      (5)   Petition signers shall conform to the requirements of Neb. RS 32-
629 and 32-630. Each signer of a recall petition shall be a registered voter
and qualified by his or her place of residence to vote for the office in
question.
(Neb. RS 32-1303)
   (D)   Each petition paper shall conform to the requirements of Neb. RS 32-
1304.
   (E)   (1)   The principal circulator or circulators shall file, as one
instrument, all petition papers comprising a recall petition for signature
verification with the filing clerk within 30 days after the filing clerk issues
the initial petition papers to the principal circulator or circulators as
provided in division (C) above.
      (2)   Within 15 days after the filing of the petition, the filing clerk
shall ascertain whether or not the petition is signed by the requisite number
of registered voters. No new signatures may be added after the initial filing
of the petition papers. No signatures may be removed unless the filing clerk
receives an affidavit signed by the person requesting his or her signature be
removed before the petitions are filed with the filing clerk for signature
verification. If the petition is found to be sufficient, the filing clerk shall
attach to the petition a certificate showing the result of such examination. If
the requisite number of signatures has not been gathered, the filing clerk
shall file the petition in his or her office without prejudice to the filing of
a new petition for the same purpose.
(Neb. RS 32-1305)
   (F)   (1)   If the recall petition is found to be sufficient, the filing
clerk shall notify the official whose removal is sought and the City Council
that sufficient signatures have been gathered. Notification of the official
sought to be removed may be by any method specified in Neb. RS 25-505.01 or, if
notification cannot be made with reasonable diligence by any of the methods
specified in Neb. RS 25-505.01, by leaving such notice at the official’s usual
place of residence and mailing a copy by first-class mail to the official’s
last-known address.
      (2)   The City Council shall order an election to be held not less than
50, nor more than 80, days after the notification of the official whose removal
is sought under division (F)(1) above, except that if any other election is to
be held in the city within 90 days after such notification, the City Council
shall provide for the holding of the recall election on the same day. All
resignations shall be tendered as provided in Neb. RS 32-562. If the official
whose removal is sought resigns before the recall election is held, the City
Council may cancel the recall election if the City Council notifies the
Election Commissioner or County Clerk of the cancellation at least 24 days
prior to the election; otherwise, the recall election shall be held as
scheduled.
      (3)   If the City Council fails or refuses to order a recall election
within the time required, the election may be ordered by the district court
having jurisdiction over a county in which the elected official serves. If a
filing clerk is subject to a recall election, the Secretary of State shall
conduct the recall election.
(Neb. RS 32-1306)
   (G)   The form of the official ballot at a recall election held pursuant to
division (F) above shall conform to the requirements of Neb. RS 32-1307.
   (H)   (1)   If a majority of the votes cast at a recall election are against
the removal of the official named on the ballot or the election results in a
tie, the official shall continue in office for the remainder of his or her
term, but may be subject to further recall attempts as provided in division (I)
below.
      (2)   If a majority of the votes cast at a recall election are for the
removal of the official named on the ballot, he or she shall, regardless of any
technical defects in the recall petition, be deemed removed from office unless
a recount is ordered. If the official is deemed removed, the removal shall
result in a vacancy in the office which shall be filled as otherwise provided
in this section and Neb. RS 32-567 to 32-570 and 32-574.
      (3)   If the election results show a margin of votes equal to 1% or less
between the removal or retention of the official in question, the Secretary of
State, Election Commissioner, or County Clerk shall order a recount of the
votes cast unless the official named on the ballot files a written statement
with the filing clerk that he or she does not want a recount.
      (4)   If there are vacancies in the offices of one-half or more of the
members of the City Council or any other governing body at one time due to the
recall of such members, a special election to fill such vacancies shall be
conducted as expeditiously as possible by the Secretary of State, Election
Commissioner or County Clerk.
      (5)   No official who is removed at a recall election or who resigns
after the initiation of the recall process shall be appointed to fill the
vacancy resulting from his or her removal or the removal of any other member of
the same governing body during the remainder of his or her term of office.
(Neb. RS 32-1308)
   (I)   No recall petition filing form shall be filed against an elected
official within 12 months after a recall election has failed to remove him or
her from office or within six months after the beginning of his or her term of
office or within six months prior to the incumbent filing deadline for the
office.
(Neb. RS 32-1309)
§ 31.11  EXIT POLLS.
   No person shall conduct an exit poll, a public opinion poll, or any other
interview with voters on election day seeking to determine voter preference
within 20 feet of the entrance of any polling place or, if inside the polling
place or building, within 100 feet of any voting booth.
(Neb. RS 32-1525)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 31.12  WARDS.
   (A)   The municipality shall redistrict as often as necessary using the most
recent Federal Census to ensure that each ward is substantially equal in
population.
   (B)   The municipality shall stand divided into the following wards as set
forth herein:
      (1)   First Ward. The First Ward shall embrace all the territory lying
within the corporate limits of the city east of Broadway Street, and:
         (a)   All of Lots 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, Block 6, Original City
of Bloomfield, Knox County, Nebraska;
         (b)   All of Blocks 52, 57, 58, 60 and 61, Whited Addition to the City
of Bloomfield, Nebraska; and
         (c)   That tract of land described as follows:  commencing at the
northwest corner of Block 59; thence due south to the south boundary of said
city limits; thence west to the western boundary of said city limits to a point
directly west of the northwest corner of Lot 59, thence due east to the
northwest corner of Lot 59.
      (2)   Second Ward.
         (a)   The Second Ward shall embrace all the territory within the
corporate limits of the city west of Broadway Street, except that territory
described in divisions (B)(1)(a), (B)(1)(b) and (B)(1)(c), which areas are part
of the “First Ward”.
         (b)   Any territory which shall hereafter be included within the
corporate limits of the city shall thereupon become a part of said “First Ward”
or “Second Ward” respectively as the same shall be located either east or west
of the above described division line.
(Prior Code, § 1-713)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-102
CHAPTER 32:  OFFICIALS AND EMPLOYEES
Section
Appointed Officers
   
32.01   Appointment; terms; removal; powers; duties
   
32.02   Qualification for office
   
32.03   Merger of offices
   
32.04   City Clerk
   
32.05   City Treasurer
   
32.06   City Attorney
   
32.07   Police Chief
   
32.08   Police officers
   
32.09   Fire Chief
   
32.10   Water Commissioner/Public Works Commissioner
   
32.11   Sewer Commissioner
   
32.12   Overseer of Streets
   
32.13   City Engineer; Special Engineer
   
32.14   City Administrator
Bonds and Oaths
   
32.25   Bonds; requirements
   
32.26   Oath of office; city officials
Compensation; Conflicts of Interest
   
32.40   Compensation; how fixed; limitations
   
32.41   Conflict of interest involving contracts
APPOINTED OFFICERS
§ 32.01  APPOINTMENT; TERMS; REMOVAL; POWERS; DUTIES.
   (A)   The Mayor, with the consent of the City Council, may appoint such
officers as shall be required by ordinance or otherwise required by law. The
Mayor, by and with the consent of the City Council, shall appoint such a number
of regular police officers as may be necessary. The City Council may establish
and provide for the appointment of members of a law enforcement reserve force
as provided by law.
   (B)   All police officers and other appointed officials may be removed at
any time by the Mayor, except that if the municipality has a Municipal Water
Commissioner, he or she may at any time, for sufficient cause, be removed from
office by a two-thirds vote of the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 1-201)  (Ord. 97-3, passed 9-8-1997)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-107, 17-541, 81-1438
§ 32.02  QUALIFICATION FOR OFFICE.
   Each appointive officer who is required to give bond shall qualify by filing
the required bond and oath as provided herein. Each appointive officer who is
not required to give bond shall qualify by filing the required oath as provided
herein.
§ 32.03  MERGER OF OFFICES.
   (A)   The City Council may, at its discretion, by ordinance combine and
merge any elective or appointive office or employment or any combination of
duties of any such offices or employments, except Mayor and Council member,
with any other elective or appointive office or employment so that one or more
of such offices or employments or any combination of duties of any such offices
or employments may be held by the same officer or employee at the same time.
   (B)   The offices or employments so merged and combined shall always be
construed to be separate, and the effect of the combination or merger shall be
limited to a consolidation of official duties only.
   (C)   The salary or compensation of the officer or employee holding the
merged and combined offices or employments or offices and employments shall not
be in excess of the maximum amount provided by law for the salary or
compensation of the office, offices, employment or employments so merged and
combined.
   (D)   For purposes of this section, volunteer firefighters and ambulance
drivers shall not be considered officers.
(Neb. RS 17-108.02)  (Prior Code, § 1-202)
§ 32.04  CITY CLERK.
   (A)   The Municipal Clerk shall attend the meetings of the governing body,
and keep a correct journal of the proceedings of that body. He or she shall
keep a record of all outstanding bonds against the municipality, and when any
bonds are sold, purchased, paid or canceled, said record shall show the fact.
He or she shall make, at the end of the fiscal year, a report of the business
of the municipality transacted through his or her office for the year. That
record shall describe particularly the bonds issued and sold during the year,
and the terms of the sale with each, and every item, and expense thereof. He or
she shall file all official bonds after the same shall have been properly
executed and approved. He or she shall make the proper certificate of passage
which shall be attached to original copies of all bond ordinances hereafter
enacted by the governing body.
   (B)   The Municipal Clerk shall issue and sign all licenses, permits and
occupation tax receipts authorized by law, and required by the municipal
ordinances. He or she shall collect all occupation taxes, and license money
except where some other municipal officer is specifically charged with that
duty. He or she shall keep a register of all licenses granted in the
municipality, and the purpose for which they have been issued.
   (C)   The Municipal Clerk shall permit no records, public papers or other
documents of the municipality kept, and preserved in his or her office to be
taken therefrom, except by such officers of the municipality as may be entitled
to the use of the same, but only upon his or her leaving a receipt therefor. He
or she shall keep all the records of his or her office, including a record of
all licenses issued by him or her in a blank book with a proper index. He or
she shall include as part of his or her records all petitions under which the
governing body shall order public work to be done at the expense of the
property fronting thereon, together with references to all resolutions, and
ordinances relating to the same. He or she shall endorse the date, and hour of
filing upon every paper, or document so filed in his or her office. All such
filings made by him or her shall be properly docketed. Included in his or her
records shall be all standard codes, amendments thereto, and other documents
incorporated by reference, and arranged in triplicate in a manner convenient
for reference. He or she shall keep an accurate, and complete account of the
appropriation of the several funds, draw, sign and attest all warrants ordered
for the payment of money on the particular fund from which the same is payable.
At the end of each month, he or she shall then make a report of the amounts
appropriated to the various funds, and the amount of the warrants drawn
thereon. Nothing herein shall be construed to prevent any citizen, official or
other person from examining any public records at all reasonable times.
   (D)   The Municipal Clerk shall deliver all warrants, ordinances and
resolutions under his or her charge to the Mayor for his or her signature. He
or she shall also deliver to officers, employees and  committees all
resolutions, and communications which are directed at said officers, employees
or committees. With the seal of the municipality, he or she shall duly attest
the Mayor’s signature to all ordinances, deeds and papers required to be
attested to when ordered to do so by the governing body. Within 30 days after
any meeting of the governing body, the Municipal Clerk shall prepare and
publish the official proceedings of the governing body in a legal newspaper of
general circulation in the municipality, and which was duly designated as such
by the governing body. Said publication shall set forth a statement of the
proceedings thereof and shall also include the amount of each claim allowed,
the purpose of the claim and the name of the claimant; except that, the
aggregate amount of all payroll claims may be included as one item. Between
July 15 and August 15 of each year, the employee job titles and the current
annual, monthly or hourly salaries corresponding to such job titles shall be
published. Each job title published shall be descriptive and indicative of the
duties and functions of the position. The charge for such publication shall not
exceed the rates provided by the statutes of the state. Said publication shall
be charged against the General Fund. He or she shall then keep in a book with a
proper index, copies of all notices required to be published, or posted by the
Municipal Clerk by order of the governing body, or under the ordinances of the
municipality. To each of the file copies of said notices shall be attached the
printer’s affidavit of publication, if the said notices are required to be
published, or the Municipal Clerk’s certificate under seal where the same are
required to be posted only.
   (E)   The Municipal Clerk shall receive all objections to creation of paving
districts, and other street improvements. He or she shall receive the claims of
any person against the municipality, and in the event that the said claim is
disallowed in part, or in whole, the Municipal Clerk shall notify such
claimant, his or her agent, or attorney by letter within five days after such
disallowance, and the Municipal Clerk shall then prepare transcripts on appeals
of any disallowance of a claim in all proper cases.
   (F)   The Municipal Clerk may charge a reasonable fee for certified copies
of any record in his or her office as set by resolution of the governing body.
He or she shall destroy municipal records under the direction of the state’s
Records Board pursuant to Neb. RS 84-1201 through 84-1220; provided, the
governing body shall not have the authority to destroy the minutes of the
Municipal Clerk, the permanent ordinances and resolution books, or any other
records classified as permanent by the state’s Records Board.
(Prior Code, § 1-203)  (Ord. 9-93, passed 10-4-1993)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-605, 19-1102, 19-1104, 84-1201 through
84-1220, 84-712
§ 32.05  CITY TREASURER.
   (A)   (1)   The City Treasurer shall be the custodian of all money belonging
to the city. He or she shall keep a separate account of each fund or
appropriation and the debts and credits belonging thereto. He or she shall give
every person paying money into the treasury a receipt therefor, specifying the
date of payment and on what account paid. He or she shall also file copies of
such receipts with his or her monthly reports. The Treasurer shall, at the end
of every month, and as often as may be required, render an account to the City
Council, under oath, showing the state of the treasury at the date of such
account and the balance of money in the treasury. He or she shall also
accompany such accounts with a statement of all receipts and disbursements,
together with all warrants redeemed and paid by him or her, which warrants,
with any and all vouchers held by him or her, shall be filed with his or her
account in the City Clerk’s office. If the Treasurer fails to render his or her
account within 20 days after the end of the month, or by a later date
established by the City Council, the Mayor may use this failure as cause to
remove the Treasurer from office.
      (2)   The Treasurer shall keep a record of all outstanding bonds against
the city, showing the number and amount of each bond, for and to whom the bonds
were issued, and the date upon which any bond is purchased, paid or canceled.
The Treasurer shall accompany the annual statement submitted pursuant to Neb.
RS 19-1101 with a description of the bonds issued and sold in that year and the
terms of sale, with every item of expense thereof.
(Neb. RS 17-606)  (Prior Code, § 1-204)
   (B)   (1)   The Treasurer shall prepare and publish annually within 60 days
after the close of the city fiscal year a statement of the receipts and
expenditures of funds of the city for the preceding fiscal year. The statement
shall also include the information required by Neb. RS 16-318(3) or Neb. RS 17-
606(2). Not more than the legal rate provided for in Neb. RS 33-141 shall be
charged and paid for such publication.
(Neb. RS 19-1101)
      (2)   Publication shall be made in one legal newspaper of general
circulation in the city. If no legal newspaper is published in the city, then
such publication shall be made in one legal newspaper published or of general
circulation within the county in which the city is located.
(Neb. RS 19-1103)  (Prior Code, § 1-205)
   (C)   (1)   All warrants upon the Treasurer shall be paid in the order of
their presentation therefor and as otherwise provided in Neb. RS 77-2201
through 77-2215.
(Neb. RS 77-2201)
      (2)   The Treasurer shall keep a warrant register, which register shall
show in columns arranged for that purpose the number, the date and the amount
of each warrant presented and registered, the particular fund upon which the
same is drawn, the date of presentation, the name and address of the person in
whose name the warrant is registered, the date of payment, the amount of
interest and the total amount paid thereon, with the date when notice to the
person in whose name such warrant is registered is mailed.
(Neb. RS 77-2202)
      (3)   The Treasurer shall make duplicate receipts for all sums which
shall be paid into his or her office, which receipts shall show the source from
which such funds are derived, and shall, by distinct lines and columns, show
the amount received to the credit of each separate fund, and whether the same
was paid in cash, in warrants or otherwise. The Treasurer shall deliver one of
the duplicates to the person making the payment and retain the other in his or
her office.
(Neb. RS 77-2209)
      (4)   The Treasurer shall daily, as money is received, foot the several
columns of the cash book and of the register, and carry the amounts forward,
and at the close of each year, in case the amount of money received by the
Treasurer is insufficient to pay the warrants registered, he or she shall close
the account for that year in the register and shall carry forward the excess.
(Neb. RS. 77-2210)
      (5)   The cash book, register and retained receipts of the Treasurer
shall at all times be open to the inspection of any person in whose name any
warrants are registered and unpaid.
(Neb. RS 77-2212)
   (D)   The Treasurer shall permit any person to examine and copy the public
records in the Treasurer’s custody, and may charge a fee for providing copies
of a public record, as provided in Neb. RS 84-712 through 84-712.09.
   (E)   The Treasurer shall keep all money belonging to the city separate and
distinct from his or her own money. He or she shall cancel all bonds, coupons,
warrants and other evidences of debt against the city, whenever paid by him or
her, by writing or stamping on the face thereof, “Paid by the City Treasurer”,
with the date of payment written or stamped thereon. He or she shall collect
all special taxes, allocate special assessments to the several owners and
obtain from the County Treasurer a monthly report as to the collection of
delinquent taxes.
§ 32.06  CITY ATTORNEY.
   (A)   The City Attorney shall be the legal advisor of the City Council. He
or she shall commence, prosecute and defend all suits and actions necessary to
be commenced, prosecuted or defended on behalf of the city, or that may be
ordered by the Council. When requested, he or she shall attend meetings of the
Council and give them his or her opinion upon any matters submitted to him or
her, either orally or in writing, as may be required. He or she shall draft or
review for legal correctness ordinances, contracts, franchises and other
instruments as may be required, and he or she shall perform such other duties
as may be imposed upon him or her by general law or ordinance. The Council
shall have the right to pay the City Attorney compensation for legal services
performed by him or her for it on such terms as the Council and Attorney may
agree, and to employ additional legal assistance and to pay for such legal
assistance out of the funds of the city.
(Neb. RS 17-610)
   (B)   The City Attorney shall also examine, when requested to do so by the
City Council, the ordinance records and advise and assist the City Clerk as
much as may be necessary to the end that each procedural step will be taken in
the passage of each ordinance to insure that it will be a valid and subsisting
local law in so far as its passage and approval are concerned.
(Prior Code, § 1-207)
§ 32.07  POLICE CHIEF.
   (A)   The Police Chief shall direct the police work of the city and shall be
responsible for the maintenance of law and order. Unless the Mayor and City
Council provide otherwise, he or she shall act as Health Inspector and Building
Inspector.
   (B)   If the city has an agreement with the County Sheriff for law
enforcement purposes, the County Sheriff shall have all the powers and duties
of the Police Chief and city police officers as specified in the agreement.
(Prior Code, § 1-209)
§ 32.08  POLICE OFFICERS.
   (A)   (1)   The Mayor, by and with the consent of the Council, shall appoint
such a number of regular police officers as may be necessary. All police
officers appointed by the Mayor and Council may be removed, demoted or
suspended at any time by the Mayor as provided in division (A)(2) below. A
police officer, including the Chief of Police, may appeal to the City Council
such removal, demotion or suspension with or without pay. After a hearing, the
City Council may uphold, reverse or modify the action.
      (2)   The City Council shall by ordinance adopt rules and regulations
governing the removal, demotion or suspension with or without pay of any police
officer, including the Chief of Police. The ordinance shall include a procedure
for such removal, demotion or suspension with or without pay of any police
officer, including the Chief of Police, upon the written accusation of the
Police Chief, the Mayor, or any citizen or taxpayer. The City Council shall
establish by ordinance procedures for acting upon such written accusation, in
accordance with Neb. RS 17-107. Nothing in this section shall be construed to
prevent the preemptory suspension or immediate removal from duty of an officer
by the appropriate authority, pending the hearing authorized by this section,
in cases of gross misconduct, neglect of duty or disobedience of orders.
      (3)   This section does not apply to a police officer during his or her
probationary period.
(Neb. RS 17-107)
   (B)   The City Council may establish a law enforcement reserve force.
Members of such force shall be appointed at the discretion of the Council. The
Council may limit the size of such reserve force.
(Neb. RS 81-1438)
Statutory reference:
   Other provisions on law enforcement reserve force, see Neb. RS 81-1439
through 81-1446
§ 32.09  FIRE CHIEF.
   The Fire Chief shall be elected by the members of the Fire Department. He or
she shall enforce all laws and ordinances covering the prevention of fires, the
storage and use of explosives and flammable substances, the installation of
fire alarm systems, the maintenance of fire extinguishing equipment, the
regulation of fire escapes and the inspection of all premises requiring
adequate fire escapes.
(Prior Code, § 1-210)
§ 32.10  WATER COMMISSIONER/PUBLIC WORKS COMMISSIONER.
   (A)   (1)   As soon as a system of waterworks or mains or portion or
extension of any system of waterworks or water supply has been established by
the city, the Mayor shall nominate and, by and with the advice and consent of
the City Council, shall appoint any competent person who shall be known as the
Water Commissioner of the city and whose term of office shall be for one fiscal
year or until his or her successor is appointed and qualified. Annually, at the
first regular meeting of the City Council in December, the Water Commissioner
shall be appointed as provided in this section.
      (2)   The Water Commissioner may at any time, for sufficient cause, be
removed by a two-thirds’ vote of the City Council. Any vacancy occurring in the
office of Water Commissioner by death, resignation, removal from office or
removal from the city may be filled in the manner provided in this section for
the appointment of the Commissioner.
      (3)   The Water Commissioner shall, before he or she enters upon the
discharge of his or her duties, execute a bond or provide evidence of
equivalent insurance to the city in a sum to be fixed by the Mayor and Council,
but not less than $5,000, conditioned upon the faithful discharge of his or her
duties, and such bond shall be signed by two or more good and sufficient
sureties, to be approved by the Mayor and Council or executed by a corporate
surety.
      (4)   The Water Commissioner, subject to the supervision of the Mayor and
City Council, shall have the general management and control of the system of
waterworks or mains or portion or extension of any system of waterworks or
water supply in the city.
      (5)   In a city where no Board of Public Works exists, and the city has
other public utilities than its waterworks system, the Mayor and Council shall
by ordinance designate Water Commissioner as Public Works Commissioner with
authority to manage not only the system of waterworks but also other public
utilities, and all of the provisions of this division (A) applying to the Water
Commissioner shall apply to the Public Works Commissioner.
(Neb. RS 17-541)
   (B)   (1)   The Water Commissioner shall collect all money received by the
city on account of its system of waterworks and shall faithfully account for
and pay over the same to the City Treasurer, taking his or her receipt therefor
in duplicate, filing one of the same with the City Clerk.
      (2)   He or she shall make a detailed report to the City Council, at
least once every six months, of the condition of the water system, of all
mains, pipes, hydrants, reservoirs and machinery, and such improvements,
repairs and extension thereof as he or she may think proper. The report shall
show the amount of receipts and expenditures on account thereof for the
preceding six months. No money shall be expended for improvements, repairs or
extension of the waterworks system, except upon recommendation of the Water
Commissioner.
      (3)   The Water Commissioner shall perform such other duties as may be
prescribed by ordinance.
      (4)   The Water Commissioner shall be paid such salary as the Council may
by ordinance provide and, upon his or her written recommendation, the Mayor and
Council shall employ such laborers and clerks as may to them seem necessary.
      (5)   Neither the Mayor nor any member of the Council shall be eligible
to the office of Water Commissioner during the term for which he or she was
elected.
      (6)   If the city owns public utilities other than the waterworks system
and the Water Commissioner has been designated by ordinance as the Public Works
Commissioner under the authority of division (A) above, then all provisions of
this division (B) in reference to a Water Commissioner shall apply to the
Public Works Commissioner.
(Neb. RS 17-543)
   (C)   In the event the city shall have created a Board of Public Works as
provided herein, the Water Commissioner shall, subject to confirmation by the
Mayor and Council, be employed thereafter by the Board at such reasonable
compensation as may be agreed upon at the time of such employment and shall
thereafter be under the jurisdiction of the Board, any of the provisions of
Neb. RS 17-501 to 17-560 to the contrary notwithstanding. Any Water
Commissioner under the jurisdiction and control of the Board of Public Works
may be removed by the Board, after an opportunity to be heard before the Mayor
and Council if he or she shall so request, for malfeasance, misfeasance or
neglect in office.
(Neb. RS 17-804)  (Prior Code, § 1-213)
§ 32.11  SEWER COMMISSIONER.
   (A)   The Sewer Commissioner, subject to the supervision of the Mayor and
City Council, shall have the general management and control of the sewer system
in the city.
   (B)   He or she shall collect all money received by the city on account of
its sewer system and shall faithfully account for and pay over the same to the
City Treasurer, taking his or her receipt therefor in duplicate, filing one of
the same with the City Clerk.
   (C)   He or she shall make a detailed report to the City Council, at least
once every six months, of the condition of the sewer system and such
improvements, repairs and extension thereof as he or she may think proper. The
report shall show the amount of receipts and expenditures on account thereof
for the preceding six months.
   (D)   He or she shall issue permits for all connections to the sewer system
and inspect and supervise all repairs made to the system.
   (E)   The Sewer Commissioner shall perform such other duties as may be
prescribed by ordinance.
§ 32.12  OVERSEER OF STREETS.
   (A)   The Overseer of Streets shall, subject to the order of the Mayor and
Council, have general charge, direction and control of all works on the
streets, sidewalks, culverts and bridges of the city, and shall perform such
other duties as the Council may require.
(Neb. RS 17-119)
   (B)   It shall be his or her responsibility to see that gutters and drains
in the city function properly and that they are kept in good repair.
   (C)   He or she shall, at the request of the City Council make a detailed
report to the Council on the condition of the streets, sidewalks, culverts,
alleys and bridges of the city and shall direct their attention to such
improvements, repairs and extension thereof as he or she may think proper.
   (D)   The Overseer of Streets shall issue such permits and perform such
other duties as may be prescribed by ordinance.
Statutory reference:
   Incentive payments to street superintendents, see Neb. RS 39-2512
§ 32.13  CITY ENGINEER; SPECIAL ENGINEER.
   (A)   (1)   The City Engineer shall, when requested by the Mayor or City
Council, make estimates of the cost of labor and material which may be done or
furnished by contract with the city and make all surveys, estimates and
calculations necessary to be made for the establishment of grades, building of
culverts, sewers, electric light system, waterworks, power plant, public
heating system, bridges, curbing and gutters, the improvement of streets and
the erection and repair of buildings and shall perform such other duties as the
City Council may require.
      (2)   When the city has appointed a Board of Public Works and the Mayor
and City Council have by ordinance so authorized, the Board may utilize its own
engineering staff and may hire consulting engineers for the design and
installation of extensions and improvements of the works under the jurisdiction
of the Board.
(Neb. RS 17-568.01)
   (B)   The Mayor and City Council may employ a special engineer to make, or
assist in making, any estimate necessary or to perform any other duty provided
for in Neb. RS 17-568.01. Any work executed by such special engineer shall have
the same validity and serve in all respects as though executed by the City
Engineer.
(Neb. RS 17-568)   
   (C)   The City Engineer shall make a record of the minutes of his or her
surveys and of all work done for the city and, when directed by the Mayor and
City Council, shall accurately make such plats, sections, profiles and maps as
may be necessary in the prosecution of any public work, which shall be public
records and belong to the city and be turned over to his or her successor.
(Prior Code, § 1-211)
Statutory reference:
   Duties related to areas to be annexed, see Neb. RS 18-3301
   Duties related to sewerage systems, see Neb. RS 17-150 and 17-919
§ 32.14  CITY ADMINISTRATOR.
   (A)   The Mayor may appoint an individual by and with the consent of a
majority of the City Council, to serve as a full time City Administrator. In
the event that a full time Administrator is appointed, he or she shall be the
administrative head of the municipal government under the direction and control
of the Mayor and City Council and shall be responsible to the Mayor and City
Council for the efficient conduct of his or her office. The office of the City
Administrator may not be held by the Mayor. The appointed Administrator may
concurrently hold any other appointed office provided for in this code of
ordinances.
   (B)   In the event that a full-time Administrator is not appointed by the
Mayor:
      (1)   The duties assigned by this section to a City Administrator shall
be performed by the Mayor and Council of the city, and such other officers or
employees of the city as are designed herein or in the city’s personal manual;
and
      (2)   The Mayor shall be responsible for coordinating the work of the
various departments and employees of the city, and shall provide a brief report
at each Council meeting on the activities of the past month and the needs and
plans for future work.
   (C)   The duties of the City Administrator (or such individual appointed or
specified as set out above) shall be the following duties:
      (1)   He or she shall make and keep up to date an inventory of all
property, real and personal, owned by the municipality;
      (2)   He or she shall act as purchasing agent for the purchase of all
supplies, goods, wares and merchandise, equipment and material which may be
required for the various departments, divisions or services of the
municipality;
      (3)   He or she shall keep the Mayor and Council fully advised as to the
financial condition and needs of the municipality and shall be responsible for
and prepare the annual estimate of expenditures for presentation to the Mayor
and Council prior to the passage of the annual appropriation ordinance;
      (4)   To serve as public relations officer of the municipal government,
and in such, capacity to endeavor to investigate and adjust all complaints
filed against any employee, department, division or service thereof and
cooperate with all community organizations whose aim and purpose is to advance
the best interests of the municipality and its people and to attend meetings of
such organizations if in the judgment of the Administrator such attendance is
necessary and desirable;
      (5)   To attend all meetings of the Council with the duty of reporting
any matter concerning municipal affairs under his or her supervision or
direction and to attend such other meetings of the municipal departments and
officials as his or her duties may require;
      (6)   To analyze the functions, duties and activities of the various
departments, divisions and services of the municipal government and of all
employees thereof, and to make his or her recommendations regarding the same to
the Mayor and Council;
      (7)   To carry out the Mayor and/or Council’s recommendations and
operations of the various departments;
      (8)   To procure facts and submit long range improvements to the Mayor
and Council;
      (9)   Recommend to the Mayor and Council the appointment and dismissal of
all department heads over which he or she exercises jurisdiction. Appointment
or dismissal of department heads will be made upon the recommendation of the
Mayor and confirmation by the Council. The City Administrator may appoint and
dismiss all subordinate employees of the municipality, as well as provide for
the transfer of such employees from one department to another, except those
employees covered under the Civil Service Act of the state, being Neb. RS 19-
1825 through 19-1848;
      (10)   The City Administrator shall have the duty and the right to
investigate and make recommendations to the Mayor and City Council regarding
duties and activities of any employee of the municipality covered under the
Civil Service Act of the state and recommend to the Mayor and Council the
promotion;
      (11)   Administer and be responsible for all departments and divisions of
the municipal government, which are under the Mayor’s and Council’s direction,
including the Board of Public Works and any public utilities hereafter acquired
by the municipality and including Fire, Rescue and Police Departments, except
insofar as such jurisdiction and administration conflicts with the Civil
Service Law pertaining to such Fire, Rescue and Police Departments. The office
of the Municipal Attorney and Municipal Physician shall not come under the
administrator, however, to be available to assist these offices in any
administrative matter that may arise and those officers in turn shall be
available to assist the City Administrator in the discharge of his or her
duties;
      (12)   Recommend to the Mayor and Council for adoption such measures and
ordinances as are deemed necessary or expedient;
      (13)   Prepare and recommend to the Mayor and Council a classification
and compensation plan;
      (14)   Make investigations into the affairs of the municipality and any
department or division thereof, and any contract, or the proper performance of
any obligations pertaining to the municipality;
      (15)   Exercise general supervision over all public buildings, streets
and other public property which are under the control and jurisdiction of the
Mayor and Council;
      (16)   Prepare and submit to the Mayor and Council as of the end of the
fiscal year, a complete report on the finances and administrative activities of
the municipality for the preceding year;
      (17)   Keep the insurable property of the municipality appropriately
insured;
      (18)   Service in any appointed office or head of department within the
municipal government if the need arises and when appointed thereto by the Mayor
and Council and to hold and perform the duties thereof at the pleasure of the
Mayor;
      (19)   The City Administrator shall have the duty to keep open his or her
office for public affairs during days and hours set by the Mayor and Council;
and
      (20)   Perform such other duties and exercise such other powers as may be
delegated to him or her from time to time by ordinances or resolutions of the
Council; and where action of the Council is not required such duties and powers
as may be prescribed by the Mayor.
   (D)   The City Administrator, in the discharge of his or her duties, shall
have the right to expend an amount not to exceed the limits set forth in the
applicable state law, pertaining to cities of the second class, when entering
into contracts for municipal work and improvements or purchase of equipment, or
any lesser amounts set by the City Council, without advertising for bids and,
within any dollar limitations as set by the City Council to make any contract
on behalf of the municipality for general purchases, maintenances and
improvements, the expenditure limitation herein to apply to all departments of
the municipality.
   (E)   The Administrator is not authorized to obligate the municipality for
any expense or expenses for entertainment, travel or similar items without the
prior approval of the Mayor and Council. In the event of the authorization by
the Mayor and Council to the Administrator to incur such expenses, the
Administrator will be reimbursed by the municipality from time to time upon
submission of an itemized account of such expenditures.
   (F)   The Administrator shall be entitled each year to a vacation based upon
the number of days granted by the municipality to other employees of the
municipality.
   (G)   If the Administrator is unable to perform his or her services by
reason of illness or incapacity, the compensation otherwise payable to him or
her during the continued period of such illness shall be based upon the policy
adopted by the municipality then in effect with reference to other employees of
the municipality. Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, the
municipality may terminate such employment at any time after the Administrator
shall be absent from his or her employment for whatever cause for a continuous
period of more than three months. The City Administrator may be removed by the
Mayor, with consent of a majority of the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 1-214)  (Ord. 439, passed 3-7-1988)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-604
BONDS AND OATHS
§ 32.25  BONDS; REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The city may enact ordinances or bylaws to require from all officers
and servants, elected or appointed, bonds and security or evidence of
equivalent insurance for the faithful performance of their duties. The city may
pay the premium for such bonds or insurance coverage.
(Neb. RS 17-604)
   (B)   (1)   All official bonds of officers of the city shall be in form
joint and several and made payable to the city in such penalty as the City
Council may fix.
      (2)   In place of the individual bonds required to be furnished by
municipal officers, a schedule, position, blanket bond or undertaking, or
evidence of equivalent insurance may be given by municipal officers, or a
single corporate surety fidelity, schedule, position or blanket bond or
undertaking, or evidence of insurance coverage covering all the officers,
including officers required by law to furnish an individual bond or
undertaking, may be furnished. The municipality may pay the premium for the
bond or insurance coverage. The bond or insurance coverage shall be, at a
minimum, an aggregate of the amounts fixed by law or by the City Council, and
with such terms and conditions as may be required.
(Neb. RS 11-104)
      (3)   The penalty amount on any bond shall not fall below the legal
minimum, when one has been set by the state, for each particular official.
   (C)   (1)   Official bonds, with the oath endorsed thereon, shall be filed
in the City Clerk’s office within the following time:
         (a)    Of all officers elected at any general election, following
receipt of their election certificate and not later than ten days before the
first Thursday after the first Tuesday in January next succeeding the election;
         (b)   Of all appointed officers, within 30 days after their
appointment; and
         (c)   Of officers elected at any special election and city officers,
within 30 days after the canvass of the votes of the election at which they
were chosen.
      (2)   The filing of the bond with the oath endorsed thereon does not
authorize a person to take any official action prior to the beginning of his or
her term of office pursuant to Art. XVII, § 5, of the Constitution of the
state.
(Neb. RS 11-105)
   (D)   All official bonds of city officers shall be executed by the principal
named in such bonds and by at least two sufficient sureties who shall be
freeholders of the county in which such bonds are given, or any official bond
of a city officer may be executed by the officer as principal and by a
guaranty, surety, fidelity or bonding company as surety, or by two or more such
companies. Only such companies as are legally authorized to transact business
in the state shall be eligible to suretyship on the bond of a city officer.
(Neb. RS 11-109)
   (E)   The City Clerk shall carefully record and preserve the bonds in his or
her office and shall give certified copies thereof, when required, under the
seal of his or her office, and shall be entitled to receive for the same the
usual fee allowed by law for certified copies of records in other cases.
(Neb. RS 11-110)
   (F)   (1)   The approval of each official bond shall be endorsed upon such
bond by the officer approving the same, and no bond shall be filed and recorded
until so approved.
(Neb. RS 11-111)
      (2)   No bond shall be deemed to be given or complete until the approval
of the City Council and all sureties are endorsed in writing on the instrument
by the Mayor and City Clerk pursuant to the approval of the City Council.
   (G)   All official bonds shall obligate the principal and sureties for the
faithful discharge of all duties required by law of such principal and shall
inure to the benefit of any persons injured by a breach of the conditions of
such bonds.
(Neb. RS 11-112)
   (H)   No official bond shall be rendered void by reason of any informality
of irregularity in its execution or approval.
(Neb. RS 11-113)
   (I)   No city official shall be taken as security on the bond of any
administrator, executor or other officer from whom by law bond is or may be
required.
(Neb. RS 11-114)
   (J)   If any person elected or appointed to any office neglects to have his
or her official bond executed and approved as provided by law and filed for
record within the time limited by this section, the City Clerk shall
immediately issue an order to such person to show cause why he or she has
failed to properly file such bond and why his or her office should not be
declared vacant. If such person properly files the official bond within ten
days of the issuance of the show cause order for appointed officials or before
the date for taking office for elected officials, such filing shall be deemed
to be in compliance with this section. If such person does not file the bond
within ten days of the issuance of such order for appointed officials or before
the date for taking office for elected officials and sufficient cause is not
shown within that time, his or her office shall thereupon ipso facto become
vacant and such vacancy shall thereupon immediately be filled by election or
appointment as the law may direct in other cases of vacancy in the same office.
(Neb. RS 11-115)
   (K)   Any person appointed to fill a vacancy, before entering upon the
duties of the office, must give a bond corresponding in substance and form with
the bond required of the officer originally elected or appointed, as herein
provided.
(Neb. RS 11-116)
   (L)   (1)   When the incumbent of an office is reelected or reappointed, he
or she shall qualify by taking the oath and giving the bond as above directed,
but when such officer has had public funds or property in his or her control,
his or her bond shall not be approved until he or she has produced and fully
accounted for such funds and property.
      (2)   When it is ascertained that the incumbent of an office holds over
by reason of the non- election or non-appointment of a successor or of the
neglect or refusal of the successor to qualify, he or she shall qualify anew
within ten days from the time at which his or her successor, if elected, should
have qualified.
(Neb. RS 11-117)
   (M)   No person shall be surety for the same officer for more than two
successive terms of the same office, but this provision shall not apply to
incorporated surety companies.
(Neb. RS 11-118)
   (N)   (1)   If the sureties on the official bond of any appointed officer of
the city, in the opinion of the City Council, become insufficient, the Council
may, by resolution, fix a reasonable time within which the officer may give a
new bond or additional sureties as directed.
      (2)   If the officer fails, refuses or neglects to give a new bond or
additional sureties to the satisfaction and approval of the Council, the office
shall, by such failure, refusal or neglect, become vacant and it shall be the
duty of the Council to appoint a competent and qualified person to fill the
office.
(Prior Code, § 1-301)
§ 32.26  OATH OF OFFICE; CITY OFFICIALS.
   (A)   All officials of the city, whether elected or appointed, except when a
different oath is specifically provided herein, shall before entering upon
their respective duties take and subscribe the following oath, which shall be
endorsed upon their respective bonds:
“I, ______________________________, do solemnly swear that I will support the
Constitution of the United States and the Constitution of the State of
Nebraska, against all enemies foreign and domestic; that I will bear true faith
and allegiance to the same; that I take this obligation freely and without
mental reservation or for the purpose of evasion; and that I will faithfully
and impartially perform the duties of the office of ____________________,
according to law and to the best of my ability. And I do further swear that I
do not advocate nor am I a member of any political party or organization that
advocates the overthrow of the government of the United States or of this state
by force or violence; and that during such time as I am in this position I will
not advocate nor become a member of any political party or organization that
advocates the overthrow of the government of the United States or of this state
by force or violence. So help me God.”
   (B)   If any such officer is not required to give bond, the oath shall be
filed with the City Clerk.
(Neb. RS 11-101)  (Prior Code, § 1-302)
COMPENSATION; CONFLICTS OF INTEREST
§ 32.40  COMPENSATION; HOW FIXED; LIMITATIONS.
   (A)   The officers and employees of the city shall receive such compensation
as the Mayor and Council shall fix by ordinance.
(Neb. RS 17-108)
   (B)   The city may enact ordinances or bylaws to regulate and prescribe the
compensation of officers not provided for in state law.
(Neb. RS 17-604)
   (C)   No officer shall receive any pay or perquisites from the city other
than his or her salary. The City Council shall not pay or appropriate any money
or other valuable thing to any person not an officer for the performance of any
act, service or duty, the doing or performance of which shall come within the
proper scope of the duties of any officer of the city.
(Neb. RS 17-611)
   (D)   The salary of any elective officer shall not be increased or
diminished during the term for which he or she shall have been elected, except
when there has been a combination and merger of offices as provided herein;
except that, when there are officers elected to the Council, or any other board
or commission having more than one member and the terms of one or more members
commence and end at different times, the compensation of all members of such
council, board or commission may be increased or diminished at the beginning of
the full term of any member thereof. No person who shall have resigned or
vacated any office shall be eligible to the same during the time for which he
or she was elected if during the same time the emoluments thereof were
increased.
(Neb. RS 17-612)  (Prior Code, § 1-901)
§ 32.41  CONFLICT OF INTEREST INVOLVING CONTRACTS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      BUSINESS ASSOCIATION.
         (a)   A business:
            1.   In which the individual is a partner, limited liability
company member, director or officer; or
            2.   In which the individual or a member of the individual’s
immediate family is a stockholder of closed corporation stock worth $1,000 or
more at fair market value or which represents more than a 5% equity interest or
is a stockholder of publicly traded stock worth $10,000 or more at fair market
value or which represents more than 10% equity interest.
         (b)   An individual who occupies a confidential professional
relationship protected by law shall be exempt from this definition. This
definition shall not apply to publicly traded stock under a trading account if
the filer reports the name and address of the stockbroker.
(Neb. RS 49-1408)
      IMMEDIATE FAMILY. A child residing in an individual’s household, a spouse
of an individual or an individual claimed by that individual or that
individual’s spouse as a dependent for federal income tax purposes.
(Neb. RS 49-1425)
      OFFICER.
         (a)   Includes:
            1.   A member of any board or commission of the city which spends
and administers its own funds, who is dealing with a contract made by such
board or commission; or
            2.   Any elected city official.
         (b)   OFFICER does not mean volunteer firefighters or ambulance
drivers with respect to their duties as firefighters or ambulance drivers.
   (B)   (1)   Except as provided in Neb. RS 49-1499.04 or 70-624.04, no
officer may have an interest in any contract to which his or her governing
body, or anyone for its benefit, is a party. The existence of such an interest
in any contract shall render the contract voidable by decree of a court of
competent jurisdiction as to any person who entered into the contract or took
assignment of the contract with actual knowledge of the prohibited conflict. An
action to have a contract declared void under this section may be brought by
the County Attorney, the governing body or any resident within the jurisdiction
of the governing body and shall be brought within one year after the contract
is signed or assigned. The decree may provide for the reimbursement of any
person for the reasonable value of all money, goods, material, labor or
services furnished under the contract, to the extent that the governing body
has benefitted thereby.
      (2)   The prohibition in this division (B) shall apply only when the
officer or his or her parent, spouse or child:
         (a)   Has a business association with the business involved in the
contract; or
         (b)   Will receive a direct pecuniary fee or commission as a result of
the contract.
   (C)   Division (B) above does not apply if the contract is an agenda item
approved at a meeting of the governing body and the interested officer:
      (1)   Makes a declaration on the record to the governing body responsible
for approving the contract regarding the nature and extent of his or her
interest prior to official consideration of the contract;
      (2)   Does not vote on the matters of granting the contract, making
payments pursuant to the contract or accepting performance of work under the
contract, or similar matters relating to the contract; except that, if the
number of members of the governing body declaring an interest in the contract
would prevent the body with all members present from securing a quorum on the
issue, then all members may vote on the matters; and
      (3)   Does not act for the governing body which is a party to the
contract as to inspection or performance under the contract in which he or she
has an interest.
   (D)   An officer who has no business association with the business involved
in the contract, or will not receive a direct pecuniary fee or commission as a
result of the contract, shall not be deemed to have an interest within the
meaning of this section.
   (E)   The receiving of deposits, cashing of checks, and buying and selling
of warrants and bonds of indebtedness of any such governing body by a financial
institution shall not be considered a contract for purposes of this section.
The ownership of less than 5% of the outstanding shares of a corporation shall
not constitute an interest within the meaning of this section.
   (F)   If an officer’s parent, spouse or child is an employee of the
officer’s governing body, the officer may vote on all issues of the contract
which are generally applicable to all employees, or all employees within a
classification, and do not single out his or her parent, spouse or child for
special action.
   (G)   Neb. RS 49-14,102 does not apply to contracts covered by this section.
(Neb. RS 49-14,103.01)
   (H)   (1)   The person charged with keeping records for the governing body
shall maintain separately from other records a ledger containing the
information listed in divisions (H)(1)(a) through (H)(1)(e) below about every
contract entered into by the governing body in which an officer of the body has
an interest and for which disclosure is made pursuant to division (C) above.
This information shall be kept in the ledger for five years from the date of
the officer’s last day in office and shall include:
         (a)   The names of the contracting parties;
         (b)   The nature of the interest of the officer in question;
         (c)   The date that the contract was approved by the governing body;
         (d)   The amount of the contract; and
         (e)   The basic terms of the contract.
      (2)   The information supplied relative to the contract shall be provided
no later than ten days after the contract has been signed by both parties. The
ledger kept pursuant to this division (H) shall be available for public
inspection during the normal working hours of the office in which it is kept.
(Neb. RS 49-14,103.02)
   (I)   An open account established for the benefit of any governing body with
a business in which an officer has an interest shall be deemed a contract
subject to this section. The statement required to be filed by division (H)
above shall be filed within ten days after the account is opened. Thereafter,
the person charged with keeping records for the governing body shall maintain a
running account of amounts purchased on the open account. Purchases made from
petty cash or a petty cash fund shall not be subject to this section.
(Neb. RS 49-14,103.03)
   (J)   Notwithstanding divisions (A) through (I) above, the governing body
may prohibit contracts over a specific dollar amount in which an officer of the
governing body may have an interest.
(Neb. RS 49-14,103.05)
   (K)   The governing body may exempt from divisions (A) through (I) above,
contracts involving $100 or less in which an officer of that body may have an
interest.
(Neb. RS 49-14,103.06)  (Prior Code, § 1-902)  (Ord. 1-94, passed 1-10-1994)
Statutory reference:
   Other provisions on conflicts of interest, see Neb. RS 18-305 through 18-312
and 49-1499.03 through 49-14,103
   Penalty for violation of restrictions on contracts, see Neb. RS 49-14,103.04
CHAPTER 33:  ORGANIZATIONS
Section
   
33.01   Board of Health
   
33.02   Planning Commission
   
33.03   Housing Authority
§ 33.01  BOARD OF HEALTH.
   (A)   The governing body shall appoint a Board of Health, which shall
consist of four members. The members of the Board shall include the Mayor, who
shall serve as Chairperson, the President of the Council and two other members.
One member shall be a physician or health care provider, if one can be found
who is willing to serve. Such physician or health care provider, if appointed,
shall be the Board’s medical advisor. If the Mayor has appointed a Chief of
Police, the Chief of Police shall serve on the Board as Secretary and
quarantine officer. The members of the Board shall serve, without compensation,
a one-year term of office, unless reappointed, and shall reorganize at the
first meeting in December of each year. No member of the Board of Health shall
hold more than one Board of Health position.
   (B)   The Secretary shall keep full and correct minutes and records of all
meetings and file the same with the Municipal Clerk where they shall be
available for public inspection during office hours. The Board of Health shall
be funded by the governing body from time to time out of the General Fund. A
majority of the Board shall constitute a quorum for the purpose of doing
business. The Board shall meet at such times as the governing body may
designate. Special meetings may be held upon the call of the Chairperson or any
two members of the Board.
   (C)   The Board shall enact rules and regulations, which shall have the full
force and effect of law, to safeguard the health of the people of the
municipality. The Board shall enforce the rules and regulations and provide
fines and punishments for any violations thereof. It may regulate, suppress and
prevent the occurrence of nuisances and enforce all laws of the state and
ordinances of the municipality relating to nuisances and to matters of
sanitation which affect the health and safety of the people. The Board shall
regularly inspect such premises and businesses as the governing body may
direct. All members of the Board shall be responsible  for  making  such 
reports  and  performing  such other duties as the governing body may, from
time to time, designate.
(Prior Code, § 2-202)  (Ord. 97-15, passed 9-8-1997)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb RS 17-121
§ 33.02  PLANNING COMMISSION.
   (A)   The Planning Commission shall consist of five regular members who
shall represent, insofar as is possible, the different professions or
occupations in the municipality and shall be appointed by the Mayor, by and
with the approval of a majority vote of the members elected to the City
Council. Two of the regular members may be residents of the area over which the
municipality is authorized to exercise extraterritorial zoning and subdivision
regulation. When there is a sufficient number of residents in the area over
which the municipality exercises extraterritorial zoning and subdivision
regulation, one regular member of the Commission shall be a resident from such
area. If it is determined by the City Council that a sufficient number of
residents reside in the area subject to extraterritorial zoning and subdivision
regulation, and no such resident is a regular member of the Commission, the
first available vacancy on the Commission shall be filled by the appointment of
such an individual. For purposes of this section, a SUFFICIENT NUMBER OF
RESIDENTS shall mean 500 residents. The term of each regular member shall be
three years; except that, approximately one-third of the regular members of the
first Commission shall serve for terms of one year, one-third for terms of two
years and one-third for terms of three years. All regular members shall hold
office until their successors are appointed. Any member may, after a public
hearing before the City Council, be removed by the Mayor, with the consent of a
majority vote of the members elected to the City Council, for inefficiency,
neglect of duty or malfeasance in office, or other good and sufficient cause.
Vacancies occurring otherwise than through the expiration of term shall be
filled for the unexpired portion of the term by the Mayor.
   (B)   All regular members of the Commission shall serve without compensation
and shall hold no other municipal office, except when appointed to serve on the
Board of Adjustment as provided in Neb. RS 19-908. All members of the
Commission may be required, in the discretion of the Mayor and City Council, to
give bond in a sum set by resolution of the City Council, and conditioned upon
the faithful performance of their duties. The Commission shall elect its
Chairperson and a Secretary from its members and create and fill such other of
its offices as it may determine. The term of the Chairperson and the Secretary
shall be one year, and they shall be eligible for reelection. No member of the
Commission shall serve in the capacity of both the Chairperson and Secretary of
the Commission. It shall be the duty of the Secretary to keep the full and
correct minutes and records of all meetings and to file them with the Municipal
Clerk where they shall be available for public inspection during office hours.
The Commission shall be funded by the City Council from time to time out of the
General Fund. The expenditures of the Commission, exclusive of gifts, shall be
within the amounts appropriated for that purpose by the City Council; and no
expenditures nor agreements for expenditures shall be valid in excess of such
amounts. A number of Commissioners equal to a majority of the number of regular
members appointed to the Commission shall constitute a quorum for the
transaction of any business. The Commission shall hold at least one regular
meeting in each calendar quarter, except the City Council may require the
Commission to meet more frequently and the Chairperson of the Commission may
call for a meeting when necessary to deal with business pending before the
Commission. Special meetings may also be held upon the call of any three
members of the Commission. The Commission shall adopt rules and regulations for
the transaction of business and shall keep a record of its resolutions,
transactions, findings and determinations, which shall be a public record. The
Commission shall make and adopt plans for the physical development of the
municipality, including any areas outside its boundaries which, in the
Commission’s judgment, bear relation to the planning of the municipality, and
shall carry out the other duties and exercise the powers specified in Neb. RS
19-929. All actions by the Commission shall be subject to the review and
supervision of the City Council. The Commission shall make its recommendations
to the City Council so that they are received by the City Council within 30
days after the Commission begins consideration of a matter relating to the
comprehensive development plan, capital improvements, building codes,
subdivision development, the annexation of territory or zoning. The Commission
shall be responsible for making such reports and performing such other duties
as the Mayor and City Council may, from time to time, designate.
   (C)   The Mayor, with the approval of a majority vote of the elected members
of the City Council, shall appoint one alternate member to the Commission. The
alternate member shall serve without compensation and shall hold no other
municipal office. The term of the alternate member shall be three years, and he
or she shall hold office until his or her successor is appointed and approved.
The alternate member may be removed from office in the same manner as a regular
member. If the alternate member position becomes vacant other than through the
expiration of the term, the vacancy shall be filled for the unexpired portion
of the term by the Mayor with the approval of a majority vote of the elected
members of the City Council. The alternate member may attend any meeting and
may serve as a voting and participating member of the Commission at any time
when less than the full number of regular Commission members is present and
capable of voting.
(Prior Code, § 2-206)  (Ord. 98-23, passed 10-5-1998)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 19-925 through 19-929
§ 33.03  HOUSING AUTHORITY.
   (A)   Establishment.
      (1)   The governing body shall appoint five persons, who shall constitute
the Housing Authority, and such persons shall be called the Commissioners. One
Commissioner shall be appointed each year. Each Commissioner shall serve a
five-year term of office or until his or her successor is duly appointed;
provided that, all vacancies shall be filled for the unexpired terms. The
governing body may appoint one of its members to serve as one of the five
members of such Housing Authority for such term as the governing body may
determine. No person shall serve as a Commissioner unless he or she resides
within the area of operation of that Housing Authority. A certificate of the
appointment or reappointment of any Commissioner shall be filed with the
Municipal Clerk and such certificate shall be conclusive evidence of the proper
appointment of such Commissioner. A Commissioner shall receive no compensation
for his or her services, but he or she shall be entitled to the necessary
expenses, including travel expenses, incurred in discharge of his or her
duties.
      (2)   A majority of Commissioners shall constitute a quorum of the
Authority for the purpose of conducting its business, exercising its powers and
for all other purposes. Action may be taken by the Authority upon the vote of
the majority of the Commissioners present unless in any case the bylaws of the
Authority shall require a larger number.
      (3)   The Commissioners shall elect a Chairperson and Vice-Chairperson
from among the Commissioners and shall have the power to employ an executive
director who shall serve as ex officio secretary of the Authority.
      (4)   The Authority may also employ legal counsel, or it may call upon
the chief law officer of the municipality, for such services as it may require.
It may employ technical experts and such other officers, agents and employees
as it may require and shall determine their qualifications, duties,
compensations and terms of office. The Authority may delegate such other powers
and duties to its agents or employees as it may deem proper. During his or her
tenure, and for one year thereafter, no commissioner, officer or employee of
the Municipal Housing Authority shall voluntarily acquire any interest, direct
or indirect, in any project or in any property included or planned to be
included in any project, or in any contract or proposed contract relating to
any housing project.
      (5)   If any such commissioner, officer or employee involuntarily
acquires any such interest, or voluntarily or involuntarily acquired any such
interest prior to appointment or employment as commissioner, officer or
employee, he or she shall immediately disclose his or her interest in writing
to the Authority, and such disclosure shall be entered upon the minutes of the
Authority, and he or she shall not participate in any action by the Authority
relating to the property or contract in which he or she has any such interest;
provided that, nothing herein shall apply to the acquisition of any interest in
notes or bonds of the Authority issued in connection with any housing project,
or to the execution of agreements by banking institutions for deposit or
handling of funds in connection with a project or to act as trustee under any
trust indenture, or to utility services, the rates for which are fixed or
controlled by a governmental agency. The Mayor may remove a Commissioner for
neglect of duty or misconduct in office in the manner prescribed hereinafter.
The Mayor shall send a notice of removal to such Commissioner which notice
shall contain a statement containing the charges against him or her. Unless,
within ten days from the receipt of such notice, such Commissioner files with
the Clerk a request for a hearing before the governing body, the Commissioner
shall be deemed as removed from office. If a request for a hearing is filed
with the Clerk, the governing body of the municipality shall hold a hearing at
which the Commissioner shall have the right to appear in person or by counsel
and the governing body shall determine whether the removal shall be disapproved
or upheld. If the removal is disapproved, the Commissioner shall continue to
hold his or her position.
      (6)   The Housing Authority shall keep an accurate account of all its
activities and of all its receipts and disbursements and shall make a report to
the governing body on all such information.
(Prior Code, § 2-207)
   (B)   Ownership. The Municipal Housing Authority is owned by the
municipality and operated through the Housing Authority Commission. The Housing
Authority shall constitute a body corporate and politic, and shall have all the
powers necessary or convenient to carry out and effectuate the purposes and
provisions of the state’s Housing Authority Law.
(Prior Code, § 2-208)
   (C)   Definitions. Except as otherwise specifically provided, the
definitions and terms set out in the state statutes relating to housing
authorities under the state’s Housing Authority Law are hereby adopted by
reference as they now exist or may hereafter be amended.
(Prior Code, § 2-209)
   (D)   Operation and management. The Authority shall at all times observe the
following duties with respect to rentals and tenant selection:
      (1)   It may rent or lease dwelling accommodations therein only to
persons of low income, elderly or handicapped persons of low income and
displaced persons in need;
      (2)   There shall be no discrimination in the eligibility or occupancy of
tenants on the basis of race, religion, color, creed, national origin or
ancestry;
      (3)   The Authority shall not accept any person as a tenant in any
dwelling in the housing project if the applicant has an annual income which
equals or exceeds the amount which the Authority has conclusively determined to
be sufficient to enable one to secure, safe, sanitary and uncongested dwelling
accommodations within the area served by the Authority and to provide an
adequate standard of living;
      (4)   The Authority may rent or lease to a tenant a dwelling consisting
of a number of rooms which is deemed necessary to provide safe and sanitary
accommodations to the occupants without overcrowding;
      (5)   The Authority shall fix income limits for occupancy and rents after
taking into consideration:
         (a)   The family size, composition, age, physical handicaps and other
factors which might affect the rent-paying ability of the person; and
         (b)   The economic factors which affect the financial stability and
solvency of the project.
      (6)   The Authority may accept as a tenant any displaced person or
persons in need, regardless of income, but in no event shall such person or
persons remain as a tenant or tenants of the Authority for more than a period
of six months unless such persons also qualify as persons of low income,
elderly or handicapped persons of low income;
      (7)   All persons of low income, elderly or handicapped persons of low
income or displaced persons in need, shall be entitled to the benefits of this
section and the Authority may establish rules and regulations consistent with
the purposes of this section concerning eligibility and occupancy of the
housing project or other such shelter;
      (8)   Nothing herein shall prohibit the right of the Authority to inquire
into the financial condition, family composition, medical, personal and
employment history of any tenant or prospective tenant; and
      (9)   The Authority shall prohibit subletting by tenants.
(Prior Code, § 2-210)
   (E)   Rules and regulations. The Housing Authority may establish from time
to time rules and regulations consistent with the purposes of the state’s
Housing Authorities Law concerning the priority of eligible applicants for
occupancy who are entitled to the benefits of status as a member of the armed
forces or armed forces or veteran, or as a disabled member of the armed forces
and the applicant’s age or disability, housing conditions, urgency of housing
need and source of income. In any such system of priority, displaced persons in
need shall have a priority ahead of all other such persons who may be entitled
to the benefits of the law. No tenant in good standing in occupancy and
qualified for continued occupancy shall have his or her tenancy terminated in
order to provide dwelling units for classes or categories of applicants as the
Authority may establish.
(Prior Code, § 2-211)
   (F)   Reports. The Housing Authority shall keep an accurate account of all
its activities and of all its receipts and disbursements and shall make an
annual report at the first regular meeting in January of each year to the
governing body. Such report shall include all mortgages and other interests in
real property held by the Housing Authority, including options to purchase and
land sale contracts; a listing of all bond issues and their essential terms and
obligations; and all other financial obligations of the Housing Authority over
$50,000. Such reports shall be considered public records. If there has been no
change from the last report in the status of any of the items reported pursuant
to this section, the Housing Authority may file a statement to that effect in
lieu of the report.
(Prior Code, § 2-212)
   (G)   Continued existence as housing agency.
      (1)   The local housing authority established under prior state law and
in existence on 1-1-2000 shall have continued existence as a housing agency
under the state’s Housing Agency Act, being Neb. RS 71-1572 through 71-15,168.
      (2)   The local housing agency shall conduct its operations consistent
with the state’s Housing Agency Act. All property, rights in land, buildings,
records and equipment and any funds, money, revenue, receipts or assets of the
authority belong to the agency as successor. All obligations, debts,
commitments and liabilities of the authority are obligations, debts,
commitments and liabilities of the successor agency.
      (3)   Any resolution by the authority and any action taken by the
authority prior to 1-1-2000, with regard to any project or program which is to
completed within or to be conducted for a 12-month period following 1-1-2000,
and which resolution or action is lawful under state law as it existed prior to
1-1-2000, is a lawful resolution or action of the successor agency and binding
upon the successor agency and enforceable by or against the agency
notwithstanding that such resolution or action is inconsistent with, not
authorized by or prohibited under the provisions of the state’s Housing Agency
Act.
      (4)   All commissioners of the local housing agency and all officers,
legal counsel, technical experts, directors and other appointees or employees
of the agency holding office or employment by virtue of any such prior law on
1-1-2000, shall be deemed to have been appointed or employed under the state’s
Housing Agency Act.
(Prior Code, § 2-213)  (Ord. 98-4, passed 4-6-1998; Ord. 2000-12, passed 5-1-
2000)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 71-1522, 71-1524 through 71-1526, 71-1529,
71-1536, 71-1537, 71-1552, 71-1576
CHAPTER 34:  LAW ENFORCEMENT AND PUBLIC SAFETY
Section
Fire Department
   
34.01   Operation and funding
   
34.02   Fire Chief
   
34.03   Membership
   
34.04   Records
   
34.05   Fires
   
34.06   Distant fires
   
34.07   Inspections
   
34.08   Notice of violation
   
34.09   Power of arrest
   
34.10   Fire investigation
Police Department
   
34.25   Duties
   
34.26   Reserve officer bond
   
34.27   Arrest and enforcement jurisdiction
   
34.28   Officers; discipline or removal from duty
FIRE DEPARTMENT
§ 34.01  OPERATION AND FUNDING.
   (A)   The city may operate a Fire Department, through the Fire Chief and
firefighters.
   (B)   The city shall have power to procure fire engines, hooks, ladders,
buckets and other apparatus, to organize fire engine, hook and ladder, and
bucket companies, to prescribe rules of duty and the government of the Fire
Department with such penalties as the City Council may deem proper, not
exceeding $100, and to make all necessary appropriations for the Fire
Department.
(Neb. RS 17-147)
   (C)   If the city has only a voluntary fire department or companies, the
City Council may levy a tax annually of not more than $0.07 on each $100 upon
the taxable value of all the taxable property within the city for the
maintenance and benefit of the fire department or companies. The amount of such
tax shall be established at the beginning of the year and shall be included in
the adopted budget statement. Upon collection of such tax, the City Treasurer
shall disburse the same upon the order of the Fire Chief with the approval of
the City Council.
(Neb. RS 17-718)  (Prior Code, § 3-301)
Statutory reference:
   Fire station acquisition, construction and maintenance, see Neb. RS 17-953
et seq.
§ 34.02  FIRE CHIEF.
   The Fire Chief shall manage the Fire Department, and it shall be his or her
duty to inform the City Council when any of the fire engines, hose, ladders or
other apparatus needs repair. Upon the written consent and directive of the
City Council, the Fire Chief shall cause the repair, improvement or maintenance
of the equipment and shall personally supervise and approve of the same. It
shall be the duty of the Fire Chief to come before the City Council at the
regular meeting in January of each year to give an annual report to the City
Council of the general condition and the proposed additions or improvements
recommended by him or her.
(Prior Code, § 3-302)
§ 34.03  MEMBERSHIP.
   (A)   The Fire Department shall consist of so many members as may be decided
by the City Council. The members may organize themselves in any way they may
decide, subject to the review of the City Council.
   (B)   The volunteer Fire Department shall not have upon its rolls at one
time more than 25 persons, for each engine and hose company in the Fire
Department, and no hook and ladder company shall have upon its rolls at any one
time more than 25 members. No organization shall be deemed to be a bona fide
fire or hook and ladder company until it has procured for active service
apparatus for the extinguishment or prevention of fires, in case of a hose
company, to the value of $700, and of a hook and ladder company to the value of
$500.
(Neb. RS 35-102)
   (C)   Members in good standing are those who keep their dues promptly paid
up and are present and render active service when called out for the legitimate
purposes of the Fire Department.
(Neb. RS 35-103)
   (D)   Volunteer firefighters of the Fire Department shall be deemed
employees of the city while in the performance of their duties as members of
the Department. Members of the volunteer Fire Department, before they are
entitled to benefits under the state’s Workers’ Compensation Act, shall be
recommended by the Fire Chief or some person authorized to act for the Chief
for membership therein to the Mayor and City Council and upon confirmation
shall be deemed employees of the city. Members of the Fire Department, after
confirmation to membership, may be removed by a majority vote of the City
Council and, thereafter, shall not be considered employees of the city.
Firefighters of the Fire Department shall be considered as acting in the
performance and within the course and scope of their employment when performing
activities outside of the corporate limits of the city, but only if directed to
do so by the Fire Chief or some person authorized to act for the Chief.
(Neb. RS 48-115)
   (E)   The City Council shall purchase and maintain in force a policy of
group term life insurance to age 65 covering the lives of all of the active
volunteer fire and rescue personnel; except that, when any such person serves
more than one city or rural or suburban fire protection district, the policy
shall be purchased only by the first city or district which he or she serves.
The policy shall provide a minimum death benefit of $10,000 for death from any
cause and shall, at the option of the insured, be convertible to a permanent
form of life insurance at age 65. The coverage of such policy shall terminate
as to any individual who ceases to be an active volunteer member of the Fire
Department.
(Neb. RS 35-108)
   (F)   For purposes of the prohibition on receipt of any witness fee,
attendance fee or mileage fee by an employee of the city called as a witness in
connection with his or her officially assigned duties, volunteer firefighters
and rescue squad members testifying in that capacity alone shall not be deemed
employees of the city.
(Neb. RS 33-139.01)
   (G)   The City Council may compensate or reimburse any member of the Fire
Department for expenses incurred in carrying out his or her duties in an amount
set by resolution.
   (H)   (1)   All members of the Fire Department shall be subject to such
rules and regulations, and shall perform such duties, as may be prescribed or
required of them by the Fire Chief or the City Council.
      (2)   The members of the Fire Department shall, during the time of a fire
or great public danger, have and exercise the powers and duties of police
officers and shall have full power and authority to arrest all persons guilty
of any violation of the city code or the laws of the state.
   (I)   (1)   Members of the Fire Department may hold meetings and engage in
social activities with the approval of the City Council.
      (2)   The Secretary shall, upon request, keep a record of all meetings
and shall make a report to the City Council of all meetings and activities of
the Fire Department.
(Prior Code, § 3-303)
§ 34.04  RECORDS.
   The Fire Chief shall keep or cause to be kept a record of all meetings of
the Fire Department, the attendance record of all members and a record of all
fires and shall make a full report of these records to the City Clerk during
the last week in April each year. The record of any fire shall include the
cause, origin, circumstances, property involved and whether criminal conduct
may have been involved. In the event of sizable property damage, the Fire Chief
shall include the information of whether the losses were covered by insurance
and, if so, in what amount. All records shall be available to the public at any
reasonable time.
§ 34.05  FIRES.
   It shall be the duty of the Fire Department to use all proper means for the
extinguishment of fires, to protect property within the city and to secure the
observance of all ordinances, laws and other rules and regulations with respect
to fires and fire prevention.
(Prior Code, § 3-304)
§ 34.06  DISTANT FIRES.
   (A)   Upon the permission of the Mayor or Fire Chief, or pursuant to any
agreement with a fire district for mutual aid protection, such fire equipment
of the city as may be designated by the City Council as rural equipment may be
used beyond the corporate limits to extinguish reported fires.
(Prior Code, § 3-305)
   (B)   The firefighters of the city shall be considered as acting in the
performance and within the scope of their duties in fighting fire or saving
property or life outside the corporate limits of the city when directed to do
so by the City Council or the Fire Chief or some person authorized to act for
the Chief and, in so doing, may take such fire equipment of the city as may be
designated by the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 3-306)
§ 34.07  INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   The Fire Chief, where a Fire Department, is established or the Mayor
where no Fire Department exists, at all reasonable hours, may enter into all
buildings and upon all premises within his or her jurisdiction for the purposes
of examination, in harmony with Neb. RS 81-501.01 to 81-531, the state’s
Natural Gas Pipeline Safety Act of 1969, the Petroleum Products and Hazardous
Substances Storage and Handling Act and any other statutory duties imposed upon
the state’s Fire Marshal.
(Neb. RS 81-512)
   (B)   It shall be the duty of the Fire Chief, when directed to do so by the
City Council, to inspect or cause to be inspected by Fire Department officers,
members or some other official as often as may be necessary, but not less than
two times a year, all buildings, premises and public thoroughfares, except the
interiors of private dwellings, for the purpose of ascertaining and causing to
be corrected any conditions liable to create a fire hazard. The inspection
shall be of the storage, sale and use of flammable liquids, combustibles and
explosives; electric wiring and heating; the means and adequacy of exits, in
case of fire in schools, churches, hotels, halls, theaters, factories,
hospitals and all other buildings in which numbers of persons congregate from
time to time for any purpose whether publicly or privately owned; the design,
construction, location, installation and operation of equipment for storing,
handling and utilizing liquefied petroleum gases, specifying the odorization of
such gases and the degree thereof; and chemicals, prozylin plastics,
nitrocellulose films or any other hazardous material that may now or hereafter
exist.
§ 34.08  NOTICE OF VIOLATION.
   (A)   Upon the finding that the city code has been violated, the Fire Chief
shall notify, or cause to be notified, the owner, occupant or manager of the
premise where a violation has occurred. Notice may be made personally or by
delivering a copy to the premises and affixing it to the door of the main
entrance of the premises. Whenever it may be necessary to serve such an order
upon the owner, the order may be served personally, or by mailing a copy to the
owner’s last known post office address if the owner is absent from the
jurisdiction.
   (B)   Any such order shall be immediately complied with by the owner,
occupant or manager of the premise or building. The owner, occupant or manager
may, within five days after the order by the Fire Chief or his or her agent,
appeal the order with the City Council requesting a review, and it shall be the
duty of the City Council to hear the same within not less than five days, nor
more than ten days, from the time when the request was filed in writing with
the City Clerk. The City Council shall then affirm, modify or rescind the order
as safety and justice may require, and the decision shall then be final,
subject only to any remedy which the aggrieved person may have at law or
equity. The order shall be modified or rescinded only where it is evident that
reasonable safety exists and that conditions necessitate a variance due to the
probable hardship in complying literally with the order of the Fire Chief. A
copy of any decision so made shall be sent to both the Fire Chief and the
owner, occupant or manager making the appeal.
§ 34.09  POWER OF ARREST.
   The Fire Chief or the Assistant Fire Chief shall have the power, during the
time of a fire and for a period of 36 hours after its extinguishment, to arrest
any suspected arsonist or other person hindering or resisting the fire fighting
effort, or any person who conducts himself or herself in a noisy or disorderly
manner. The officials shall be severally vested with the usual powers and
authority of city police officers to command all persons to assist them in the
performance of their duties.
(Prior Code, § 3-310)
§ 34.10  FIRE INVESTIGATION.
   The Fire Chief shall investigate or cause to be investigated the cause,
origin and circumstances of every fire occurring in the city by which property
has been destroyed or damaged. All fires of unknown origin shall be reported,
and such officer shall especially make an investigation and report as to
whether the fire was the result of carelessness, accident or design. The
investigation shall begin immediately after of the occurrence of the fire and
the state’s Fire Marshal shall have the right to supervise and direct the
investigation, whenever he or she deems it expedient or necessary. The officer
making the investigation of fires occurring in the city shall forthwith notify
the state’s Fire Marshal and shall within one week of the occurrence of the
fire furnish him or her written statement of all the facts relating to the
cause and origin of the fire and such further information as he or she may call
for.
(Neb. RS 81-506)  (Prior Code, § 3-311)
POLICE DEPARTMENT
§ 34.25  DUTIES.
   (A)   If the Mayor and City Council have provided for the appointment of a
Police Chief, the Police Department shall consist of the Chief of Police and
such further number of regular police officers as may be duly ordered by
resolution of the Council.
   (B)   The Chief of Police shall, subject to the direction of the Mayor, have
control and management of all matters relating to the Police Department and its
officers and members and shall have the custody and control of all property and
books belonging to the Department. The Chief shall devote his or her whole time
to the city affairs and interests of the city and to the preservation of peace,
order, safety and cleanliness thereof.
   (C)   The Department shall execute and enforce all laws and also the orders
of the Mayor. It shall be the duty of the Department to protect the rights of
persons and property. The Department shall take notice of all nuisances,
impediments, obstructions, and defects in the streets, avenues, alleys,
business places and residences of the city. The Department shall execute, or
cause to be executed, the processes issued and shall cause all persons arrested
to be brought before the proper court for trial as speedily as possible. The
Chief of Police and all regular and special police officers shall become
thoroughly conversant with the laws of the city and shall see that the same are
strictly enforced and shall make sworn complaints against any person or persons
for violation of the same. It shall be the duty of every city police officer
making a lawful arrest to search all persons in the presence of some other
person, whenever possible, and to carefully keep and produce to the proper
judicial official upon the trial everything found upon the person of such
prisoners. All personal effects so taken from prisoners shall be restored to
them upon their release. The Police Chief and other police officers shall file
such reports as may be required by the city ordinances and the laws of the
state. No law enforcement official shall have any interest in any establishment
having a liquor license.
   (D)   Suitable badges shall be furnished to the city police by the city. Any
police officer who loses or destroys the same shall be required to pay the
replacement costs. If a police officer leaves the city police force, he or she
shall immediately deliver his or her badge to the Police Chief.
   (E)   City police officers shall have full power and authority to call on
any person whenever necessary to assist them in performing public duties, and
failure, neglect or refusal to render such assistance shall be deemed an
offense.
(Prior Code, § 3-401)  Penalty, see §
10.99
Cross-reference:
   Refusing to aid a police officer, see §
131.037
§ 34.26  RESERVE OFFICER BOND.
   No appointment of a law enforcement reserve officer shall be valid until a
bond in the amount of $2,000, payable to the city, has been filed with the City
Clerk by the individual appointed or a blanket surety bond arranged and paid
for by the City Council and bonding all such officers of the City Council has
been filed. These bonds shall be subject to the provisions of Neb. RS Ch. 11,
Art. 1.
(Neb. RS 81-1444)
§ 34.27  ARREST AND ENFORCEMENT JURISDICTION.
   (A)   Every municipal law enforcement officer shall have the power and
authority to enforce the laws of the state and the municipality or otherwise
perform the functions of that office anywhere within his or her primary
jurisdiction. PRIMARY JURISDICTION shall mean the geographic area within
territorial limits of the municipality.
   (B)   Any municipal law enforcement officer who is within the state, but
beyond the territorial limits of his or her primary jurisdiction, shall have
the power and authority to enforce the laws of the state or any legal ordinance
of any city or incorporated village or otherwise perform the functions of his
or her office, including the authority to arrest and detain suspects, as if
enforcing the laws or performing the functions within the territorial limits of
his or her primary jurisdiction in the following cases:
      (1)   Any municipal law enforcement officer, if in a fresh attempt to
apprehend a person suspected of committing a felony, may follow such person
into any other jurisdiction in the state and there arrest and detain such
person and return such person to the officer’s primary jurisdiction;
      (2)   Any municipal law enforcement officer, if in a fresh attempt to
apprehend a person suspected of committing a misdemeanor or a traffic
infraction, may follow such person anywhere in an area within 25 miles of the
boundaries of the officer’s primary jurisdiction and there arrest and detain
such person and return such person to the officer’s primary jurisdiction;
      (3)   Any municipal law enforcement officer shall have such enforcement
and arrest and detention authority when responding to a call in which a local,
state or federal law enforcement officer is in need of assistance. A LAW
ENFORCEMENT OFFICER IN NEED OF ASSISTANCE shall mean:
         (a)   A law enforcement officer whose life is in danger; or
         (b)   A law enforcement officer who needs assistance in making an
arrest and the suspect:
            1.   Will not be apprehended unless immediately arrested;
            2.   May cause injury to himself or herself or others or damage to
property unless immediately arrested; or
            3.   May destroy or conceal evidence of the commission of a crime.
      (4)   If the municipality, under the provisions of the Interlocal
Cooperation Act, being Neb. RS 13-801 through 13-827, enters into a contract
with any other municipality or county for law enforcement services or joint law
enforcement services, law enforcement personnel may have such enforcement
authority within the jurisdiction of each of the participating political
subdivisions if provided for in the agreement. Unless otherwise provided in the
agreement, the municipality shall provide liability insurance coverage for its
own law enforcement personnel as provided in Neb. RS 13-1802.
   (C)   If municipal law enforcement personnel are rendering aid in their law
enforcement capacity outside the limits of the municipality in the event of
disaster, emergency or civil defense emergency or in connection with any
program of practice or training for such disaster, emergency or civil defense
emergency when such program is conducted or participated in by the state’s
Emergency Management Agency or with any other related training program, the law
enforcement personnel shall have the power and authority to enforce the laws of
the state or any legal ordinances or resolutions of the local government where
they are rendering aid or otherwise perform the functions of their office,
including the authority to arrest and detain suspects, as if enforcing the laws
or performing the functions within the territorial limits of their primary
jurisdiction. The municipality shall self-insure or contract for insurance
against any liability for personal injuries or property damage that may be
incurred by it or by its personnel as the result of any movement of its
personnel outside the limits of the municipality pursuant to this division (C).
(Prior Code, § 3-402)  (Ord. 5-95, passed 2-6-1995; Ord. 98-25, passed 10-5-
1998)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 29-215, 81-829.65
§ 34.28  OFFICERS; DISCIPLINE OR REMOVAL FROM DUTY.
   (A)   No police officer, including the Chief of Police, shall be
disciplined, suspended, demoted, removed or discharged, except upon written
notice stating the reasons for such disciplinary action,  suspension, demotion
removal or discharge. Such notice shall also contain a statement informing the
police officer of his or her right to a hearing before the City Council.
   (B)   Any police officer so disciplined, suspended, demoted, removed or
discharged may, within ten days after being notified by of such disciplinary
action, suspension, demotion, removal or discharge, file with the Municipal
Clerk a written demand for a hearing before the City Council. The City Council
shall set the matter for hearing not less than ten, nor more than 20, days
after the filing of the written demand for a hearing. The City Council shall
give the police officer written notice of the hearing not less than seven, nor
more than 14, days prior to the hearing.
   (C)   At the hearing, the police officer shall have the right to:
      (1)   Respond in person to the charges and to present witnesses and
documentary evidence;
      (2)   Confront and cross-examine available adverse witnesses; and
      (3)   To be represented by counsel.
   (D)   Not later than 30 days following the adjournment of the meeting at
which the hearing was held, the City Council shall vote to uphold, reverse or
modify the disciplinary action, suspension, demotion, removal or discharge. The
failure of the City Council to act within 30 days or the failure of a majority
of the elected Council members to vote to reverse or modify the disciplinary
action, suspension, demotion, removal or discharge shall be construed as a vote
to uphold the disciplinary action, suspension, demotion, removal or discharge.
The decision of the City Council shall be based upon its determination that,
under the facts and evidence presented at the hearing, the challenged
disciplinary action, suspension, demotion, removal or discharge was necessary
for the proper management and the effective operation of the Police Department
in the performance of its duties under the state statutes.
   (E)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to prevent the preemptory
suspension or immediate removal from duty of an officer, pending the hearing
authorized by this section, in cases of gross misconduct, neglect of duty or
disobedience of orders.
(Prior Code, § 3-403)  (Ord. 26-95, passed 12-4-1995)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-107
CHAPTER 35:  FINANCE AND REVENUE; TAXATION
Section
General Provisions
   
35.01   Definitions
   
35.02   Annual audit; financial statements
   
35.03   Contracts and purchases; bidding and other requirements
   
35.04   Orders or warrants for money; contracts; expenditures; requirements
   
35.05   Claims and accounts payable
   
35.06   Collection of special assessments; procedure
   
35.07   Special assessment fund
   
35.08   Sinking funds; gifts of money or property
   
35.09   Deposit of funds
   
35.10   Certificates of deposit; time deposits; conditions
   
35.11   Investment and use of surplus funds
   
35.12   Bond issues
   
35.13   Debt collection; authority to contract with collection agency
   
35.14   Credit cards; authority to accept
Annual Budget
   
35.25   Fiscal year
   
35.26   Budget procedures
   
35.27   Expenditures prior to adoption of budget
   
35.28   Proposed budget statement; contents; availability; correction
   
35.29   Proposed budget statement; hearing; adoption; certification of tax
amount
   
35.30   Adopted budget statement; filing; certification of tax amount
   
35.31   Appropriation bill
   
35.32   General Fund
   
35.33   Transfer of funds
   
35.34   Budget revision
   
35.35   Proprietary functions; fiscal year; budget statements; filing; hearing;
adoption; reconciliation
Tax Levies
   
35.45   Property tax levy for general revenue purposes
   
35.46   Levies for other taxes and special assessments
   
35.47   All-purpose levy; extraordinary levies; allocation; abandonment
   
35.48   Property tax levy; maximum; authority to exceed
   
35.49   Property tax levy; certification of amount; collection
   
35.50   Property tax request; procedure for setting
   
35.51   Motor vehicle fee
   
35.52   Sales and use tax
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 35.01  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BIENNIAL BUDGET. A budget by the city that provides for a biennial period to
determine and carry on the city’s financial and taxing affairs.
   BIENNIAL PERIOD. The two fiscal years comprising a biennium commencing in
odd-numbered or even-numbered years used by the city in determining and
carrying on its financial and taxing affairs.
   PUBLIC FUNDS. All money, including non-tax money, used in the operation and
functions of governing bodies. If the city has a lottery established under the
state’s County and City Lottery Act, only those net proceeds which are actually
received by the city from a licensed lottery operator shall be considered
PUBLIC FUNDS and PUBLIC FUNDS shall not include amounts awarded as prizes.
(Neb. RS 13-503)
§ 35.02  ANNUAL AUDIT; FINANCIAL STATEMENTS.
   (A)   (1)   For the purpose of this division (A), the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
         ACCOUNTANT. A duly licensed public accountant or certified public
accountant who otherwise is not an employee of or connected in any way with the
city.
         ANNUAL AUDIT REPORT. The written report of the accountant and all
appended statements and schedules relating thereto presenting or recording the
findings of an examination or audit of the financial transactions, affairs or
financial condition of the city and its proprietary functions for the fiscal
year immediately prior to the making of the annual report.
         FISCAL YEAR. The fiscal year for the city or the fiscal year
established in Neb. RS 18-2804 for a proprietary function if different than the
city fiscal year.
(Neb. RS 19-2902)
      (2)   The City Council shall cause an audit of the city’s accounts to be
made by a recognized independent and qualified accountant as expeditiously as
possible following the close of the fiscal year and to cover all financial
transactions and affairs of the city for that preceding fiscal year. The audit
shall be made on a cash or accrual method at the discretion of the City
Council. The audit shall be completed and the annual audit report made by the
accountant shall be submitted within six months after the close of the fiscal
year in any event, unless an extension of time is granted by a written
resolution adopted by the City Council. If the city owns or operates any type
of public utility or other enterprise which substantially generates its own
revenue, that phase of the affairs of the city shall be audited separately from
other functions of the city and the result shall appear separately in the
annual audit report made by the accountant to the city and such audit shall be
on an accrual basis and shall contain statements and materials which conform to
generally accepted accounting principles. For the utilities operated through
the Board of Public Works, the City Council may provide for an entirely
separate audit, on an accrual basis, of such operations and report and by a
different accountant than the one making the general audit.
(Neb. RS 19-2903)
      (3)   The annual audit report shall set forth, insofar as possible, the
financial position and results of financial operations for each fund or group
of accounts of the city. When the accrual method is selected for the annual
audit report, the report shall be in accordance with generally accepted
accounting principles. The annual audit report shall also include the
professional opinion of the accountant with respect to the financial statements
or, if an opinion cannot be expressed, a declaration that the accountant is
unable to express such an opinion with an explanation of the reasons why he or
she cannot do so.
(Neb. RS 19-2904)
      (4)   At least three copies of such annual audit report shall be properly
signed and attested by the accountant; two copies shall be filed with the City
Clerk, and one copy shall be filed with the Auditor of Public Accounts. The
annual audit report filed, together with any accompanying comment or
explanation, shall become a part of the public records of the City Clerk and
shall at all times thereafter be open and subject to public inspection.
(Neb. RS 19-2905)
   (B)   The City Council shall provide and file with the City Clerk, not later
than August 1 of each year, financial statements showing the city’s actual and
budgeted figures for the most recently completed fiscal year.
(Neb. RS 13-606)  (Prior Code, § 1-815)
Statutory reference:
   Other provisions on audits, Neb. RS 19-2906 through 19-2909
§ 35.03  CONTRACTS AND PURCHASES; BIDDING AND OTHER REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Except as provided in Neb. RS 18-412.01 for a contract with a public
power district to operate, renew, replace or add to the electric distribution,
transmission or generation system of the city, no contract for enlargement or
general improvements, such as water extensions, sewers, public heating system,
bridges, work on streets or any other work or improvement when the cost of the
enlargement or improvement is assessed to the property, costing over $30,000,
shall be made unless it is first approved by the City Council.
   (B)   Except as provided in Neb. RS 18-412.01, before the City Council makes
any contract in excess of $30,000 for enlargement or general improvements, such
as water extensions, sewers, public heating system, bridges, work on streets or
any other work or improvement when the cost of the enlargement or improvement
is assessed to the property, an estimate of the cost shall be made by the City
Engineer and submitted to the City Council. In advertising for bids as provided
in divisions (C) and (E) below, the City Council may publish the amount of the
estimate.
   (C)   Advertisements for bids shall be required for any contract costing
over $30,000 entered into:
      (1)   For enlargement or general improvements, such as water extensions,
sewers, public heating system, bridges, work on streets or any other work or
improvement when the cost of the enlargement or improvement is assessed to the
property; or
      (2)   For the purchase of equipment used in the construction of the
enlargement or general improvements.
   (D)   A city electric utility may enter into a contract for the enlargement
or improvement of the electric system or for the purchase of equipment used for
the enlargement or improvement without advertising for bids if the price is:
      (1)   Thirty thousand dollars or less;
      (2)   Six thousand dollars or less and the city electric utility has
gross annual revenue from retail sales in excess of $1,000,000;
      (3)   Ninety thousand dollars or less and the city electric utility has
gross annual revenue from retail sales in excess of $5,000,000; or
      (4)   One hundred twenty thousand dollars or less and the city electric
utility has gross annual revenue from retail sales in excess of $10,000,000.
   (E)   The advertisement provided for in division (C) above shall be
published at least seven days prior to the bid closing in a legal newspaper in
or of general circulation in the city. In case of a public emergency resulting
from infectious or contagious diseases, destructive windstorms, floods, snow,
war or an exigency or pressing necessity or unforeseen need calling for
immediate action or remedy to prevent a serious loss of or serious injury or
damage to life, health or property, estimates of costs and advertising for bids
may be waived in the emergency ordinance authorized by Neb. RS 17-613 when
adopted by a three-fourths vote of the City Council and entered of record.
   (F)   If, after advertising for bids as provided in this section, the City
Council receives fewer than two bids on a contract or if the bids received by
the City Council contain a price which exceeds the estimated cost, the City
Council may negotiate a contract in an attempt to complete the proposed
enlargement or general improvements at a cost commensurate with the estimate
given.
   (G)   If the materials are of such a nature that, in the opinion of the
manufacturer and with the concurrence of the City Council or Board of Public
Works, no cost can be estimated until the materials have been manufactured or
assembled to the specific qualifications of the city, the City Council or Board
of Public Works may authorize the manufacture and assemblage of those materials
and may thereafter approve the estimated cost expenditure when it is provided
by the manufacturer.
(Neb. RS 17-568.01)
   (H)   Any city bidding procedure may be waived by the City Council or Board
of Public Works:
      (1)   When materials or equipment are purchased at the same price and
from the same seller as materials or equipment which have formerly been
obtained pursuant to the state bidding procedure in Neb. RS 81-145 through 81-
162;
      (2)   When the contract is negotiated directly with a sheltered workshop
pursuant to Neb. RS 48-1503; or
      (3)   When required to comply with any federal grant, loan or program.
(Neb. RS 17-568.02)
   (I)   (1)   Notwithstanding any other provisions of law or a home rule
charter, a city which has established, by an interlocal agreement with any
county, a joint purchasing division or agency may purchase personal property
without competitive bidding if the price for the property has been established
by the Federal General Services Administration or the material division of the
Department of Administrative Services.
      (2)   For the purpose of this division (I), the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
         PERSONAL PROPERTY. Includes, but is not limited to, supplies,
materials and equipment used by or furnished to any officer, office,
department, institution, board or other agency.
         PURCHASING or PURCHASE. The obtaining of personal property by sale,
lease or other contractual means.
(Neb. RS 18-1756)  (Prior Code, § 1-814)  (Ord. 10-3, passed - -2010)
Statutory reference:
   Requirements for public lettings, see Neb. RS 73-101 et seq.
§ 35.04  ORDERS OR WARRANTS FOR MONEY; CONTRACTS; EXPENDITURES; REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The Mayor and City Council shall have no power to appropriate, issue
or draw any order or warrant on the City Treasurer for money, unless the same
has been appropriated or ordered by ordinance, or the claim for the payment of
which such order or warrant is issued has been allowed according to the
provisions of §
35.05 of this chapter, and funds for the class or object out of which such
claim is payable have been included in the adopted budget statement or
transferred according to law.
(Neb. RS 17-708)
   (B)   No contract shall be hereafter made by the City Council, or any
committee or member, and no expense shall be incurred by any of the officers or
departments of the city, whether the object of the expenditures shall have been
ordered by the City Council or not, unless an appropriation shall have been
previously made concerning such expense, except as otherwise expressly provided
in division (A) above.
(Neb. RS 17-709)
   (C)   All warrants drawn upon the City Treasurer must be signed by the Mayor
and countersigned by the City Clerk, stating the particular fund to which the
same is chargeable, the person to whom payable and for what particular object.
No money shall be otherwise paid than upon such warrants so drawn. Each warrant
shall specify the amount included in the adopted budget statement for such fund
upon which it is drawn and the amount already expended of such fund.
(Neb. RS 17-711)
§ 35.05  CLAIMS AND ACCOUNTS PAYABLE.
   (A)   (1)   All liquidated and unliquidated claims and accounts payable
against the city shall:
         (a)   Be presented in writing;
         (b)   State the name and address of the claimant and the amount of the
claim; and
         (c)   Fully and accurately identify the items or services for which
payment is claimed or the time, place, nature and circumstances giving rise to
the claim.
      (2)   As a condition precedent to maintaining an action for a claim,
other than a tort claim as defined in Neb. RS 13-903, the claimant shall file
such claim within 90 days of the accrual of the claim in the office of the City
Clerk.
      (3)   The City Clerk shall notify the claimant or his or her agent or
attorney by letter mailed to the claimant’s address within five days if the
claim is disallowed by the City Council.
      (4)   No costs shall be recovered against the city in any action brought
against it for any claim or for any claim allowed in part which has not been
presented to the City Council to be audited, unless the recovery is for a
greater sum than the amount allowed with the interest due.
(Neb. RS 17-714)
   (B)   Upon the allowance of claims by the City Council, the order for their
payment shall specify the particular fund or appropriation out of which they
are payable as specified in the adopted budget statement; and no order or
warrant shall be drawn in excess of 85% of the current levy for the purpose for
which it is drawn, unless there is sufficient money in the treasury at the
credit of the proper fund for its payment; provided that, if there exists at
the time such warrant is drawn, obligated funds from the federal government or
the state, or both from the federal government and the state, for the general
purpose or purposes of such warrant, then such warrant may be drawn in excess
of 85% of the current levy for the purpose for which it is drawn to the
additional extent of 100% of such obligated federal or state funds. No claim
shall be audited or allowed unless an order or warrant for the payment thereof
may legally be drawn.
(Neb. RS 17-715)  (Prior Code, § 1-816)
§ 35.06  COLLECTION OF SPECIAL ASSESSMENTS; PROCEDURE.
   (A)   The city shall have authority to collect the special assessments which
it levies and to perform all other necessary functions related thereto
including foreclosure.
   (B)   The City Council of any city collecting its own special assessments
shall direct that notice that special assessments are due shall be mailed or
otherwise delivered to the last known address of the person against whom those
special assessments are assessed or to the lending institution or other party
responsible for paying those special assessments. Failure to receive the notice
shall not relieve the taxpayer from any liability to pay the special
assessments and any interest or penalties accrued thereon.
   (C)   A city collecting its own assessments shall:
      (1)   File notice of the assessments and the amount of assessment being
levied for each lot or tract of land to the Register of Deeds; and
      (2)   File a release of assessment upon final payment of each assessment
with the Register of Deeds.
(Neb. RS 18-1216)
Statutory reference:
   Refunding erroneously paid special assessments, see Neb. RS 17-703
§ 35.07  SPECIAL ASSESSMENT FUND.
   All money received on special assessments shall be held by the City
Treasurer as a special fund to be applied to the payment of the improvement for
which the assessment was made, and this money shall be used for no other
purpose whatever, unless to reimburse the city for money expended for any such
improvement.
(Neb. RS 17-710)  (Prior Code, § 1-818)
§ 35.08  SINKING FUNDS; GIFTS OF MONEY OR PROPERTY.
   (A)   The city is hereby empowered to receive money or property by donation,
bequest, gift, devise or otherwise for the benefit of any one or more of the
public purposes for which sinking funds are established by this section, as
stipulated by the donor. Title to any money or property so donated shall vest
in the City Council, or in its successors in office, who shall become the
owners thereof in trust to the uses of the sinking fund or funds. In the event
of a donation of real estate, the City Council may manage such real estate as
in the case of real estate donated to the city for city library purposes under
the provisions of Neb. RS 51-215 and 51-216.
(Neb. RS 19-1301)
   (B)   The City Council, subject to all the limitations set forth in this
section, shall have the power to levy a tax of not to exceed $0.105 on each
$100 in any one year upon the taxable value of all the taxable property within
the city for a term of not to exceed ten years, in addition to the amount of
tax which may be annually levied for the purposes of the adopted budget
statement of the city, for the purpose of establishing a sinking fund for the
construction, purchase, improvement, extension, original equipment or repair,
not including maintenance, of any one or more of the following public
improvements, including acquisition of any land incident to the making thereof:
city libraries; city auditoriums or community houses for social or recreational
purposes; city halls; city public libraries, auditoriums or community houses in
a single building; city swimming pools; city jails; city fire stations,
together with firefighting equipment or apparatus; city parks; city cemeteries;
city medical buildings, together with furnishings and equipment; or city
hospitals. The city shall not be authorized to levy the tax or to establish the
sinking fund as provided in this division (B) if, having bonded indebtedness,
such city has been in default in the payment of interest thereon or principal
thereof for a period of ten years prior to the date of the passage of the
resolution providing for the submission of the proposition for establishment of
the sinking fund as required in division (C) below.
(Neb. RS 19-1302)
   (C)   Before any sinking fund or funds are established or before any annual
tax is levied for any such planned city improvements mentioned in division (B)
above by the city, the City Council shall declare its purpose by resolution to
submit to the qualified electors of the city at the next general city election
the proposition to provide the city with the specific city improvement planned
under this section. The resolution of submission shall, among other things, set
forth a clear description of the improvement planned, the estimated cost
according to the prevailing costs, the amount of annual levy over a definite
period of years, not exceeding ten years, required to provide such cost and the
specific name or designation for the sinking fund sought to be established to
carry out the planned improvement, together with a statement of the proposition
for placement upon the ballot at the election. Notice of the submission of the
proposition, together with a copy of the official ballot containing the
proposition, shall be published in its entirety three successive weeks before
the day of the election in a legal newspaper in or of general circulation in
the city or, if no legal newspaper is in or of general circulation in the city,
in a legal newspaper in or of general circulation in the county in which the
city is located. No such sinking fund shall be established unless the same has
been authorized by a majority or more of the legal votes of the city cast for
or against the proposition. If less than a majority of the legal votes favor
the establishment of the sinking fund, the planned improvement shall not be
made, no annual tax shall be levied therefor, and no sinking fund or sinking
funds shall be established in connection therewith, but such resolution of
submission shall immediately be repealed. If the proposition shall carry at
such election in the manner prescribed in this division, the City Council and
its successors in office shall proceed to do all things authorized under such
resolution of submission but never inconsistent with this section. The election
provided for under this section shall be conducted as provided under the
Election Act.
(Neb. RS 19-1303)
   (D)   (1)   All funds received by the City Treasurer, by donation or by tax
levy, as hereinbefore provided, shall, as they accumulate, be immediately
invested by the Treasurer, with the written approval of the City Council, in
the manner provided in §
35.11 of this chapter. Whenever investments of such sinking fund or funds are
made, as aforesaid, the nature and character of the same shall be reported to
the City Council, and the investment report shall be made a matter of record by
the City Clerk in the proceedings of the City Council. The sinking fund, or
sinking funds, accumulated under the provisions of this section, shall
constitute a special fund, or funds, for the purpose or purposes for which the
same was authorized and shall not be used for any other purpose unless
authorized by 60% of the qualified electors of the city voting at a general
election favoring such change in the use of the sinking fund or sinking funds.
      (2)   The question of the change in the use of the sinking fund or
sinking funds, when it fails to carry, shall not be resubmitted in substance
for a period of one year from and after the date of such election.
(Neb. RS 19-1304)  (Prior Code, § 1-819)
Statutory reference:
   Additional levy limitations, see Neb. RS 17-702
   Investment in warrants, see Neb. RS 77-2337
§ 35.09  DEPOSIT OF FUNDS.
   (A)   (1)   The City Treasurer shall deposit, and at all times keep on
deposit, for safekeeping, in banks, capital stock financial institutions, or
qualifying mutual financial institutions of approved and responsible standing,
all money collected, received or held by him or her as City Treasurer. These
deposits shall be subject to all regulations imposed by law or adopted by the
City Council for the receiving and holding thereof. The fact that a
stockholder, director or other officer of the bank, capital stock financial
institution, or qualifying mutual financial institution is also serving as
Mayor, a member of the City Council, as a member of the Board of Public Works,
or as any other officer of the city shall not disqualify the bank, capital
stock financial institution, or qualifying mutual financial institution from
acting as a depository for the city funds.
      (2)   The City Council shall require from all banks, capital stock
financial institutions, or qualifying mutual financial institutions a bond in
such penal sum as may be the maximum amount on deposit at any time less the
amount insured or guaranteed by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation or,
in lieu thereof, security given as provided in the Public Funds Deposit
Security Act, to secure the payment of all such deposits and accretions. The
City Council shall approve this bond or giving of security. The City Treasurer
shall not be liable for any loss of any money sustained by reason of the
failure of any such depository so designated and approved.
(Neb. RS 17-607)
   (B)   The insurance afforded to depositors in banks, capital stock financial
institutions, or qualifying mutual financial institutions through the Federal
Deposit Insurance Corporation shall be deemed and construed to be a surety bond
or bonds to the extent that the deposits are insured or guaranteed by that
corporation, and for deposits so insured or guaranteed, no other surety bond or
bonds or other security shall be required.
(Neb. RS 77-2362)
   (C)   Neb. RS 77-2366 shall apply to deposits in capital stock financial
institutions. Neb. RS 77-2365.01 shall apply to deposits in qualifying mutual
financial institutions.
(Neb. RS 17-607 and 77-2362)  (Prior Code, § 1-820)
Statutory reference:
   Other provisions on deposits of public funds, see Neb. RS 77-2363 and 77-
2364
   Public Funds Deposit Security Act, see Neb. RS 77-2386
§ 35.10  CERTIFICATES OF DEPOSIT; TIME DEPOSITS; CONDITIONS.
   (A)   The Municipal Treasurer may, upon resolution of the Mayor and City
Council authorizing the same, purchase certificates of deposit from and make
time deposits in any bank or capital stock financial institution in the state
to the extent that such certificates of deposit or time deposits are insured by
the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation. Deposits may be made in excess of
the amounts so secured by the corporation, and the amount of the excess deposit
shall be secured by a bond or by security given in the manner provided in this
section. The provisions of Neb. RS 77-2366 shall apply to deposits in capital
stock financial institutions.
   (B)   (1)   For the security of the fund so deposited, the Municipal
Treasurer shall require each depository to give bond for the safekeeping and
payment of such deposits and the accretions thereof, which bond shall run to
the municipality and be approved by the Mayor. The bond shall be conditioned
that such a depository shall, at the end of every quarter, render to the
Treasurer a statement in duplicate, showing the several daily balances, the
amount of money of the municipality held by it during the quarter, the amount
of the accretion thereto and how credited. The bond shall also be conditioned
that the depository shall generally do and perform whatever may be required by
the provisions of this section and all regulations imposed by law or adopted by
the governing body for the receiving and holding thereof and shall faithfully
discharge the trust reposed in the depository. The bond shall be as nearly as
practicable in the form provided in Neb. RS 77-2304. No person in any way
connected with any depository as an officer or stockholder shall be accepted as
a surety on any bond given by the depository of which he or she is an officer
or stockholder.
      (2)   The bond shall be deposited with the Municipal Clerk.
   (C)   In lieu of the bond required by division (B) above, any bank or
capital stock financial institution making application to become a depository
may give security as provided in the Public Funds Deposit Security Act, being
Neb. RS 77-2386 through 77-23,108, to the Municipal Clerk. The penal sum of
such bond shall be equal to or greater than the amount of the deposit in excess
of that portion of such deposit insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance
Corporation.
   (D)   (1)   The Treasurer shall not have on deposit in any bank or capital
stock financial institution at any time more than the amount insured by the
Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, plus the maximum amount of the bond
given by the bank or capital stock financial institution if the bank or capital
stock financial institution gives a surety bond, nor in any bank or capital
stock financial institution giving a personal bond, more than the amount
insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, plus one-half of the
amount of the bond of such bank or capital stock financial institution, and the
amount so on deposit any time with any such bank or capital stock financial
institution shall not in either case exceed the amount insured by the Federal
Deposit Insurance Corporation plus the paid-up capital stock and surplus of
such bank or capital stock financial institution.
      (2)   The Treasurer shall not be liable for any loss sustained by reason
of the failure of any such bonded depository whose bond has been duly approved
by the Mayor as provided in division (B) above or which has, in lieu of a
surety bond, given security as provided in division (C) above.
(Prior Code, § 1-820.1)  (Ord. 98-20, passed 10-5-1998)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-720, 16-714 through 16-716
§ 35.11  INVESTMENT AND USE OF SURPLUS FUNDS.
   (A)   When the City Treasurer holds funds of the city in excess of the
amount required for maintenance or set aside for betterments and improvements,
the Mayor and City Council may, by resolution, direct and authorize the
Treasurer to invest the surplus funds in the outstanding bonds or registered
warrants of the city, bonds and debentures issued either singly or collectively
by any of the 12 federal land banks, the 12 intermediate credit banks or the 13
banks for cooperatives under the supervision of the Farm Credit Administration,
or in interest-bearing bonds or the obligations of the United States. The
interest on such bonds or warrants shall be credited to the fund out of which
the bonds or warrants were purchased.
(Neb. RS 17-608)
   (B)   All income received by the city from public utilities and from the
payment and collection of water taxes, rents, rates or assessments shall be
applied to the payment of running expenses, interest on bonds or money borrowed
and the erection and construction of public utilities; should there be any
surplus, it shall be annually created into a sinking fund for the payment of
public utility bonds or for the improvements of the works, or into the general
fund as the Council may direct. The surplus remaining, if any, may, if the
Council, be invested in interest-bearing bonds or obligations of the United
States.
(Neb. RS 17-540)
   (C)   The Mayor and City Council may, by resolution, direct and authorize
the Treasurer to dispose of the surplus electric light, water or gas funds, or
the funds arising from the sale of electric light, water or natural gas
distribution properties, by the payment of outstanding electric light, water or
gas distribution bonds or water warrants then due. The excess, if any, after
such payments, may be transferred to the General Fund of the city.
(Neb. RS 17-609)
   (D)   Any surplus funds arising out of the operation of any system of
waterworks, power plant, ice plant, gas plant, sewerage, heating or lighting
plant or distribution system by the Board of Public Works, or by the City
Council, where any of such utilities are not being operated by such a Board,
may be invested, if not invested pursuant to the provisions of any other law
upon the subject, in like manner and subject to the same conditions as the
investment of similar funds of cities of the first class, as provided in Neb.
RS 16-691.01.
(Neb. RS 17-803)
   (E)   (1)   Whenever the city has accumulated a surplus of any fund in
excess of its current needs or has accumulated a sinking fund for the payment
of its bonds and the money in such sinking fund exceeds the amount necessary to
pay the principal and interest of any such bonds which become due during the
current year, the City Council may invest any such surplus in excess of current
needs or such excess in its sinking fund in certificates of deposit, in time
deposits, and in any securities in which the State Investment Officer is
authorized to invest pursuant to the state’s Capital Expansion Act and the
state’s Funds Investment Act and as provided in the authorized investment
guidelines of the state’s Investment Council in effect on the date the
investment is made. The state’s Investment Officer shall upon request furnish a
copy of current authorized investment guidelines of the state’s Investment
Council.
      (2)   Nothing in division (E)(1) above shall be construed to authorize
investments in venture capital.
(Neb. RS 77-2341)  (Prior Code, § 1-821)
§ 35.12  BOND ISSUES.
   The City Council may, after meeting all the requirements of state law, issue
bonds, fund bonds and retire bonds for such purposes as may be permitted by
state law. The City Council shall have the authority to levy special
assessments for the payment of interest and principal on these bonds and may
spread the payments up to the maximum number of years permitted by state law.
(Prior Code, § 1-822)
Statutory reference:
   Bonds in general, see Neb. RS 18-1801 through 18-1805
   Funding and refunding bonds, see Neb. RS 10-606 through 10-612
   General provisions, see Neb. RS 10-101 through 10-145
§ 35.13  DEBT COLLECTION; AUTHORITY TO CONTRACT WITH COLLECTION AGENCY.
   (A)   The city may contract to retain a collection agency licensed pursuant
to Neb. RS 45-601 through 45-622, within or without the state, for the purpose
of collecting public debts owed by any person to the city.
   (B)   No debt owed pursuant to division (A) above may be assigned to a
collection agency unless:
      (1)   There has been an attempt to advise the debtor by first-class mail,
postage prepaid, at the last known address of the debtor:
         (a)   Of the existence of the debt; and
         (b)   That the debt may be assigned to a collection agency for
collection if the debt is not paid.
      (2)   At least 30 days have elapsed from the time the notice was sent.
   (C)   A collection agency which is assigned a debt under this section shall
have only those remedies and powers which would be available to it as an
assignee of a private creditor.
   (D)   For purposes of this section, debt shall include all delinquent fees
or payments except delinquent property taxes on real estate. In the case of
debt arising as a result of an order or judgment of a court in a criminal or
traffic matter, a collection fee may be added to the debt. The collection fee
shall be $25 or 4.5% of the debt, whichever is greater. The collection fee
shall be paid by the person who owes the debt directly to the person or agency
providing the collection service.
(Neb. RS 45-623)
§ 35.14  CREDIT CARDS; AUTHORITY TO ACCEPT.
   (A)   If authorized by the City Council, any city official may accept credit
cards, charge cards or debit cards, whether presented in person or
electronically, or electronic funds transfers as a method of cash payment of
any tax, levy, excise, duty, custom, toll, interest, penalty, fine, license,
fee or assessment of whatever kind or nature, whether general or special, as
provided by Neb. RS 77-1702.
   (B)   The total amount of the taxes, levies, excises, duties, customs,
tolls, interest, penalties, fines, licenses, fees or assessments of whatever
kind or nature, whether general or special, paid for by credit card, charge
card, debit card or electronic funds transfer shall be collected by the city
official.
   (C)   With respect to a facility which it operates in a proprietary
capacity, the City Council may choose to accept credit cards, charge cards or
debit cards, whether presented in person or electronically, or electronic funds
transfers as a means of cash payment and may adjust the price for services to
reflect the handling and payment costs.
   (D)   The city official shall obtain, for each transaction, authorization
for use of any credit card, charge card or debit card used pursuant to this
section from the financial institution, vending service company, credit card or
charge card company or third-party merchant bank providing that service.   
   (E)   The types of credit cards, charge cards or debit cards accepted and
the payment services provided shall be determined by the State Treasurer and
the Director of Administrative Services with the advice of a committee convened
by the State Treasurer and the Director. The committee shall consist of the
State Treasurer, the Tax Commissioner, the Director and representatives from
counties, cities and other political subdivisions as may be appropriate. The
committee shall develop recommendations for the contracting of such services.
The State Treasurer and the Director shall contract with one or more credit
card, charge card or debit card companies or third-party merchant banks for
services on behalf of the state and those counties, cities and political
subdivisions that choose to participate in the state contract for such
services. The State Treasurer and the Director shall consider, for purposes of
this section, any negotiated discount, processing or transaction fee imposed by
a credit card, charge card or debit card company or third-party merchant bank
as an administrative expense. If the City Council chooses not to participate in
the state contract, it may choose types of credit cards, charge cards and debit
cards and may negotiate and contract independently or collectively as a
governmental entity with one or more financial institutions, vending service
companies, credit card, charge card or debit card companies or third-party
merchant banks for the provision of these services.
   (F)   (1)   Subject to the direction of the City Council, a city official 
authorizing acceptance of credit card or charge card payments shall be
authorized, but not required to impose a surcharge or convenience fee upon the
person making a payment by credit card or charge card so as to wholly or
partially offset the amount of any discount or administrative fees charged to
the city, but the surcharge or convenience fee shall not exceed the surcharge
or convenience fee imposed by the credit card or charge card companies or
third-party merchant banks which have contracted under division (E) above. The
surcharge or convenience fee shall be applied only when allowed by the
operating rules and regulations of the credit card or charge card involved or
when authorized in writing by the credit card or charge card company involved.
      (2)   When a person elects to make a payment to the city by credit card
or charge card and such a surcharge or convenience fee is imposed, the payment
of the surcharge or convenience fee shall be deemed voluntary by that person
and shall be in no case refundable.
      (3)   If a payment is made electronically by credit card, charge card,
debit card or electronic funds transfer as part of a system for providing or
retrieving information electronically, the city official shall be authorized,
but not required to impose an additional surcharge or convenience fee upon the
person making a payment.
   (G)   For the purpose of this section, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      ELECTRONIC FUNDS TRANSFER. The movement of funds by non-paper means,
usually through a payment system, including, but not limited to, an automated
clearinghouse or the Federal Reserve’s Fedwire system.
(Neb. RS 13-609)  (Prior Code, § 1-826)  (Ord. 98-22, passed 10-5-1998)
ANNUAL BUDGET
§ 35.25  FISCAL YEAR.
   The fiscal year of the city and any public utility of the city commences on
October 1 and extends through the following September 30, except as provided in
the Municipal Proprietary Function Act.
(Neb. RS 17-701)  (Prior Code, § 1-801)
§ 35.26  BUDGET PROCEDURES.
   The budget instruction manual prepared by the Auditor of Public Accounts is
incorporated by reference for the purpose of proper budget preparation.
§ 35.27  EXPENDITURES PRIOR TO ADOPTION OF BUDGET.
   (A)   On and after the first day of its fiscal year in 1993 and of each
succeeding year or on or after the first day of its biennial period and until
the adoption of the budget by the City Council in September, the City Council
may expend any balance of cash on hand for the current expenses of the city.
Except as provided in division (B) below, these expenditures shall not exceed
an amount equivalent to the total amount expended under the last budget in the
equivalent period of the prior budget year or biennial period. These
expenditures shall be charged against the appropriations for each individual
fund or purpose as provided in the budget when adopted.
(Neb. RS 13-509.01)
   (B)   The restriction on expenditures in division (A) above may be exceeded
upon the express finding of the City Council that expenditures beyond the
amount authorized are necessary to enable the city to meet its statutory duties
and responsibilities. The finding and approval of the expenditures in excess of
the statutory authorization shall be adopted by the City Council in open public
session. Expenditures authorized by this section shall be charged against
appropriations for each individual fund or purpose as provided in the budget
when adopted, and nothing in this section shall be construed to authorize
expenditures by the city in excess of that authorized by any other statutory
provision.
(Neb. RS 13-509.02)
§ 35.28  PROPOSED BUDGET STATEMENT; CONTENTS; AVAILABILITY;
CORRECTION.
   (A)   The governing body shall prepare in writing and file with the
Municipal Clerk, not later than August 1 of each year on forms prescribed and
furnished by the Auditor of Public Accounts, a proposed budget statement
containing the following information, except as provided by state law:
      (1)   For the immediate two prior fiscal years, the revenue from all
sources, including motor vehicle taxes, other than revenue received from
personal and real property taxation, allocated to each of the several funds and
separately stated as to each such source, and for each fund: the unencumbered
cash balance of such fund at the beginning and end of the year; the amount
received by taxation of personal and real property allocated to each fund; and
the amount of actual expenditure for each fund;
      (2)   For the current fiscal year, actual and estimated revenue from all
sources, including motor vehicle taxes, allocated to each of the several funds
and separately stated as to each such source and for each fund: the actual
unencumbered cash balance available for such fund at the beginning of the year;
the amount received from personal and real property taxation allocated to each
fund; and the amount of actual and estimated expenditure, whichever is
applicable. Such statement shall contain the cash reserve for each such fund
for each fiscal year and shall note whether or not such reserve is encumbered.
Such cash reserve projections shall be based upon the actual experience of
prior years. The cash reserve  shall not exceed 50% of the total budget adopted
for such fund exclusive of capital outlay items;
      (3)   For the immediately ensuing fiscal year, an estimate of revenue
from all sources, including motor vehicle taxes, other than revenue to be
received from taxation of personal and real property, separately stated as to
each such source, to be allocated to each of the several funds, and for each
fund: The actual or estimated unencumbered cash balances, whichever is
applicable, to be available at the beginning of the year; the amounts proposed
to be expended during the year; and the amount of cash reserve, based on actual
experience of prior years, which cash reserve shall not exceed 50% of the total
budget adopted exclusive of capital outlay items;
      (4)   A statement setting out separately the amount sought to be raised
from the levy of a tax on the taxable value of real property:
         (a)   For the purpose of paying the principal or interest on bonds
issued by the governing body; and
         (b)   For all other purposes.
      (5)   A uniform summary of the proposed budget statement which shall
include a separate total for each fund, including each proprietary function
fund included in a separate proprietary budget statement prepared pursuant to
the Municipal Proprietary Function Act, being Neb. RS 18-2801 through 18-2808,
and a grand total of all funds maintained by the governing body; and
      (6)   A list of the proprietary functions which are not included in the
budget statement if a separate proprietary budget statement has been prepared
for such proprietary functions pursuant to the Municipal Proprietary Function
Act.
   (B)   The actual or estimated unencumbered cash balance of each fund
required to be included in the budget statement by this section shall include
deposits and investments of the municipality as well as any funds held by the
County Treasurer for the municipality and shall be accurately stated on the
proposed budget statement.
   (C)   The estimated expenditures plus the required cash reserve for the
ensuing fiscal year less all estimated and actual unencumbered balances at the
beginning of the year and less the estimated income from all sources, including
motor vehicle taxes, other than taxation of personal and real property, shall
equal the amount to be received from taxes, and such amount shall be shown on
the proposed budget statement filed pursuant to this section. The amount to be
raised from taxation of personal and real property, as determined above, plus
the estimated revenue from other sources, including motor vehicle taxes, and
the unencumbered balances shall equal the estimated expenditures, plus the
necessary required cash reserve, for the ensuing year.
(Prior Code, § 1-802)  (Ord. 3-94, passed 6-6-1994; Ord. 97-12, passed 9-8-
1997; Ord. 98-11, passed 10-5-1998)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 13-504, 13-505
§ 35.29  PROPOSED BUDGET STATEMENT; HEARING; ADOPTION; CERTIFICATION
OF TAX AMOUNT.
   (A)   After the filing of the proposed budget statement with the Municipal
Clerk, the governing body shall each year conduct a public hearing on the
proposed budget statement. Notice of the place and time of the hearing,
together with a summary of the proposed budget statement, shall be published at
least five days prior to the date set for the hearing in a newspaper of general
circulation within the municipality or by direct mailing of the notice to each
resident within the municipality.
   (B)   After the hearing, the proposed budget statement shall be adopted, or
amended and adopted as amended, and a written record shall be kept of such
hearing. The amount to be received from personal and real property taxation
shall be certified to the levying board after the proposed budget statement is
adopted, or is amended and adopted as amended. The certification of the amount
to be received from personal and real property taxation shall specify
separately:
      (1)   The amount to be applied to the payment of principal or interest on
bonds issued by the governing body; and
      (2)   The amount to be received for all other purposes.
   (C)   If the adopted budget statement reflects a change from that shown in
the published proposed budget statement, a summary of such changes shall be
published within 20 days after its adoption in the manner provided in this
section, but without provision for hearing, setting forth the items changed and
the reasons for such changes.
   (D)   When a levy increase has been authorized by vote of the electors, the
adopted budget statement shall indicate the amount of the levy increase.
(Prior Code, § 1-803)  (Ord. 98-12, passed 10-5-1998)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 13-506, 13-507
§ 35.30  ADOPTED BUDGET STATEMENT; FILING; CERTIFICATION OF TAX AMOUNT.
   (A)   (1)   After publication and hearing on the proposed budget statement
and within the time prescribed by law, the governing body shall file with and
certify to the levying board on or before September 20 of each year and file
with the Auditor of Public Accounts, a copy of the adopted budget statement,
together with the amount of the tax required to fund the adopted budget,
setting out separately:
         (a)   The amount to be levied for the payment of principal or interest
on bonds issued by the governing body; and
         (b)   The amount to be levied for all other purposes.
      (2)   Proof of publication shall be attached to the statements.
   (B)   The governing body, in certifying the amount required, may make
allowance for delinquent taxes not exceeding 5% of the amount required plus the
actual percentage of delinquent taxes for the preceding tax year and for the
amount of estimated tax loss from any pending or anticipated litigation which
involves taxation and in which tax collections have been or can be withheld or
escrowed by court order. For purposes of this section, anticipated litigation
shall be limited to the anticipation of an action being filed by a taxpayer who
or which filed a similar action for the preceding year which is still pending.
Except for such allowances, the governing body shall not certify an amount of
tax more than 1% greater or lesser than the amount determined in the proposed
budget statement.
   (C)   The governing body may designate one of its members to perform any
duty or responsibility required of such body by this section.
(Prior Code, § 1-804)  (Ord. 4-94, passed 6-6-1994; Ord. 24-95, passed 12-4-
1995; Ord. 97-13, passed 9-8-1997; Ord. 98-13, passed 10-5-1998)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 13-508
§ 35.31  APPROPRIATION BILL.
   The City Council shall adopt a budget statement pursuant to the state’s
Budget Act, to be termed, “The Annual Appropriation Bill”, in which the Council
may appropriate those sums of money as may be deemed necessary to defray all
necessary expenses and liabilities of the city.
(Neb. RS 17-706)  (Prior Code, § 1-806)
§ 35.32  GENERAL FUND.
   If the city has not decided to follow the all-purpose levy method of
financing for the fiscal year, all money not specifically appropriated in the
annual appropriation bill shall be deposited in and known as the General Fund.
§ 35.33  TRANSFER OF FUNDS.
   (A)   Whenever during the current fiscal year it becomes apparent to the
City Council that due to unforeseen emergencies there is temporarily
insufficient money in a particular fund to meet the requirements of the adopted
budget of expenditures for that fund, the Council may by a majority vote,
unless otherwise provided by state law, transfer money from other funds to such
fund.
   (B)   No expenditure during any fiscal year shall be made in excess of the
amounts indicated in the adopted budget statement, except as authorized in §
35.34 of this chapter or by state law.
   (C)   Any officer or officers of the City Council who obligate funds
contrary to the provisions of this section shall be guilty of an offense.
(Neb. RS 13-510)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 35.34  BUDGET REVISION.
   (A)   (1)   Unless otherwise provided by law, the City Council may propose
to revise the previously adopted budget statement and shall conduct a public
hearing on that proposal whenever, during the current fiscal year, it becomes
apparent to the City Council that:
         (a)   There are circumstances which could not reasonably have been
anticipated at the time the budget for the current year was adopted;
         (b)   The budget adopted violated Neb. RS 13-518 through 13-522, such
that the revenue of the current fiscal year for any fund thereof will be
insufficient, additional expenses will be necessarily incurred, or there is a
need to reduce the budget requirements to comply with Neb. RS 13-518 through
13-522; or
         (c)   The City Council has been notified by the Auditor of Public
Accounts of a mathematical or accounting error or non-compliance with the
state’s Budget Act.
      (2)   The public hearing requirement shall not apply to emergency
expenditures pursuant to Neb. RS 81-829.51.
   (B)   Notice of the time and place of the hearing shall be published at
least four calendar days prior to the date set for hearing in a newspaper of
general circulation within the Council’s jurisdiction. For purposes of such
notice, the four calendar days shall include the day of publication, but not
the day of hearing. This published notice shall set forth:
      (1)   The time and place of the hearing;
      (2)   The amount in dollars of additional or reduced money required and
for what purpose;
      (3)   A statement setting forth the nature of the unanticipated
circumstances and, if the budget requirements are to be increased, the reasons
why the previously adopted budget of expenditures cannot be reduced during the
remainder of the current year to meet the need for additional money in that
manner;
      (4)   A copy of the summary of the originally adopted budget previously
published; and
      (5)   A copy of the summary of the proposed revised budget.
   (C)   At the hearing, any taxpayer may appear or file a written statement
protesting any application for additional money. A written record shall be kept
of all such hearings.
   (D)   Upon conclusion of the public hearing on the proposed revised budget
and approval of the proposed revised budget by the City Council, the Council
shall file with the County Clerk of the county or counties in which the City
Council is located, and with the Auditor of Public Accounts, a copy of the
revised budget, as adopted. The City Council may then issue warrants in payment
for expenditures authorized by the adopted revised budget. These warrants shall
be referred to as registered warrants and shall be repaid during the next
fiscal year from funds derived from taxes levied therefor.
   (E)   Within 30 days after the adoption of the budget under §
35.29 of this chapter, the City Council may, or within 30 days after
notification of an error by the Auditor of Public Accounts, the Council shall
correct an adopted budget which contains a clerical, mathematical or accounting
error which does not affect the total amount budgeted by more than 1% or
increase the amount required from property taxes. No public hearing shall be
required for such a correction. After correction, the City Council shall file a
copy of the corrected budget with the County Clerk of the county or counties in
which the City Council is located and with the Auditor of Public Accounts. The
City Council may then issue warrants in payment for expenditures authorized by
the budget.
(Neb. RS 13-511)
§ 35.35  PROPRIETARY FUNCTIONS; FISCAL YEAR; BUDGET STATEMENTS; FILING;
HEARING; ADOPTION; RECONCILIATION.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      PROPRIETARY FUNCTION. A water supply or distribution utility, a
wastewater collection or treatment utility, an electric generation,
transmission or distribution utility, a gas supply, transmission or
distribution utility, an integrated solid waste management collection, disposal
or handling utility, or a hospital or a nursing home owned by the city.
(Neb. RS 18-2803)
      SUBSIDIZATION. The costs of operation of a proprietary function are
regularly financed by appropriations from the city’s General Fund in excess of
the amount paid by the city to the proprietary function for actual service or
services received.
(Neb. RS 18-2804)
   (B)   The City Council may establish a separate fiscal year for each
proprietary function; except that, any proprietary function which is subsidized
by appropriations from the city’s General Fund shall have the same fiscal year
as the city.
   (C)   (1)   At least 30 days prior to the start of the fiscal year of each
proprietary function, a proposed proprietary budget statement shall be prepared
in writing and filed with the City Clerk containing the following information:
         (a)   For the immediately preceding fiscal year, the revenue from all
sources, the unencumbered cash balance at the beginning and end of the year,
the amount received by taxation and the amount of actual expenditure;
         (b)   For the current fiscal year, actual and estimated revenue from
all sources separately stated as to each such source, the actual unencumbered
cash balance available at the beginning of the year, the amount received from
taxation and the amount of actual and estimated expenditure, whichever is
applicable;
         (c)   For the immediately ensuing fiscal year, an estimate of revenue
from all sources separately stated as to each such source, the actual or
estimated unencumbered cash balance, whichever is applicable, to be available
at the beginning of the year, the amounts proposed to be expended during the
fiscal year, and the amount of cash reserve based on actual experience of prior
years; and
         (d)   A uniform summary of the proposed budget statement which shall
include a total of all funds maintained for the proprietary function.
      (2)   The statement shall contain the estimated cash reserve for each
fiscal year and shall note whether or not the reserve is encumbered. The cash
reserve projections shall be based upon the actual experience of prior years.
      (3)   Each proprietary budget statement shall be filed on forms
prescribed and furnished by the Auditor of Public Accounts following
consultation with representatives of such governing bodies as operate
proprietary functions subject to the provisions of the Municipal Proprietary
Function Act.
(Neb. RS 18-2805)
   (D)   (1)   After a proposed proprietary budget statement is filed with the
City Clerk, the City Council shall conduct a public hearing on the statement.
Notice of the time and place of the hearing, a summary of the proposed
proprietary budget statement, and notice that the full proposed proprietary
budget statement is available for public review with the City Clerk during
normal business hours shall be published one time at least five days prior to
the hearing in a newspaper of general circulation within the City Council’s
jurisdiction or by mailing to each resident within the City Council’s
jurisdiction.
      (2)   After the hearing, the proposed proprietary budget statement shall
be adopted or amended and adopted as amended, and a written record shall be
kept of the hearing. If the adopted proprietary budget statement reflects a
change from the proposed proprietary statement presented at the hearing, a copy
of the adopted proprietary budget statement shall be filed with the City Clerk
within 20 days after its adoption and published in a newspaper of general
circulation within the City Council’s jurisdiction or by mailing to each
resident within the City Council’s jurisdiction.
(Neb. RS 18-2806)
   (E)   If the actual expenditures for a proprietary function exceed the
estimated expenditures in the proprietary budget statement during its fiscal
year, the City Council shall adopt a proprietary function reconciliation
statement within 90 days after the end of the fiscal year which reflects any
difference between the adopted proprietary budget statement for the previous
fiscal year and the actual expenditures and revenue for that fiscal year. After
the adoption of a proprietary function reconciliation statement, it shall be
filed with the City Clerk and published in a newspaper of general circulation
within the City Council’s jurisdiction or by mailing to each resident within
the City Council’s jurisdiction. If the difference between the adopted
proprietary budget for the previous fiscal year and the actual expenditures and
revenues for that fiscal year is greater than 10%, the proprietary function
reconciliation statement shall only be adopted following a public hearing.
(Neb. RS 18-2807)
   (F)   If the budget of a proprietary function is included in the city budget
statement created pursuant to the state’s Budget Act, the Municipal Proprietary
Function Act need not be followed for that proprietary function. Any income
from a proprietary function which is transferred to the general fund of the
city shall be shown as a source of revenue in the city budget statement created
pursuant to the state’s Budget Act.
(Neb. RS 18-2808)
TAX LEVIES
§ 35.45  PROPERTY TAX LEVY FOR GENERAL REVENUE PURPOSES.
   The city shall have power to levy taxes for general revenue purposes in any
one year not to exceed $0.35 on each $100 upon the taxable value of all the
taxable property in the city. The valuation of such property shall be
ascertained from the books or assessment rolls of the County Assessor.
(Neb. RS 17-506)
§ 35.46  LEVIES FOR OTHER TAXES AND SPECIAL ASSESSMENTS.
   The city shall have power to levy any other tax or special assessment
authorized by law.
(Neb. RS 17-507)
§ 35.47  ALL-PURPOSE LEVY; EXTRAORDINARY LEVIES; ALLOCATION; ABANDONMENT.
   (A)   The governing body has decided to certify to the County Clerk for
collection one all-purpose levy required to be raised by taxation for all
municipal purposes instead of certifying a schedule of levies for specific
purposes added together. Subject to the limits in Neb. RS 77-3442, the all-
purpose levy shall not exceed the annual levy specified in Neb. RS 19-1309 to
be levied upon the taxable valuation of all taxable property in the
municipality.
   (B)   The amount of the all-purpose levy shall be certified as a single
amount for General Fund purposes. The governing body shall allocate the amount
raised by the all-purpose levy to the several departments of the municipality
in its annual budget and appropriation ordinance, or in other legal manner, as
the governing body deems wisest and best.
   (C)   The municipality shall be bound by its election to follow the all-
purpose levy method during the ensuing fiscal year, but may abandon such method
in succeeding fiscal years.
   (D)   Otherwise, authorized extraordinary levies to service and pay bonded
indebtedness of the municipality may be made by the municipality in addition to
the all-purpose levy.
(Prior Code, § 1-807)  (Ord. 98-17, passed 10-5-1998)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 19-1309 through 19-1312
§ 35.48  PROPERTY TAX LEVY; MAXIMUM; AUTHORITY TO EXCEED.
   (A)   Property tax levies for the support of the city for fiscal years
beginning on or after 7-1-1998, shall be limited to the amounts set forth in
this division (A), except as provided in division (C) below. The city may levy
a maximum levy of $0.45 per $100 of taxable valuation of property subject to
the levy plus an additional $0.05 per $100 of taxable valuation to provide
financing for the city’s share of revenue required under an agreement or
agreements executed pursuant to the Interlocal Cooperation Act, being Neb. RS
13-801 through 13-827, or the Joint Public Agency Act, being 13-2501 through
13-2550. The maximum levy shall include amounts levied to pay for sums to
support a library pursuant to Neb. RS 51-201, museum pursuant to Neb. RS 51-
501, visiting community nurse, home health nurse or home health agency pursuant
to Neb. RS 71-1637, or statue, memorial or monument pursuant to Neb. RS 80-202.
Property tax levies for judgments, except judgments or orders from the
Commission of Industrial Relations, obtained against the city which require or
obligate the city to pay that judgment, to the extent the judgment is not paid
by liability insurance coverage of the city, for preexisting lease-purchase
contracts approved prior to 7-1-1998, for bonded indebtedness approved
according to law and secured by a levy on property, and for payments by a
public airport to retire interest-free loans from the Division of Aeronautics
in lieu of bonded indebtedness at a lower cost to the public airport are not
included in the levy limits established by this division (A). The limitations
on tax levies provided in this division (A) are to include all other general or
special levies provided by law. Notwithstanding other provisions of law, the
only exceptions to the limits in this division (A) are those provided by or
authorized by this section. Tax levies in excess of the limitations in this
section shall be considered unauthorized levies under Neb. RS 77-1606 unless
approved under division (C) below.
(Neb. RS 77-3442)
   (B)   (1)   All city airport authorities established under the Cities
Airport Authorities Act, being Neb. RS 3-501 through 3-514, community
redevelopment authorities established under the Community Development Law,
being Neb. RS 18-2101 through 18-2155, and off-street parking districts
established under the Off-Street Parking District Act may, being Neb. RS 19-
3301 through 19-3326, be allocated property taxes as authorized by law which
are authorized by the city and are counted in the municipal levy limit provided
by division (A) above; except that, such limitation shall not apply to property
tax levies for preexisting lease-purchase contracts approved prior to 7-1-1998,
for bonded indebtedness approved according to law and secured by a levy on
property, and for payments by a public airport to retire interest-free loans
from the Division of Aeronautics in lieu of bonded indebtedness at a lower cost
to the public airport. For off-street parking districts established under the
Off-Street Parking District Act, the tax shall be counted in the allocation by
the city proportionately, by dividing the total taxable valuation of the
taxable property within the district by the total taxable valuation of the
taxable property within the city multiplied by the levy of the district. The
City Council shall review and approve or disapprove the levy request of the
political subdivisions subject to this division (B). The City Council may
approve all or a portion of the levy request and may approve a levy request
that would allow a levy greater than that permitted by law. The levy allocated
by the city may be exceeded as provided in division (C) below.
      (2)   On or before August 1, all political subdivisions subject to city
levy authority under this division (B) shall submit a preliminary request for
levy allocation to the City Council. The preliminary request of the political
subdivision shall be in the form of a resolution adopted by a majority vote of
members present of the political subdivision’s governing body. The failure of a
political subdivision to make a preliminary request shall preclude that
political subdivision from using procedures set forth in Neb. RS 77-3444 to
exceed the final levy allocation as determined in this division (B).
      (3)   (a)   The City Council shall:
            1.   Adopt a resolution by a majority vote of members present which
determines a final allocation of levy authority to its political subdivisions;
and
            2.   Forward a copy of that resolution to the chairperson of the
governing body of each of its political subdivisions.
         (b)   No final levy allocation shall be changed after September 1,
except by agreement between both the City Council and the governing body of the
political subdivision whose final levy allocation is at issue.
(Neb. RS 77-3443)
   (C)   (1)   The city may exceed the limits provided in division (A) above by
an amount not to exceed a maximum levy approved by a majority of registered
voters voting on the issue in a primary, general or special election at which
the issue is placed before the registered voters. A vote to exceed the limits
must be approved prior to October 10 of the fiscal year which is to be the
first to exceed the limits.
      (2)   The City Council may call for the submission of the issue to the
voters:
         (a)   By passing a resolution calling for exceeding the limits by a
vote of at least two-thirds of the members of the City Council and delivering a
copy of the resolution to the County Clerk or Election Commissioner of every
county which contains all or part of the city; or
         (b)   Upon receipt of a petition by the County Clerk or Election
Commissioner of every county containing all or part of the city requesting an
election signed by at least 5% of the registered voters residing in the city.
      (3)   The resolution or petition shall include the amount of levy which
would be imposed in excess of the limits provided in division (A) above and the
duration of the excess levy authority. The excess levy authority shall not have
a duration greater than five years. Any resolution or petition calling for a
special election shall be filed with the County Clerk or Election Commissioner
no later than 30 days prior to the date of the election, and the time of
publication and providing a copy of the notice of election required in Neb. RS
32-802 shall be no later than 20 days prior to the election.
      (4)   The County Clerk or Election Commissioner shall place the issue on
the ballot at an election as called for in the resolution or petition which is
at least 30 days after receipt of the resolution or petition. The election
shall be held pursuant to the Election Act, being Neb. RS 32-101 through 32-
1551. For petitions filed with the County Clerk or Election Commissioner on or
after 5-1-1998, the petition shall be in the form as provided in Neb. RS 32-628
through 32-631.
      (5)   Any excess levy authority approved under this division (C) shall
terminate pursuant to its terms, on a vote of the City Council to terminate the
authority to levy more than the limits, at the end of the fourth fiscal year
following the first year in which the levy exceeded the limit, or as provided
in division (C)(8) below, whichever is earliest.
      (6)   The City Council may pass no more than one resolution calling for
an election pursuant to this division (C) during any one calendar year. Only
one election may be held in any one calendar year pursuant to a petition
initiated under this division (C). The ballot question may include any terms
and conditions set forth in the resolution or petition and shall include the
language specified in Neb. RS 77-3444.
      (7)   If a majority of the votes cast upon the ballot question are in
favor of the tax, the County Board shall authorize a tax in excess of the
limits in division (A) above, but the tax shall not exceed the amount stated in
the ballot question. If a majority of those voting on the ballot question are
opposed to the tax, the City Council shall not impose the tax.
      (8)   (a)   The city may rescind or modify a previously approved excess
levy authority prior to its expiration by a majority of registered voters
voting on the issue in a primary, general or special election at which the
issue is placed before the registered voters. A vote to rescind or modify must
be approved prior to October 10 of the fiscal year for which it is to be
effective.
         (b)   The City Council may call for the submission of the issue to the
voters:
            1.   By passing a resolution calling for the rescission or
modification by a vote of at least two-thirds of the members of the City
Council and delivering a copy of the resolution to the County Clerk or Election
Commissioner of every county which contains all or part of the city; or
            2.   Upon receipt of a petition by the County Clerk or Election
Commissioner of every county containing all or part of the city requesting an
election signed by at least 5% of the registered voters residing in the city.
         (c)   The resolution or petition shall include the amount and the
duration of the previously approved excess levy authority and a statement that
either the excess levy authority will be rescinded or the excess levy authority
will be modified. If the excess levy authority will be modified, the amount and
duration of the modification shall be stated. The modification shall not have a
duration greater than five years. The County Clerk or Election Commissioner
shall place the issue on the ballot at an election as called for in the
resolution or petition which is at least 30 days after receipt of the
resolution or petition, and the time of publication and providing a copy of the
notice of election required in Neb. RS 32-802 shall be no later than 20 days
prior to the election. The election shall be held pursuant to the Election Act.
(Neb. RS 77-3444)  (Prior Code, § 1-825)  (Ord. 2000-9, passed 5-1-2000)
§ 35.49  PROPERTY TAX LEVY; CERTIFICATION OF AMOUNT; COLLECTION.
   The governing body shall, at the time and in the manner provided by law,
cause to be certified to the County Clerk the amount of tax to be levied upon
the taxable value of all the taxable property of the municipality, which the
municipality requires for the purposes of the adopted budget statement for the
ensuing year, including all special assessments and taxes assessed as otherwise
provided. Subject to Neb. RS 77-3442, the maximum amount of tax which may be so
certified, assessed and collected shall not require a tax levy in excess of the
amounts specified in Neb. RS 17-702.
(Prior Code, § 1-812)  (Ord. 98-14, passed 10-5-1998)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-702
§ 35.50  PROPERTY TAX REQUEST; PROCEDURE FOR SETTING.
   (A)   If the annual assessment of property would result in an increase in
the total property taxes levied by a county, municipality, school district,
learning community, sanitary and improvement district,  natural resources
district, educational service unit or community college, as determined using
the previous year’s rate of levy, the city’s property tax request for the
current year shall be no more than its property tax request in the prior year,
and the city’s rate of levy for the current year shall be decreased accordingly
when such rate is set by the county board of equalization pursuant to Neb. RS
77-1601. The City Council shall pass a resolution or ordinance to set the
amount of its property tax request after holding the public hearing required in
division (C) below. If the City Council seeks to set its property tax request
at an amount that exceeds its property tax request in the prior year, it may do
so after holding the public hearing required in division (C) below and by
passing a resolution or ordinance that complies with division (D) below.
   (B)   If the annual assessment of property would result in no change or a
decrease in the total property taxes levied by a county, municipality, school
district, learning community, sanitary and  improvement district, natural
resources district, educational service unit or community college, as
determined using the previous year’s rate of levy, the city’s property tax
request for the current year shall be no more than its property tax request in
the prior year, and the city’s rate of levy for the current year shall be
adjusted accordingly when such rate is set by the County Board of Equalization
pursuant to Neb. RS 77-1601. The City Council shall pass a resolution or
ordinance to set the amount of its property tax request after holding the
public hearing required in division (C) below. If the City Council seeks to set
its property tax request at an amount that exceeds its property tax request in
the prior year, it may do so after holding the public hearing required in
division (C) below and by passing a resolution or ordinance that complies with
division (D) below.
   (C)   The resolution or ordinance required under this section shall only be
passed after a special public hearing called for the purpose is held and after
notice is published in a newspaper of general circulation in the area of the
city at least four calendar days prior to the hearing. For purposes of such
notice, the four calendar days shall include the day of publication, but not
the day of hearing. If the city’s total operating budget, not including
reserves, does not exceed $10,000 per year or $20,000 per biennial period, the
notice may be posted at the City Council’s principal headquarters.
   (D)   The hearing notice shall contain the following information:
      (1)   The certified taxable valuation under Neb. RS 13-509 for the prior
year, the certified  taxable valuation under Neb. RS 13-509 for the current
year and the percentage increase or decrease  in such valuations from the prior
year to the current year;
      (2)   The dollar amount of the prior year’s tax request and the property
tax rate that was necessary to fund that tax request;
      (3)   The property tax rate that would be necessary to fund last year’s
tax request if applied to the current year’s valuation;
      (4)   The proposed dollar amount of the tax request for the current year
and the property tax rate that will be necessary to fund that tax request;
      (5)   The percentage increase or decrease in the property tax rate from
the prior year to the current year; and
      (6)   The percentage increase or decrease in the total operating budget
from the prior year to the current year.
   (E)   Any resolution or ordinance setting a city’s property tax request at
an amount that exceeds the city’s property tax request in the prior year shall
include, but not be limited to, the following information:
      (1)   The name of the city;
      (2)   The amount of the property tax request;
      (3)   The following statements:
         (a)   The total assessed value of property differs from last year’s
total assessed value by        percent;
         (b)   The tax rate which would levy the same amount of property taxes
as last year, when multiplied by the new total assessed value of property,
would be $       per $100 of assessed value;
         (c)   The (name of city) proposes to adopt a property tax request that
will cause its tax rate to be $       per $100 of assessed value; and
         (d)   Based on the proposed property tax request and changes in other
revenue, the total  operating budget of (name of city) will exceed last year’s
by        percent.
      (4)   The record vote of the City Council in passing such resolution or
ordinance.
   (F)   Any resolution or ordinance setting a property tax request under this
section shall be certified and forwarded to the County Clerk on or before
October 13 of the year for which the tax request is to apply.
   (G)   Any tax levy which is not in compliance with this section and Neb. RS
77-1601 shall be construed as an unauthorized levy under Neb. RS 77-1606.
(Neb. RS 77-1601.02)
§ 35.51  MOTOR VEHICLE FEE.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      LIMITS OF THE CITY. Includes the extraterritorial zoning jurisdiction of
the city.
      PERSON. Includes bodies corporate, societies, communities, the public
generally, individuals, partnerships, limited liability companies, joint-stock
companies, cooperatives and associations. Person does not include any federal,
state or local government or any political subdivision thereof.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in division (D) below, the governing body
of the city shall have power to require any individual whose primary residence
or person who owns a place of business which is within the limits of the city
and that owns and operates a motor vehicle within such limits to pay an annual
motor vehicle fee and to require the payment of such fee upon the change of
ownership of such vehicle. All such fees which may be provided for under this
section shall be used exclusively for constructing, repairing, maintaining, or
improving streets, roads, alleys, public ways or parts thereof or for the
amortization of bonded indebtedness when created for such purposes.
   (C)   No motor vehicle fee shall be required under this section if:
      (1)   A vehicle is used or stored, but temporarily, in the city for a
period of six months or less in a 12-month period;
      (2)   An individual does not have a primary residence or a person does
not own a place of business within the limits of the city and does not own and
operate a motor vehicle within the limits of the city; or
      (3)   An individual is a full-time student attending a postsecondary
institution within the limits of the city and the motor vehicle’s situs under
the Motor Vehicle Certificate of Title Act is different from the place at which
he or she is attending such institution.
   (D)   After 12-31-2012, no motor vehicle fee shall be required of any
individual whose primary residence is or person who owns a place of business
within the extraterritorial zoning jurisdiction of the city.
   (E)   The fee shall be paid to the County Treasurer of the county in which
the city is located when the registration fees as provided in the Motor Vehicle
Registration Act are paid. These fees shall be credited by the County Treasurer
to the Road Fund of the city.
(Neb. RS 18-1214)
Statutory reference:
   Motor Vehicle Registration Act, see Neb. RS 60-301
§ 35.52  SALES AND USE TAX.
   (A)   Pursuant to the approval of the electors of the city, at the city’s
primary election held on 5-12-1998, there is hereby adopted, pursuant to the
provisions of Neb. RS 77-2701,135, as amended, known as the state’s Revenue Act
of 1967, and Neb. RS 77-27,142 to 77-27,148, as amended, known as the Local
Option Revenue Act of 1969, and other pertinent statutes, a sales and use tax
effective on and after 10-1-1998, of 1% upon the same transactions within the
corporate limits of the city, as the same may from time to time be extended, on
which the state is authorized to impose a tax pursuant to the provisions of the
aforementioned statutes of the state, as the same may from time to time be
amended.
   (B)   The administration of the sales and use tax imposed by this section,
the making of returns for the ascertainment and assessment, the provisions for
tax claims and remedies, the laws governing consummation of sales, penalties
and collection and for the disposition and distribution of the taxes so imposed
and collected shall be as provided by Neb. RS 77-27,142 to 77-27,148, as
amended, and Neb. RS 77-2701 to 77-27,135, as amended and other pertinent
statutes.
   (C)   The City Clerk shall deliver or cause to be delivered by certified or
registered mail a certified copy of this section and a certified map of the
city, showing the corporate limits thereof to the state’s Tax Commissioner and
the state’s Department of Revenue immediately after the effective date of this
section and at least 60 days prior to 10-1-1998, as provided by law.
(Prior Code, § 1-827)  (Ord. 98-6, passed 6-1-1998)
CHAPTER 36:  GENERAL ADMINISTRATIVE POLICIES
Section
   
36.01   Identity theft
§ 36.01  IDENTITY THEFT.
   (A)   The city adopts the “City of Bloomfield Identity Theft Prevention
Program”, which is attached to the resolution codified herein.
   (B)   Said program is appropriate to the size and complexity of the city and
the scope of its activities; and that the program is reasonably calculated to
identify and detect relevant red flags indicating a potential risk of identity
theft, and includes appropriate responses to such red flags that will mitigate
and prevent identity theft.
   (C)   Appropriate staff appointed by the governing board to design and
implement the program shall report annually to the governing board, or to an
appropriate committee of the governing board or senior employee appointed by
the governing board, on the city’s compliance with 16 C.F.R. § 1681.2, as
required by the Act.
   (D)   The governing board, or an appropriate committee of the governing
board or senior employee appointed by the governing board, will review the
program from time to time in order to update policies as needed, in order to
reflect changes in risks to the city’s customers.
(Res. 08-7, passed - -2008)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   UTILITIES GENERALLY
      
51.   GARBAGE; LANDFILL
      
52.   WELLS AND UNDERGROUND UTILITIES
      
53.   WATER
      
54.   SEWERS
CHAPTER 50:  UTILITIES GENERALLY
Section
   
50.01   Discontinuance of service; notice procedure
   
50.02   Denial of utility service; when prohibited
 
   
50.99   Penalty
§ 50.01  DISCONTINUANCE OF SERVICE; NOTICE PROCEDURE.
   (A)   The municipality shall have the right to discontinue utility services
and remove its properties if the charges for such services are not paid within
seven days after the date that the charges become delinquent. Before any
termination, the municipality shall first give notice by first-class mail or in
person to any domestic subscriber whose service is proposed to be terminated.
If notice is given by first-class mail, such mail shall be conspicuously marked
as to its importance. Service shall not be discontinued for at least seven
days, weekends and holidays excluded, after notice is sent or given. As to any
subscriber who has previously been identified as a welfare recipient to the
municipality by the Department of Health and Human Services, such notice shall
be by certified mail and notice of such proposed termination shall be given to
the Department of Health and Human Services.
   (B)   The notice shall contain the following information:
      (1)   The reason for the proposed disconnection;
      (2)   A statement of the intention to disconnect unless the domestic
subscriber either pays the bill or reaches an agreement with the municipality
regarding payment of the bill;
      (3)   The date upon which service will be disconnected if the domestic
subscriber does not take appropriate action;
      (4)   The name, address and telephone number of the employee or
department to whom the domestic subscriber may address an inquiry or complaint;
      (5)   The domestic subscriber’s right, prior to the disconnection date,
to request a conference regarding any dispute over such proposed disconnection;
      (6)   A statement that the municipality may not disconnect service
pending the conclusion of the conference;
      (7)   A statement to the effect that disconnection may be postponed or
prevented upon presentation of a duly licensed physician’s certificate which
shall certify that the domestic subscriber or a resident within such
subscriber’s household has an existing illness or handicap which would cause
such subscriber or resident to suffer an immediate and serious health hazard by
the disconnection of the municipality’s service to that household. Such
certificate shall be filed with the municipality within five days of receiving
notice under this section and will prevent the disconnection of the
municipality’s service for a period of 30 days from such filing. Only one
postponement of disconnection shall be allowed under this division (B)(7) for
each incidence of nonpayment of any past-due account;
      (8)   The cost that will be borne by the domestic subscriber for
restoration of service;
      (9)   A statement that the domestic subscriber may arrange with the
municipality for an installment payment plan;
      (10)   A statement to the effect that those domestic subscribers who are
welfare recipients may qualify for assistance in payment of their utility bill
and that they should contact their caseworker in that regard; and
      (11)   Any additional information not inconsistent with this section
which has received prior approval from the governing body.
   (C)   (1)   A domestic subscriber may dispute the proposed discontinuance of
service by notifying the municipality with a written statement that sets forth
the reasons for the dispute and the relief requested.
      (2)   If a statement has been made by the subscriber, a conference shall
be held before the municipality may discontinue services.
   (D)   The procedures adopted by the governing body for resolving utility
bills, three copies of which are on file in the office of the Municipal Clerk,
are hereby incorporated by reference in addition to any amendments thereto and
are made a part of this section as though set out in full.
   (E)   This section shall not apply to any disconnections or interruptions of
services made necessary by the municipality for reasons of repair or
maintenance or to protect the health or safety of the domestic subscriber or of
the general public.
(Prior Code, § 3-1001)  (Ord. 97-16, passed 9-8-1997)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 70-1602 et seq.
§ 50.02  DENIAL OF UTILITY SERVICE; WHEN PROHIBITED.
   No applicant for the services of a public or private utility company
furnishing water, natural gas or electricity at retail in the municipality
shall be denied service because of unpaid bills for similar service which are
not collectible at law because of statutes of limitation or discharge in
bankruptcy proceedings.
(Prior Code, § 3-1002)  (Ord. 99-4, passed 4-5-1999)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 70-1601
§ 50.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, or any person’s agent or servant, who violates any of the
provisions of this chapter, unless otherwise specifically provided herein,
shall be deemed guilty of an offense and, upon conviction thereof, shall be
fined in any sum not exceeding $500. A new violation shall be deemed to have
been committed every 24 hours of failure to comply with the provisions of this
utilities title.
   (B)   (1)   Whenever a nuisance exists, as defined in this utilities title,
the municipality may proceed by a suit in equity to enjoin, abate and remove
the same in the manner provided by law.
      (2)   Whenever, in any action, it is established that a nuisance exists,
the court may, together with the fine or penalty imposed, enter an order of
abatement as a part of the judgment in the case.
(Prior Code, § 3-1101)  (Ord. 2000-16, passed 5-1-2000)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-505, 18-1720, 18-1722
CHAPTER 51:  GARBAGE; LANDFILL
Section
   
51.01   Collection
   
51.02   Fees
   
51.03   Burning prohibited
   
51.04   Dump closed
   
51.05   Yard waste
§ 51.01  COLLECTION.
   (A)   In order to provide for the safe and sanitary disposal of solid waste
generated within the jurisdiction of the city and in order to comply with the
state’s Integrated Solid Waste Management Act,  being Neb. RS 13-2001 through
13-2043, the city hereby elects to establish a municipal solid waste collection
system, to provide solid waste collection and disposal services for its
residents and businesses.
   (B)   Pickup of refuse shall be in approved metal or plastic containers with
lids secured or in properly secured and tied approved plastic bags or
containers. All residential refuse shall be placed at curbside for pickup. Yard
waste, lawn clippings or trimmings shall be placed in properly secured plastic
bags limited to a maximum of six bags per week. If that number is exceeded,
then additional charges shall be paid by users to the city’s solid waste
contractor. Commercial refuse shall also be placed in approved containers and
placed in appropriate business pickup locations, anticipated to be business
alleys.
   (C)   Approved containers shall be metal, plastic or rubber containers not
greater in capacity than 35 gallons and the same shall be equipped with lids
that will properly secure or plastic bags not exceeding 35-gallon capacity,
properly tied and secured. Users shall be responsible for litter or spillage
prior to collection. Delivery of refuse shall be to any approved recycling
location or state licensed landfill.
(Prior Code, § 4-301)  (Ord. 438, passed 12-10-1987; Ord. 15-93, passed 12-6-
1993; Ord. 99-3, passed 4-5-1999)
§ 51.02  FEES.
   (A)   The power to fix rates for furnishing city services, including water,
sewer and sanitation services, both residential and commercial, shall be vested
in the City Council and such utility rates will be presumed lawful unless
clearly shown to be confiscatory.
   (B)   Each residential and commercial account will be charged at such rate
as may be adopted by the City Council from time to time for refuse collection,
commencing 1-1-1993. The established rate will be included as an integral part
of the city utility bill and will be collected in the same manner as the water
and sewer use fees. The City Council may bill the user in monthly or bimonthly
increments and may be billed in advance or in arrears. The City Council may
establish rate classification guidelines to distinguish commercial and
residential accounts and may establish and amend from time to time such rules
and regulations as may be needed to comply with state or federal solid waste
management requirements or regulations.
   (C)   The City Council shall be authorized to establish and amend, from time
to time, a utility deposit fee to be collected by the City Clerk and credited
to any residential or commercial account to ensure the payment of all utility
rates, including water service, sewer service and sanitation services. The City
Council hereby initially establishes the following utility deposit fee: $75 per
utility subscriber for all users first commencing such use on or after 1-1-
1994.
   (D)   The City Council shall also be authorized to establish and amend, from
time to time, a procedure for termination of utility services to delinquent
accounts and to impose a charge for late payment or reinstatement of utility
services.
   (E)   The City Council hereby establishes the following rates and charges to
be paid to it for such sanitation services by each person whose premises are to
be served. If the service charge is not paid when due, the city may utilize, in
addition to any other remedies, all remedies and liens provided for by the
state’s Integrated Solid Waste Management Act, being Neb. RS 13-2001 through
13-2043, and as otherwise provided for by state statute or city ordinance:
      (1)   Thirteen dollars and twenty-five cents per month for regular
residential customers; and
      (2)   Ten dollars and seventy-five cents per month for senior citizens
(65 and older).
   (F)   Such utility accounts, when delinquent, shall be a lien on the
premises or real estate upon which or for which the same is used or supplied.
Any delinquent utility accounts which remain unpaid for a period of one month
after it becomes due, and following notice by regular United States mail to the
last known address of the property owner of record and an opportunity for
hearing, may be, by resolution of the City Council, assessed against said real
estate as a special assessment, which special assessment shall be certified by
the City Clerk to the County Treasurer. Said County Treasurer shall, thereupon,
place the same on the tax rolls for collection, subject to the same penalties
and to be collected in like manner as other city tax; provided that, the City
Clerk shall notify in writing non-occupying owners of premises or their agents,
whenever their tenants or lessees are 30 days delinquent in the payment of any
utility account. Thereafter, if the owner of said real estate or his, her or
their agent shall notify the City Clerk in writing to discontinue utility
service to said real estate or the occupants thereof, it shall be the duty of
the officer in charge of the city utility department promptly to discontinue
said service; and amounts due for any services furnished to the occupants of
said real estate in violation of said notice shall not be a lien thereon.
(Prior Code, § 4-302)  (Ord. 438, passed 12-10-1987; Ord. 15-93, passed 12-6-
1993; Ord. 99-3, passed 4-5-1999; Ord. 10-4, passed - -2010; Ord. 12-1, passed
4-2-2012)
§ 51.03  BURNING PROHIBITED.
   Commencing 1-1-1988, it shall be unlawful to build or set out fires within
the city, regardless of whether the fires are in fireproof trash burners, or
incinerators or not. It shall be unlawful for any person to set fire to, burn
or cause to be burned, any garbage, trash, refuse, animal matter, vegetable
matter, straw, hay, leaves, brush or any other item or matter. It shall be
unlawful to do any such burning in the streets, alleys or lands of the city.
Any person or firm violating this burning ban shall be prosecuted under the
laws of the state.
(Prior Code, § 4-303)  (Ord. 438, passed 12-10-1987)  Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 51.04  DUMP CLOSED.
   The city dump northwest of Bloomfield shall be closed from and after 1-1-
1988 to all dumping of trash, refuse, garbage, animal matter or putrescible or
hazardous waste. It shall be open to the dumping of tree limbs, grass
clippings, leaves, branches, major appliances and construction debris. Persons
dumping anything else therein after 1-1-1988 will be prosecuted under the laws
of the state for littering.
(Prior Code, § 4-304)  (Ord. 438, passed 12-10-1987)
§ 51.05  YARD WASTE.
   The term YARD WASTE shall mean grass and leaves.
(Prior Code, § 4-305)  (Ord. 19-95, passed 10-2-1995)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 13-2016.01
CHAPTER 52:  WELLS AND UNDERGROUND UTILITIES
Section
   
52.01   Drilling and operation; permit required
   
52.02   Procedure to obtain permit
   
52.03   Drilling or installing within designated distance from municipal water
sources
 
   
52.99   Penalty
§ 52.01  DRILLING AND OPERATION; PERMIT REQUIRED.
   From and after the effective date of this chapter, it shall be unlawful for
any person, corporation or other legal entity to drill and/or operate any of
the following facilities within the corporate limits of the city, without first
having obtained the proper permit from the city: absorption or disposal field
for water; any other well; cesspool; chemical product storage facility; dumping
grounds; feedlot or feedlot runoff; livestock pasture or corral; petroleum
product storage facility; pit toilet; potable water well; sanitary landfill;
septic tank; sewage treatment plant; sewage lagoon; sewage wet well.
(Prior Code, § 4-401)  (Ord. 2000-2, passed 1-3-2000)  Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.02  PROCEDURE TO OBTAIN PERMIT.
   (A)   In order to obtain a permit to drill and/or operate any of the
facilities listed in §
52.01 of this chapter, the owner of property on which the proposed facility is
to be located, must make application on the proper form provided by the city.
   (B)   Such application must be presented to the Utility Superintendent and,
after reviewing the application of any person desiring to drill or operate any
of the above-described facilities, then the Utility Superintendent may approve
or deny said permit.
   (C)   The applicant may appeal the decision of the Utility Superintendent to
the City Council at the next regularly scheduled City Council meeting.
(Prior Code, § 4-402)  (Ord. 2000-2, passed 1-3-2000)
§ 52.03  DRILLING OR INSTALLING WITHIN DESIGNATED DISTANCE FROM MUNICIPAL WATER
SOURCES.
   (A)   Under no circumstances shall the city approve any permit to drill or
operate any of the below-described facilities within the indicated number of
feet from the city’s water wells:
Absorption or disposal field for water 500 feet
Any other well                         1,000 feet
Cesspool                               500 feet
Chemical product storage facility      500 feet
Dumping grounds                        500 feet
Feedlot or feedlot runoff              500 feet
Livestock pasture or corral            500 feet
Petroleum product storage facility     500 feet
Pit toilet                             500 feet
Potable water well                     1,000 feet
Sanitary landfill                      500 feet
Septic tank                            500 feet
Sewage lagoon                          1,000 feet
Sewage treatment plant                 500 feet
Sewage wet well                        500 feet
 
   (B)   These distances are established by the state’s Department of Health as
provided for in Administrative Code Title 179, governing public water supply
systems, Attachment 1, which is adopted herein by reference.
(Prior Code, § 4-403)  (Ord. 2000-2, passed 1-3-2000)
§ 52.99  PENALTY.
   In the event any of the facilities described in §
52.01 of this chapter are installed or operated without first having obtained a
permit from the city and/or within a designated number of feet from the
municipal water supply, then such facilities shall be deemed a nuisance and the
governing body shall abate such facility as a public nuisance pursuant to §
91.99 of this code of ordinances. In addition thereto, any person violating any
of the terms of this chapter is hereby deemed to be guilty of a Class III
misdemeanor as the same is defined by state statute. The penalty for such
violation shall be that as defined by state law for the violation of a Class
III misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 4-404)  (Ord. 2000-2, passed 1-3-2000)
CHAPTER 53:  WATER
Section
   
53.01   Use of private wells; when permitted
   
53.02   Definitions
   
53.03   Tap fee; installation expense
   
53.04   Repairs and maintenance
   
53.05   Rates
   
53.06   Water bills
   
53.07   Lien
   
53.08   Fire hydrants
   
53.09   Pollution
   
53.10   Destruction of property
   
53.11   Complaints
   
53.12   Service to non-residents
   
53.13   Reconnection fee
   
53.14   Backflow prevention devices; customer installation and maintenance;
testing
   
53.15   Unsafe physical connection to water distribution system prohibited;
potential backflow hazards; customer assessment
   
53.16   Wellhead protection areas; boundaries
   
53.17   Restriction of water use
 
   
53.99   Penalty
§ 53.01  USE OF PRIVATE WELLS; WHEN PERMITTED.
   (A)   The municipality owns and operates the Municipal Water Department
through the Utilities Superintendent. The governing body, for the purpose of
defraying the cost of the care, management and maintenance of the Municipal
Water Department may each year levy a tax not exceeding the maximum limit
prescribed by state law, on the actual valuation of all real estate and
personal property within the corporate limits that is subject to taxation. The
revenue from said tax shall be known as the Water Fund and shall remain in the
custody of the Municipal Treasurer. The Utilities Superintendent shall have the
authority to adopt rules and regulations for the sanitary and efficient
management of the Water Department subject to the supervision and review of the
governing body. The governing body shall set the rates to be charged for
services rendered by ordinance and shall file a copy of the rates in the office
of the Municipal Clerk for public inspection at any reasonable time.
   (B)   The use of private wells within the limits of the city shall be
permitted only when the city’s water distribution system is not available to
the premises on which water is required. The city water distribution system
shall, for the purpose of this section, be considered available when a water
distribution main is located within 300 feet of any part of said premises on
which water is required.
(Prior Code, § 3-101)  (Ord. 2000-21, passed 6-5-2000)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-531, 17-534, 19-1305
§ 53.02  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   MAIN. Any pipe other than a supply or service pipe that is used for the
purpose of carrying water to, and dispersing the same in the municipality.
   SEPARATE PREMISES. More than one consumer procuring water from the same
service or supply pipe. The second premises may be a separate dwelling,
apartment, building or structure used for a SEPARATE BUSINESS.
   SERVICE PIPE. Any pipe extending from the shut-off, stop box or curb cock at
or near the lot line to and beyond the property line of the consumer to the
location on the premises where the water is to be dispersed.
   SUPPLY PIPE. Any pipe tapped into a main and extending from there to a point
at or near the lot line of the consumer’s premises where the shut-off, stop box
or curb cock is located.
(Prior Code, § 3-102)  (Ord. 2000-21, passed 6-5-2000)
§ 53.03  TAP FEE; INSTALLATION EXPENSE.
   (A)   Upon application for the installation of water service, the customer
shall pay a tap fee to the Municipal Clerk in the amount of $350.
   (B)   The municipality shall then pay the cost of tapping the main and
providing fixtures and labor up to and including the stop box at the lot line
of the customer.
   (C)   The line shall be one inch in diameter from the main to the stop box.
   (D)   No person other than the Utilities Superintendent or his or her duly
authorized agent shall tap the water main.
   (E)   The customer shall, at his or her own expense, bring water service
from the stop box to the place of dispersement upon his or her own premises.
   (F)   Non-residents shall pay such tap fees and installation charges as the
governing body shall in each case fix.
   (G)   The extension of commercial mains into unsupplied territory within the
corporate limits may be made by means of water extension districts.
(Prior Code, § 3-103)  (Ord. 443, passed 10-3-1988)
§ 53.04  REPAIRS AND  MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   The municipality shall repair or replace, as the case may be, all
supply pipe between the commercial main and the stop box.
   (B)   The customer, at his or her own expense, shall replace and keep in
dispersement.
   (C)   When leaks occur in service pipes, the Utilities Superintendent shall
shut off water service until the leak is repaired at the expense of the
customer to the satisfaction of the Utilities Superintendent.
(Prior Code, § 3-104)
§ 53.05  RATES.
   (A)   All water consumers shall be liable for the water service fees
provided by ordinance unless and until the consumer shall, by written order,
direct the Utilities Superintendent to shut off the water at the stop box, in
which case the consumer shall not be liable thereafter for water service fees
until the water is turned on again.
      (1)   Water rates within corporate limits:
         (a)   Meter fee, per month: $25; and
         (b)   Gallons used per month per 1,000 gallons: $3.
      (2)   Water rates outside corporate limits:
         (a)   Meter fee, per month: $25;
         (b)   Meter fee, per month for locations with meter pits: $26.50; and
         (c)   Gallons used per month per 1,000 gallons: $3.
   (B)   Water furnished by the load to customers and well drillers shall be
charged at the rate of $15 per 1,000 gallons furnished.
   (C)   All such fees shall be on file for public inspection at the office of
the Municipal Clerk. Water rates are effective for the March 2020 billings.
(Prior Code, § 3-105)  (Ord. 411, passed 4-3-1978; Ord. 1-95, passed 2-6-1995;
Ord. 98-7, passed 8-3-1998; Ord. 03-3, passed 11-3-2003; Ord. 05-1, passed 6-6-
2005; Res. 20-1, passed 1-6-2020)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-542
§ 53.06  WATER BILLS.
   (A)   (1)   Water bills shall be due and payable monthly at the office of
the Municipal Clerk.
      (2)   The Utilities Superintendent shall read or cause to be read water
meters monthly during which service is used.
      (3)   The City Administrator shall direct the Municipal Clerk to charge
and collect from each customer for the amount of water consumed since the last
examination together with any charges, properly itemized, due to the Water
Department.
   (B)   (1)   The charge for water furnished by the city shall be made monthly
to each consumer on the first business day of the month.
      (2)   Payments shall be due and payable to the City Clerk by the
fifteenth day of each month in which billing was made.
      (3)   Any payments received after the fifteenth day are delinquent and
are subject to a penalty of $10, in addition to the amount billed once the
delinquent notice is mailed by the city.
(Prior Code, § 3-106)  (Ord. 411, passed 4-3-1978; Ord. 1-95, passed 2-6-1995;
Ord. 98-7, passed 8-3-1998; Ord. 03-4, passed 12-1-2003)
§ 53.07  LIEN.
   (A)   In addition to all other remedies, if a customer shall for any reason
remain indebted to the municipality for water service furnished, such amount
due, together with any rents and charges in arrears, shall be considered a
delinquent water rent which is hereby declared to be a lien upon the real
estate for which the same was used.
   (B)   The Municipal Clerk shall notify in writing or cause to be notified in
writing, all owners of premises or their agents whenever their tenants or
lessees are 60 days or more delinquent in the payment of water rent.
(Prior Code, § 3-107)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-538
§ 53.08  FIRE HYDRANTS.
   All hydrants for the purpose of extinguishing fires are hereby declared to
be public hydrants, and it shall be unlawful for any person other than members
of the Municipal Fire Department under the orders of the Fire Chief or the
Assistant Fire Chief; or members of the Water Department to open or attempt to
open any of the hydrants and draw water from the same, or in any manner to
interfere with the hydrants.
(Prior Code, § 3-108)
§ 53.09  POLLUTION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to pollute or attempt to pollute any
stream or source of water for the supply of the Municipal Water Department.
(Prior Code, § 3-109)  Penalty, see §
53.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-536
§ 53.10  DESTRUCTION OF PROPERTY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to willfully or carelessly break, injure
or deface any building, machinery, apparatus, fixture, attachment or
appurtenance of the Municipal Water Department. No person may deposit anything
in a stop box or commit any act tending to obstruct or impair the intended use
of any of the above mentioned property without the written permission of the
Utilities Superintendent.
(Prior Code, § 3-110)  Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.11  COMPLAINTS.
   Any consumer feeling himself or herself aggrieved by reason of any
controversy with the Utilities Superintendent may appear before the governing
body and present his or her grievance. Any consumer who considers himself or
herself aggrieved by being required to pay the charge demanded for the use of
water, or for the resumption of water service after the same shall have been
shut off, shall pay such charge under protest, in which event the Municipal
Clerk shall write on the receipt given such customer the words, “Paid Under
Protest”. Such consumer may then present his or her verified claim in the
manner provided for presenting claims to the governing body for a refund of the
amount so paid under protest. Such claims shall then be considered by the
governing body in the same manner as other claims against the municipality.
(Prior Code, § 3-111)
§ 53.12  SERVICE TO NON-RESIDENTS.
   The Municipal Water Department shall not supply water service to any person
outside the corporate limits without special permission from the governing
body; provided, the entire cost of laying mains, service pipe and supply pipe
shall be paid by the consumer. Nothing herein shall be construed to obligate
the municipality to provide water service to non-residents.
(Prior Code, § 3-112)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 19-2701
§ 53.13  RECONNECTION FEE.
   (A)   All water consumers that have their service disconnected because of
non-payment shall not be reconnected until a reconnection fee of $50 shall be
paid at the office of the City Clerk, during regular business hours or a
reconnection fee of $75 during overtime business hours.
   (B)   Because all residents have the ability to shut water off coming into
their property, any party who requests service to be disconnected by the city
at the curb for any purpose other than non-payment, emergency purposes or for
repairs by a licensed plumber, shall pay a fee of $25. An additional fee of $25
shall also be paid before service is reconnected.
(Prior Code, § 3-113)  (Ord. 445, passed 5-1-1989; Ord. 03-4, passed 12-1-2003;
Res. 20-3, passed 6-8-2020)
§ 53.14  BACKFLOW PREVENTION DEVICES; CUSTOMER INSTALLATION AND MAINTENANCE;
TESTING.
   (A)   A customer of the Municipal Water Department shall install and
maintain a properly located backflow prevention device at the customer’s
expense appropriate to the potential hazards set forth in Title 179, State
Department of Health, and approved by the Utilities Superintendent.
   (B)   (1)   The customer shall make application to the Utilities
Superintendent to install a required backflow prevention device on a form
provided by the municipality.
      (2)   The application shall contain at a minimum the name and address of
the applicant, the type of potential hazard required, protection and the type
of backflow device to be installed including brand and model number.
   (C)   The Utilities Superintendent shall approve the application if such
installation will protect the municipal water distribution system from
potential backflow and backsiphonage hazards.
   (D)   The installation of the device shall be subject to all other sections
of this code dealing with installation of plumbing.
   (E)   (1)   Such customer shall also certify to the municipality at least
one time annually that the backflow prevention device has been tested by a
State Department of Health Grade VI Certified Water Operator if the device is
equipped with a test port.
      (2)   Such certification shall be made on a form available at the office
of the Municipal Clerk.
   (F)   Any decision of the Utilities Superintendent may be appealed to the
municipal governing body.
(Prior Code, § 3-114)  (Ord. 3-93, passed 10-4-1993)
§ 53.15  UNSAFE PHYSICAL CONNECTION TO WATER DISTRIBUTION SYSTEM PROHIBITED;
POTENTIAL BACKFLOW HAZARDS; CUSTOMER ASSESSMENT.
   (A)   No customer or other person shall cause, allow or create any physical
connection between the municipal water distribution system and any pipes,
pumps, hydrants, tanks, steam condensate returns, engine jackets, heat
exchangers, other water supplied or any other connection whereby potentially
unsafe or contaminating materials may be discharged or drawn into the municipal
water distribution system.
   (B)   (1)   At least one time every five years, customers of the municipal
water distribution and supply system shall be required to assess and report
potential backflow and backsiphonage hazards to the municipality on a form
supplied by the municipality to the customer.
      (2)   The customer shall take any steps necessary for protection of
public health and safety as determined by the Utilities Superintendent.
(Prior Code, § 3-115)  (Ord. 7-93, passed 10-4-1993)  Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.16  WELLHEAD PROTECTION AREAS; BOUNDARIES.
   (A)   WELLHEAD PROTECTION AREA means the surface and subsurface area
surrounding a water well or well field, supplying a public water supply system,
through which contaminants are reasonably likely to move toward and reach such
water or well field.
   (B)   (1)   The City Council designates a wellhead protection area for the
purpose of protection of the public water supply system.
      (2)   This delineation is based upon a map prepared by the state’s Rural
Water Association and adopted by the state’s Department of Environmental
Quality presented to the city on 3-8-2000.
(Prior Code, § 3-117)  (Ord. 2000-5, passed 5-1-2000)
§ 53.17  RESTRICTION OF WATER USE.
   (A)   (1)   Upon notice from the Mayor, the use of water for all uses,
except domestic uses shall cease during a fire alarm or during a fire.
      (2)   Water use may resume upon notice by the Mayor.
   (B)   In the case of shortage, imminent shortage or possible contamination
of the public water supply, the use of water may be restricted according to a
restriction plan adopted by resolution of the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 3-118)  (Ord. 02-4, passed 1-6-2003)  Penalty, see §
53.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-123, 17-505, 17-537
§ 53.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
50.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person who shall violate or refuse to comply with the enforcement
of any of the provisions of §
53.17 of this chapter shall, upon conviction thereof, be fined not more than
$500 for each offense. A new violation shall be deemed to have been committed
every 24 hours of such failure to comply.
(Prior Code, § 3-118)  (Ord. 02-4, passed 1-6-2003)
CHAPTER 54:  SEWERS
Section
General Provisions
   
54.001   Operation and funding
   
54.002   Definitions
   
54.003   Classification
   
54.004   Sewer use fees
   
54.005   Fees and collections
   
54.006   Destruction of property
   
54.007   Unlawful deposit of wastes
   
54.008   Public sewers required
   
54.009   Repairs and maintenance
   
54.010   Grease, oil and sand interceptors; when required
   
54.011   Preliminary treatment or flow-equalizing facilities; maintenance by
owner
   
54.012   Control structures/sampling stations; when required; installation and
maintenance
   
54.013   Control manholes/sampling stations; method
   
54.014   Compliance with chapter; inspections generally; injury liability;
easements
   
54.015   Violations; notice and liability
   
54.016   Service to non-residents
Private Sewage Disposal
   
54.030   When applicable
   
54.031   Permit required
   
54.032   Permit, when effective; inspections
   
54.033   Specifications
   
54.034   Maintenance
   
54.035   Additional requirements
Building Sewer Installation
   
54.050   Permit required
   
54.051   Tap fee; installation expense
   
54.052   Single premises
   
54.053   Use of existing sewers
   
54.054   Construction codes
   
54.055   Unlawful connections
   
54.056   Excavations
Hazardous and Prohibited Discharges
   
54.070   Storm water, surface water, ground water, cooling water and process
water
   
54.071   Flammable, toxic, corrosive and obstructive substances; preliminary
treatment
   
54.072   Specific prohibitions as determined by Superintendent
   
54.073   Rejection, pretreatment, control of discharge rate or use fee
surcharge
   
54.074   Special exceptions permitted; use fee surcharge
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 54.001  OPERATION AND FUNDING.
   (A)   The municipality owns and operates the municipal sewer system through
the Utilities Superintendent.
   (B)   For the purpose of defraying the cost of the maintenance and repairing
of any sewer or water utilities in the municipality, the governing body may,
each year, levy a tax not exceeding the maximum limit prescribed by state law
on the taxable value of all taxable property in the municipality. The revenue
from the tax shall be known as the “Water and Sewer Maintenance Fund” and shall
be used exclusively for the purpose of maintenance and repairs of the water and
sewer system.
   (C)   The Utilities Superintendent shall have the direct management and
control of the Sewer Department, shall faithfully carry out the duties of the
office and shall have the authority to adopt rules and regulations for the
sanitary and efficient management of the Department subject to the supervision
and review of the governing body.
(Prior Code, § 3-201)  (Ord. 98-24, passed 10-5-1998)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-574, 17-925.01
§ 54.002  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND. The quantity of oxygen utilized in the
biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory procedure in
five days at 20°C, expressed milligrams per liter.
   BUILDING DRAIN. The part of the lowest horizontal piping of a house or
building drainage system which receives the discharge from, soil, waste or
other drainage pipes inside the walls of the building and conveys it to the
building sewer, beginning five feet (one and one-half meter) outside the inner
face of the building wall.
   BUILDING SEWER. The extension from the building drain to the public sewer or
other place of disposal. Also called HOUSE CONNECTION.
   CHLORINE REQUIREMENT. The amount of chlorine, in parts per million by
weight, which must be added to sewage to produce a specified residual chlorine
content, or to meet the requirements of some other objective, in accordance
with procedures set forth in Standard Methods.
   COMBINED SEWER. A sewer intended to receive both waste water and storm or
surface water.
   EASEMENT. An acquired legal right for the specific use of land owned by
others.
   FLOATABLE OIL. Oil, fat or grease in a physical state such that it will
separate by gravity from wastewater by treatment in an approved pretreatment
facility. A wastewater shall be considered free of floatable fat if it is
properly pretreated and the wastewater does not interfere with the collection
system.
   GARBAGE. The animal and vegetable waste resulting from the handling,
preparation, cooking and serving of foods.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTES. The wastewater from industrial processes, trade or
business as distinct from domestic or sanitary wastes.
   MAY. The act referred to is permissive; the term SHALL is mandatory.
   MUNICIPALITY. The City of Bloomfield, Nebraska.
   NATURAL OUTLET. Any outlet, including storm sewers and combined sewer
overflows, into a watercourse, pond, ditch, lake or other body of surface or
ground water.
   PERSON. Any individual, firm, company, association, society, corporation or
group.
   pH. The logarithm of the reciprocal of the hydrogen-ion concentration. The
concentration is the weight of hydrogen ions in grams per liter of solution.
Neutral water, for example, has a pH VALUE of seven and a hydrogen-ion
concentration of 10-7.
   PROPERLY SHREDDED GARBAGE. The wastes from the preparation, cooking and
dispensing of food that have been shredded to such a degree that all particles
will be carried freely under the flow conditions normally prevailing in public
sewers, with no particle greater than one-half inch (1.27 centimeters) in any
dimension.
   PUBLIC SEWER. A common sewer controlled by a governmental agency or public
utility.
   SANITARY SEWER. A sewer that carries liquid and water-carried wastes from
residences, commercial buildings, industrial plants and institutions, together
with minor quantities of ground, storm and surface waters that are not admitted
intentionally.
   SEWAGE. The spent water of a community. The preferred term is WASTEWATER.
   SEWER. A pipe or conduit that carries wastewater or drainage water.
   SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory; the term MAY is permissive.
   SLUG. Any discharge of water or wastewater which in concentration of any
given constituent or in quantity of flow exceeds for any period of duration
longer than 15 minutes more than five times the average 24-hour concentration
or flows during normal operation and shall adversely affect the collection
system and/or performance of the wastewater treatment works.
   STORM DRAIN. (Sometimes termed STORM SEWER.) A drain or sewer for conveying
water, ground water, subsurface water or unpolluted water from any source.
   SUPERINTENDENT. The Utilities Superintendent of the City of Bloomfield, or
his or her authorized deputy, agent or representative.
   SUSPENDED SOLIDS. Total suspended matter that either float on the surface
of, or is in suspension in water, sewage or other liquids, and that is
removable by laboratory filtering as prescribed in Standard Methods for the
Examination of Water and Wastewater and referred to as non-filterable residue.
   UNPOLLUTED WATERS. Water of quality equal to or better than the effluent
criteria in effect or water that would not cause violation of receiving water
quality standards and would not be benefitted by discharge to the sanitary
sewers and wastewater treatment facilities provided.
   WASTEWATER. The spent water of a community. From the standpoint of source,
it may be a combination of the liquid and water-carried wastes from residences,
commercial buildings, industrial plants and institutions, together with any
ground water, surface water and storm water that may be present.
   WASTEWATER FACILITIES. The structures, equipment and processes required to
collect, carry away and treat domestic and industrial wastes and dispose of the
effluent.
   WASTEWATER TREATMENT WORKS. An arrangement of devices and structure for
treating wastewater, industrial wastes and sludge. Sometimes used as synonymous
with WASTE TREATMENT PLANT or WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT or WATER POLLUTION
CONTROL PLANT.
   WATERCOURSE. A natural or artificial channel for the passage of water either
continuously or intermittently.
(Prior Code, § 3-202)
§ 54.003  CLASSIFICATION.
   The governing body may classify for the purpose of rental fees the customers
of the Municipal Sewer Department; provided that, such classifications are
reasonable and do not discriminate unlawfully against any consumer or group of
consumers.
(Prior Code, § 3-203)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-925.02
§ 54.004  SEWER USE FEES.
   (A)   Fee charged. Customers of the Municipal Sewer Department shall be
charged a fee for the use of the sewer service. Rates shall be set by
resolution and shall be on file at the office of the Municipal Clerk for public
inspection.
   (B)   Seasonal computation of usage fee. The monthly usage fee for sewer
service users will be computed on the average water usage for the winter months
of December, January and February, or for such portion of said winter months as
may have been metered. For users not having an established usage for the winter
months of December, January and February their usage shall be deemed to be the
average usage for all customers during that same period.
   (C)   Schedule of fees. The total sewer service fee for each sewer service
shall be the sum of two charges: service charge and usage fee:
      (1)   Service charge, per month: $15; and
      (2)   Usage fee, per 1,000 gallons of water used: $2.
(Prior Code, § 3-204)  (Ord 2000-24, passed 1-8-2001; Res. 20-1, passed 1-6-
2020)
§ 54.005  FEES AND COLLECTIONS.
   (A)   Sewer use fees shall be due and payable at the same time and in the
same manner as water fees are due and payable.
   (B)   All penalties and procedures concerning delinquent accounts with the
Municipal Water Department shall also be applicable to delinquent accounts with
the Municipal Sewer Department.
(Prior Code, § 3-205)
§ 54.006  DESTRUCTION OF PROPERTY.
   (A)   No person or persons shall maliciously, willfully or negligently
break, damage, destroy, uncover, deface or tamper with any structure,
appurtenance or equipment which is part of the wastewater facilities.
   (B)   Any person or persons violating this provision shall be subject to
immediate arrest under charge of disorderly conduct.
(Prior Code, § 3-206)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 54.007  UNLAWFUL DEPOSIT OF WASTES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, deposit or permit to be
deposited in any unsanitary manner on public or private property within the
municipality or within two miles of the corporate limits thereof, or in any
area under the jurisdiction of said municipality, any human or animal
excrement, garbage or other objectionable waste.
(Prior Code, § 3-207)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 54.008  PUBLIC SEWERS REQUIRED.
   (A)   Unlawful discharge of untreated sewage. It shall be unlawful to
discharge to any natural outlet within the municipality, or within two miles of
the corporate limits thereof, or in any area under the jurisdiction of said
municipality, any wastewater or other polluted waters, except where suitable
treatment has been provided in accordance with subsequent provisions of this
chapter.
(Prior Code, § 3-208)
   (B)   Mandatory hook-up. The owner of all houses, buildings or properties
used for human occupancy, employment, recreation or other purposes, situated
within the municipality and abutting on any street, alley or right-of-way in
which there is now located or may in the future be located a public sanitary or
combined sewer of the municipality, is hereby required, at his or her expense,
to install suitable toilet facilities therein, and to connect such facilities
directly with the proper public sewer in accordance with the provisions of this
chapter within 60 days after date of official notice to do so; provided that,
said public sewer is within 100 feet (30.5 meters) of the property line.
(Prior Code, § 3-209)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 54.009  REPAIRS AND MAINTENANCE.
   The municipality shall repair or replace, as the case may be, all pipe
constituting major sewer mains. It shall be the responsibility of the customer
to repair or replace all other sewer pipe and appurtenances from the main to
and including the customer’s property. All replacements and repairs made by the
customer shall be done in the manner and with the materials approved by the
Utilities Superintendent.
(Prior Code, § 3-223)
§ 54.010  GREASE, OIL AND SAND INTERCEPTORS; WHEN REQUIRED.
   Grease, oil and sand interceptors shall be provided when, in the opinion of
the Superintendent, they are necessary for the proper handling of liquid wastes
containing floatable grease in excessive amounts, or any flammable wastes, sand
or other harmful ingredients; except that, such interceptors shall not be
required for private living quarters or dwelling units. All interceptors shall
be of a type and capacity approved by the Superintendent and shall be located
as to be readily and easily accessible for cleaning and inspection. In the
maintaining of these interceptors the owner(s) shall be responsible for the
proper removal and disposal by appropriate means of the captured material and
shall maintain records of the dates and means of disposal which are subject to
review by the Superintendent. Any removal and hauling of the collected
materials not performed by owner(s’) personnel must be performed by currently
licensed waste disposal firms.
(Prior Code, § 3-229)
§ 54.011  PRELIMINARY TREATMENT OR FLOW-EQUALIZING FACILITIES; MAINTENANCE BY
OWNER.
   Where preliminary treatment or flow-equalizing facilities are provided or
required for any waters or wastes, they shall be maintained continuously in
satisfactory and effective operation by the owner at his or her expense.
(Prior Code, § 3-230)
§ 54.012  CONTROL STRUCTURES/SAMPLING STATIONS; WHEN REQUIRED; INSTALLATION AND
MAINTENANCE.
   When required by the Superintendent, the owner of any property serviced by a
building sewer carrying industrial wastes shall install a suitable control
structure together with such necessary meters and other appurtenances in the
building sewer to facilitate observation, sampling and measurement of the
wastes. Such structure, when required, shall be accessibly and safely located,
and shall be constructed in accordance with plans approved by the
Superintendent. The structure shall be installed by the owner at his or her
expense and shall be maintained by him or her so as to be safe and accessible
at all times.
(Prior Code, § 3-231)
§ 54.013  CONTROL MANHOLES/SAMPLING STATIONS; METHOD.
   All measurements, tests and analyses of the characteristics of waters and
wastes to which reference is made in this chapter, shall be determined in
accordance with the latest edition of Standard Methods for the Examination of
Water and Wastewater, published by the American Public Health Association.
Sampling methods, location, times, durations and frequencies are to be
determined on an individual basis subject to approval by the Superintendent.
(Prior Code, § 3-232)
§ 54.014  COMPLIANCE WITH CHAPTER; INSPECTIONS GENERALLY; INJURY LIABILITY;
EASEMENTS.
   (A)   Inspections generally. The Superintendent and other duly authorized
employees of the municipality bearing proper credentials and identification
shall be permitted to enter all properties for the purposes of inspection,
observation, measurement, sampling and testing pertinent to discharge to the
community system in accordance with the provisions of this chapter. The
Superintendent or other duly authorized employees are authorized to obtain
information concerning industrial processes which have a direct bearing on the
kind and source of discharge to the wastewater collection system. The industry
may withhold information considered confidential. The industry must establish
that the revelation to the public of the information in question might result
in an advantage to competitors.
(Prior Code, § 3-233)
   (B)   Injury liability. While performing the necessary work on private
properties referred to in division (A) above, the Superintendent or duly
authorized employees of the municipality shall observe all safety rules
applicable to the premises established by the company and the company shall be
held harmless for injury or death to the municipal employees and the
municipality shall indemnify the company against loss or damage to its property
by municipal employees and against liability claims and demands for personal
injury or property damage asserted against the company and growing out of the
gaging and sampling operation, except as such may be caused by negligence or
failure of the company to maintain safe conditions as required in §
54.012 of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 3-234)
   (C)   Easements.
      (1)   The Superintendent and other duly authorized employees of the
municipality bearing proper credentials and identification shall be permitted
to enter all private properties through which the municipality holds a duly
negotiated easement for the purposes of, but not limited to, inspection,
observation, measurement, sampling, repair and maintenance of any portion of
the sewage works lying within said easement.
      (2)   All entry and subsequent work, if any, on said easement, shall be
done in full accordance with the terms of the duly negotiated easement
pertaining to the private property involved.
(Prior Code, § 3-235)
§ 54.015  VIOLATIONS; NOTICE AND LIABILITY.
   (A)   Any person found to be violating any provision of this chapter, except
§
54.007 of this chapter, shall be served by the municipality with written notice
stating the nature of the violation and providing a reasonable time limit for
the satisfactory correction thereof. The offender shall, within the period of
time stated in such notice, permanently cease all violations.
   (B)   Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall
become liable to the municipality for any expense, loss, or damage occasioned
the municipality by reason of such violation.
(Prior Code, § 3-236)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 54.016  SERVICE TO NON-RESIDENTS.
   The Municipal Sewer Department shall not supply sewer service to any person
outside the corporate limits without special permission from the governing
body; provided, the entire cost of laying mains and building sewer pipe shall
be paid by the customer. Nothing herein shall be construed to obligate the
municipality to provide sewer service to non-residents.
(Prior Code, § 3-237)
PRIVATE SEWAGE DISPOSAL
§ 54.030  WHEN APPLICABLE.
   (A)   Where a public sanitary or combined sewer is not available under the
provisions of §
54.008(B) of this chapter, the building sewer shall be connected to a private
sewage disposal system complying with the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   At such time as a public sewer becomes available to a property served
by a private wastewater disposal system, as provided in §
54.008(B) of this chapter, a direct connection shall be made to the public
sewer within 60 days in compliance with this chapter, and any septic tanks,
cesspools and similar private wastewater disposal facilities shall be cleaned
of sludge and filled with suitable material.
(Prior Code, § 3-210)
§ 54.031  PERMIT REQUIRED.
   Before commencement of construction of a private wastewater disposal system,
the owner shall first obtain a written permit signed by the Superintendent. The
application for such permit shall be made on a form furnished by the
municipality, which the applicant shall supplement by any plans, specifications
and other information as are deemed necessary by the Superintendent. A permit
and inspection fee in an amount set by resolution of the governing body shall
be paid to the municipality at the time the application is filed.
(Prior Code, § 3-211)
§ 54.032  PERMIT, WHEN EFFECTIVE; INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   A permit for a private wastewater disposal system shall not become
effective until the installation is completed to the satisfaction of the
Superintendent.
   (B)   He or she shall be allowed to inspect the work at any stage of
construction and, in any event, the applicant for the permit shall notify the
Superintendent when the work is ready for final inspection, and before any
underground portions are covered.
   (C)   The inspection shall be made within 24 hours of the receipt of notice
by the Superintendent.
(Prior Code, § 3-212)
§ 54.033  SPECIFICATIONS.
   (A)   The type, capacities, location and layout of a private wastewater
disposal system shall comply with all recommendations of the Department of
Public Health of the state.
   (B)   No permit shall be issued for any private wastewater disposal system
employing subsurface soil absorption facilities when the area of the lot is
less than 10,000 square feet.
   (C)   No septic tank or cesspool shall be permitted to discharge to any
natural outlet.
(Prior Code, § 3-213)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 54.034  MAINTENANCE.
   The owner shall operate and maintain the private wastewater disposal
facilities in a sanitary manner at all times, at no expense to the
municipality.
(Prior Code, § 3-214)
§ 54.035  ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS.
   No statement contained in this subchapter shall be construed to interfere
with any additional requirements that may be imposed by the Municipal Board of
Health.
(Prior Code, § 3-215)
BUILDING SEWER INSTALLATION
§ 54.050  PERMIT REQUIRED.
   No unauthorized person shall uncover, make any connections with or opening
into, use, alter or disturb any public sewer or appurtenance thereof without
first obtaining permission from the Superintendent.
(Prior Code, § 3-216)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 54.051  TAP FEE; INSTALLATION EXPENSE.
   (A)   Upon application for the installation of sewer service, the customer
shall pay a tap fee to the Municipal Clerk in the amount of $250, which shall
entitle the customer to tap into the municipal sewer system.
   (B)   The Utilities Superintendent, or his or her authorized representative,
shall perform the actual tapping of the sewer main, but all other costs and
expense incident to the installation and connection of the building sewer shall
be borne by the customer.
   (C)   The customer shall indemnify the municipality from any loss or damage
that may directly or indirectly be occasioned by the installation of the
building sewer.
(Prior Code, § 3-217)
§ 54.052  SINGLE PREMISES.
   A separate and independent building sewer shall be provided for every
building; except where one building stands at the rear of another on an
interior lot and no private sewer is available or can be constructed to the
rear building through an adjoining alley, court, yard, or driveway, the
building sewer from the front building may be extended to the rear building and
the whole considered as one building sewer, but the municipality does not and
will not assume any obligation or responsibility for damage caused by or
resulting from any such single connection aforementioned.
(Prior Code, § 3-218)
§ 54.053  USE OF EXISTING SEWERS.
   Old building sewers may be used in connection with new buildings only when
they are found, on examination and test by the Superintendent, to meet all
requirements of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 3-219)
§ 54.054  CONSTRUCTION CODES.
   (A)   The size, slope, alignment, materials of construction of a building
sewer, and the methods to be used in excavating, placing of the pipe, jointing,
testing and backfilling the trench, shall all conform to the requirements of
the building and plumbing code or other applicable rules and regulations of the
municipality. In the absence of code provisions or in amplification thereof,
the materials and procedures set forth in appropriate specifications of the
A.S.T.M. and W.P.C.F. Manual of Practice No. 9 shall apply.
   (B)   (1)   Whenever possible, the building sewer shall be brought to the
building at an elevation below the basement floor.
      (2)   In all buildings in which any building drain is too low to permit
gravity flow to the public sewer, sanitary sewage carried by such building
drain shall be lifted by an approved means and discharged to the building
sewer.
   (C)   The connection of the building sewer into the public sewer shall
conform to the requirements of the Building and Plumbing Code or other
applicable rules and regulations of the municipality, or the procedures set
forth in appropriate specifications of the A.S.T.M. and the W.P.C.F. Manual of
Practice No. 9. All such connections shall be made gas-tight and water-tight,
and verified by proper testing. Any deviation from the prescribed procedures
and materials must be approved by the Superintendent before installation.
(Prior Code, § 3-220)
§ 54.055  UNLAWFUL CONNECTIONS.
   No person shall make connection of roof downspouts, exterior foundation
drains, areaway drains or other sources of surface runoff or ground water to a
building sewer or building drain which in turn is connected directly or
indirectly to a public sanitary sewer unless such connection is approved by the
Superintendent for purposes of disposal of polluted surface drainage.
(Prior Code, § 3-221)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 54.056  EXCAVATIONS.
   (A)   All excavations for building sewer installation shall be adequately
guarded with barricades and lights so as to protect the public from hazard.
   (B)   Streets, sidewalks, parkways and other public property disturbed in
the course of the work shall be restored in a manner satisfactory to the
municipality.
(Prior Code, § 3-222)
HAZARDOUS AND PROHIBITED DISCHARGES
§ 54.070  STORM WATER, SURFACE WATER, GROUND WATER, COOLING WATER AND PROCESS
WATER.
   (A)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any unpolluted
waters such as storm water, ground water, roof runoff, subsurface drainage or
cooling water to any sewer, except storm water runoff from limited areas, which
storm water may be polluted at times, may be discharged to the sanitary sewer
by permission of the Superintendent.
   (B)   Storm water other than that exempted above, and all other unpolluted
drainage shall be discharged to such sewers as are specifically designated as
combined sewers or storm sewers, or to a natural outlet approved by the
Superintendent and other regulatory agencies. Unpolluted industrial cooling
water or process water may be discharged, on approval of the Superintendent, to
a storm sewer, combined sewer or natural outlet.
(Prior Code, § 3-224)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 54.071  FLAMMABLE, TOXIC, CORROSIVE AND OBSTRUCTIVE SUBSTANCES; PRELIMINARY
TREATMENT.
   (A)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any of the
following described waters or wastes to any public sewers:
      (1)   Any gasoline, benzene, naphtha, fuel oil or other flammable or
explosive liquid, solid or gas;
      (2)   Any waters or wastes containing toxic or poisonous solids, liquids
or gases in sufficient quantity, either singly or by interaction with other
wastes, to injure or interfere with any waste treatment process, constitute a
hazard to humans or animals, create a public nuisance or create any hazard in
the receiving waters of the wastewater treatment plant;
      (3)   Any waters or wastes having a pH lower than 5.5, or having any
other corrosive property capable of causing damage or hazard to structures,
equipment and personnel of the wastewater works;
      (4)   Solid or viscous substances in quantities or of such size capable
of causing obstruction to the flow in sewers, or other interference with the
proper operation of the wastewater facilities such as, but not limited to,
ashes, bones, cinders, sand, mud, straw, shavings, metal, glass, rags,
feathers, tar, plastics, wood, unground garbage, whole blood, paunch manure,
hair and fleshings, entrails and paper dishes, cups, milk containers and the
like, either whole or ground by garbage grinders; and
      (5)   Any waters or wastes having:
         (a)   A five-day BOD greater than 300 parts per million by weight;
         (b)   Containing more than 350 parts per million by weight of
suspended solids;
         (c)   Having an average daily flow greater than 2% of the average
sewage flow of the municipality; or
         (d)   A chlorine requirement greater than demanded by normal sewage as
evaluated by the municipality’s consulting engineer shall be subject to the
review of the Superintendent.
   (B)   Where necessary in the opinion of the Superintendent, the owner shall
provide, at his or her expense, such preliminary treatment as may be necessary
to:
      (1)   Reduce the biochemical oxygen demand to 300 parts per million by
weight;
      (2)   Reduce the suspended solids to 350 parts per million by weight;
      (3)   Control the quantities and rates of discharge of such waters or
wastes; or
      (4)   Reduce the chlorine requirement to conform with normal sewage.
   (C)   Plans, specifications and other pertinent information relating to
proposed preliminary treatment facilities shall be submitted for the approval
of the Superintendent and no construction of such facilities shall be commenced
until said approvals are obtained in writing.
(Prior Code, § 3-225)
§ 54.072  SPECIFIC PROHIBITIONS AS DETERMINED BY SUPERINTENDENT.
   (A)   The following described substances, materials, water or waste shall be
limited in discharges to municipal systems to concentrations or quantities
which will not harm either the sewers, wastewater treatment process or
equipment, will not have an adverse effect on the receiving stream or will not
otherwise endanger lives, limb, public property or constitute a nuisance. The
Superintendent may set limitations lower than the limitations established in
the regulations below if, in his or her opinion, such more severe limitations
are necessary to meet the above objectives. In forming his or her opinion as to
the acceptability, the Superintendent will give consideration to such factors
as the quantity of subject waste in relation to flows and velocities in the
sewers, materials of construction of the sewers, the wastewater treatment
process employed, capacity of the wastewater treatment plant, degree of
treatability of the waste in the wastewater treatment plant and other pertinent
factors.
   (B)   The limitations or restrictions on materials or characteristics of
waste or wastewaters discharged to the sanitary sewer which shall not be
violated without approval of the Superintendent are as follows:
      (1)   Wastewater having a temperature higher than 150°F (65°C);
      (2)   Wastewater containing more than 25 milligrams per liter of
petroleum oil, non-biodegradable cutting oils or product of mineral oil origin;
      (3)   Wastewater from industrial plants containing floatable oils, fat or
grease;
      (4)   Any garbage that has not been properly shredded. Garbage grinders
may be connected to sanitary sewers from homes, hotels, institutions,
restaurants, hospitals, catering establishments or similar places where garbage
originates from the preparation of food in kitchens for the purpose of
consumption on the premises or when served by caterers;
      (5)   Any waters or wastes containing iron, chromium, copper, zinc and
similar objectionable or toxic substances to such degree that any such material
received in the composite wastewater at the sewage treatment works exceeds the
limits established by the Superintendent for such materials;
      (6)   Any waters or wastes containing odor-producing substances exceeding
limits which may be established by the Superintendent;
      (7)   Any radioactive wastes or isotopes of such half-life or
concentration as may exceed limits established by the Superintendent in
compliance with applicable state or federal regulations;
      (8)   Quantities of flow, concentrations or both which constitute a
“slug”, as defined herein;
      (9)   Materials which exert or cause:
         (a)   Unusual concentrations of inert suspended solids (such as, but
not limited to, Fuller’s earth, lime slurries and lime residues) or of
dissolved solids, (such as but not limited to, sodium chloride or sodium
sulfate);
         (b)   Excessive discoloration (such as, but not limited to, dye wastes
and vegetable tanning solutions);
         (c)   Unusual BOD, chemical oxygen demand or chlorine requirements in
such quantities as to constitute a significant load on the sewage treatment
works; and
         (d)   Unusual volume of flow or concentration of wastes constituting
“slugs”, as defined herein.
      (10)   Waters or wastes containing substances which are not amenable to
treatment or reduction by the wastewater treatment processes employed, or are
amenable to treatment only to such degree that the wastewater treatment plant
effluent cannot meet the requirements of other agencies having jurisdiction
over discharge to the receiving waters; and
      (11)   Any water or wastes which, by interaction with other water or
wastes in the public sewer system, release obnoxious gases, for suspended
solids which interfere with the collection system, or create a condition
deleterious to structures and treatment processes.
(Prior Code, § 3-226)
§ 54.073  REJECTION, PRETREATMENT, CONTROL OF DISCHARGE RATE OR USE FEE
SURCHARGE.
   (A)   If any waters or wastes are discharged, or are proposed to be
discharged to the public sewers, which waters contain the substances or possess
the characteristics enumerated in §
54.072 of this chapter and which, in the judgment of the Superintendent, may
have a deleterious effect upon the wastewater facilities, processes, equipment
or receiving waters, or which otherwise create a hazard to life to constitute a
public nuisance, the Superintendent may:
      (1)   Reject the wastes;
      (2)   Require pretreatment to an acceptable condition for discharge to
the public sewers;
      (3)   Require control over the quantities and rates of discharge; and/or
      (4)   Require payment to cover the added cost of handling and treating
the wastes not covered by existing taxes or sewer charges under the provisions
of §
54.074 of this chapter.
   (B)   When considering the above alternatives, the Superintendent shall give
consideration to the economic impact of each alternative on the discharger. If
the Superintendent permits the pretreatment or equalization of waste flows, the
design and installation of the plants and equipment shall be subject to the
review and approval of the Superintendent.
(Prior Code, § 3-227)
§ 54.074  SPECIAL EXCEPTIONS PERMITTED; USE FEE SURCHARGE.
   No statement contained in this chapter shall be construed as preventing any
special agreement or arrangement between the municipality and any industrial
concern whereby an industrial waste of unusual strength or character may be
accepted by the municipality for treatment, subject to payment therefor, by the
industrial concern.
(Prior Code, § 3-228)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
71.   TRAFFIC AND PARKING RULES
      
72.   RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
      
73.   SNOW EMERGENCY ROUTES
      
74.   TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
      
75.   PARKING SCHEDULES
CHAPTER 70:  GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
70.01   Definitions
   
70.02   Traffic regulations; general authority
   
70.03   Regulation of highways; police powers
   
70.04   Prohibitions on operation of vehicles
   
70.05   Ordinances contrary to state law prohibited
   
70.06   Placement and maintenance of traffic control devices
   
70.07   Enforcement of rules and laws
   
70.08   Failure or refusal to obey order
   
70.09   Obedience to traffic control devices; exceptions
   
70.10   Authorized emergency vehicles; privileges
   
70.11   Traffic officers
 
   
70.99   Traffic infractions; penalty
Statutory reference:
   Nebraska Rules of the Road, see Neb. RS 60-601
§ 70.01  DEFINITIONS.
   The words and phrases used in this traffic code, pertaining to motor
vehicles and traffic regulations, shall be construed as defined in Neb. RS Ch.
60, Art. 6, as now existing or hereafter amended. If not defined in the
designated statutes, the word or phrase shall have its common meaning.
(Prior Code, § 5-101)  (Ord. 6-94, passed 6-6-1994)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 60-606 through 60-676
§ 70.02  TRAFFIC REGULATIONS; GENERAL AUTHORITY.
   (A)   The City Council may, in its jurisdiction, enact regulations
permitting, prohibiting and controlling the use of motor vehicles, minibikes,
motorcycles, off-road recreation vehicles of any and all types, other powered
vehicles, electric personal assistive mobility devices and vehicles which are
not self-propelled. Any person who operates any of such vehicles without the
permission of the City Council or its designated representative or in a place,
time or manner which has been prohibited by the City Council shall be guilty of
an offense.
   (B)   The City Council may further authorize the supervising official of any
area under its ownership or control to permit, control, or prohibit operation
of any motor vehicle, minibike, motorcycle, off-road recreational vehicle of
any or all types, other powered vehicle, electric personal assistive mobility
device or vehicle which is not self-propelled on all or any portion of any area
under its ownership or control at any time by posting or, in case of an
emergency, by personal notice. Any person operating any such vehicle where
prohibited, where not permitted or in a manner so as to endanger the peace and
safety of the public or as to harm or destroy the natural features or manmade
features of any such area shall be guilty of an offense.
(Neb. RS 60-678)  Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.03  REGULATION OF HIGHWAYS; POLICE POWERS.
   (A)   The City Council with respect to highways under its jurisdiction and
within the reasonable exercise of the police power may:
      (1)   Regulate or prohibit stopping, standing or parking;
      (2)   Regulate traffic by means of peace officers or traffic control
devices;
      (3)   Regulate or prohibit processions or assemblages on the highways;
      (4)   Designate highways or roadways for use by traffic moving in one
direction;
      (5)   Establish speed limits for vehicles in public parks;
      (6)   Designate any highway as a through highway or designate any
intersection as a stop or yield intersection;
      (7)   Restrict the use of highways as authorized in §
70.04 of this chapter;
      (8)   Regulate operation of bicycles and require registration and
inspection of such, including requirement of a registration fee;
      (9)   Regulate operation of electric personal assistive mobility devices;
      (10)   Regulate or prohibit the turning of vehicles or specified types of
vehicles;
      (11)   Alter or establish speed limits authorized in the Nebraska Rules
of the Road;
      (12)   Designate no-passing zones;
      (13)   Prohibit or regulate use of controlled-access highways by any
class or kind of traffic, except those highways which are a part of the state
highway system;
      (14)   Prohibit or regulate use of heavily traveled highways by any class
or kind of traffic it finds to be incompatible with the normal and safe
movement of traffic; except that, such regulations shall not be effective on
any highway which is part of the state highway system unless authorized by the
Department of Transportation;
      (15)   Establish minimum speed limits as authorized in the Rules;
      (16)   Designate hazardous railroad grade crossings as authorized in the
Rules;
      (17)   Designate and regulate traffic on play streets;
      (18)   Prohibit pedestrians from crossing a roadway in a business
district or any designated highway, except in a crosswalk as authorized in the
Rules;
      (19)   Restrict pedestrian crossings at unmarked crosswalks as authorized
in the Rules;
      (20)   Regulate persons propelling push carts;
      (21)   Regulate persons upon skates, coasters, sleds and other toy
vehicles;
      (22)   (a)   Notwithstanding any other provision of law, adopt and
enforce an ordinance or resolution prohibiting the use of engine brakes on the
National System of Interstate and Defense Highways that has a grade of less
than five degrees within its jurisdiction.
            (b)   For the purpose of this division (A)(22), the following
definition shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
            ENGINE BRAKE. A device that converts a power producing engine into
a power-absorbing air compressor, resulting in a net energy loss;
      (23)   Adopt and enforce such temporary or experimental regulations as
may be necessary to cover emergencies or special conditions; and
      (24)   Adopt other traffic regulations, except as prohibited by state law
or contrary to state law.
   (B)   The City Council shall not erect or maintain any traffic control
device at any location so as to require the traffic on any state highway or
state-maintained freeway to stop before entering or crossing any intersecting
highway unless approval in writing has first been obtained from the Department
of Transportation.
   (C)   No ordinance or regulation enacted under divisions (A)(4), (A)(5), (A)
(6), (A)(7), (A)(10), (A)(11), (A)(12), (A)(13), (A)(14), (A)(16), (A)(17) or
(A)(19) shall be effective until traffic control devices giving notice of such
local traffic regulations are erected upon or at the entrances to such affected
highway or part thereof affected as may be most appropriate.
(Neb. RS 60-680)
§ 70.04  PROHIBITIONS ON OPERATION OF VEHICLES.
   (A)   The City Council may, by ordinance or resolution, prohibit the
operation of vehicles upon any highway or impose restrictions as to the weight
of vehicles, for a total period not to exceed 180 days in any one calendar
year, when operated upon any highway under the jurisdiction of and for the
maintenance of which the City Council is responsible whenever any such highway
by reason of deterioration, rain, snow or other climatic condition will be
seriously damaged or destroyed unless the use of vehicles thereon is prohibited
or the permissible weight thereof reduced. The City Council shall erect or
cause to be erected and maintained signs designating the provisions of the
ordinance or resolution at each end of that portion of any highway affected
thereby, and the ordinance or resolution shall not be effective until such
signs are erected and maintained.
   (B)   The City Council may also, by ordinance or resolution, prohibit the
operation of trucks or other commercial vehicles or impose limitations as to
the weight thereof on designated highways, which prohibitions and limitations
shall be designated by appropriate signs placed on such highways.
(Neb. RS 60-681)
§ 70.05  ORDINANCES CONTRARY TO STATE LAW PROHIBITED.
   The City Council shall not enact or enforce any ordinance directly contrary
to the Nebraska Rules of the Road unless expressly authorized by the
legislature.
(Neb. RS 60-6,108)
§ 70.06  PLACEMENT AND MAINTENANCE OF TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES.
   The City Council shall place and maintain such traffic control devices upon
highways under its jurisdiction as it deems necessary to indicate and to carry
out the provisions of this title or to regulate, warn or guide traffic. All
such traffic control devices erected pursuant to this title shall conform with
the Manual.
(Neb. RS 60-6,121)
§ 70.07  ENFORCEMENT OF RULES AND LAWS.
   (A)   All peace officers are hereby specifically directed and authorized and
it shall be deemed and considered a part of the official duties of each of such
officers to enforce the provisions of Nebraska Rules of the Road and this
title, including the specific enforcement of maximum speed limits, and any
other state or city law regulating the operation of vehicles or the use of the
highways.
   (B)   To perform the official duties imposed by this section, peace officers
shall have the power:
      (1)   To make arrests upon view and without warrant for any violation
committed in their presence of any of the provisions of the Motor Vehicle
Operator’s License Act or this title or of any other law regulating the
operation of vehicles or the use of the highways, if and when designated or
called upon to do so as provided by law;
      (2)   To make arrests upon view and without warrant for any violation
committed in their presence of any provision of the laws of this state relating
to misdemeanors or felonies or of similar city ordinances if and when
designated or called upon to do so as provided by law;
      (3)   At all times to direct all traffic in conformity with law or, in
the event of a fire or other emergency or in order to expedite traffic or
insure safety, to direct traffic as conditions may require;
      (4)   When in uniform, to require the driver of a vehicle to stop and
exhibit his or her operator’s license and registration certificate issued for
the vehicle and submit to an inspection of such vehicle and the license plates
and registration certificate for the vehicle and to require the driver of a
motor vehicle to present the vehicle within five days for correction of any
defects revealed by such motor vehicle inspection as may lead the inspecting
officer to reasonably believe that such motor vehicle is being operated in
violation of the statutes of the state, the rules and regulations of the
Director of Motor Vehicles or any city ordinance or regulation;
      (5)   To inspect any vehicle of a type required to be registered
according to law in any public garage or repair shop or in any place where such
a vehicle is held for sale or wrecking;
      (6)   To serve warrants relating to the enforcement of the laws
regulating the operation of vehicles or the use of the highways; and
      (7)   To investigate traffic accidents for the purpose of carrying on a
study of traffic accidents and enforcing motor vehicle and highway safety laws.
(Neb. RS 60-683)
Statutory reference:
   Motor Vehicle Operator’s License Act, see Neb. RS 60-462
§ 70.08  FAILURE OR REFUSAL TO OBEY ORDER.
   (A)   Any person who knowingly fails or refuses to obey any lawful order of
any peace officer who is controlling or directing traffic shall be guilty of a
traffic infraction.
   (B)   Any person who knowingly fails to obey any lawful order of a peace
officer shall be guilty of an offense whenever such order is given in
furtherance of the apprehension of a person who has violated the Nebraska Rules
of the Road or this title or of a person whom such officer reasonably believes
has violated the Rules or this title.
(Neb. RS 60-6,110)  Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.09  OBEDIENCE TO TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES; EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   The driver of any vehicle shall obey the instructions of any traffic
control device applicable thereto placed in accordance with the Nebraska Rules
of the Road or this title, unless otherwise directed by a peace officer,
subject to the exceptions granted the driver of an authorized emergency vehicle
in the Rules and this title.
   (B)   No provision of the Rules or this title for which traffic control
devices are required shall be enforced against an alleged violator if at the
time and place of the alleged violation an official device is not in proper
position and sufficiently legible to be seen by a reasonably observant person.
Whenever any provision of the Rules or this title does not state that traffic
control devices are required, such provision shall be effective even though no
devices are erected or in place.
   (C)   Whenever traffic control devices are placed in position approximately
conforming to the requirements of the Rules or this title, such devices shall
be presumed to have been so placed by the official act or direction of lawful
authority unless the contrary is established by competent evidence.
   (D)   Any traffic control device placed pursuant to the Rules or this title
and purporting to conform with the lawful requirements pertaining to such
devices shall be presumed to comply with the requirements of the Rules or this
title unless the contrary is established by competent evidence.
(Neb. RS 60-6,119)  Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.10  AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLES; PRIVILEGES.
   (A)   Subject to the conditions stated in the Nebraska Rules of the Road and
this title, the driver of an authorized emergency vehicle, when responding to
an emergency call, when pursuing an actual or suspected violator of the law, or
when responding to but not when returning from a fire alarm, may:
      (1)   Stop, park, or stand, irrespective of the provisions of the Rules
and this title, and disregard regulations governing direction of movement or
turning in specified directions; and
      (2)   Except for wreckers towing disabled vehicles and highway
maintenance vehicles and equipment:
         (a)   Proceed past a steady red indication, a flashing red indication,
or a stop sign, but only after slowing down as may be necessary for safe
operation; and
         (b)   Exceed the maximum speed limits so long as he or she does not
endanger life, limb or property.
   (B)   Except when operated as a police vehicle, the exemptions granted in
division (A) above shall apply only when the driver of such vehicle, while in
motion, sounds an audible signal by bell, siren or exhaust whistle as may be
reasonably necessary and when such vehicle is equipped with at least one
lighted light displaying a red light visible under normal atmospheric
conditions from a distance of 500 feet to the front of such vehicle.
   (C)   The exemptions granted in division (A) above shall not relieve the
driver from the duty to drive with due regard for the safety of all persons,
nor shall such provisions protect such driver from the consequences of his or
her reckless disregard for the safety of others.
   (D)   Authorized emergency vehicles operated by police and fire departments
shall not be subject to the size and weight limitations of Neb. RS 60-6,288 to
60-6,290 and 60-6,294.
(Neb. RS 60-6,114)  (Prior Code, § 5-203)
§ 70.11  TRAFFIC OFFICERS.
   The City Council or the city police may at any time detail officers, to be
known as “traffic officers”, at street intersections. All traffic officers
shall be vested with the authority to regulate and control traffic at the
intersections to which they are assigned. It shall be their duty to direct the
movement of traffic and prevent congestion and accidents. It shall be unlawful
for any person to violate any order or signal of any such traffic officer
notwithstanding the directive of a stop sign or signal device that may have
been placed at any such intersection.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.99  TRAFFIC INFRACTIONS; PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, or any person’s agent or servant, who violates any of the
provisions of this chapter, unless otherwise specifically provided herein,
shall be deemed guilty of an offense and, upon conviction thereof, shall be
fined in any sum not exceeding $500. A new violation shall be deemed to have
been committed every 24 hours of failure to comply with the provisions of this
chapter.
   (B)   (1)   Whenever a nuisance exists as defined in this chapter, the
municipality may proceed by a suit in equity to enjoin, abate and remove the
same in the manner provided by law.
      (2)   Whenever, in any action, it is established that a nuisance exists,
the court may, together with the fine or penalty imposed, enter an order of
abatement as a part of the judgment in the case.
(Prior Code, § 5-801)  (Ord. 2000-16, passed 5-1-2000)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-505, 18-1720, 18-1722
CHAPTER 71:  TRAFFIC AND PARKING RULES
Section
Traffic Provisions
   
71.01   Restrictions on direction of travel
   
71.02   Right-of-way; stop and yield signs
   
71.03   Interference with traffic control devices or railroad signs or signals
   
71.04   Signs, markers, devices or notices; prohibited acts
   
71.05   Tire requirements and prohibitions; permissive uses
   
71.06   Truck routes
   
71.07   Turning; “U” turns
   
71.08   Crosswalks
   
71.09   Left turn prohibited for diagonal parking, drive-throughs
   
71.10   School crossing zones
Speed Limits
   
71.25   Basic rule
   
71.26   Maximum limits
   
71.27   Bridges and other elevated structures
   
71.28   Alternative maximum limits
   
71.29   Near schools
Parking Provisions
   
71.40   Regulation or prohibition authorized
   
71.41   Roadway outside business or residential district
   
71.42   General prohibitions; exceptions
   
71.43   Obstructing street, intersection or entrance
   
71.44   Intersections
   
71.45   Alleys
   
71.46   Truck parking, loading and unloading
   
71.47   Display or repair of vehicle
   
71.48   Current registration
   
71.49   Time limits
   
71.50   Snow; weather emergencies; highway maintenance
   
71.51   Parallel, angle and center parking
   
71.52   Backing freight vehicle to curb
   
71.53   Unattended motor vehicle
   
71.54   Painting of curbs
   
71.55   Tickets
   
71.56   Removal of illegally stopped vehicles; liability for costs
TRAFFIC PROVISIONS
§ 71.01  RESTRICTIONS ON DIRECTION OF TRAVEL.
   (A)   The City Council, with respect to highways under its jurisdiction, may
designate any highway, roadway, part of a roadway or specific lanes upon which
vehicular traffic shall proceed in one direction at all times or at such times
as shall be indicated by traffic control devices.
   (B)   Except for emergency vehicles, no vehicle shall be operated, backed,
pushed or otherwise caused to move in a direction which is opposite to the
direction designated by competent authority on any deceleration lane,
acceleration lane, access ramp, shoulder or roadway.
   (C)   A vehicle which passes around a rotary traffic island shall be driven
only to the right of such island.
(Neb. RS 60-6,138)
§ 71.02  RIGHT-OF-WAY; STOP AND YIELD SIGNS.
   (A)   The City Council may provide for preferential right-of-way at an
intersection and indicate such by stop signs or yield signs erected by such
authorities.
   (B)   Except when directed to proceed by a peace officer or traffic control
signal, every driver of a vehicle approaching an intersection where a stop is
indicated by a stop sign shall stop at a clearly marked stop line or shall
stop, if there is no such line, before entering the crosswalk on the near side
of the intersection or, if no crosswalk is indicated, at the point nearest the
intersecting roadway where the driver has a view of approaching traffic on the
intersecting roadway before entering the intersection. After having stopped,
such driver shall yield the right-of-way to any vehicle which has entered the
intersection from another highway or which is approaching so closely on such
highway as to constitute an immediate hazard if such driver moved across or
into such intersection.
   (C)   The driver of a vehicle approaching a yield sign shall slow to a speed
reasonable under the existing conditions and, if required for safety to stop,
shall stop at a clearly marked stop line or shall stop, if there is no such
line, before entering the crosswalk on the near side of the intersection or, if
no crosswalk is indicated, at the point nearest the intersecting roadway where
the driver has a view of approaching traffic on the intersecting roadway. After
slowing or stopping, such driver shall yield the right-of-way to any vehicle in
the intersection or approaching on another highway so closely as to constitute
an immediate hazard if such driver moved across or into such intersection.
(Neb. RS 60-6,148)  Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.03  INTERFERENCE WITH TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES OR RAILROAD SIGNS OR
SIGNALS.
   No person shall, without lawful authority, attempt to or in fact alter,
deface, injure, knock down or remove any traffic control device, any railroad
sign or signal or any part of such a device, sign or signal.
(Neb. RS 60-6,129)  Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.04  SIGNS, MARKERS, DEVICES OR NOTICES; PROHIBITED ACTS.
   (A)   (1)   Any person who willfully or maliciously shoots upon the public
highway and injures, defaces, damages or destroys any signs, monuments, road
markers, traffic control devices, traffic surveillance devices or other public
notices lawfully placed upon such highways shall be guilty of an offense.
      (2)   No person shall willfully or maliciously injure, deface, alter or
knock down any sign, traffic control device or traffic surveillance device.
      (3)   It shall be unlawful for any person, other than a duly authorized
representative of the Department of Transportation, the county or the city, to
remove any sign, traffic control device or traffic surveillance device placed
along a highway for traffic control, warning or informational purposes by
official action of the department, county or city. It shall be unlawful for any
person to possess a sign or device which has been removed in violation of this
division (C).
      (4)   Any person violating divisions (B) or (C) above shall be guilty of
an offense and shall be assessed liquidated damages in the amount of the value
of the sign, traffic control device or traffic surveillance device and the cost
of replacing it.
(Neb. RS 60-6,130)  (Prior Code, § 5-205)
   (B)   The use of mechanical devices operated by compressed air and used for
purposes of assisting braking on any semi-tractor, commonly referred to as
“Jake braking” be prohibited at all times within the municipal limits.
(Res. 2014-08, passed 11-3-2014)  Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.05  TIRE REQUIREMENTS AND PROHIBITIONS; PERMISSIVE USES.
   (A)   Every solid rubber tire on a vehicle moved on any highway shall have
rubber on its entire traction surface at least one inch thick above the edge of
the flange of the entire periphery.
   (B)   No tire on a vehicle moved on a highway shall have on its periphery
any clock, stud, flange, cleat or spike or any other protuberance of any
material other than rubber which projects beyond the tread of the traction
surface of the tire; except that:
      (1)   This prohibition shall not apply to pneumatic tires with metal or
metal-type studs not exceeding five-sixteenths of an inch in diameter inclusive
of the stud-casing with an average protrusion beyond the tread surface of not
more than seven-sixty-fourths of an inch between November 1 and April 1; except
that, school buses, mail carrier vehicles and emergency vehicles shall be
permitted to use metal or metal-type studs at any time during the year;
      (2)   It shall be permissible to use farm machinery with tires having
protuberances which will not injure the highway; and
      (3)   It shall be permissible to use tire chains of reasonable
proportions upon any vehicle when required for safety because of snow, ice or
other condition tending to cause a vehicle to slide or skid.
   (C)   (1)   No person shall operate or move on any highway any motor
vehicle, trailer or semitrailer:
         (a)   Having any metal tire in contact with the roadway; or
         (b)   Equipped with solid rubber tires.
      (2)   Division (C)(1) above shall not apply to farm vehicles having a
gross weight of 10,000 pounds or less or to implements of husbandry.
   (D)   The city may, in its discretion, issue special permits authorizing the
operation upon a highway of traction engines or tractors having movable tracks
with transverse corrugations upon the periphery of such movable tracks or farm
tractors or other farm machinery.
(Neb. RS 60-6,250)
Statutory reference:
   Rubber tired cranes, see Neb. RS 60-6,288
§ 71.06  TRUCK ROUTES.
   The governing body may, by resolution, designate certain streets in the
municipality that trucks shall travel upon, and it shall be unlawful for
persons operating such trucks to travel on other streets than those designated
for trucks, unless to pick up or deliver goods, wares or merchandise, and in
that event, the operator of such truck shall return to such truck routes as
soon as possible in traveling through, or about the municipality. The governing
body shall cause notices to be posted, or shall erect signs indicating the
streets so designated as truck routes.
(Prior Code, § 5-201)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 60-681
§ 71.07  TURNING; “U” TURNS.
   No vehicle shall be turned so as to proceed in the opposite direction where
an automatic signal is in operation, or where a sign is posted indicating that
U-turns are prohibited.
(Prior Code, § 5-202)  Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 60-680
§ 71.08  CROSSWALKS.
   The governing body may, by resolution, establish and maintain, by
appropriate devices, markers or lines upon the street, crosswalks, at
intersections where there is particular danger to pedestrians crossing the
street and at such other places as they may deem necessary.
(Prior Code, § 5-204)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 60-680
§ 71.09  LEFT TURN PROHIBITED FOR DIAGONAL PARKING, DRIVE-THROUGHS.
   No vehicle shall be allowed to turn left across the centerline of Broadway
Street or Main Street in the downtown business district (which business
district is hereby defined as being one block north, south, east and west of
the intersection of Broadway and Main Streets) so as to park such vehicle in
the diagonal parking spaces, nor shall such left hand turn across the center
line be allowed for purposes of entering a vehicular drive-through business.
This section does not prohibit such left hand turn across the centerline of
Main Street for the purposes of a vehicle entering any private driveway or
alley.
(Prior Code, § 5-207)  (Ord. 8-93, passed 10-4-1993)  Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.10  SCHOOL CROSSING ZONES.
   (A)   Designation.
      (1)   Neb. RS 60-682.01 provides fines for operating a motor vehicle in
violation of authorized speed limits and states that the fines are doubled if
the violation occurs within a school crossing zone.
      (2)   Neb. RS 60-6,134.01 makes it unlawful for a person operating a
motor vehicle to overtake and pass another vehicle in a school crossing zone in
which the roadway has only one lane of traffic in each direction and provides
fines for violation of that prohibition.
      (3)   The governing body may, by resolution, designate to the public any
area of a roadway, other than a freeway, as a school crossing zone through the
use of a sign or traffic control device as specified by the governing body in
conformity with the Manual on Uniform Traffic Control Devices.  Any school
crossing zone so designated starts at the location of the first sign or traffic
control device identifying the school crossing zone and continues until a sign
or traffic control device indicates that the school crossing zone has ended.
(Prior Code, § 5-208)
   (B)   Overtaking and passing. A person operating a motor vehicle may not
overtake and pass another vehicle in any school crossing zone designated by the
governing body in which the roadway has only one lane of traffic in each
direction.
(Prior Code, § 5-209)  (Ord. 98-26, passed 10-5-1998; Ord. 98-27, passed 10-5-
1998)  Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 60-658.01, 60-6,134.01
SPEED LIMITS
§ 71.25  BASIC RULE.
   No person shall operate a motor vehicle on any street, alley or other place
at a rate of speed greater than 25 mph unless a different rate of speed is
specifically permitted by ordinance. In no instance shall a person drive a
vehicle on State Highway 84 within the corporate limits of the city at a speed
greater than 35 mph from the western limits of the city to the intersection of
Pierce and Main Streets or from the intersection of Randolph and Main Streets
to the eastern limits of the city. No person shall operate a motor vehicle at a
rate of speed in excess of 25 mph between the intersections of Pierce and Main
Streets and the intersection of Randolph and Main Streets. Where a different
maximum speed is set by ordinance, appropriate signs shall be posted.
(Prior Code, § 5-302)  (Ord. 14-95, passed 8-7-1995)  Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 60-6,185, 60-6,186, 60-6,190
§ 71.26  MAXIMUM LIMITS.
   (A)   Except when a special hazard exists that requires lower speed for
compliance with §
71.25, the limits set forth in this section and Neb. RS 60-6,187, 60-6,188, 60-
6,305 and 60-6,313 shall be the maximum lawful speeds unless reduced pursuant
to division (B) below, and no person shall drive a vehicle on a highway at a
speed in excess of such maximum limits:
      (1)   Twenty-five mph in any residential district;
      (2)   Twenty mph in any business district;
      (3)   Fifty mph upon any highway that is gravel or not dustless surfaced;
      (4)   Fifty-five mph upon any dustless-surfaced highway not a part of the
state highway system;
      (5)   Sixty-five mph upon any four-lane divided highway not a part of the
state highway system; and
      (6)   Sixty-five mph upon any part of the state highway system other than
an expressway, a super-two highway or a freeway.
   (B)   The maximum speed limits established in division (A) above may be
reduced by the Department of Transportation or the City Council pursuant to §
71.28 of this chapter or Neb. RS 60-6,188.
   (C)   The City Council may erect and maintain suitable signs along highways
under its jurisdiction in such number and at such locations as it deems
necessary to give adequate notice of the speed limits established pursuant to
divisions (A) or (B) above upon such highways.
(Neb. RS 60-6,186)  Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.27  BRIDGES AND OTHER ELEVATED STRUCTURES.
   (A)   No person shall drive a vehicle over any public bridge, causeway,
viaduct or other elevated structure at a speed which is greater than the
maximum speed which can be maintained with safety thereon when such structure
is posted with signs as provided in division (B) below.
   (B)   The Department of Transportation or the City Council may conduct an
investigation of any bridge or other elevated structure constituting a part of
a highway under its jurisdiction and, if it finds that the structure cannot
safely withstand vehicles traveling at the speed otherwise permissible, the
Department or the City Council shall determine and declare the maximum speed of
vehicles which the structure can safely withstand and shall cause suitable
signs stating the maximum speed to be erected and maintained before each end of
the structure.
   (C)   Upon the trial of any person charged with a violation of division (A)
above, proof of the determination of the maximum speed by the Department or the
City Council and the existence of such signs shall constitute conclusive
evidence of the maximum speed which can be maintained with safety on the bridge
or structure.
(Neb. RS 60-6,189)  Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.28  ALTERNATIVE MAXIMUM LIMITS.
   (A)   Whenever the Department of Transportation determines, upon the basis
of an engineering and traffic investigation, that any maximum speed limit is
greater or less than is reasonable or safe under the conditions found to exist
at any intersection, place or part of the state highway system outside of the
corporate limits of cities and villages as well as inside the corporate limits
of cities and villages on freeways which are part of the state highway system,
it may determine and set a reasonable and safe maximum speed limit for such
intersection, place or part of such highway which shall be the lawful speed
limit when appropriate signs giving notice thereof are erected at such
intersection, place or part of the highway; except that, the maximum rural and
freeway limits shall not be exceeded. Such a maximum speed limit may be set to
be effective at all times or at such times as are indicated upon such signs.
   (B)   On all highways within its corporate limits, except on state-
maintained freeways which are part of the state highway system, the City
Council shall have the same power and duty to alter the maximum speed limits as
the Department if the change is based on engineering and traffic investigation;
except that, no imposition of speed limits on highways which are part of the
state highway system in the city shall be effective without the approval of the
Department.
   (C)   Not more than six such speed limits shall be set per mile along a
highway, except in the case of reduced limits at intersections, and the
difference between adjacent limits shall not be more than 20 mph.
   (D)   When the Department or the City Council determines by an investigation
that certain vehicles in addition to those specified in Neb. RS 60-6,187, 60-
6,305 and 60-6,313 cannot with safety travel at the speeds provided in §§
71.26 and
71.27 of this chapter and Neb. RS 60-6,187, 60-6,305 and 60-6,313 or set
pursuant to this section, §
71.27 of this chapter or Neb. RS 60-6,188, the Department or the City Council
may restrict the speed limit for such vehicles on highways under its respective
jurisdiction and post proper and adequate signs.
(Neb. RS 60-6,190)
§ 71.29  NEAR SCHOOLS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the driver of any vehicle, when passing
premises on which school buildings are located and which are used for school
purposes, during school recess or while children are going to or leaving school
during the opening or closing hours, to drive the vehicle at a rate of speed in
excess of 15 mph past the premises.
   (B)   The driver shall stop at all stop signs located at or near such school
premises, and it shall be unlawful for the driver to make a U-turn at any
intersection where such stop signs are located at or near such school premises.
(Prior Code, § 5-303)  Penalty, see §
70.99
PARKING PROVISIONS
§ 71.40  REGULATION OR PROHIBITION AUTHORIZED.
   (A)   The City Council with respect to highways under its jurisdiction and
within the reasonable exercise of the police power may regulate or prohibit
stopping, standing or parking.
(Neb. RS 60-680)
   (B)   If the City Council regulates or prohibits stopping, standing or
parking all vehicles or a particular kind or class of vehicles on a highway or
a portion of a highway, no person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle subject
to such regulation or prohibition on the highway or portion thereof longer than
a period of time necessary to load and unload freight or passengers.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.41  ROADWAY OUTSIDE BUSINESS OR RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT.
   (A)   (1)   No person shall stop, park or leave standing any vehicle,
whether attended or unattended, upon a roadway outside of a business or
residential district when it is practicable to stop, park or leave such vehicle
off such part of a highway, but in any event an unobstructed width of the
roadway opposite a standing vehicle shall be left for the free passage of other
vehicles and a clear view of such stopped vehicle shall be available from a
distance of 200 feet in each direction upon such highway.
      (2)   Such parking, stopping or standing shall in no event exceed 24
hours.
   (B)   No person shall stop, park or leave standing any vehicle on a freeway
except in areas designated or unless so directed by a peace officer; except
that, when a vehicle is disabled or inoperable or the driver of the vehicle is
ill or incapacitated, such vehicle shall be permitted to park, stop or stand on
the shoulder facing in the direction of travel with all wheels and projecting
parts of such vehicle completely clear of the traveled lanes, but in no event
shall such parking, standing or stopping upon the shoulder of a freeway exceed
12 hours.
   (C)   No person, except law enforcement, fire department, emergency
management, public or private ambulance or authorized Department of
Transportation or local authority personnel, shall loiter or stand or park any
vehicle upon any bridge, highway or structure which is located above or below
or crosses over or under the roadway of any highway or approach or exit road
thereto.
   (D)   Whenever a vehicle is disabled or inoperable in a roadway or for any
reason obstructs the regular flow of traffic for reasons other than an
accident, the driver shall move or cause the vehicle to be moved as soon as
practical so as to not obstruct the regular flow of traffic.
   (E)   This section does not apply to the driver of any vehicle which is
disabled while on the roadway in such manner and to such extent that it is
impossible to avoid stopping and temporarily leaving such disabled vehicle in
such position until such time as it can be removed pursuant to division (D)
above.
(Neb. RS 60-6,164)  Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.42  GENERAL PROHIBITIONS; EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   Except when necessary to avoid conflict with other traffic or when in
compliance with law or the directions of a peace officer or traffic control
device, no person shall:
      (1)   Stop, stand or park any vehicle:
         (a)   On the roadway side of any vehicle stopped or parked at the edge
or curb of a street;
         (b)   On a sidewalk;
         (c)   Within an intersection;
         (d)   On a crosswalk;
         (e)   Between a safety zone and the adjacent curb or within 30 feet of
points on the curb immediately opposite the ends of a safety zone unless the
City Council indicates a different length by signs or markings;
         (f)   Alongside or opposite any street excavation or obstruction when
stopping, standing or parking would obstruct traffic;
         (g)   Upon any bridge or other elevated structure over a highway or
within a highway tunnel;
         (h)   On any railroad track; or
         (i)   At any place where official signs prohibit stopping.
      (2)   Stand or park a vehicle, whether occupied or not, except
momentarily to pick up or discharge a passenger or passengers:
         (a)   In front of a public or private driveway;
         (b)   Within 15 feet of a fire hydrant;
         (c)   Within 20 feet of a crosswalk at an intersection;
         (d)   Within 30 feet of any flashing signal, stop sign, yield sign or
other traffic control device located at the side of a roadway;
         (e)   Within 20 feet of the driveway entrance to any fire station and
on the side of a street opposite the entrance to any fire station within 75
feet of such entrance when properly signposted; or
         (f)   At any place where official signs prohibit standing.
      (3)   Park a vehicle, whether occupied or not, except temporarily for the
purpose of and while actually engaged in loading or unloading merchandise or
passengers:
         (a)   Within 50 feet of the nearest rail of a railroad crossing; or
         (b)   At any place where official signs prohibit parking.
   (B)   No person shall move a vehicle not lawfully under his or her control
into any such prohibited area or away from a curb such a distance as shall be
unlawful.
(Neb. RS 60-6,166)  Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.43  OBSTRUCTING STREET, INTERSECTION OR ENTRANCE.
   No person shall, except in case of an accident or emergency, stop any
vehicle in any location where stopping will obstruct any street, intersection
or entrance to an alley or public or private drive.
(Prior Code, § 5-405)  Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.44  INTERSECTIONS.
   Except when necessary to avoid conflict with other traffic or when in
compliance with law or the directions of a peace officer or traffic control
device, no person shall park a vehicle or leave a vehicle standing for any
purpose, except momentarily to load or discharge passengers, within 25 feet of
the intersection of curb lines or, if none, then within 15 feet of the
intersection of property lines, or where the curb lines are painted red or
another color specified by the City Council to indicate such prohibition.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.45  ALLEYS. 
   (A)   No person shall park a vehicle with any portion thereof projecting
into any alley entrance.
   (B)   No person shall park a vehicle in any alley, except for the purpose of
loading or unloading during the time necessary to load or unload, which shall
not exceed the maximum limit of one-half hour.     (C)   Every vehicle while
loading or unloading in an alley shall be parked in such manner as will cause
the least obstruction possible to traffic in the alley.
(Prior Code, § 5-403)  Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.46  TRUCK PARKING, LOADING AND UNLOADING. 
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any truck with an overall
length of more than 20 feet to park or stop such vehicle on a street within the
business district except to load or unload when loading or unloading in an
alley is impossible and then only for the period of time reasonably necessary
to load or unload.
   (B)   If the City Council provides truck parking areas adjoining or adjacent
to the business district, all truck operators shall use such parking areas for
all parking purposes.
   (C)   Except in an area provided for by the City Council by resolution, it
shall be unlawful for the operator of any truck, including an oil tanker, to
park or stop for any period of time within the limits of any street outside the
business district, except for the purpose of loading or unloading the cargo
thereof in the ordinary course of business.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.47  DISPLAY OR REPAIR OF VEHICLE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to park upon any highway or public
place within the city any vehicle displayed for sale. Except when necessary due
to a breakdown or other emergency, no person shall adjust or repair, or race
the motor of, any motor vehicle or motorcycle while standing on the highways of
the city.
   (B)   No person or employee connected with a garage or repair shop shall use
sidewalks or highways in the vicinity of the garage or shop for the purpose of
working on vehicles of any description.
(Prior Code, § 5-408)  Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.48  CURRENT REGISTRATION.
   It shall be unlawful to park or place on the highways or other public
property any vehicle required to be registered by the Motor Vehicle
Registration Act that is not registered in accordance with the Act.
Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Motor Vehicle Registration Act, see Neb. RS  60-301
§ 71.49  TIME LIMITS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to park a vehicle on a public street for over 24
consecutive hours, except where a different maximum time limit is posted.
   (B)   If the City Council adopts a resolution entirely prohibiting, or
fixing a time limit for, the parking and stopping of vehicles on any highway,
it is unlawful to park or stop any vehicle in such highway for a period of time
longer than fixed in the resolution.
(Prior Code, § 5-410)  Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.50  SNOW; WEATHER EMERGENCIES; HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   Unless the City Council provides otherwise, it is unlawful to park or
stand any vehicle on any highway in the city at any time within 12 hours after
a snowfall of three inches or more has occurred within a 24-hour period if the
snow has not been removed within that time.
   (B)   The Police Chief, the city police or any other designated person may
order any highway or portion thereof vacated for weather emergencies or highway
maintenance. Notice shall be given by personally notifying the owner or
operator of a vehicle parked on such highway or by posting appropriate signs
along the highway not less than four hours prior to the time that the vacation
order is to be effective. It is unlawful to park a vehicle on a highway or
portion thereof vacated in accordance with this division (B).
   (C)   A vehicle parked in violation of this section may be removed and
parked, under the supervision of the city police, to a suitable nearby location
without further notice to the owner or operator of such vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 5-411)  Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.51  PARALLEL, ANGLE AND CENTER PARKING.
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided in this section, any vehicle stopped or
parked upon a two-way roadway where parking is permitted shall be so stopped or
parked with the right-hand wheels parallel to and within 12 inches of the
right-hand curb or edge of such roadway. No vehicle shall be parked upon a
roadway when there is a shoulder adjacent to the roadway which is available for
parking.
   (B)   Except when otherwise provided by the City Council, every vehicle
stopped or parked upon a one-way roadway shall be so stopped or parked parallel
to the curb or edge of such roadway, in the direction of authorized traffic
movement, with its right-hand wheels within 12 inches of the right-hand curb or
edge of the roadway or its left-hand wheels within 12 inches of the left-hand
curb or edge of such roadway.
   (C)   The City Council may permit angle or center parking on any roadway;
except that, angle or center parking shall not be permitted on any federal-aid
highway or on any part of the state highway system unless the Director-State
Engineer has determined that such roadway is of sufficient width to permit
angle or center parking without interfering with the free movement of traffic.
   (D)   (1)   The City Council may prohibit or restrict stopping, standing or
parking on highways under its jurisdiction and erect and maintain proper and
adequate signs thereon.
      (2)   No person shall stop, stand or park any vehicle in violation of the
restrictions stated on such signs.
(Neb. RS 60-6,167)
   (E)   Where stalls are designated either on the curb or pavement, vehicles
shall be parked within those stalls.
   (F)   Vehicles must not be parked at any curb in such a position as to
prevent another vehicle already parked at the curb from moving away.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.52  BACKING FREIGHT VEHICLE TO CURB.
   The operator of a vehicle of an over-all length of less than 20 feet,
including load, while loading or unloading freight may back the vehicle to the
curb but shall occupy as little of the street as possible.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.53  UNATTENDED MOTOR VEHICLE.
   No person having control or charge of a motor vehicle shall allow such
vehicle to stand unattended on a highway without first doing the following:
   (A)   Stopping the motor of such vehicle;
   (B)   Except for vehicles equipped with motor starters that may be actuated
without a key, locking the ignition, removing the key from the ignition;
   (C) Effectively setting the brakes thereon; and
   (D)   When standing upon any roadway, turning the front wheels of such
vehicle to the curb or side of such roadway.
(Neb. RS 60-6,168)  Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.54  PAINTING OF CURBS.
   (A)   The curb space within 15 feet in either direction of a fire hydrant
shall be painted red or another color specified by the City Council, to
indicate that parking is prohibited in such area.
   (B)   If the City Council adopts a resolution regulating or prohibiting the
parking or stopping of vehicles at the curb on highways in front of certain
facilities or at certain locations, the curbs adjacent to any such facility or
location shall be painted in such manner as directed by the City Council to
indicate such regulation or prohibition.
   (C)   It shall be the duty of the City Council or its agent to cause the
curb space to be painted and to keep the same painted as provided in this
chapter or as specified by the City Council. The marking or designating of
portions of highways where the parking of vehicles is prohibited or limited
shall be done only by the city through its proper officers, at the direction of
the City Council. No person shall paint the curb of any highway or in any
manner set aside, or attempt to prevent the parking of vehicles in, any highway
or part thereof, except at such places where the parking of vehicles is
prohibited by the provisions of this chapter or by a resolution adopted by the
City Council.
(Prior Code, § 5-407)  Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.55  TICKETS.
   All tickets issued for violations of non-moving traffic regulations
contained in this chapter shall, in addition to information normally stated on
such tickets, carry the following information:
   (A)   The amount of the fine if paid within 30 days;
   (B)   The amount of the fine if not paid within 30 days;
   (C)   The location where payment may be made; and
   (D)   The fact that a complaint will be filed after 30 days if the fine is
not paid in that time.
§ 71.56  REMOVAL OF ILLEGALLY STOPPED VEHICLES; LIABILITY FOR COSTS.
   (A)   Whenever any peace officer, or any authorized employee of a law
enforcement agency who is employed by the city and specifically empowered by
ordinance to act, finds a vehicle standing upon a highway in violation of any
of the provisions of this chapter, the individual may remove the vehicle, have
such vehicle removed or require the driver or other person in charge of the
vehicle to move such vehicle to a position off the roadway of the highway or
from the highway.
   (B)   The owner or other person lawfully entitled to the possession of any
vehicle towed or stored shall be charged with the reasonable cost of towing and
storage fees. Any towing or storage fee shall be a lien upon the vehicle prior
to all other claims. Any person towing or storing a vehicle shall be entitled
to retain possession of the vehicle until the charges are paid. The lien
provided for in this section shall not apply to the contents of any vehicle.
(Neb. RS 60-6,165)
CHAPTER 72:  RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
Section
General Provisions
   
72.01   Bicycle operation
   
72.02   Motorcycle operation
All-Terrain and Utility Vehicles
   
72.15   Definitions
   
72.16   Operation requirements and hours
   
72.17   Operator requirements
   
72.18   Compliance
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 72.01  BICYCLE OPERATION.
   (A)   No person shall operate a bicycle on a street or highway within the
municipality with another person on the handlebars or in any position in front
of the operator.
   (B)   No bicycle shall be operated faster than is reasonable and proper, but
every bicycle shall be operated with reasonable regard to the safety of the
operator and any other persons upon the streets and highways.
   (C)   Persons operating bicycles shall observe all traffic signs and stop at
all stop signs.
   (D)   No bicycle shall be operated on any street or highway from sunset to
sunrise without a headlight visible from the front thereof for not less than
500 feet on a clear night and a red reflector on the rear of a type which shall
be visible on a clear night from all distances between 100 feet and 600 feet to
the rear when directly in from of lawful lower beams of headlights on a motor
vehicle. A red light visible from a distance of 500 feet to the rear may be
used in addition to such red reflector.
   (E)   Any person who operates a bicycle upon a street or highway shall not
ride more than single file, except on parts of streets or highways set aside
for the exclusive use of bicycles.
   (F)   (1)   Any person who operates a bicycle upon a roadway at less than
the normal speed of traffic at the time and place and under conditions then
existing shall ride as near to the right-hand curb or right-hand edge of the
roadway as practicable, except when:
         (a)   Overtaking and passing another bicycle or vehicle proceeding in
the same direction;
         (b)   Preparing for a left turn onto a private road or driveway or at
an intersection;
         (c)   Reasonably necessary to avoid conditions that make it unsafe to
continue along the right-hand curb or right-hand edge of the roadway, including
fixed or moving objects, stopped or moving vehicles, bicycles, pedestrians,
animals or surface hazards;
         (d)   Riding upon a lane of substandard width which is too narrow for
a bicycle and a vehicle to travel safely by side within the lane; or
         (e)   Lawfully operating a bicycle on the paved shoulders of a highway
included in the state highway system as provided in Neb. RS 60-6,142.
      (2)   Any person who operates a bicycle upon a roadway with a posted
speed limit of 35 mph or less on which traffic is restricted to one direction
of movement and which has two or more marked traffic lanes may ride as near to
the left-hand curb or left-hand edge of the roadway as practicable.  Whenever a
person operating a bicycle leaves the roadway to ride on the paved shoulder or
leaves the paved shoulder to enter the roadway, the person shall clearly signal
his or her intention and yield the right-of-way to all other vehicles.
   (G)   No person shall park a bicycle on any sidewalk unless a bicycle stand
is located on said sidewalk.
   (H)   No person shall operate a bicycle on the sidewalks within the business
district.
(Prior Code, § 5-501)  (Ord. 7-94, passed 6-6-1994)  Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 60-6,315, 60-6,317, 60-6,318
§ 72.02  MOTORCYCLE OPERATION.
   No person operating a motorcycle shall carry another person in front of the
operator. Motorcycles shall also not be operated more than two abreast in a
single lane.
(Neb. RS 60-6,307)  (Prior Code, § 5-601)  Penalty, see §
70.99
ALL-TERRAIN AND UTILITY VEHICLES
§ 72.15  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLE. Any motorized off-highway vehicle which:
      (1)   Is 50 inches or less in width;
      (2)   Has a dry weight of 900 pounds or less;
      (3)   Travels on three or more low-pressure tires;
      (4)   Is designed for operator use only with no passengers or is
specifically designed by the original manufacturer for the operator and one
passenger;
      (5)   Has a seat or saddle designed to be straddled by the operator; and
      (6)   Has handlebars or any other steering assembly for steering control.
(Neb. RS 60-6,355)
   STREET or HIGHWAY. The entire width between the boundary limits of any
street, road, avenue, boulevard or way which is publicly maintained when any
part thereof is open to the use of the public for purposes of vehicular travel.
(Neb. RS 60-624)
   UTILITY-TYPE VEHICLE.
      (1)   Any motorized off-highway vehicle which:
         (a)   Is not less than 48 inches, nor more than 74 inches, in width;
         (b)   Is not more than 135 inches, including the bumper, in length;
         (c)   Has a dry weight of not less than 900 pounds, nor more than
2,000 pounds;
         (d)   Travels on four or more low-pressure tires; and
         (e)   Is equipped with a steering wheel and bench or bucket-type
seating designed for at least two people to sit side-by-side.
      (2)   UTILITY-TYPE VEHICLE does not include golf carts or low-speed
vehicles.
(Neb. RS 60-6,355)  (Ord. 10-5, passed - -2010)
§ 72.16  OPERATION REQUIREMENTS AND HOURS.
   (A)   An all-terrain vehicle and a utility-type vehicle may be operated on
streets and highways within the corporate limits of the city only if the
operator and the vehicle comply with the provisions of this section.
   (B)   An all-terrain vehicle or a utility-type vehicle may be operated only
between the hours of sunrise and sunset and shall not be operated at a speed in
excess of 30 mph. When operating an all-terrain vehicle or a utility-type
vehicle as authorized in division (A) above, the headlight and taillight of the
vehicle shall be on and the vehicle shall be equipped with a bicycle safety
flag which extends not less than five feet above ground attached to the rear of
such vehicle. The bicycle safety flag shall be triangular in shape with an area
of not less than 30 square inches and shall be day-glow in color.
   (C)   An all-terrain vehicle or a utility-type vehicle shall not be operated
on any controlled-access highway with more than two marked traffic lanes, and
the crossing of any controlled-access highway with more than two marked traffic
lanes shall not be permitted. Divisions (B), (C) and (D) of this section and §
72.18 of this chapter authorize and apply to operation of an all-terrain
vehicle or a utility-type vehicle only on a street or highway other than a
controlled-access highway with more than two marked traffic lanes.
   (D)   Subject to division (C) above, the crossing of a street or highway
shall be permitted by an all-terrain vehicle or a utility-type vehicle without
complying with divisions (A) and (B) above only if:
      (1)   The crossing is made at an angle of approximately 90 degrees to the
direction of the street or highway and at a place where no obstruction prevents
a quick and safe crossing;
      (2)   The vehicle is brought to a complete stop before crossing the
shoulder or roadway of the street or highway;
      (3)   The operator yields the right-of-way to all oncoming traffic that
constitutes an immediate potential hazard;
      (4)   In crossing a divided highway, the crossing is made only at an
intersection of such highway with another highway; and
      (5)   Both the headlight and taillight of the vehicle are on when the
crossing is made.
(Ord. 10-5, passed - -2010)  Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 60-6,356
§ 72.17  OPERATOR REQUIREMENTS.
   Any person operating an all-terrain vehicle or a utility-type vehicle as
authorized in §
72.16(A) of this chapter shall have:
   (A)   A valid Class O operator’s license or a farm permit as provided in
Neb. RS 60-4,126; and
   (B)   Liability insurance coverage for the all-terrain vehicle or a utility-
type vehicle while operating the all-terrain vehicle or a utility-type vehicle
on a street or highway. The person operating the all-terrain vehicle or a
utility-type vehicle shall provide proof of such insurance coverage to any
peace officer requesting such proof within five days of such a request.
(Ord. 10-5, passed - -2010)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 72.18  COMPLIANCE.
   All-terrain vehicles and utility-type vehicles may be operated without
complying with §§
72.16(B) and 72.17 of this chapter on streets and highways in parades which
have been authorized by the state or any department, board, commission or
political subdivision of the state.
(Ord. 10-5, passed - -2010)
CHAPTER 73:  SNOW EMERGENCY ROUTES
Section
   
73.01   Interference with snow removal
   
73.02   Establishment of routes
   
73.03   Declaration of emergency; parking prohibition
   
73.04   Parking prohibition on residential streets
   
73.05   Parking on city-owned or operated parking facilities
   
73.06   Operation of motor vehicles
   
73.07   Stalled vehicles
   
73.08   Mayoral declaration of emergency
   
73.09   Provision temporarily effective to take precedence
   
73.10   Removing stalled or parked vehicles
   
73.11   Emergency vehicles
 
   
73.99   Penalty
§ 73.01  INTERFERENCE WITH SNOW REMOVAL.
   (A)   Whenever there is a snowfall in the municipality to a depth of three
inches or more during any period of 24 hours or less, an emergency is hereby
declared to exist, constituting a serious public hazard, impairing
transportation and jeopardizing the welfare and safety of the municipality. To
meet such an emergency, the Mayor may, by rules and regulations, prohibit the
parking and stopping of vehicles in such streets, districts or city-owned or
operated parking facilities as he or she may designate to enable the
expeditious removal of snow. It shall be unlawful for the owner or operator of
any vehicle to permit such vehicle to be parked, stopped or left standing in
any street, streets, district or city-owned parking facility during the periods
of time set forth in such rules and regulations. In addition to any penalty
assessed for the violation of this section, any vehicle stopped, parked or left
standing in violation of this section or the provisions of any rules or
regulations adopted pursuant hereto, may be removed as provided in §
73.10 of this chapter.
   (B)   Whenever a snow emergency exists, the Mayor shall give notice of such
emergency by an announcement through available news media, such as the press,
radio or television, of the streets or parking facilities, or parts thereof,
whereon the parking of vehicles will be prohibited and the hours during which
prohibition will be in effect.
(Prior Code, § 5-701)  (Ord. 417, passed 12-1-1980; Ord. 97-24, passed 11-3-
1997)  Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.02  ESTABLISHMENT OF ROUTES.
   (A)   The following streets are hereby designated a snow route within the
city:
      (1)   Main Street, from Pierre Street to Randolph Street; and
      (2)   Broadway, from Lincoln Street to the bridge over Little Bazile
Creek.
   (B)   In addition to the above named streets, the Mayor, or his or her
designee, is hereby authorized to establish snow emergency routes upon any
street or highway of the city and may place appropriate signs, marks, lines,
signals or other traffic control devices indicating the existence of said snow
emergency routes. Such designation of any street, highway or portion thereof as
a snow emergency route shall in no way affect any previous designation of that
street or highway as an arterial or other road designation.
(Prior Code, § 5-702)  (Ord. 417, passed 12-1-1980; Ord. 97-24, passed 11-3-
1997)
§ 73.03  DECLARATION OF EMERGENCY; PARKING PROHIBITION.
   The Mayor, or his or her designee, may order a parking prohibition on all
snow emergency routes by declaring that an emergency exists on the basis of
falling snow, sleet, freezing rain or official forecast by the U.S. Weather
Service on snow, sleet, freezing rain or other weather conditions making it
necessary that parking on a snow emergency route be prohibited for snow plowing
or other purposes.  In such declaration, the Mayor, or his or her designee,
shall state the time that said emergency shall be in effect. It shall be
unlawful for any person to park or allow to remain parked any vehicle on any
portion of a snow emergency route during a parking prohibition affecting such
streets. Once in effect, the parking prohibition imposed under this section
shall remain in effect until terminated by the Mayor or his or her designee.
However, nothing in this section shall be construed to permit parking at any
time or place where it is forbidden by any other provision of law.
(Prior Code, § 5-703)  (Ord. 417, passed 12-1-1980; Ord. 97-24, passed 11-3-
1997)  Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.04  PARKING PROHIBITION ON RESIDENTIAL STREETS.
   The Mayor, or his or her designee, may order a parking prohibition on parts
or all of residential streets by declaring an emergency exists on the basis of
accumulated snow or other conditions making it necessary that parking on
residential streets be prohibited or restricted for snow plowing or other
purposes. Streets subject to total parking prohibition on both sides of the
street shall be established only by executive order by the Mayor or his or her
designee. For all other streets, the Mayor, or his or her designee, may order
that parking be prohibited on one side of the residential streets, designating
either the odd or even address numbered side. In such orders, the Mayor, or his
or her designee, shall state the date and time on which such parking
prohibitions shall take effect. The parking prohibitions or restrictions shall
remain in effect until terminated by the Mayor or his or her designee. It shall
be unlawful for any person to park or allow to remain parked any vehicle upon
residential streets in violation of a declared prohibition affecting such
streets.
(Prior Code, § 5-704)  (Ord. 417, passed 12-1-1980; Ord. 97-24, passed 11-3-
1997)  Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.05  PARKING ON CITY-OWNED OR OPERATED PARKING FACILITIES.
   The Mayor, or his or her designee, may order a parking prohibition on any
part or all of any or all city-owned or operated parking facilities be
prohibited for snow plowing or other purposes. In such declaration, the Mayor,
or his or her designee, shall state the date and time on which such parking
prohibition shall take effect. The prohibition shall remain in effect until
terminated by the Mayor or his or her designee.
(Prior Code, § 5-705)  (Ord. 417, passed 12-1-1980; Ord. 97-24, passed 11-3-
1997)
§ 73.06  OPERATION OF MOTOR VEHICLES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the owner or person operating a motor vehicle
on a snow emergency route to allow such vehicle to become stalled or stuck on
such snow emergency route during a declared emergency parking prohibition.
   (B)   For purposes of this subchapter, STALLED shall include any motor
vehicles stalled because the motor fuel supply is exhausted or the battery has
become inoperative.
(Prior Code, § 5-706)  (Ord. 417, passed 12-1-1980; Ord. 97-24, passed 11-3-
1997)  Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.07  STALLED VEHICLES.
   It shall be unlawful for the person operating a motor vehicle that has
stalled for any reason on any snow emergency route on which there is a parking
prohibition in effect to fail to take immediate action to have the vehicle
towed or pushed off the roadway of such snow emergency route, either onto the
nearest cross street which is not a snow emergency route, or other appropriate
location. No person shall abandon or leave his or her vehicle in the roadway of
a snow emergency route, except for the purpose of securing assistance during
the actual time necessary to go to a nearby telephone or to a nearby garage,
gasoline station or other place of assistance and return without delay.
(Prior Code, § 5-707)  (Ord. 417, passed 12-1-1980; Ord. 97-24, passed 11-3-
1997)  Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.08  MAYORAL DECLARATION OF EMERGENCY.
   (A)   The Mayor, or his or her designee, shall publicly announce each
declaration of a snow emergency made pursuant to this chapter by means of
broadcast or telecast from broadcasting stations with a normal operating range
covering the city, and in newspapers of general circulation when so desired.
Each announcement shall describe the action taken by the Mayor or his or her
designee, including the time it became or will become effective, and shall
specify the streets or areas affected. The Mayor, or his or her designee, shall
issue an executive order to record the details of such snow emergency as soon
after the declaration of an emergency as feasible. 
   (B)   The Mayor, or his or her designee, may declare the prohibition
terminated, in whole or in part, effective immediately upon announcement or at
a later specified time.
(Prior Code, § 5-708)  (Ord. 417, passed 12-1-1980; Ord. 97-24, passed 11-3-
1997)
§ 73.09  PROVISION TEMPORARILY EFFECTIVE TO TAKE PRECEDENCE.
   Any provision of this chapter which becomes effective by order or
declaration of the Mayor or his or her designee upon the occurrence of a snow
emergency, while temporarily in effect, shall take precedence over other
conflicting provisions of law normally in effect; except that, it shall not
take precedence over provisions of law relating to traffic accidents, emergency
travel of authorized emergency vehicles or emergency traffic directions by a
police officer.
(Prior Code, § 5-709)  (Ord. 417, passed 12-1-1980; Ord. 97-24, passed 11-3-
1997)
§ 73.10  REMOVING STALLED OR PARKED VEHICLES.
   (A)   Members of the Police or Sheriff’s Department are hereby authorized to
remove or have removed a vehicle from a street or city-owned or operated
parking facility to another place or location on a street or to a lot, garage,
storage yard or other similar facility designated by the Police or Sheriff’s
Department when:
      (1)   The vehicle is parked on a snow emergency route on which a parking
prohibition is in effect;
      (2)   The vehicle is stalled on a snow emergency route on which there is
a parking prohibition in effect and the person who is operating said vehicle
does not appear to be removing it in accordance with the provisions of this
chapter; or
      (3)   The vehicle is parked on any streets or other public area in
violation of any parking prohibition or provision of law contained in this
chapter and is interfering or about to interfere with snow removal operations.
   (B)   The owner or other person lawfully entitled to the possession of any
vehicle towed or stored shall be charged with the reasonable cost of towing and
storage fees. Any such towing or storage fee shall be a lien upon the vehicle
prior to all other claims. Any person towing or storing a vehicle shall be
entitled to retain possession of such vehicle until such charges are paid. The
lien provided for in this section shall not apply to the contents of the
vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 5-710)  (Ord. 417, passed 12-1-1980; Ord. 97-24, passed 11-3-
1997)
§ 73.11  EMERGENCY VEHICLES.
   The provisions of this chapter regulating the movement, parking and standing
of vehicles shall not apply to authorized emergency vehicles, as defined in
this chapter, while the driver of such vehicle is operating the same in an
emergency in the necessary performance of public duties.
(Prior Code, § 5-711)  (Ord. 417, passed 12-1-1980; Ord. 97-24, passed 11-3-
1997)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 60-6,114
§ 73.99  PENALTY.
   The fine for violation of §
73.03 of this chapter shall be in the amount of $25. The fine for a violation
of §
73.04 of this chapter shall be in the amount of $10. The fines assessed for the
above violations should be paid at the office of the Municipal Clerk within 15
days of the date of issuance.  Should the fine not be paid within the 15-day
period, the Clerk shall ask the Municipal Attorney to file a complaint in the
appropriate court.
(Prior Code, § 5-712)  (Ord. 417, passed 12-1-1980; Ord. 97-24, passed 11-3-
1997)
CHAPTER 74:  TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
Schedule
      
I.   Stop and yield intersections
      
II.   One-way traffic
SCHEDULE I. STOP AND YIELD INTERSECTIONS.
 
Location                                        Type  Ord./Res. No. Date Passed
Corner of North Pierce Street and West Bazille
Street, in which the traffic from North Pierce  Stop  R. 04-5       10-4-2004
Street must stop before entering West Bazille
Street
Corner of North Pierce Street and Grant Street,
in which the traffic from North Pierce Street   Yield R. 04-6       10-4-2004
must yield before entering Grant Street
Corner of Grant and Pierce Street, in which the
traffic from Grant Street must yield before     Yield R. 04-7       11-1-2004
entering Pierce Street
 
Penalty, see §
70.99
SCHEDULE II. ONE-WAY TRAFFIC.
 
Street          Location           Special Provisions Ord./Res. No. Date Passed
                                   7:30 a.m. to 5:00
                                   p.m. on school
                                   days (exception
                                   for snow
McNamara Street From Elm Street to emergencies: for   R. 2018-06    7-9-2018
                Ciro Street        residents that
                                   need to use Ciro
                                   Street and Park
                                   Street to get
                                   home)
 
CHAPTER 75:  PARKING SCHEDULES
Schedule
      
I.   Restricted parking
SCHEDULE I. RESTRICTED PARKING.
 
Street           Location         Restriction/       Ord./Res. No. Date Passed
                                  Limitation
                                  No on-street
East Park Street South side       parking effective  R. 2017-09    6-16-2017
                                  May 15 through
                                  August 15
                 West side, from  No on-street
North 2nd Street Main Street to   parking            R. 2014-07    12-1-2014
                 West 1st Avenue
North Washington Three spaces,
Street           west side of the 15-minute parking  R. 08-8       12-1-2008
                 100 Block
Randolph Street  From Main Street No residential on- R. 2018-03    2-12-2018
                 to Benton Street street parking
 
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   ANIMAL CONTROL
      
91.   HEALTH AND SANITATION; NUISANCES
      
92.   FIRE PREVENTION AND PROTECTION
      
93.   RECREATION AND LEISURE
      
94.   CEMETERIES
      
95.   FAIR HOUSING
CHAPTER 90:  ANIMAL CONTROL
Section
General Provisions
   
90.01   Killing and injuring
   
90.02   Exotic pets and domesticated farm animals
   
90.03   Female chickens
Dogs and Cats
   
90.15   Definitions
   
90.16   License
   
90.17   License tags
   
90.18   Wrongful licensing
   
90.19   Removal of tags
   
90.20   Rabies threat; proclamation; inspection
   
90.21   Uncollared animals
   
90.22   Running at large
   
90.23   Capture impossible
   
90.24   Vicious animals
   
90.25   Interference with municipal personnel
   
90.26   Cruelty to animals
   
90.27   Killing and poisoning
   
90.28   Barking and offensive animals
   
90.29   Liability of owner
   
90.30   Removal of feces from public and private properties
   
90.31   Impounding
 
   
90.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Health and Sanitation; Nuisance, see
Ch. 91
Statutory reference:
   License required, see Neb. RS 17-526, 54-603, 71-4412
   Owner liability, see Neb. RS 54-601, 54-602
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 90.01  KILLING AND INJURING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to kill, administer or cause to be
administered poison of any sort to, or in any manner injure, maim or destroy or
attempt to injure, maim or destroy any animal or to place any poison or
poisoned food where it is accessible to an animal; except that:
   (A)   This section shall not apply to any law enforcement officer or animal
control officer acting within his or her power and duty;
   (B)   This section shall not apply if the animal is vicious, dangerous or
showing characteristics of rabies and cannot be captured without danger to the
persons attempting to effect a capture of the animal; and
   (C)   Any owner of a dog that he or she wishes to be destroyed may place the
dog in an animal pound or shelter or with a licensed veterinarian to be
humanely destroyed and disposed of according to the provisions in this chapter
or other provisions of law.
(Prior Code, § 6-201)  Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.02  EXOTIC PETS AND DOMESTICATED FARM ANIMALS.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of this section is to regulate the keeping of
exotic pets and domesticated farm animals within the corporate limits of the
city and create standards and requirements that ensure there is no threat to
the public safety or the peaceable enjoyment of residents’ private property.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      DOMESTIC FARM ANIMAL. Any horse, sheep mule, cow, goat, swine or
offspring thereof or any other livestock generally raised.
      EXOTIC PET. Any animal other than a domesticated farm animal or dog,
weighing more than 50 pounds or any animal naturally inclined to be wild,
fierce or dangerous.
   (C)   Running at large. It shall be unlawful for any person to permit any
exotic pet or domesticated farm animal to run at large in any area within the
boundaries of the municipality. Any such animal running at large in violation
of this section shall be subject to seizure, detention and disposal.
   (D)   License and application. It shall be unlawful to keep and maintain any
domestic farm animals or exotic pets in enclosed or fenced areas on private
property with the prior consent and approval of the City Council. Any person
desiring to maintain such animals on property owned or controlled by him or her
within the city shall make application to the City Clerk for a license to do
so. The City Clerk shall present such application at the next regular or
special meeting the City Council and the City Council may permit the keeping of
such animals upon such terms and conditions as it determines best.
   (E)   Existing ownership of exotic pets or domesticated farm animals. Any
person owning or possessing an exotic pet or domesticated farm animal at the
time of enactment of this section may, pending the approval of the Board of
Health, obtain a permit said animal; provided that:
      (1)   A permit application is filed with the City Clerk within 30 days of
the effective date of this section. Such application is to include:
         (a)   Species, age and sex or said exotic pet or domesticated farm
animal; and
         (b)   A plan for the housing and containment of said pet or animal.
      (2)   The plan and facilities for the housing and containment of the
exotic pet or domesticated farm animal must be reviewed, inspected and approved
by the Board of Health as adequate to prevent the animal from escaping.
      (3)   An annual permit fee in the amount of $10 for each exotic pet or
domesticated farm animal shall be paid by the owner or possessor of such animal
to the city.
(Ord. 16-3, passed 11-1-2016)  Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.03  FEMALE CHICKENS.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of this section is to provide standards for the
keeping of fowl, specifically domesticated female chickens. It is intended to
enable residents to keep a reasonable number of female chickens, but not
roosters, while creating standards and requirements that ensure that
domesticated chickens do not adversely impact the neighborhood surrounding the
property on which the chickens are kept.
   (B)   Running at large. It shall be unlawful for any person to allow fowl to
run at large within city limits. Such fowl may be maintained within the city if
the same are confined in enclosed places on private property.
   (C)   License and application.
      (1)   Persons may not have fowl on private property within the city
unless and until they have obtained a permit from the office of the City Clerk.
To obtain a permit, persons must complete the application which is to include:
         (a)   The number of fowl to be held on private property within city
limits; and
         (b)   A plan for the housing and containment of such fowl.
      (2)   Applicants must also pay an annual $10 fee, and obtain the written
consents of the owners or lessees of properties immediately adjoining the
private property where such fowl are to be kept, as well as all other property
owners within 200 feet of the place where such fowl are to be kept. Such
consents shall be filed at the office of the City Clerk and shall be subject to
revocation by said owners or lessees at any time. In the event any of the
consents are revoked, the person keeping fowl shall have 30 days to move the
same after being notified by the City Clerk that such consents have been
revoked.
   (D)   Existing ownership of fowl. Any person owning or possessing female
fowl at the time of enactment of this section may, pending the approval of the
Board of Health, obtain a permit to maintain the current number of fowl
possessed; provided that:
      (1)   A permit application is filed with the City Clerk within 30 days of
the effective date of this section. Such application is to include:
         (a)   The number of fowl currently held on private property within
city limits; and
         (b)   A plan for the housing and containment of such fowl.
      (2)   The plan and facilities for the housing and containment of the fowl
must be reviewed, inspected and approved by the Board of Health as adequate;
and
      (3)   An annual permit fee in the amount of $10 shall be paid to the
city.
(Ord. 16-4, passed 12-5-2016)  Penalty, see §
90.99
DOGS AND CATS
§ 90.15  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AT LARGE. Off the property of his or her owner, keeper or harborer, and not
under the control of a competent person. A dog or cat shall be deemed to be
under the control and in restraint within the meaning of this subchapter when
it is controlled by leash, at “heel” beside a competent person and obedient to
that person’s commands, on or within a vehicle being driven or parked on the
streets or within the property lines of its owner, keeper or harborer.
   CAT. Intended to mean both male and female cats.
   DOG. Intended to mean both male and female dogs.
   KENNEL. Any maintenance of four or more dogs or cats in excess of six months
of age, per family or residence. KENNELS shall be maintained only where zoning
regulations permit; provided that, a fee fixed by resolution of the governing
body shall be paid to the City Clerk for each kennel sought to be maintained.
   OWNER. Intended to mean any person or persons, firm, association or
corporation owning, keeping, possessing or harboring a dog or cat or permitting
a dog or cat to be or remain about his, her, or its premises for ten days or
longer.
(Ord. 18-1, passed 6-4-2018)
§ 90.16  LICENSE.
   Any person who shall own, keep or harbor a dog or cat over the age of six
months within the city shall, within ten days after acquisition of the said dog
or cat, acquire a license for each such dog or cat annually by or before
January 1 of each year. The said tax shall be delinquent from and after January
10; provided, the possessor of any dog or cat brought into or harbored within
the corporate limits subsequent to January 1 of any year shall be liable for
the payment of the dog and cat tax levied herein and such tax shall be
delinquent if not paid within ten days thereafter. After the ten-day grace
period allowed herein, there shall be a penalty of $3 on the licenses
subsequently obtained. Licenses shall be issued by the Municipal Clerk upon the
payment of a license fee in an amount set by resolution of the City Council.
Such resolution shall be on file at the office of the Municipal Clerk. When
issued, such license shall not be transferable and no refund will be allowed in
case of death, sale or other disposition of the licensed dog or cat. The owner
shall state at the time the application is made and upon printed forms provided
for such purpose, his or her name and address and the name, breed, color and
sex of each dog or cat owned and kept by him or her. A certificate that the dog
or cat has had a rabies vaccination, effective for the ensuing year of the
license, shall be presented when the license is applied for and no license or
tag shall be issued until the certificate is shown.
(Ord. 18-1, passed 6-4-2018)
§ 90.17  LICENSE TAGS.
   Upon the payment of the license fee, the Municipal Clerk shall issue to the
owner of a dog or cat a license certificate and a metallic tag for each dog or
cat so licensed. The metallic tags shall be properly attached to the collar or
harness of all dogs or cats so licensed and shall entitle the owner to keep or
harbor the said dog or cat until December 31 of the current year. In the event
that a license tag is lost and upon satisfactory evidence that the original tag
was issued in accordance with the provisions herein, the Municipal Clerk shall
issue a duplicate or new tag for the balance of the year for which the license
tax has been paid. All license fees and collections shall be immediately
credited to the General Fund. It shall be the duty of the Municipal Clerk to
issue tags of a suitable design that are different in appearance each year.
(Ord. 18-1, passed 6-4-2018)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-526, 54-603, 71-4412
§ 90.18  WRONGFUL LICENSING.
   It shall be unlawful for the owner, keeper or harborer of any dog or cat to
permit or allow such dog to wear any license, metallic tag or other municipal
identification than that issued for dogs or cats by the Municipal Clerk.
(Ord. 18-1, passed 6-4-2018)  Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.19  REMOVAL OF TAGS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to remove or cause to be removed, the
collar, harness or metallic tag from any licensed dog or cat without the
consent of the owner, keeper or possessor thereof.
(Ord. 18-1, passed 6-4-2018)  Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.20  RABIES THREAT; PROCLAMATION; INSPECTION.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the City Council whenever, in its opinion, the
danger to the public safety from rabid dogs or cats is great or imminent, to
issue a proclamation ordering all persons owning, keeping or harboring any dog
or cat to muzzle the same, or to confine it for a period of not less than 30
days, nor more than 90 days, from the date of such proclamation, or until such
danger is passed. The dogs or cats may be harbored by any good and sufficient
means in a house, garage or yard on the premises wherein the said owner may
reside. Upon issuing the proclamation, it shall be the duty of all persons
owning, keeping or harboring any dog or cat to confine the same as herein
provided.
   (B)   Any dog or cat suspected of being afflicted with rabies, or any dog or
cat not vaccinated in accordance with the provisions of this chapter which has
bitten any person and caused an abrasion of the skin, shall be seized and
impounded under the supervision of the Board of Health for a period of not less
than ten days. If, upon examination by a veterinarian, the dog or cat has no
clinical signs of rabies at the end of such impoundment, it may be released to
the owner, or, in the case of an unlicensed dog or cat, it shall be disposed of
in accordance with the provisions herein. If the owner of the said dog or cat
has proof of vaccination, it shall be confined by the owner or some other
responsible person for a period of at least ten days, at which time the dog or
cat shall be examined by a licensed veterinarian at the owner’s expense. If no
signs of rabies are observed, the dog or cat may be released from confinement.
(Ord. 18-1, passed 6-4-2018)
§ 90.21  UNCOLLARED ANIMALS.
   All dogs or cats found running at large upon the streets and public grounds
of the municipality without a collar or harness are hereby declared a public
nuisance. Uncollared dogs or cats found running at large may be impounded in
the city’s veterinary clinic by municipal police officers. If such violations
occur, a police officer may issue a citation.
(Ord. 18-1, passed 6-4-2018)  Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.22  RUNNING AT LARGE.
   It shall be unlawful for the owner of any dog or cat to allow such dog or
cat to run at large at any time within the corporate limits of the
municipality. It shall be the duty of municipal police officers to cause any
dog or cat found to be running at large within the municipality to be taken up
and impounded. If such violations occur, a police officer may issue a citation.
(Ord. 18-1, passed 6-4-2018)  Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.23  CAPTURE IMPOSSIBLE.
   Municipal police officers shall have the authority to destroy any animals
showing vicious tendencies or characteristics of rabies which make capture
impossible because of the danger involved.
(Ord. 18-1, passed 6-4-2018)
§ 90.24  VICIOUS ANIMALS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to own, keep or harbor any dog or cat of
a dangerous or ferocious disposition that habitually snaps or manifests a
disposition to bite, without the said dog or cat being securely held by a chain
not to exceed six feet in length. If any vicious or dangerous dog or cat is
allowed to run at large, municipal police officers shall have the authority to
put the dog or cat to death. Upon the written complaint of one or more affected
persons, filed with the Municipal Clerk’s office that any dog owned by the
person named in the complaint is committing injury to persons or property, or
is an annoyance, dangerous, offensive or unhealthy, municipal police officers
shall investigate the complaint and if, in their opinion, the situation
warrants, shall notify the owner to remove the animal from the city limits
immediately.
(Ord. 18-1, passed 6-4-2018)  Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.25  INTERFERENCE WITH MUNICIPAL PERSONNEL.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to hinder, delay or interfere with any
municipal police officer who is performing any duty enjoined upon him or her by
the provisions of this subchapter, or to break open or in any manner directly
or indirectly aid, counsel or advise the breaking open of the animal shelter,
or any vehicle used for the collecting or conveying of dogs or cats to the
shelter.
(Ord. 18-1, passed 6-4-2018)  Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.26  CRUELTY TO ANIMALS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to cruelly, inhumanely or unnecessarily
beat, injure or overwork, or to insufficiently shelter and feed any animals.
(Ord. 18-1, passed 6-4-2018)  Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.27  KILLING AND POISONING.
   It shall be unlawful to kill, administer or cause to be administered poison
of any sort to any domestic animal within the city, or in any manner to injure,
maim, destroy or in any manner attempt to injure, maim or destroy any domestic
animal within the city, or to place any poison or poisoned food where the same
is accessible to any domesticated animal; provided, this section shall not
apply to the lawful performance of euthanasia administered by a duly licensed
veterinarian.
(Ord. 18-1, passed 6-4-2018)  Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.28  BARKING AND OFFENSIVE ANIMALS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to own, keep or harbor any dog which by
loud, continued or frequent barking, howling or yelping shall annoy or disturb
any neighborhood, or person, or which habitually barks at or chases
pedestrians, drivers, bicycles or vehicles while they are on any public
sidewalks, streets or alleys in the municipality. Upon the written complaint of
one or more affected persons, filed with the Municipal Clerk, that any dog
owned by the person named in the complaint is an annoyance or disturbance, or
otherwise violates the provisions of this section, municipal police officers
shall investigate the complaint and if, in their opinion, the situation
warrants, shall notify the owner to silence and restrain such dog. If a police
officer or city personnel hear or see a dog which by its actions is in
violation of this section, the police officer shall notify the owner to silence
and restrain the dog. If such violations occur, a police officer may issue a
citation.
(Ord. 18-1, passed 6-4-2018)  Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.29  LIABILITY OF OWNER.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to allow a dog or cat owned, kept or
harbored by him or her, or under his or her charge or control, to injure or
destroy any real or personal property of any description belonging to another
person. The owner or possessor of any such dog or cat, in addition to the usual
judgment, upon conviction, may be made to be liable to the persons so injured
in an amount equal to the value of the damage so sustained.
(Ord. 18-1, passed 6-4-2018)  Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.30  REMOVAL OF FECES FROM PUBLIC AND PRIVATE PROPERTIES.
   An owner or person having custody of any dog or cat or any other animal
shall not permit said dog or cat or any other animal to defecate on any school
ground, public street, alley, sidewalk, tree bank, park or other public grounds
or any private property within the city, other than the premises of the owner
or person having custody of said dog or cat or other animal, unless said
defecation is removed immediately. If such violations occur, a police officer
may issue a citation.
(Ord. 18-1, passed 6-4-2018)  Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.31  IMPOUNDING.
   It shall be the duty of municipal police officers to capture, secure and
remove in a humane manner to the city’s veterinary clinic any dog or cat
violating any provision of this subchapter which requires impoundment. The dog
or cat so impounded shall be treated in a humane manner and shall be provided
with a sufficient supply of food and fresh water each day. Notice of
impoundment, including any significant marks or identifications, shall be
posted at the city offices within 24 hours after impoundment. If the owner is
known, he or she shall be notified as soon as possible. Any dog or cat may be
reclaimed by its owner during the period of impoundment by payment of the fees
set by resolution of the governing body of the municipality. The owner shall
then be required to comply with the licensing and rabies vaccination
requirements within 72 hours after release. If the dog is not claimed at the
end of five days after public notice has been given, the veterinarian may
dispose of the dog in accordance with the applicable rules and regulations
pertaining to the same; provided that, if, in the judgment of the municipal
police, a suitable home can be found for any such dog or cat within the
municipality, the said dog or cat shall be turned over to that person and the
new owner shall then be required to pay all fees and meet all licensing and
vaccinating requirements provided in this subchapter. The municipality shall
acquire legal title to any unlicensed dog or cat impounded for a period longer
than the required waiting period after giving notice. All dogs or cats shall be
destroyed and buried in the summary and humane manner as prescribed by the
Board of Health unless a suitable home can be found for such dog or cat.
(Ord. 18-1, passed 6-4-2018)
§ 90.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   (1)   Any person, or any person’s agent or servant, who violates any
of the provisions of this chapter, unless otherwise specifically provided
herein, shall be deemed guilty of an offense and, upon conviction thereof,
shall be fined in any sum not exceeding $500. A new violation shall be deemed
to have been committed every 24 hours of failure to comply with the provisions
of this chapter.
      (2)   (a)   Whenever a nuisance exists, as defined in this chapter, the
municipality may proceed by a suit in equity to enjoin, abate and remove the
same in the manner provided by law.
         (b)   Whenever, in any action, it is established that a nuisance
exists, the court may, together with the fine or penalty imposed, enter an
order of abatement as a part of the judgment in the case.
(Prior Code, § 6-401)
   (B)   Anyone permitting exotic pets or domesticated farm animals to run at
large or harboring such without a permit, per §
90.02 of this chapter, shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be
fined in a sum of not more than $250 and may be prosecuted as such.
   (C)   Anyone permitting fowl to run at large or harboring fowl without a
permit, per §
90.03 of this chapter, shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be
fined in a sum of not more than $100 and may be prosecuted as such.
(Ord. 2000-16, passed 5-1-2000; Ord. 16-3, passed 11-1-2016; Ord. 16-4, passed
12-5-2016)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-505, 18-1720, 18-1722
CHAPTER 91:  HEALTH AND SANITATION; NUISANCES
Section
General Provisions
   
91.01   Health regulations
   
91.02   Enforcement official
   
91.03   County Board of Health
Nuisances
   
91.20   Definition
   
91.21   Abatement procedure
   
91.22   Adjoining land owners; intervention before trial
   
91.23   Dead or diseased trees
 
   
91.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 91.01  HEALTH REGULATIONS.
   For the purpose of promoting the health and safety of the residents of the
city, the Board of Health shall, from time to time, adopt such rules and
regulations relative thereto and shall make such inspections, prescribe such
penalties and make such reports as may be necessary toward that purpose.
(Prior Code, § 4-101)
Statutory reference:
   Authority to regulate, see Neb. RS 17-121
§ 91.02  ENFORCEMENT OFFICIAL.
   (A)   The Police Chief or other official designated by the City Council, as
the quarantine officer, shall be the chief health officer of the city.
   (B)   It shall be his or her duty to notify the City Council and the Board
of Health of health nuisances within the city and its zoning jurisdiction.
(Prior Code, § 4-102)
Statutory reference:
   Quarantine officer, see Neb. RS 17-121
§ 91.03  COUNTY BOARD OF HEALTH.
   It shall be the duty of the Board of Health to work closely with the County
Health Board in protecting the health and welfare of the residents of the city.
(Prior Code, § 4-104)
NUISANCES
§ 91.20  DEFINITION.
   (A)   General definition. For the purpose of this subchapter, the following
definition shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      NUISANCE. Consists in doing any unlawful act, or omitting to perform a
duty, or suffering or permitting any condition or thing to be or exist, which
act, omission, condition or thing either:
         (a)   Injures or endangers the comfort, repose, health or safety of
others;
         (b)   Offends decency;
         (c)   Is offensive to the senses;
         (d)   Unlawfully interferes with, obstructs, tends to obstruct or
renders dangerous for passage any stream, public park, parkway, square, street
or highway in the city;
         (e)   In any way renders other persons insecure in life or the use of
property; or
         (f)   Essentially interferes with the comfortable enjoyment of life
and property, or tends to depreciate the value of the property of others.
(Prior Code, § 4-201)
   (B)   Specific definition. The maintaining, using, placing, depositing,
leaving or permitting of any of the following specific acts, omissions, places,
conditions and things are hereby declared to be nuisances:
      (1)   Permit an animal to defecate on any privately owned or occupied
property other than that of the owner or the person having control of the
animal without immediately cleaning or removing the excrement;
      (2)   Permit an animal to defecate on public property without immediately
cleaning or removing the excrement;
      (3)   Permit an animal to unreasonably obstruct the use and enjoyment of
property held by others in the community by allowing such animal to habitually
bark, howl, yelp, bay or make other noise which by loudness or frequency causes
a breach of the peace; provided, however, this section shall not apply to
animal shelters or veterinarians; and
      (4)   Permit unsanitary conditions to exist on any premises where an
animal is kept which would cause foul or obnoxious odors, attract flies or
vermin or otherwise threaten the public health and safety.
(Prior Code, § 4-202)  (Ord. 05-3, passed - -2005)  Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.21  ABATEMENT PROCEDURE.
   (A)   The owner or occupant of any real estate within the corporate limits
or zoning jurisdiction of the city shall keep such real estate free of
nuisances. Except to the extent that conflicting procedures are otherwise
provided, the procedures in this section shall apply to abatement of nuisances.
   (B)   Upon determination by the Board of Health or designated official that
the owner or occupant of any such real estate has failed to keep the real
estate free of nuisances, notice to abate and remove such nuisance and notice
of the right to a hearing before the City Council and the manner in which it
may be requested shall be given to each owner or owner’s duly authorized agent
and to the occupant, if any, by personal service or by certified mail. If
notice by personal service or certified mail is unsuccessful, notice shall be
given by publication in a newspaper of general circulation in the city or by
conspicuously posting the notice on the real estate upon which the nuisance is
to be abated and removed. The notice shall describe the condition as found by
the Board of Health or designated official and state that the condition has
been declared a nuisance and must be remedied at once. 
   (C)   If, within five days after receipt of such notice or publication or
posting, whichever is applicable, the owner or occupant of the real estate does
not request a hearing with the city or fails to comply with the order to abate
and remove the nuisance, the city may have such work done.
   (D)   If, within five days after receipt of such notice or publication or
posting, whichever is applicable, the owner or occupant requests in writing a
hearing with the City Council, the Council shall fix a time and place at which
a hearing will be held. Notice of the hearing shall be given by personal
service or certified mail and require the owner or occupant to appear before
the Council to show cause why such condition should not be found to be a
nuisance and remedied. The notice shall be given not less than seven, nor more
than 14, days before the time of the hearing. Upon the date fixed for the
hearing and pursuant to the notice, the Council shall hear all objections made
by the owner or occupant and shall hear evidence submitted by the Board of
Health or designated official. If, after consideration of all the evidence, the
City Council finds that the condition is a nuisance, it shall, by resolution,
order and direct the owner or occupant to remedy the nuisance at once. If the
owner or occupant refuses or neglects to promptly comply with the order to
abate and remove the nuisance, the Council may have such work done.
   (E)   The costs and expenses of any such work shall be paid by the owner. If
unpaid for two months after such work is done, the city may either:
      (1)   Levy and assess the costs and expenses of the work upon the real
estate so benefitted as a special assessment in the same manner as other
special assessments for improvements are levied and assessed; or
      (2)   Recover in a civil action the costs and expenses of the work upon
the real estate and the adjoining streets and alleys.
(Prior Code, § 4-203)
Statutory reference:
   Authority to regulate and abate nuisances, see Neb. RS 18-1720
   Nuisances prohibited, see Neb. RS 28-1321
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-563
   Zoning jurisdiction, Neb. RS 17-1001
§ 91.22  ADJOINING LAND OWNERS; INTERVENTION BEFORE TRIAL.
   In cases of appeal from an action of the City Council condemning real
property as a nuisance or as dangerous under the police powers of the city, the
owners of the adjoining property may intervene in the action at any time before
trial.
(Neb. RS 19-710)
§ 91.23  DEAD OR DISEASED TREES.
   (A)   It is hereby declared a nuisance for a property owner to permit, allow
or maintain any dead or diseased trees within the right-of-way of streets
within the corporate limits of the municipality. 
   (B)   It is hereby declared a nuisance for a property owner to permit, allow
or maintain any dead or diseased trees on private property within the corporate
limits of the municipality. For the purpose of carrying out the provisions of
this section, the municipal police shall have the authority to enter upon
private property to inspect the trees thereon.
   (C)   Notice to abate and remove such nuisance and notice of the right to a
hearing and the manner in which it may be requested shall be given to each
owner or owner’s duly authorized agent and to the occupant, if any, by personal
service or certified mail. Within 30 days after the receipt of such notice, if
the owner or occupant of the lot or piece of ground does not request a hearing
or fails to comply with the order to abate and remove the nuisance, the
municipality may have such work done and may levy and assess all or any portion
of the costs and expenses of the work upon the lot or piece of ground so
benefitted in the same manner as other special taxes for improvements are
levied or assessed.
(Prior Code, § 4-205)  (Ord. 6-95, passed 2-6-1995)  Penalty, see §
91.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-555, 18-1720, 28-1321
§ 91.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, or any person’s agent or servant, who violates any of the
provisions of this chapter, unless otherwise specifically provided herein,
shall be deemed guilty of an offense and, upon conviction thereof, shall be
fined in any sum not exceeding $500. A new violation shall be deemed to have
been committed every 24 hours of failure to comply with the provisions of this
chapter.
   (B)   (1)   Whenever a nuisance exists as defined in this chapter, the
municipality may proceed by a suit in equity to enjoin, abate and remove the
same in the manner provided by law.
      (2)   Whenever, in any action, it is established that a nuisance exists,
the court may, together with the fine or penalty imposed, enter an order of
abatement as a part of the judgment in the case.
(Prior Code, § 4-501)  (Ord. 2000-16, passed 5-1-2000)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-505, 18-1720, 18-1722
CHAPTER 92:  FIRE PREVENTION AND PROTECTION
Section
General Provisions
   
92.01   Poisonous and flammable gases
   
92.02   Explosives; storage registration; requirements
Fire Prevention
   
92.15   Preservation of property
   
92.16   Disorderly spectator
   
92.17   Equipment
   
92.18   Interference
   
92.19   Obstructions
   
92.20   Assistance
   
92.21   Driving over hose
   
92.22   Traffic
   
92.23   Fire alarms
   
92.24   Pedestrians
Fire Code
   
92.35   Fire Prevention Code adopted
   
92.36   Code enforcement
   
92.37   Lawful entry
   
92.38   Violation notice
   
92.39   Fire limits
   
92.40   Materials within fire limits
   
92.41   Permitted repairs
   
92.42   Ironclads prohibited
   
92.43   Removal required
   
92.44   Fire prohibited and regulated
   
92.45   Open burning; waiver
 
   
92.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 92.01  POISONOUS AND FLAMMABLE GASES.
   Any person, firm or corporation desiring to store or keep in the
municipality for any period of time any form of poisonous or flammable gas or
liquefied petroleum gas or add to, enlarge or replace any facility used for the
storage of such gases, must first get permission from the governing body. The
governing body shall require the name of the gas, the place of storage and the
amount of gas stored.  If permission is granted, the governing body shall
prescribe such rules, regulations and precautionary actions as they may deem
necessary. Permit requirements for the initial construction or location of
storage facilities shall not apply to those facilities in existence on the
effective date of this section; provided, any such present use that is
discontinued for a period of 60 days shall not be revived without a permit. The
provisions of this section shall be controlling throughout the municipality and
throughout its zoning jurisdiction.
(Neb. RS 17-549)  (Prior Code, § 7-301)  Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.02  EXPLOSIVES; STORAGE REGISTRATION; REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   (1)   In addition to notifying the Municipal Fire Department pursuant
to Neb. RS 28-1233(3), any person desiring to store or keep for any period of
time explosive materials, as defined in Neb. RS 28-1213, shall register such
information with the Municipal Clerk 24 hours prior to such storage.
      (2)   The transfer of explosive materials to another person within the
municipality shall require the person receiving the explosive materials to
register the transfer and the new location of the explosive materials with the
Municipal Clerk.
      (3)   The transfer of explosive materials to a new location by the owner
shall require registration of the new location with the Municipal Clerk.
   (B)   (1)   All explosive materials shall be stored in a proper receptacle
made of cement, metal or stone and be closed at all times, except when in
actual use. Such receptacles shall not be located in any room where there are
flames or flammable materials.
      (2)   The area surrounding storage facilities shall be kept clear of
rubbish, brush, dry grass or trees not less than 25 feet in all directions.
      (3)   Any other combustible materials shall be kept a distance of not
less than 50 feet from outdoor storage facilities.
(Prior Code, § 7-401)  (Ord. 8-94, passed 6-6-1994)  Penalty, see §
92.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-549, 17-556, 28-1229, 28-1233
FIRE PREVENTION
§ 92.15  PRESERVATION OF PROPERTY.
   The Fire Chief, or any officer in charge of the Fire Department, shall have
the authority and power to cause the removal of property whenever it shall
become necessary for the preservation of more valuable property, the protection
of human life or to prevent the spreading of fire to adjoining property. The
Fire Chief may direct the municipal firefighters to remove any building,
structure or fence for the purpose of checking the progress of any fire. The
Fire Chief shall have the authority to blow up, or cause to be blown up, with
explosives any building or structure during the progress of a fire for the
purpose of checking the progress of the same.
(Prior Code, § 7-101)
§ 92.16  DISORDERLY SPECTATOR.
   It shall be unlawful for any person during the time of a fire and for a
period of 36 hours after its extinguishment to hinder, resist or refuse to obey
the Municipal Fire Chief, or to act in a noisy or disorderly manner. The Fire
Chief and Assistant Fire Chief shall have the power and authority during such
time to arrest or command any such person to assist them in the performance of
their official duties.
(Prior Code, § 7-102)  Penalty, see §
92.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 28-908
§ 92.17  EQUIPMENT.
   It shall be unlawful for any person except the Fire Chief and the members of
the Municipal Fire Department to molest, destroy, handle or in any other way to
interfere with the use and storage of any of the fire trucks and other
apparatus belonging to the municipality.
(Prior Code, § 7-103)  Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.18  INTERFERENCE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to hinder or obstruct the
Municipal Fire Chief or the members of the Fire Department in the performance
of their duty.
(Prior Code, § 7-104)  Penalty, see §
92.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 28-908
§ 92.19  OBSTRUCTIONS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to obstruct the use of a fire hydrant,
or have or place any material within 15 feet of the said hydrant. Any vehicle
or material found as an obstruction may be immediately removed by the Fire
Chief or any member of the Fire Department, at the risk, cost and expense of
the owner or claimant.
(Prior Code, § 7-105)  Penalty, see §
92.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 60-6,166
§ 92.20  ASSISTANCE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to refuse, after the command of the Fire
Chief or Assistant Fire Chief, to aid in extinguishing a fire or to assist in
the removal and protection of property.
(Prior Code, § 7-106)  Penalty, see §
92.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 28-908
§ 92.21  DRIVING OVER HOSE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, without the consent of the Fire Chief
or Assistant Fire Chief, to drive any vehicle over unprotected hose of the Fire
Department.
(Prior Code, § 7-107)  Penalty, see §
92.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 60-6,184
§ 92.22  TRAFFIC.
   (A)   Every vehicle already stationary when the fire alarm shall have been
sounded must remain so for a period of five minutes after the sounding of the
fire alarm. No vehicle, except by the specific direction of the Fire Chief or
Assistant Fire Chief, shall follow, approach or park closer than 500 feet to
any fire vehicle, or to any fire hydrant to which a hose is connected.
   (B)   Nothing herein shall be construed to apply to vehicles carrying
doctors, members of the Fire Department or emergency vehicles.
(Prior Code, § 7-108)  Penalty, see §
92.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 60-6,183
§ 92.23  FALSE ALARM.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to intentionally and without good and
reasonable cause raise any false alarm of fire.
(Prior Code, § 7-109)  Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.24  PEDESTRIANS.
   It shall be unlawful for any pedestrian to enter or remain in any street
after a fire alarm shall have sounded until the fire trucks shall have
completely passed.
(Prior Code, § 7-110)  Penalty, see §
92.99
FIRE CODE
§ 92.35  FIRE PREVENTION CODE ADOPTED.
   The rules and regulations promulgated by the office of the state’s Fire
Marshal relating to fire prevention are incorporated by reference into this
code and made a part of this subchapter as though spread at large herein
together with all subsequent amendments thereto. Three copies of the Fire
Prevention Code shall be on file with the Municipal Clerk and shall be
available for public inspection at any reasonable time.
(Prior Code, § 7-201)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 18-132, 19-902, 19-922, 81-502
§ 92.36  CODE ENFORCEMENT.
   It shall be the duty of all municipal officials to enforce the incorporated
Fire Code provisions and all infractions shall be immediately brought to the
attention of the Fire Chief.
(Prior Code, § 7-202)
§ 92.37  LAWFUL ENTRY.
   It shall be the duty of the owner, lessee or occupant of any building or
structure, except the interiors of private dwellings, to allow the Fire Chief
to inspect, or cause to be inspected, as often as necessary the said structure
for the purpose of ascertaining and enumerating all conditions therein that are
likely to cause fire, or any other violations of the provisions of the
municipal ordinances affecting the hazard of fire.
(Prior Code, § 7-203)
§ 92.38  VIOLATION NOTICE.
   It shall be the duty of the owner, lessee or occupant of any building or
structure that was lawfully inspected as hereinbefore prescribed, and who
receives written or verbal notice of a violation of any of the provisions of
the municipal ordinances to correct the condition that violates the said
ordinance or ordinances within five days from the date of receipt of such
notice.
(Prior Code, § 7-204)
§ 92.39  FIRE LIMITS.
   The following described territory in the municipality shall be and
constitute the fire limits: all of Blocks 2, 3, 6 and 7 bounded by Bazile
Street on the north, Clark Street on the east, Grant Street on the south and
Washington Street on the west; except the northeast quarter of Block 2, the
southeast quarter of Block 7 and the southwest quarter of Block 6, all in the
original town.
(Prior Code, § 7-205)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-550
§ 92.40  MATERIALS WITHIN FIRE LIMITS.
   Within the aforesaid fire limits, no structure shall be built, altered,
moved or enlarged unless such structure will be enclosed with walls constructed
wholly of stone, well-burned brick, terra cotta, concrete or other such non-
combustible materials as will satisfy the Fire Chief that the said structure
will be reasonably fire-proof.
(Prior Code, § 7-206)  Penalty, see §
92.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-550
§ 92.41  PERMITTED REPAIRS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to repair, alter or add to any building
in the fire limits where the repair is less than 50% of the building unless the
said person shall first submit an application to the Municipal Clerk to make
such repairs, alterations or to add to any building and shall state on the
application that the material used will be non-combustible and approved by the
Fire Chief. Repairs in the form of patching and other minor repairs shall not
require a permit. In the event that the repairs, alteration or addition is to
involve more than 50% of the building, the owner shall be required to apply for
a new building permit which shall state that the building, when completed,
shall be fire-proof and made of non-combustible materials.
(Prior Code, § 7-207)  Penalty, see §
92.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-550
§ 92.42  IRONCLADS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   All buildings, sheds and structures known as ironclads which are
constructed of wood and covered with sheet iron or tin attached to the frame
shall be considered and deemed to be constructed of combustible materials.
   (B)   Any future construction of an ironclad building shall hereafter be
prohibited.
(Prior Code, § 7-208)  Penalty, see §
92.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-550
§ 92.43  REMOVAL REQUIRED.
   In the event that any wooden or combustible building or structure, or any
non-combustible building which stands within the fire limits is damaged to the
extent of 50% or more of its value, exclusive of the foundation, it shall not
be repaired or rebuilt, but shall be taken down and removed within 60 days from
the date of such fire or other casualty.
(Prior Code, § 7-209)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-550
§ 92.44  FIRE PROHIBITED AND REGULATED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to set out a fire on the pavement,
or near any curb, now built or hereafter to be built, within the municipality.
(Prior Code, § 7-210)
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to build or set out fires within the fire limits.
(Prior Code, § 7-211)  Penalty, see §
92.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-556
§ 92.45  OPEN BURNING; WAIVER.
   (A)   There shall be a statewide open burning ban on all bonfires, outdoor
rubbish fires and fires for the purpose of clearing land.
   (B)   The Fire Chief of the Municipal Fire Department, or his or her
designee, may waive an open burning ban under division (A) above for an area
under his or her jurisdiction by issuing an open burning permit to a person
requesting permission to conduct open burning. The permit issued by the Fire
Chief, or his or her designee, to a person desiring to conduct open burning
shall be in writing, signed by the Fire Chief or his or her designee, and on a
form provided by the state’s Fire Marshal.
   (C)   The Municipal Fire Chief or his or her designee may waive the open
burning ban in his or her jurisdiction when conditions are acceptable to the
Chief or his or her designee. Anyone burning in such jurisdiction when the open
burning ban has been waived shall notify the Fire Department of his or her
intention to burn.
   (D)   The Municipal Fire Chief may adopt and promulgate rules and
regulations listing the conditions acceptable for issuing a permit to conduct
open burning under division (B) above.
   (E)   (1)   The Municipal Fire Department may charge a fee, not to exceed
$10, for each such permit issued.
      (2)   This fee shall be remitted to the governing body for inclusion in
the general funds allocated to the Fire Department.
      (3)   Such funds shall not reduce the tax requirements for the Fire
Department.
      (4)   No such fee shall be collected from any state or political
subdivision to which such a permit is issued to conduct open burning under
division (B) above in the course of such state’s or political subdivision’s
official duties.
(Prior Code, § 7-212)  (Ord. 21-95, passed 10-2-1995)  Penalty, see §
92.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 81-520.01
§ 92.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, or any person’s agent or servant, who violates any of the
provisions of this chapter, unless otherwise specifically provided herein,
shall be deemed guilty of an offense and, upon conviction thereof, shall be
fined in any sum not exceeding $500. A new violation shall be deemed to have
been committed every 24 hours of failure to comply with the provisions of this
chapter.
   (B)   (1)   Whenever a nuisance exists, as defined in this chapter, the
municipality may proceed by a suit in equity to enjoin, abate and remove the
same in the manner provided by law.
      (2)   Whenever, in any action, it is established that a nuisance exists,
the court may, together with the fine or penalty imposed, enter an order of
abatement as a part of the judgment in the case.
(Prior Code, § 7-501)  (Ord. 2000-16, passed 5-1-2000)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-505, 18-1720, 18-1722
CHAPTER 93:  RECREATION AND LEISURE
Section
Parks and Recreational Facilities
   
93.01   Operation and funding
   
93.02   Injury to property
   
93.03   Hours for city parks
Library
   
93.15   Funding
   
93.16   Library Board; general powers and duties
   
93.17   Grounds and building
   
93.18   Sale and conveyance of real estate
   
93.19   Mortgages; release or renewal
   
93.20   Cost of use
   
93.21   Discrimination prohibited
   
93.22   Annual report
   
93.23   Penalties; recovery; disposition
   
93.24   Donations
   
93.25   Improper book removal
Swimming Pool
   
93.40   Operation and funding
   
93.41   Admission charge
 
   
93.99   Penalty
PARKS AND RECREATIONAL FACILITIES
§ 93.01  OPERATION AND FUNDING.
   (A)   If the city has already acquired or hereafter acquires land for park
purposes or recreational facilities or has already built or hereafter builds
swimming pools, recreational facilities or dams, the Mayor and City Council may
each year make and levy a tax upon the taxable value of all the taxable
property in the city. The levy shall be collected and put into the city
treasury and shall constitute the park and recreation fund of the city. The
funds so levied and collected shall be used for amusements, for laying out,
improving and beautifying such parks, for maintaining, improving, managing and
beautifying such swimming pools, recreational facilities or dams, and for the
payment of salaries and wages of persons employed in the performance of such
labor.
(Neb. RS 17-951)
   (B)   If the Mayor and City Council create a Board of Park Commissioners or
Board of Park and Recreation Commissioners, when such Board has been appointed
and qualified, all accounts against the park fund or park and recreation fund
shall be audited by the Board, and warrants against the fund shall be drawn by
the Chairperson of the Board, and warrants so drawn shall be paid by the City
Treasurer out of the fund.
(Neb. RS 17-952)
   (C)   (1)   Whether the title to real estate for parks, public grounds,
swimming pools or dams, either for recreational or conservational purposes,
shall be acquired by gift, devise or purchase as provided in Neb. RS 17-948,
the jurisdiction of the City Council or Park Board shall at once be extended
over such real estate; and the City Council or Park Board shall have power to
enact bylaws, rules or ordinances for the protection and preservation of any
real estate acquired, and to provide rules and regulations for the closing of
the park or swimming pool, in whole or in part, to the general public and
charge admission thereto during such closing, either by the city or by any
person, persons or corporation leasing same. They may provide suitable
penalties for the violation of such bylaws, rules or ordinances; and the police
power of the city shall be at once extended over the same.
(Neb. RS 17-949)
      (2)   The Park Board shall not enter into a contract of any nature that
involves an expenditure of funds, except for ordinary operating expenses,
unless the contract has been approved by resolution of the majority of the
members of the City Council prior to the contractual agreement.
(Prior Code, § 3-501)
Statutory reference:
   Levy limits, see Neb. RS 77-3442
   Parks and recreational facilities generally, see Neb. RS 17-948 through 17-
952
§ 93.02  INJURY TO PROPERTY.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to maliciously or willfully cut
down, injure or destroy any tree, plant or shrub in any city park or
recreational facility.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to injure or destroy any sodded or
planted area or injure or destroy any building, structure, equipment, fence,
bench, table or any other property of any city park or recreational area.
   (C)   No person shall commit any waste on or litter the city parks or other
public grounds.
(Prior Code, § 3-502)  Penalty, see §
93.99
Statutory reference:
   Littering of public and private property, see Neb. RS 28-523
§ 93.03  HOURS FOR CITY PARKS.
   It shall be unlawful to remain in city parks between the hours of 10:00 p.m.
and 6:00 a.m., except in the case of:
   (A)   The use of approved camping facilities;  and
   (B)   Special or organized event where permission has been received in
advance and except for events, which, because of delays and extended playing
periods, exceed these limits.
(Ord. 09-5, passed - -2009)  Penalty, see §
93.99
LIBRARY
§ 93.15  FUNDING.
   (A)   (1)   If the City Council has established a public library free of
charge for the use of the inhabitants of the city or contracted for the use of
a public library already established, the Council may levy a tax of not more
than $0.105 on each $100 upon the taxable value of all the taxable property in
the city annually to be levied and collected in like manner as other taxes in
the city. The levy shall be subject to Neb. RS 77-3442 and 77-3443. The amount
collected from such levy shall be known as the “Library Fund”.
(Neb. RS 51-201)
      (2)   The fund shall also include all gifts, grants, deeds of conveyance,
bequests or other valuable income-producing property and real estate from any
source for the purpose of endowing the public library.
   (B)   All taxes levied or collected and all funds donated or in any way
acquired for the erection, maintenance or support of the public library shall
be kept for the use of the library separate and apart from all other funds of
the city, shall be drawn upon and paid out by the City Treasurer upon vouchers
signed by the president of the Library Board and authenticated by the Secretary
of the Board, and shall not be used or disbursed for any other purpose or in
any other manner. The city may establish a public library sinking fund for
major capital expenditures.
(Neb. RS 51-209)
   (C)   Any money collected by the library shall be turned over at least
monthly by the Librarian to the City Treasurer along with a report of the
sources of the revenue.
(Prior Code, § 3-701)
§ 93.16  LIBRARY BOARD; GENERAL POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   The Library Board shall have the power to make and adopt such bylaws,
rules and regulations for its own guidance and for the government of the
library and reading room as it may deem expedient, not inconsistent with Neb.
RS 51-201 through 51-219.
(Neb. RS 51-205)
   (B)   The Library Board shall have exclusive control of expenditures, of all
money collected or donated to the credit of the library fund, of the renting
and construction of any library building, and the supervision, care and custody
of the grounds, rooms or buildings constructed, leased or set apart for that
purpose.
(Neb. RS 51-207)
   (C)   The Library Board may erect, lease or occupy an appropriate building
for the use of such a library, and appoint a suitable librarian and assistants,
fix the compensation of such appointees and remove such appointees at the
pleasure of the Board. The governing body of the city shall approve any
personnel administrative or compensation policy or procedure before
implementation of such policy or procedure by the Library Board.
   (D)   The Library Board may establish rules and regulations for the
government of the library as may be deemed necessary for its preservation and
to maintain its usefulness and efficiency. The Library Board may fix and
impose, by general rules, penalties and forfeitures for trespasses upon or
injury to the library grounds, rooms, books or other property, for failure to
return any book, or for violation of any bylaw, rule or regulation.  The Board
shall have and exercise such power as may be necessary to carry out the spirit
and intent of Neb. RS 51-201 through 51-219 in establishing and maintaining the
library and reading room.
(Neb. RS 51-211)
§ 93.17  GROUNDS AND BUILDING.
   (A)   The Library Board may purchase or lease grounds, exercise the power of
eminent domain and condemn real estate for the purpose of securing a site for a
library building.
   (B)   The procedure to condemn property shall be exercised in the manner set
forth in Neb. RS 76-704 through 76-724.
(Neb. RS 51-210)
§ 93.18  SALE AND CONVEYANCE OF REAL ESTATE.
   (A)   The Library Board may, by resolution, direct the sale and conveyance
of any real estate owned by the Board or by the public library, which is not
used for library purposes, or of any real estate so donated or devised to the
Board or to the library upon such terms as the Board may deem best.
   (B)   Before any such sale is made the Library Board shall advertise the
sale once each week for three consecutive weeks in a legal newspaper published
or, if none is published, of general circulation in the city. The notice shall
set out the time, place, terms, manner of sale, legal description of such real
estate, and the right to reject any and all bids. If the bid or bids have not
been rejected, then the real estate shall be sold to the highest bidder for
cash, and the Chairperson of the Library Board, upon resolution of the Library
Board directing him or her so to do, shall convey the real estate to the
purchaser of such real estate upon his or her payment of his or her bid. If,
within 30 days after the third publication of the notice, a remonstrance
against the sale is signed by 30% of the registered voters of the city voting
at the last regular city election and is filed with the City Council, the
property shall not then, nor within one year thereafter, be sold. If the date
for filing the remonstrance falls upon a Saturday, Sunday or legal holiday, the
signatures shall be collected within the 30-day period, but the filing shall be
considered timely if filed or postmarked on or before the next business day.
(Neb. RS 51-216)
§ 93.19  MORTGAGES; RELEASE OR RENEWAL.
   The President of the Library Board shall have the power to release, upon
full payment, any mortgage constituting a credit to the Library Fund and
standing in the name of the Library Board. The signature of the President on
any such release shall be authenticated by the Secretary of the Board. The
President and Secretary in like manner, upon resolution duly passed and adopted
by the Board, may renew any such mortgage.
(Neb. RS 51-206)
§ 93.20  COST OF USE.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (B) below, the library and reading room
shall be free of charge for the use of the inhabitants of the city, subject
always to such reasonable regulations as the Library Board may adopt to render
the library of the greatest use to the inhabitants. The Library Board may
exclude from the use of the library and reading rooms any person who willfully
violates or refuses to comply with rules and regulations established for the
government thereof.
(Neb. RS 51-212)
   (B)   The public library shall make its basic services available without
charge to all residents of the city. The Board may fix and impose reasonable
fees, not to exceed the library’s actual cost, for non-basic services.
(Neb. RS 51-211)
   (C)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      BASIC SERVICES. Include, but are not limited to, free loan of circulating
print and non-print materials from the local collection and general reference
and information services.
      NON-BASIC SERVICES. Include, but are not limited to, use of:
         (a)   Photocopying equipment;
         (b)   Telephones, facsimile equipment and other telecommunications
equipment;
         (c)   Media equipment;
         (d)   Personal computers; and
         (e)   Videocassette recording and playing equipment.
(Neb. RS 51-201.01)  (Prior Code, § 3-704)
§ 93.21  DISCRIMINATION PROHIBITED.
   No library service shall be denied to any person because of race, sex,
religion, age, color, national origin, ancestry, physical handicap or marital
status.
(Neb. RS 51-211)
§ 93.22  ANNUAL REPORT.
   (A)   The Library Board shall, on or before the second Monday in February in
each year, make a report to the City Council of the condition of its trust on
the last day of the prior fiscal year.
   (B)   The report shall show all money received and credited or expended; the
number of materials held, including books, video and audio materials, software
programs and materials in other formats; the number of periodical subscriptions
on record, including newspapers; the number of materials added and the number
withdrawn from the collection during the year; the number of materials
circulated during the year; and other statistics, information and suggestions
as the Library Board may deem of general interest or as the City Council may
require.
   (C)   The report shall be verified by affidavit of the President and
Secretary of the Library Board.
(Neb. RS 51-213)
§ 93.23  PENALTIES; RECOVERY; DISPOSITION.
   Penalties imposed or accruing by any bylaw or regulation of the Library
Board and any court costs and attorney’s fees may be recovered in a civil
action before any court having jurisdiction, such action to be instituted in
the name of the Library Board. Money, other than any court costs and attorney’s
fees, collected in such actions shall be placed in the treasury of the city to
the credit of the Library Fund.  Attorney’s fees collected pursuant to this
section shall be placed in the treasury of the city and credited to the budget
of the City Attorney’s office.
(Neb. RS 51-214)
§ 93.24  DONATIONS.
   Any person may make donation of money, lands or other property for the
benefit of the public library. The title to property so donated may be made to
and shall vest in the Library Board and their successors in office, and the
Board shall thereby become the owners thereof in trust to the uses of the
public library.
(Neb. RS 51-215)
§ 93.25  IMPROPER BOOK REMOVAL.
   It shall be unlawful for any person not authorized by the regulations made
by the Library Board to take a book from the public library without the consent
of the Librarian or an authorized employee of the library. Any person removing
a book from the library without properly checking it out shall be deemed to be
guilty of an offense.
(Prior Code, § 3-703)  Penalty, see §
93.99
SWIMMING POOL
§ 93.40  OPERATION AND FUNDING.
   The municipality owns and manages the municipal swimming pool. The governing
body, for the purpose of defraying the cost of the management, maintenance and
improvements of the swimming pool may each year levy a tax not exceeding the
maximum limit prescribed by state law, on the actual valuation of all real
estate and personal property within the municipality that is subject to
taxation. The revenue from the said tax shall be known as the Swimming Pool
Fund and shall include all gifts, grants, deeds of conveyance, bequests or
other valuable income-producing personal property and real estate from any
source for the purpose of endowing the swimming pool. The Swimming Pool Fund
shall at all times be in the custody of the Municipal Treasurer. The Swimming
Pool Board shall manage the Swimming Pool. The Board shall have the power and
authority to hire and supervise the Swimming Pool Manager and such employees as
they may deem necessary and shall pass such rules and regulations for the
operation of the swimming pool as may be proper for its efficient operation.
All actions by the Board shall be under the supervision and control of the
governing body.
(Prior Code, § 3-601)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-948, 17-951, 17-952
§ 93.41  ADMISSION CHARGE.
   The Swimming Pool Board may, for the purpose of defraying the expenses
involved in maintaining, improving, managing and beautifying the swimming pool,
make a reasonable admission charge for the use by any person of the municipal
swimming pool. The said charges shall be on file at the office of the Municipal
Clerk and shall also be posted in a conspicuous place at the municipal swimming
pool for public inspection. Such rates may be structured for classes of persons
in a reasonable manner; provided that, nothing herein shall be construed to
permit or allow discrimination on the basis of race, creed, color or national
origin in the classification of persons for admission charges.
(Prior Code, § 3-602)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-949
§ 93.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   (1)   Any violation of §
93.03 of this chapter shall constitute an infraction and shall be punishable by
a warning for the first offense, a fine of $20 for the second offense and a
fine of $30 for the third offense. A fourth and any subsequent violation shall
constitute a Class III misdemeanor.
      (2)   Any person violating §
93.03 of this chapter shall, upon conviction thereof, be fined in any sum not
exceeding $500 for each offense and shall be assessed court costs of
prosecution.
(Ord. 09-5, passed - -2009)
CHAPTER 94:  CEMETERIES
Section
   
94.01   Operation and funding
   
94.02   Sexton
   
94.03   Conveyance of lots
   
94.04   Forfeiture of lots
   
94.05   Perpetual care
   
94.06   Destruction of property
§ 94.01  OPERATION AND FUNDING.
   The municipality owns and manages the municipal cemetery through the
Cemetery Board. The governing body, for the purpose of defraying the cost of
the care, management, maintenance, and beautification of the cemetery may each
year levy a tax not exceeding the maximum limit prescribed by state law, on the
actual valuation of all real estate and personal property within the
municipality that is subject to taxation. The revenue from the said tax shall
be known as the “Cemetery Fund” and shall include all gifts, grants, deeds of
conveyance, bequests, money, stocks, bonds or other valuable income-producing
personal property and real estate from any source for the purpose of endowing
the cemetery. The Cemetery Fund shall at all times be in the custody of the
Municipal Treasurer. The Board shall have the power and authority to hire and
supervise such employees as it may deem necessary and to pass such rules and
regulations for the operation of the cemetery as may be proper for its
efficient operation. All actions by the Board shall be under the supervision
and control of the governing body.
(Prior Code, § 3-801)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 12-301 through 12-403
§ 94.02  SEXTON.
   The Cemetery Board, subject to the approval of the governing body, shall
have the authority to appoint a Sexton who shall perform such duties and make
such reports as the Cemetery Board shall direct. It shall be the duty of the
Sexton, upon receiving a burial permit to locate and direct the party named in
the permit to the lot mentioned therein and to dig and excavate, or cause the
same to be dug or excavated, in compliance with the rules and regulations of
the Cemetery Board.
(Prior Code, § 3-802)
§ 94.03  CONVEYANCE OF LOTS.
   The governing body may convey cemetery lots by certificate signed by the
Mayor, and countersigned by the Municipal Clerk under the municipal seal
specifying that the person to whom the same is issued is the owner of the lot
described therein by number for the purpose of interment. The said certificate
shall give a right in fee simple to the proprietor, his or her heirs and
assigns. The certificate shall then be recorded in the office of the County
Clerk.
(Prior Code, § 3-803)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-941
§ 94.04  FORFEITURE OF LOTS.
   If, for three consecutive years, all charges and liens are not paid by the
holders of the lot certificates, the said certificates shall be declared
forfeited and subject to resale. All certificates sold shall contain a
forfeiture clause to the effect that if no interment is made on the said lot
and all liens paid, the certificate and the rights under the same may, at the
option of the Cemetery Board, with the sanction of the governing body, be
declared null and void and the lot shall be subject to resale.
(Prior Code, § 3-804)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-938
§ 94.05  PERPETUAL CARE.
   (A)   The Municipal Treasurer shall allocate and set apart a percentage of
the entire amount paid for lots or burial spaces if the said lots or burial
spaces are to be endowed with perpetual care. The fund shall be permanent in
nature, and as it accumulates shall be invested in such interest bearing
securities as are authorized by state law. The income earned thereon shall be
used solely for the purposes of perpetual care for the cemetery lots. Any lot
owner who shall not have, prior to the purchase of his or her lot, endowed his
or her holdings with perpetual care, may do so by paying to the Secretary of
the Cemetery Board such sum of money as the Board may in each case fix and
determine.
   (B)   Thereafter, the owner shall not be liable for the payment of an annual
maintenance assessment.
(Prior Code, § 3-805)
§ 94.06  DESTRUCTION OF PROPERTY.
   Any person who shall willfully destroy, mutilate, deface, injure or remove
any tomb, monument, or gravestone placed in the cemetery, or any fence, railing
or other work for the protection or ornamentation of the cemetery, or who shall
willfully destroy, cut, break or injure any tree, shrub or plant shall be
deemed to be guilty of a misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 3-806)  Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 28-512
CHAPTER 95:  FAIR HOUSING
Section
   
95.01   Purpose
   
95.02   Definitions
   
95.03   Unlawful acts
   
95.04   Handicapped person; discriminatory practices prohibited; design and
construction standards
   
95.05   Transaction related to residential real estate; discriminatory
practices prohibited
   
95.06   Multiple listing service; other service; discriminatory practices
prohibited
   
95.07   Religious organization, private home; private club; or housing for
older persons; restricting use not prohibited
   
95.08   Information
§ 95.01  PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to promote the general welfare of the
residents of the city by endorsing the provisions of the state’s Fair Housing
Act, Neb. RS 20-301 through 23-344, to the effect that there shall be no
discrimination on the city, in the acquisition, ownership, possession or
enjoyment of housing in accordance with Art. I, § 25, of the Constitution of
the state.
(Prior Code, § 10-701)  (Ord. 99-11, passed 11-1-1999)
§ 95.02  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AGGRIEVED PERSON. Any person who:
      (1)   Claims to have been injured by a discriminatory housing practice;
or
      (2)   Believes that he or she will be injured by a discriminatory housing
practice that is about to occur.
   COMMISSION. The state’s Equal Opportunity Commission.
   DWELLING. Any building, structure or portion thereof which is occupied as or
designed or intended for occupancy as a residence for one or more families and
any vacant land which is offered for sale or lease for the construction or
location thereon of any such building, structure or portion thereof.
   FAMILIAL STATUS. One or more minors being domiciled with:
      (1)   A parent or another person having legal custody of such individual;
or
      (2)   The designee of a parent or other person having legal custody, with
written permission of the parent or other person.
   HANDICAP. With respect to a person:
      (1)   A physical or mental impairment, excluding the current illegal use
of or addiction to a controlled substance, as defined in Neb. RS 28-401, which
substantially limits one or more of such person’s major life activities;
      (2)   A record of having such an impairment; or
      (3)   Being regarded as having such an impairment.
   PERSON. One or more individuals, corporations, partnerships, limited
liability companies, associations, labor organizations, legal representatives,
mutual companies, joint-stock companies, trusts, unincorporated organizations,
trustees, trustees in bankruptcy, receivers, limited liability corporations and
fiduciaries.
   RENT. Lease, sublease, let and otherwise grant for consideration the right
to occupy premises not owned by the occupant.
   RESTRICTIVE COVENANT. Any specification limiting the transfer, rental or
lease of any housing because of race, creed, religion, color, national origin,
sex, handicap, familial status or ancestry.
(Prior Code, § 10-702)  (Ord. 99-11, passed 11-1-1999)
§ 95.03  UNLAWFUL ACTS.
   (A)   Except as exempted by §
95.07 of this chapter, it shall be unlawful to:
      (1)   Refuse to sell or rent after the making of a bona fide offer,
refuse to negotiate for the sale or rental of or otherwise make unavailable or
deny, refuse to show or refuse to receive and transmit an offer for a dwelling
to any person because of race, color, religion, national origin, familial
status or sex;
      (2)   Discriminate against any person in the terms, conditions or
privileges of sale or rental of a dwelling or in the provision of services or
facilities in connection therewith because of race, color, religion, national
origin, familial status or sex;
      (3)   Make, print, publish or cause to be made, printed or published any
notice, statement or advertisement with respect to the sale or rental of a
dwelling that indicates any preference, limitation or discrimination based on
race, color, religion, national origin, handicap, familial status or sex or an
intention to make any such preference, limitation or discrimination;
      (4)   Represent to any person because of race, color, religion, national
origin, handicap, familial status or sex that any dwelling is not available for
inspection, sale or rental when such dwelling is in fact so available;
      (5)   Cause to be made any written or oral inquiry or record concerning
the race, color, religion, national origin, handicap, familial status or sex of
a person seeking to purchase, rent or lease any housing;
      (6)   Include any transfer, sale, rental or lease of housing any
restrictive covenants or honor or exercise or attempt to honor or exercise any
restrictive covenant pertaining to housing;
      (7)   Discharge or demote an employee or agent or discriminate in the
compensation of such employee or agent because of such employee’s compliance
with this chapter on the state’s Fair Housing Act, being Neb. RS 20-301 through
20-344; and
      (8)   Induce or attempt to induce, for profit, any person to sell or rent
any dwelling by representations regarding the entry or prospective entry into
the neighborhood of a person or persons of a particular race, color, religion,
national origin, handicap, familial status or sex.
   (B)   The protections afforded against discrimination on the basis of
familial status shall apply to any person who is pregnant or is in the process
of securing legal custody of any minor.
(Prior Code, § 10-703)  (Ord. 99-11, passed 11-1-1999)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 95.04  HANDICAPPED PERSON; DISCRIMINATORY PRACTICES PROHIBITED; DESIGN AND
CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS.
   (A)   Except as exempted by §
95.07 of this chapter, it shall be unlawful to:
      (1)   Discriminate in the sale or rental of or otherwise make unavailable
or deny a dwelling to any buyer or renter because of a handicap of:
         (a)   The buyer or renter;
         (b)   Any person associated with the buyer or renter; or
         (c)   A person residing in or intending to reside in the dwelling
after it is so sold, rented or made available.
      (2)   Discriminate against any person in the terms, conditions or
privileges of sale or rental of a dwelling or in the provision of services or
facilities in connection with a dwelling because of a handicap of:
         (a)   Such person;
         (b)   Any person associated with such person; or
         (c)   A person residing in or intending to reside in the dwelling
after it is so sold, rented or made available.
   (B)   For purposes of this section, DISCRIMINATION shall include:
      (1)   A refusal to permit, at the expense of the handicapped person
reasonable modifications of existing premises occupied or to be occupied by the
person if the modifications may be necessary to afford the person full
enjoyment of the premises; except that, in the case of rental, the landlord
may, when it is reasonable to do so, condition permission for a modification on
the renter agreeing to restore the interior of the premises to the condition
that existed before the modification, reasonable wear and tear expected;
      (2)   A refusal to make reasonable accommodations in rules, policies,
practices or services when such accommodations may be necessary to afford the
handicapped person equal opportunity to use or enjoy a dwelling; and
      (3)   In connection with the design and construction of covered multi-
family dwellings for first occupancy after 9-1-1991, a failure to design and
construct the dwellings in such manner that:
         (a)   The public use and common use portions of the dwelling are
readily accessible to and usable by handicapped persons;
         (b)   All the doors designed to allow passage into and within all
premises within the dwellings are sufficiently wide to allow passage by
handicapped persons in wheelchairs; and
         (c)   All premises within the dwellings contain the following features
of adaptive design:
            1.   An accessible route into and through the dwelling;
            2.   Light switches, electrical outlets, thermostats and other
environmental controls in accessible locations;
            3.   Reinforcements in bathroom walls to allow later installation
of grab bars; and
            4.   Kitchens and bathrooms such that a handicapped person in a
wheelchair can maneuver about the space.
   (C)   Compliance with the appropriate requirements of the American National
Standards Institute standard for buildings and facilities providing
accessibility and usability for physically handicapped people, ANSI A117.1,
shall satisfy the requirements of division (B)(3)(c) above.
   (D)   For purposes of this section, COVERED MULTI-FAMILY DWELLINGS shall
mean:
      (1)   Buildings consisting of four or more units if such buildings have
one or more elevators; and
      (2)   Ground floor units in other buildings consisting of four or more
units.
   (E)   Nothing in this section shall require that a dwelling be made
available to an individual whose tenancy would constitute a direct threat to
the health or safety of other individuals or whose tenancy would result in
substantial physical damage to the property of others.
(Prior Code, § 10-704)  (Ord. 99-11, passed 11-1-1999)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 95.05  TRANSACTION RELATED TO RESIDENTIAL REAL ESTATE; DISCRIMINATORY
PRACTICES PROHIBITED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person or other entity whose business
includes engaging in transactions related to residential estate to discriminate
against any person in making available such a transaction because of race,
color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status or national origin.
   (B)   For purposes of this section, TRANSACTION RELATED TO RESIDENTIAL
ESTATE shall mean any of the following:
      (1)   The making or purchasing of loans or providing other financial
assistance:
         (a)   For purchasing, constructing, improving, repairing or
maintaining a dwelling; or
         (b)   Secured by residential real estate.
      (2)   The selling, brokering or appraising of residential real property.
   (C)   Nothing in this section shall prohibit a person engaged in the
business of furnishing appraisals of real property from taking into
consideration factors other than race, color, religion, national origin,
handicap, familial status or sex.
(Prior Code, § 10-705)  (Ord. 99-11, passed 11-1-1999)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 95.06  MULTIPLE LISTING SERVICE; OTHER SERVICE; DISCRIMINATORY PRACTICES
PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful to deny any person access to or membership or
participation in any multiple listing service, real estate brokers organization
or other service, organization or facility relating to the business of selling
or renting dwellings or to discriminate against any person in the terms or
conditions of such access, membership or participation on account of race,
color, religion, national origin, handicap, familial status or sex.
(Prior Code, § 10-706)  (Ord. 99-11, passed 11-1-1999)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 95.07  RELIGIOUS ORGANIZATION, PRIVATE HOME; PRIVATE CLUB; OR HOUSING FOR
OLDER PERSONS; RESTRICTING USE NOT PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Nothing in this chapter shall prohibit a religious organization,
association or society or any nonprofit institution or organization operated,
supervised or controlled by or in conjunction with a religious organization,
association or society from limiting the sale, rental or occupancy of a
dwelling which it owns or operates for other than commercial purposes to
persons of the same religion or from giving preferences to such persons unless
membership in such religion is restricted on account of race, color, national
origin, handicap, familial status or sex.
   (B)   Nothing in this chapter shall prohibit a private club not in fact open
to the public, which as an incident to its primary purpose or purposes provides
lodgings which it owns or operates for other than commercial purposes, from
limiting the rental or occupancy of such lodging to its members or from giving
preference to its members.
   (C)   Nothing in this chapter shall prohibit or limit the right of any
person or his or her authorized representative to refuse to rent a room or
rooms in his or her own home for any reason or for no reason or to change
tenants in his or her own home as often as desired; except that, this exception
shall not apply to any person who makes available for rental or occupancy more
than four sleeping rooms to a person or family within his or her home.
   (D)   Nothing in this chapter regarding familial status shall apply with
respect to housing for older persons.  For purposes of this division (D),
HOUSING FOR OLDER PERSONS shall mean housing:
      (1)   Provided under any state program that the commission determines is
specifically designed and operated to assist elderly persons or defined in the
program;
      (2)   Intended for and solely occupied by persons 62 years of age or
older; or
      (3)   Intended and operated for occupancy by at least one person 55 years
of age or older per unit.
(Prior Code, § 10-707)  (Ord. 99-11, passed 11-1-1999)
§ 95.08  INFORMATION.
   The Municipal Clerk, upon request, shall make available to an aggrieved
person, or any other person, information regarding the state’s Fair Housing
Act, being Neb. RS 20-301 through 20-344, and the state’s Equal Opportunity
Commission without cost to such individual.
(Prior Code, § 10-708)  (Ord. 99-11, passed 11-1-1999)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 20-301 through 20-322
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   OCCUPATION TAXES AND FEES
      
111.   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
      
112.   PEDDLERS AND HAWKERS
      
113.   LOTTERIES
CHAPTER 110:  OCCUPATION TAXES AND FEES
Section
General Provisions
   
110.01   Franchise agreements
   
110.02   Filing fee
Occupation Taxes
   
110.15   Levies authorized
   
110.16   Collection dates
   
110.17   Certificates
   
110.18   Failure to pay
 
   
110.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 110.01  FRANCHISE AGREEMENTS.
   The governing body has the power to grant franchises. Actual details of the
agreement and the charges, rates and fees are available at the Municipal
Clerk’s office.
(Prior Code, § 10-401)
§ 110.02  FILING FEE.
   The municipality shall charge and collect a filing fee from natural gas
companies for a rate filing. The fee shall be $300.
(Prior Code, § 10-501)  (Ord. 437, passed 10-15-1987)
OCCUPATION TAXES
§ 110.15  LEVIES AUTHORIZED.
   For the purpose of raising revenue, an occupation tax is hereby levied on
the following businesses:
   (A)   Alcoholic beverages: all retailers of alcoholic liquors, including
beer and wine, for consumption on or off premises, except non-profit
corporations, which hold a Restricted Class C or Class H license, shall pay an
annual fee of two times the amount of the license fee required to be paid to
obtain or renew such license.
(Prior Code, § 10-301)
   (B)   Conducting games of change and/or lotteries.
(Ord. 450, passed 10-22-1990)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-525
§ 110.16  COLLECTION DATES.
   Unless provided otherwise or levied daily, any occupation taxes imposed by
the City Council shall be due and payable on May 1 of each year; except that,
any occupation taxes collected from Class C liquor licensees shall be due and
payable on November 1 of each year. Upon payment of an occupation tax by any
person to the City Clerk, the Clerk shall give a receipt, properly dated,
specifying the person paying the tax and the amount paid. Any revenue collected
shall be deposited into the General Fund by the City Treasurer except as
otherwise specifically provided. The Treasurer shall keep an accurate account
of all revenue turned over to him or her. All forms and receipts herein
mentioned shall be issued in duplicate. One copy shall then be kept by each
party in the transaction.
(Prior Code, § 10-303)
§ 110.17  CERTIFICATES.
   (A)   The receipt issued after the payment of any occupation tax shall be
the occupation tax certificate.
   (B)   The certificate shall specify the amount of the tax and the name of
the person and business that paid the tax.
   (C)   The occupation tax certificate shall then be displayed in a prominent
place or carried in such a way as to be easily accessible while business is
being conducted.
(Prior Code, § 10-304)
§ 110.18  FAILURE TO PAY.
   If any person, company or corporation fails or neglects to pay the
occupation taxes as provided in this chapter on the day they become due and
payable, the city shall then proceed by civil suit to collect the amount due.
All delinquent taxes shall bear interest at the rate of 1% per month until
paid.
(Prior Code, § 10-305)
§ 110.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, or any person’s agent or servant, who violates any of the
provisions of this chapter, unless otherwise specifically provided herein,
shall be deemed guilty of an offense and, upon conviction thereof, shall be
fined in any sum not exceeding $500. A new violation shall be deemed to have
been committed every 24 hours of failure to comply with the provisions of this
business title.
   (B)   (1)   Whenever a nuisance exists, as defined in this chapter, the
municipality may proceed by a suit in equity to enjoin, abate and remove the
same in the manner provided by law.
      (2)   Whenever, in any action, it is established that a nuisance exists,
the court may, together with the fine or penalty imposed, enter an order of
abatement as a part of the judgment in the case.
(Prior Code, § 10-801)  (Ord. 2000-16, passed 5-1-2000)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-505, 18-1720, 18-1722
CHAPTER 111:  ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
Section
General Provisions
   
111.01   Definitions
   
111.02   Sale or gift to minor or mentally incompetent person prohibited
   
111.03   Consumption in public places or places open to the public;
restrictions
   
111.04   Removal of intoxicated persons from public or quasi-public property
Licenses Required
   
111.20   Manufacture, sale, delivery and possession; general prohibitions;
exceptions
   
111.21   Acquisition and possession; restrictions
   
111.22   Licensee requirements
   
111.23   Licenses; city powers and duties
   
111.24   Licensed premises; inspections
   
111.25   License renewal; city powers and duties
   
111.26   Catering licenses
   
111.27   Display of license
   
111.28   Owner of premises or agent; liability
   
111.29   Licensee; liability for acts of officer, agent or employee
   
111.30   Citizen complaints
Retail Establishments
   
111.45   Location
   
111.46   Access to dwellings
   
111.47   Sanitary conditions
   
111.48   Hours of sale
   
111.49   Credit sales prohibited
   
111.50   Original package required
   
111.51   Minor’s presence restricted
   
111.52   Keg sales; requirements; prohibited acts
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 111.01  DEFINITIONS.
   For purposes of this chapter, the definitions found in Neb. RS 53-103.01
through 53-103.42 shall be used.
(Prior Code, § 10-101)
§ 111.02  SALE OR GIFT TO MINOR OR MENTALLY INCOMPETENT PERSON PROHIBITED.
   No person shall sell, furnish, give away, dispose of, exchange or deliver,
or permit the sale, gift or procuring of any alcoholic liquors, to or for any
minor or to any person who is mentally incompetent.
(Neb. RS 53-180)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.03  CONSUMPTION IN PUBLIC PLACES OR PLACES OPEN TO THE PUBLIC;
RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   Except when the state’s Liquor Control Commission has issued a license
as provided in Neb. RS 53-186(2), it is unlawful for any person to consume
alcoholic liquor upon property owned or controlled by the state or any
governmental subdivision thereof unless authorized by the governing bodies
having jurisdiction over such property.
   (B)   It is unlawful for any person owning, operating, managing or
conducting any dance hall, restaurant, café or club or any place open to the
general public to permit or allow any person to consume alcoholic liquor upon
the premises except as permitted by a license issued for such premises pursuant
to the state’s Liquor Control Act, being Neb. RS 53-101 through 53-1,122. It is
unlawful for any person to consume alcoholic liquor in any dance hall,
restaurant, café or club or any place open to the general public, except as
permitted by a license issued for such premises pursuant to the Act. This
division (B) does not apply to a retail licensee while lawfully engaged in the
catering of alcoholic beverages.
(Prior Code, § 10-119)  (Ord. 2000-6, passed 5-1-2000)  Penalty, see §
110.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 53-186(1), 53-186.01
§ 111.04  REMOVAL OF INTOXICATED PERSONS FROM PUBLIC OR QUASI-PUBLIC PROPERTY.
   (A)   (1)   Any law enforcement officer with the power to arrest for traffic
violations may take a person who is intoxicated and in the judgment of the
officer dangerous to himself, herself or others, or who is otherwise
incapacitated, from any public or quasi-public property. An officer removing an
intoxicated person from public or quasi-public property shall make a reasonable
effort to take the intoxicated person to his or her home or to place the person
in any hospital, clinic or mental health substance use treatment center, or
with a medical doctor as may be necessary to preserve life or to prevent
injury.
      (2)   The effort at placement shall be deemed reasonable if the officer
contacts such facilities or doctor which have previously represented a
willingness to accept and treat such individuals and which regularly do accept
such individuals.
      (3)   If these efforts are unsuccessful or are not feasible, the officer
may then place the intoxicated person in civil protective custody; except that,
civil protective custody shall be used only as long as is necessary to preserve
life or to prevent injury, and under no circumstances longer than 24 hours.
   (B)   The placement of the person in civil protective custody shall be
recorded at the facility or jail at which he or she is delivered and
communicated to his or her family or next of kin, if they can be located or to
the person designated by the person taken into civil protective custody.
   (C)   The law enforcement officer who acts in compliance with this section
shall be deemed to be acting in the course of his or her official duty and
shall not be criminally or civilly liable for these actions.
   (D)   (1)   The taking of an individual into civil protective custody under
this section shall not be considered an arrest.
      (2)   No entry or other record shall be made to indicate that the person
has been arrested or charged with a crime.
   (E)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      MENTAL HEALTH SUBSTANCE USE TREATMENT CENTER. Has the same meaning as in
Neb. RS 71-423.
      PUBLIC PROPERTY. Any public right-of-way, street, highway, alley, park or
other state-, county- or city-owned property.
      QUASI-PUBLIC PROPERTY. Private or publicly owned property utilized for
proprietary or business uses which invites patronage by the public or which
invites public ingress and egress.
(Neb. RS 53-1,121)  Penalty, see §
110.99
LICENSES REQUIRED
§ 111.20  MANUFACTURE, SALE, DELIVERY AND POSSESSION; GENERAL PROHIBITIONS;
EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   No person shall manufacture, bottle, blend, sell, barter, transport,
deliver, furnish or possess any alcoholic liquor for beverage purposes except
as specifically provided in this chapter and the state’s Liquor Control Act.
   (B)   Nothing in this chapter shall prevent:
      (1)   The possession of alcoholic liquor legally obtained as provided in
this chapter or the Act for the personal use of the possessor and his or her
family or guests;
      (2)   The making of wine, cider or other alcoholic liquor by a person
from fruits, vegetables or grains, or the product thereof, by simple
fermentation and without distillation, if made solely for the use of the maker
and his or her family and guests;
      (3)   Any duly licensed practicing physician or dentist from possessing
or using alcoholic liquor in the strict practice of his or her profession, any
hospital or other institution caring for the sick and diseased persons from
possessing and using alcoholic liquor for the treatment of bona fide patients
of that hospital or other institution, or any drug store employing a licensed
pharmacist from possessing or using alcoholic liquor in the compounding of
prescriptions of licensed physicians;
      (4)   The possession and dispensation of alcoholic liquor by an
authorized representative of any religion on the premises of a place of
worship, for the purpose of conducting any bona fide religious rite, ritual or
ceremony;
      (5)   Persons who are 16 years old or older from carrying alcoholic
liquor from licensed establishments when they are accompanied by a person not a
minor;
      (6)   Persons who are 16 years old or older from handling alcoholic
liquor containers and alcoholic liquor in the course of their employment;
      (7)   Persons who are 16 years old or older from removing and disposing
of alcoholic liquor containers for the convenience of the employer and
customers in the course of their employment;
      (8)   Persons who are 16 years old or older from completing a transaction
for the sale of alcoholic liquor in the course of their employment if they are
not handling or serving alcoholic liquor; or
      (9)   Persons who are 19 years old or older from serving or selling
alcoholic liquor in the course of their employment.
(Neb. RS 53-168.06)  (Prior Code, § 10-102)  Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 111.21  ACQUISITION AND POSSESSION; RESTRICTIONS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to purchase, receive, acquire, accept or
possess any alcoholic liquor acquired from any other person other than one duly
licensed to handle alcoholic liquor under the state’s Liquor Control Act, being
Neb. RS 53-101 through 53-1,122; provided, nothing in this section shall
prevent:
   (A)   The possession of alcoholic liquor for the personal use of the
possessor and his or her family and guests, as long as the quantity of
alcoholic liquor transported, imported, brought or shipped into the state does
not exceed nine liters in any one calendar month;
   (B)   The making of wine, cider or other alcoholic liquor by a person from
fruits, vegetables or grains, or the product thereof, by simple fermentation
and without distillation, if made solely for the use of the maker and his or
her family and guests;
   (C)   Any duly licensed practicing physician or dentist from possessing or
using alcoholic liquor in the strict practice of his or her profession, any
hospital or other institution caring for the sick and diseased persons from
possessing and using alcoholic liquor for the treatment of bona fide patients
of such hospital or other institution, or any drug store employing a licensed
pharmacist from possessing or using alcoholic liquor in compounding of
prescriptions of licensed physicians;
   (D)   The possession and dispensation of wine by an authorized
representative of any church for the purpose of conducting any bona fide rite
or religious ceremony conducted by such church;
   (E)   Persons who are 16 years old or older from carrying alcoholic liquor
from licensed establishments when they are accompanied by a person not a minor;
   (F)   Persons who are 16 years old or older from handling alcoholic liquor
containers and alcoholic liquor in the course of their employment;
   (G)   Persons who are 16 years old or older from removing and disposing of
alcoholic liquor containers for the convenience of the employer and customers
in the course of their employment; or
   (H)   Persons who are 19 years old or older from serving or selling
alcoholic liquor in the course of their employment.
(Prior Code, § 10-120)  (Ord. 29-95, passed 12-4-1995)  Penalty, see §
110.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 53-168.06, 53-175, 53-194.03
§ 111.22  LICENSEE REQUIREMENTS.
   The governing body hereby deems it in the public interest to limit the
number of certain types of alcoholic beverage licenses permitted within the
corporate limits. The governing body shall recommend the disallowance of any
application for a Class A, beer only, on sale license, if the current
application, if approved, would extend to more than two the number of licensees
authorized to do business within the municipality as Class A licensees; the
governing body shall recommend the disallowance of any application for a Class
C, beer and liquor, on and off sale license, if the current application, if
approved, would extend to more than four the number of licensees authorized to
do business within the municipality as Class C licensees; the governing body
shall recommend the disallowance of any application for a Class D, alcoholic
liquors, including beer, off sale in original packages only license, if the
current application would extend to more than two the number of licensees
authorized to do business within the municipality as Class D licensees; and the
governing body shall recommend disallowance of any application for a Class H,
non-profit corporation corporation on sale license, if the current application,
if approved, would extend to more than one the number of licensees authorized
to do business within the municipality as Class H licensees. It is the intent
of the governing body in making the above provisions to limit the number of the
above respective classes to the number herein provided for, or to a lesser
number, and to no other classes.
(Prior Code, § 10-107)  (Ord. 422, passed 5-11-1983)
§ 111.23  LICENSES; CITY POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   The governing body is authorized to regulate by ordinance, not
inconsistent with the state’s Liquor Control Act, being Neb. RS 53-101 through
53-1,122, the business of all retail, bottle club or craft brewery licensees
carried on within the corporate limits of the municipality.
   (B)   During the period of 45 days after the date of receiving from the
state’s Liquor Control Commission an application for a new license to sell
alcoholic liquor at retail, a bottle club license or a craft brewery license,
the governing body may make and submit to the Commission recommendations
relative to the granting or refusal to grant such license to the applicant.
   (C)   The governing body, with respect to licenses within the corporate
limits of the municipality, has the following powers, functions, duties with
respect to retail, bottle club and craft brewery licenses:
      (1)   To cancel or revoke for cause retail, bottle club or craft brewery
licenses to sell or dispense alcoholic liquor issued to persons for premises
within its jurisdiction, subject to the right of appeal to the state’s Liquor
Control Commission;
      (2)   To enter or to authorize any law enforcement officer to enter at
any time upon any premises licensed under the state’s Liquor Control Act to
determine whether any provision of the Act, any rule or regulation adopted and
promulgated pursuant to the Act, or any ordinance, resolution, rule or
regulation adopted by the governing body has been or is being violated and at
such time examine the premises of such licensee in connection with such
determination;
      (3)   To receive a signed complaint from any citizen within its
jurisdiction that any provision of the Act, any rule or regulation adopted and
promulgated pursuant to the Act or any ordinance, resolution, rule or
regulation relating to alcoholic liquor has been or is being violated and to
act upon such complaints in the manner provided in the Act;
      (4)   To receive retail license fees, bottle club license fees and craft
brewery license fees as provided in Neb. RS 53-124 and pay the same, after the
license has been delivered to the applicant, to the Municipal Treasurer;
      (5)   To examine or cause to be examined any applicant or any retail
licensee, bottle club licensee or craft brewery licensee upon whom notice of
cancellation or revocation has been served as provided in the Act, to examine
or cause to be examined the books and records of any applicant or licensee and
to hear testimony and to take proof for its information in the performance of
its duties. For purposes of obtaining any of the information desired, the
governing body may authorize its agent or attorney to act on its behalf;
      (6)   To cancel or revoke on its own motion any license if, upon the same
notice and hearing as provided in Neb. RS 53-134.04, it determines that the
licensee has violated any of the provisions of the state’s Liquor Control Act
or any valid and subsisting ordinance or regulation duly enacted, adopted and
promulgated relating to alcoholic liquor. Such order of cancellation or
revocation may be appealed to the Commission within 30 days after the date of
the order by filing a notice of appeal with the Commission. The Commission
shall handle the appeal in the manner provided for hearing on an application in
Neb. RS 53-133; and
      (7)   (a)   Upon receipt from the Commission of the notice and copy of
application as provided in Neb. RS 53-131, to fix a time and place for a
hearing at which the governing body shall receive evidence, either orally or by
affidavit from the applicant and any other person, bearing upon the propriety
of the issuance of a license. Notice of the time and place of such hearing
shall be published in a legal newspaper in or of general circulation in the
municipality, one time not less than seven and not more than 14 days before the
time of the hearing. Such notice shall include, but not be limited to, a
statement that all persons desiring to give evidence before the governing body
in support of or in protest against the issuance of such license may do so at
the time of the hearing.
         (b)   The hearing shall be held not more than 45 days after the date
of receipt of the notice from the Commission, and after such hearing the
governing body shall cause to be recorded in the minute record of their
proceedings a resolution recommending either issuance or refusal of such
license. The Municipal Clerk shall mail to the Commission by first-class mail,
postage prepaid, a copy of the resolution which shall state the cost of the
published notice; except that, failure to comply with this provision shall not
void any license issued by the Commission. If the Commission refuses to issue
such a license, the cost of publication of notice shall be paid by the
Commission from the security for costs.
   (D)   (1)   When the state’s Liquor Control Commission mails or delivers to
the Municipal Clerk a license issued or renewed by the Commission, the Clerk
shall deliver the license to the licensee upon proof of payment of:
         (a)   The license fee if by the terms of Neb. RS 53-124(5) the fee is
payable to the Municipal Treasurer;
         (b)   Any fee for publication of notice of hearing before the
governing body upon the application for the license;
         (c)   The fee for publication of notice of renewal, if applicable, as
provided in Neb. RS 53-135.01; and
         (d)   Occupation taxes, if any, imposed by the municipality.
      (2)   Notwithstanding any ordinance or charter power to the contrary, the
municipality shall not impose an occupation tax on the business of any person,
firm or corporation licensed under the state’s Liquor Control Act and doing
business within the corporate limits of the municipality in any sum which
exceeds two times the amount of the license fee required to be paid under the
Act to obtain such license.
(Prior Code, § 10-109)  (Ord. 2000-7, passed 5-1-2000)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 53-131(2), 53-134, 53-134.03
§ 111.24  LICENSED PREMISES; INSPECTIONS.
   The City Council shall cause frequent inspection to be made on the premises
of all retail licensees and bottle club licensees. If it is found that any such
licensee is violating any provision of this chapter, the state’s Liquor Control
Act, or the rules and regulations of the state’s Liquor Control Commission, or
is failing to observe in good faith the purposes of this chapter or the Act,
the license may be suspended, canceled or revoked after the licensee is given
an opportunity to be heard in his or her defense.
(Neb. RS 53-116.01)
§ 111.25  LICENSE RENEWAL; CITY POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   A retail or bottle club license issued by the state’s Liquor Control
Commission and outstanding may be automatically renewed by the Commission in
the absence of a written request by the City Council to require the licensee to
submit an application for renewal. Any licensed retail premises located in an
area which is annexed to the city shall file a formal application for a
license, and while the application is pending, the licensee may continue all
license privileges until the original license expires or is canceled or
revoked. If that license expires within 60 days following the annexation date
of the area, the license may be renewed by order of the Commission for not more
than one year.
(Neb. RS 53-135)
   (B)   (1)   The City Clerk shall cause to be published in a legal newspaper
in or of general circulation in the city, one time between January 10 and
January 30 of each year, individual notice in the form prescribed by law of the
right of automatic renewal of each retail liquor and beer license within the
city; except that, notice of the right of automatic renewal of Class C licenses
shall be published between the dates of July 10 and July 30 of each year.
      (2)   If written protests to the issuance of automatic renewal of a
license are filed in the office of the City Clerk by three or more residents of
the city on or before February 10, or August 10 for Class C licenses, the City
Council shall hold a hearing to determine whether continuation of the license
should be allowed.
      (3)   Upon the conclusion of any hearing required by this section, the
City Council may request a licensee to submit an application as provided in
Neb. RS 53-135.
(Neb. RS 53-135.01)  (Prior Code, § 10-108)
§ 111.26  CATERING LICENSES.
   (A)   The holder of a Class C, Class D or Class I license issued under Neb.
RS 53-124(5) or a craft brewery license may obtain an annual catering license
by filing an application and license fee with the state’s Liquor Control
Commission.
   (B)   Upon receipt from the Commission of the notice and copy of the
application as provided in Neb. RS 53-124.12, the governing body shall process
the application in the same manner as provided in §
111.23 of this chapter.
   (C)   The governing body, with respect to catering licensees within the
municipality’s corporate limits, may cancel a catering license for cause for
the remainder of the period for which the license is issued. Any person whose
catering license is canceled may appeal to the District Court.
   (D)   The municipality may impose an occupation tax on the business of any
person, firm or corporation receiving a catering license and doing business
within the municipality. The tax may not exceed double the license fee for a
catering license.
(Prior Code, § 10-121)  (Ord. 20-95, passed 10-2-1995; Ord. 97-17, passed 9-8-
1997; Ord. 2000-17, passed 5-1-2000)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 53-124.12(1), 53-124.12(3), 53-124.12(4),
53-124.12(6)
§ 111.27  DISPLAY OF LICENSE.
   Every licensee under the state’s Liquor Control Act shall cause his or her
license to be framed and hung in plain view in a conspicuous place on the
licensed premises.
(Neb. RS 53-148)  (Prior Code, § 10-105)  Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 111.28  OWNER OF PREMISES OR AGENT; LIABILITY.
   If the owner of the licensed premises or any person from whom the licensee
derives the right to possession of the premises, or the agent of that owner or
person, knowingly permits the licensee to use the licensed premises in
violation of the terms of the state’s Liquor Control Act or any city ordinance,
that owner, agent or other person shall be deemed guilty of a violation of the
Act or ordinance to the same extent as the licensee and be subject to the same
punishment.
(Neb. RS 53-1,101)  (Prior Code, § 10-110)  Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 111.29  LICENSEE; LIABILITY FOR ACTS OF OFFICER, AGENT OR EMPLOYEE.
   Every act or omission of whatsoever nature constituting a violation of any
of the provisions of the state’s Liquor Control Act or any city ordinance by
any officer, director, manager or other agent or employee of any licensee, if
the act is committed or omission is made with the authorization, knowledge or
approval of the licensee, shall be deemed and held to be the act of the
employer or licensee, and the employer or licensee shall be punishable in the
same manner as if the act or omission had been done or omitted by the licensee
personally.
(Neb. RS 53-1,102)  (Prior Code, § 10-111)  Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 111.30  CITIZEN COMPLAINTS.
   Any five residents of the city shall have the right to file a complaint with
the City Council stating that any retail licensee or bottle club licensee
subject to the jurisdiction of the City Council has been or is violating any
provision of the state’s Liquor Control Act or the rules or regulations issued
pursuant to the Act. The complaint shall be in writing in the form prescribed
by the City Council and shall be signed and sworn to by the parties
complaining. The complaint shall state the particular provision, rule or
regulation believed to have been violated and the facts in detail upon which
belief is based. If the City Council is satisfied that the complaint
substantially charges a violation and that from the facts alleged there is
reasonable cause for that belief, it shall set the matter for hearing within
ten days from the date of the filing of the complaint and shall serve notice
upon the licensee of the time and place of the hearing and of the particular
charge in the complaint. The complaint shall in all cases be disposed of by the
City Council within 30 days from the date the complaint was filed by resolution
thereof, which resolution shall be deemed the final order for purposes of
appeal to the state’s Liquor Control Commission as provided in Neb. RS 53-
1,115.
(Neb. RS 53-134.04)
RETAIL ESTABLISHMENTS
§ 111.45  LOCATION.
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided in division (B) below, no license shall
be issued for the sale at retail of any alcoholic liquor or for a bottle club
within 150 feet of any church, school, hospital or home for indigent persons or
for veterans and their wives/husbands or children. This prohibition does not
apply to any location within such distance of 150 feet:
      (1)   For which a license to sell alcoholic liquor at retail or for a
bottle club has been granted by the state’s Liquor Control Commission for two
years continuously prior to making of application for license;
      (2)   To hotels offering restaurant service, to regularly organized clubs
or to restaurants, food shops or other places where sale of alcoholic liquor is
not the principal business carried on, if such place of business so exempted
was established for such purposes prior to 5-24-1935; or
      (3)   To a college or university in the state which is subject to Neb. RS
53-177.01.
   (B)   If a proposed location for the sale at retail of any alcoholic liquor
or for a bottle club is within 150 feet of any church, a license may be issued
if the Commission gives notice to the affected church and holds a hearing as
prescribed in Neb. RS 53-133 if the affected church submits a written request
for a hearing.
(Neb. RS 53-177)
   (C)   No alcoholic liquor, other than beer, shall be sold for consumption on
the premises within 300 feet from the campus of any college or university
within the city, and no bottle club shall be operated within 300 feet from the
campus of any college; except that, this section:
      (1)   Does not prohibit a nonpublic college or university from
contracting with an individual or corporation holding a license to sell
alcoholic liquor at retail for the purpose of selling alcoholic liquor at
retail on the campus of such college or university at events sanctioned by such
college or university but does prohibit the sale of alcoholic liquor at retail
by such licensee on the campus of such nonpublic college or university at
student activities or events; and
      (2)   Does not prohibit sales of alcoholic liquor by a community college
culinary education program pursuant to Neb. RS 53-124.15.
(Neb. RS 53-177.01)  (Prior Code, § 10-103)  Penalty, see §
110.99
Statutory reference:
   State commission may waive 300-feet requirement, see Neb. RS 53-177.01
§ 111.46  ACCESS TO DWELLINGS.
   Except in the case of hotels and clubs, no alcoholic liquor shall be
manufactured or sold at retail or wholesale upon any premises which have any
access which leads from the premises to any other portion of the same building
or structure used for dwelling or lodging purposes and permitted to be used or
kept accessible for use by the public. This section does not prevent any
connection between the premises and such other portion of the building or
structure which is used only by the licensee, his or her family, or personal
guests.
(Neb. RS 53-178)  (Prior Code, § 10-104)  Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 111.47  SANITARY CONDITIONS.
   It shall be unlawful to open for public use any retail liquor establishment
that is not in a clean and sanitary condition. Toilet facilities shall be
adequate and convenient for customers and patrons. The licensed premises shall
be subject to any health inspections the City Council or the city police may
make or cause to be made. All applications for liquor licenses shall be viewed
in part from the standpoint of the sanitary conditions, and a report concerning
the sanitary conditions shall be made at all hearings concerning the
application for or renewal of a liquor license.
(Prior Code, § 10-117)  Penalty, see §
110.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority to regulate licensed premises, see Neb. RS 53-134.03
   State sanitary rules and regulations authorized, see Neb. RS 53-118
§ 111.48  HOURS OF SALE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person on any property licensed to sell
alcoholic liquor at retail purposely or knowingly to sell or distribute
alcoholic liquor, or to permit any person to do so, during the following
periods of time:
      (1)   The sale or distribution for consumption off the premises on any
day between the hours of 1:00 a.m. and 6:00 a.m.;
      (2)   The sale or dispensing for consumption on the premises on any day
between the hours of 2:00 a.m. and 6:00 a.m.; or
      (3)   On any Sunday the sale or dispensing of alcoholic liquor, other
than beer or wine, for consumption on the premises or off the premises, shall
be prohibited between the hours of 6:00 a.m. and 12:00 p.m.
   (B)   The hours during which a holder of a special designated permit may
sell or distribute alcoholic liquor, other than beer or wine, on Sunday shall
be established by the City Council at the time the permit application is
considered.
   (C)   Non-profit corporations holding a Class C or Class I license under
Neb. RS 53-124, shall be permitted to sell alcoholic liquor for consumption on
the premises between the hours of 12:00 noon on Sunday and 1:00 a.m. on the
following Monday, but such non-profit corporation licensee shall not sell or
dispense alcoholic liquor on more than six days each week.
   (D)   No person or persons shall consume any alcoholic beverages on licensed
premises for a period of time longer than 15 minutes after the time fixed
herein for stopping the sale of alcoholic beverages on said premises.
   (E)   Nothing in this section shall prohibit licensed premises from being
open for other business on days and hours during which the sale or dispensing
of alcoholic liquor is prohibited by this section.
(Prior Code, § 10-116)  (Ord. 10-94, passed 7-11-1994; Ord. 10-1, passed - -
2010)  Penalty, see §
110.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 53-179
§ 111.49  CREDIT SALES PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person shall sell or furnish alcoholic liquor at retail to any
person on credit, on a passbook, on an order on a store, in exchange for any
goods, wares or merchandise, or in payment for any services rendered and, if
any person extends credit for any such purpose, the debt thereby attempted to
be created shall not be recoverable at law.
   (B)   Nothing in this section shall prevent the following:
      (1)   Any club holding a Class C license from permitting checks or
statements for alcoholic liquor to be signed by members or bona fide guests of
members and charged to the account of such members or guests in accordance with
the bylaws of such club;
      (2)   Any hotel or restaurant holding a retail license from permitting
checks or statements for liquor to be signed by regular guests residing at such
hotel or eating at such restaurant and charged to the accounts of such guests;
or
      (3)   Any licensed retailer engaged in the sale of wine or distilled
spirits from issuing tasting cards to customers.
(Neb. RS 53-183)  (Prior Code, § 10-113)  Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 111.50  ORIGINAL PACKAGE REQUIRED.
   No person, except a manufacturer or wholesaler, shall fill or refill, in
whole or in part, any original package of alcoholic liquor with the same or any
other kind or quality of alcoholic liquor. It shall be unlawful for any person
to have in his or her possession for sale at retail any bottles, casks or other
containers containing alcoholic liquor, except in original packages. Nothing in
this section shall prohibit the refilling of original packages of alcoholic
liquor for strictly private use and not for resale.
(Neb. RS 53-184)  Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 111.51  MINOR’S PRESENCE RESTRICTED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person who owns, manages or leases an
establishment selling alcoholic beverages at retail to allow any minor under
the age of 18 years of age to frequent or otherwise remain in the establishment
unless the minor is accompanied by his or her parent or legal guardian, and
unless the minor remains seated with and under the immediate control of the
parent or legal guardian.
Penalty, see §
110.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority to regulate, see Neb. RS 53-134.03
§ 111.52  KEG SALES; REQUIREMENTS; PROHIBITED ACTS.
   (A)   When any person licensed to sell alcoholic liquor at retail sells
alcohol for consumption off the premises in a container with a liquid capacity
of five or more gallons or 18.92 or more liters, the seller shall record the
date of the sale, the keg identification number, the purchaser’s name and
address, and the number of the purchaser’s motor vehicle operator’s license,
state identification card, or military identification, if the military
identification contains a picture of the purchaser, together with the
purchaser’s signature. This record shall be on a form prescribed by the state’s
Liquor Control Commission and shall be kept by the licensee at the retail
establishment where the purchase was made for not less than six months. The
records kept pursuant to this section shall be available for inspection by any
law enforcement officer during normal business hours or at any other reasonable
time. Any person violating this section shall be guilty of an offense.
(Neb. RS 53-167.02)
   (B)   Any person who unlawfully tampers with, alters or removes the keg
identification number from a container described in division (A) above or is in
possession of a container described in division (A) above with an altered or
removed keg identification number after the container has been taken from the
licensed premises pursuant to a retail sale and before its return to the
licensed premises or other place where returned kegs are accepted shall be
guilty of an offense.
(Neb. RS 53-167.03)  Penalty, see §
110.99
CHAPTER 112:  PEDDLERS AND HAWKERS
Section
   
112.01   Regulation
   
112.02   Exceptions
§ 112.01  REGULATION.
   To prevent the sale of fraudulent, dangerous and unhealthful goods and
services, and to protect the public by maintaining records of the products sold
and the persons and companies responsible for such sales, all peddlers and
hawkers shall, before doing business within the municipality, make application
for, and be issued a permit. Application for said permit shall be made to the
Municipal Clerk, and shall contain all the necessary information, and documents
required for the protection of the residents of the municipality. Any person or
persons granted a peddler and hawker permit shall be subject to any fees,
occupation taxes and other rules and regulations which the governing body deems
appropriate for the purposes stated herein. Any permit so granted shall be
subject to revocation for good and sufficient cause by the municipal police.
(Neb. RS 17-134, 17-525)  (Prior Code, § 10-201)
§ 112.02  EXCEPTIONS.
   Nothing herein shall be construed to apply to any person, or persons,
selling produce raised within the county, or to wholesale salespersons
soliciting merchants directly, or to a representative of a non-profit or
charity organization soliciting on behalf of that organization.
(Prior Code, § 10-202)
CHAPTER 113:  LOTTERIES
Section
   
113.01   Definitions
   
113.02   Occupation tax
   
113.03   Amount of occupation tax for persons engaged in the occupation of
conducting games of chance and lotteries
   
113.04   Amount of occupation tax for distributor
   
113.05   Prohibition
   
113.06   Permit application
   
113.07   Display of permit
   
113.08   Permit fee
   
113.09   Exemption
   
113.10   State cooperative lottery
§ 113.01  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DISTRIBUTOR. Any person who engages in the business of selling, leasing or
delivering possession of custody of gambling devices for consideration to a
person engaged in the occupation of conducting games of chance and/or
lotteries.
   GAMBLING DEVICES. Any and all machines and devices used by a person engaged
in the occupation of conducting games of chance and/or lotteries.
   GAMES OF CHANCE AND/OR LOTTERIES. Those forms of gambling authorized by the
state, pursuant to Art. III, § 24, of the Constitution of the state.
   PERSON ENGAGED IN THE OCCUPATION OF CONDUCTING GAMES OF CHANCE AND/OR
LOTTERIES. Any person who operates, owns or is the lessee of a place of
business where any game and/or lottery activity is conducted, whether or not
any other type of business is conducted, whether or not any other type of
business is conducted on the premises; or, any person who either directly
controls or manages the games of chance and/or lotteries, or owns any machine
or device used to engage in the occupation of games of chance and/or lotteries,
but does not sell, lease or deliver possession or custody of such a device to
other persons.
(Prior Code, § 10-306)  (Ord. 451, passed 1-7-1991)
§ 113.02  OCCUPATION TAX.
   An occupation tax is hereby imposed on each person engaged in the occupation
of conducting games of chance and lottery activities within the city in the
amount and manner specified in §
113.03 of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 10-306)  (Ord. 451, passed 1-7-1991)
§ 113.03  AMOUNT OF OCCUPATION TAX FOR PERSONS ENGAGED IN THE OCCUPATION OF
CONDUCTING GAMES OF CHANCE AND LOTTERIES.
   The occupation tax for each person engaging in the occupation of conducting
games of chance and lottery activities within the city shall be 5% of the gross
receipts received by said person in each quarter of a calendar year.
(Prior Code, § 10-306)  (Ord. 451, passed 1-7-1991)
§ 113.04  AMOUNT OF OCCUPATION TAX FOR DISTRIBUTOR.
   The occupation tax for engaging in the occupation of distributing gambling
devices within the city shall be 5% of the gross receipts received by a
distributor in each quarter of the calendar year.
(Prior Code, § 10-306)  (Ord. 451, passed 1-7-1991)
§ 113.05  PROHIBITION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in the occupation of
conducting games of chance or lottery activities without first obtaining a
permit to do so.
(Prior Code, § 10-306)  (Ord. 451, passed 1-7-1991)  Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 113.06  PERMIT APPLICATION.
   (A)   Every person desiring a permit required by the provisions of this
chapter shall make application to the City Clerk.
   (B)   Accompanying each application shall be:
      (1)   A sworn statement by each designated supervising member that such
member will be responsible for compliance with the rules and regulations for
each occasion of games of chance and/or lotteries which he or she supervises;
and
      (2)   A sworn statement by the member designated as responsible for the
proper utilization of gross receipts that no commission, fee, rent, seller
profits, compensation, reward or recompense shall be paid to any person or
organization not sanctioned by the laws of the state and the city and that all
profits shall be spent for a lawful purpose.
(Prior Code, § 10-306)  (Ord. 451, passed 1-7-1991)
§ 113.07  DISPLAY OF PERMIT.
   Every permit issued under the provisions of this chapter shall be
conspicuously displayed at the place where the game of chance or lottery
activity is conducted at all times during the conduct thereof.
(Prior Code, § 10-306)  (Ord. 451, passed 1-7-1991)
§ 113.08  PERMIT FEE.
   The permit fee for engaging in the occupation of conducting games of chance
and lotteries within the city shall be $10 for each location wherein such
activity is conducted.
(Prior Code, § 10-306)  (Ord. 451, passed 1-7-1991)
§ 113.09  EXEMPTION.
   Non-profit organizations that desire to participate in games of chance and/
or lotteries, that are in compliance with the Small Lotteries and Raffles Act
of the state, being Neb. RS 9-501 through 9-513, are exempt from the provisions
of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 10-306)  (Ord. 451, passed 1-7-1991)
§ 113.10  STATE COOPERATIVE LOTTERY.
   The city desires to and hereby does elect to become a party to the state’s
cooperative government interlocal cooperation agreement and agrees to be bound
hereby to the same extent as an original party hereto and shall be entitled to
the rights and privileges thereto appertaining. The Mayor is hereby authorized
to execute the said interlocal cooperation agreement on behalf of the city.
(Prior Code, § 10-601)  (Ord. 3-96, passed 4-1-1996)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   CURFEW FOR MINORS
      
131.   OFFENSES AGAINST PEACE, SAFETY AND HEALTH
      
132.   SEXUAL PREDATOR RESIDENCY
CHAPTER 130:  CURFEW FOR MINORS
Section
   
130.01   Curfew hours
   
130.02   Parental responsibility
   
130.03   Reasonable defenses
   
130.04   Owner and operator responsibility
   
130.05   Definitions
   
130.06   Enforcement; police authorization
 
   
130.99   Penalty
§ 130.01  CURFEW HOURS.
   (A)   Minors age 14 and below. Subject to a reasonable defense, it shall be
unlawful for a minor 14 years of age or younger to loiter, wander, stroll or
play in or upon any of the streets, roads, alleys or parks of the municipality,
or other places of public amusement or recreation therein after the hour of 10:
00 p.m. and until the hour of 6:00 a.m. of the following day on Sunday through
Thursday, and after the hour of 11:00 p.m. and until the hour of 6:00 a.m. of
the following day on Friday and Saturday.
   (B)   Minors age 15 and above. Subject to a reasonable defense, it shall be
unlawful for a minor 15 years of age or above to loiter, wander, stroll or play
in or upon any of the streets, roads, alleys or parks of the municipality, or
other places of public amusement or recreation therein after the hour of 12:00
midnight and until the hour of 6:00 a.m. of the following day Sunday through
Saturday.
(Ord. 07-2, passed 6-18-2007)  Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.02  PARENTAL RESPONSIBILITY.
   It shall be unlawful for any parent, guardian or other adult person having
the care, custody or control of any minor under the age of 18 years to allow or
permit said minor persons to do any of the acts or things prohibited by this
chapter.
(Ord. 07-2, passed 6-18-2007)  Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.03  REASONABLE DEFENSES.
   “Reasonable defenses” to a violation are:
   (A)   The minor is accompanied by a parent, guardian or other adult person
having the legal care, custody or control of such minor;
   (B)   The minor is on an errand at the direction of the minor’s parent,
guardian or other adult person having the legal care, custody or control of
such minor and was using a direct route;
   (C)   The minor is in a motor vehicle involved in interstate travel;
   (D)   The minor is engaged in employment activity, including, but not
limited to, newspaper delivery, and is using a direct route;
   (E)   The minor is involved in an emergency; and
   (F)   The minor is traveling directly between his or her dwelling house and
a place of employment, church, school or a function supervised by parents and
sponsored by the city, civic organization or another similar entity that takes
responsibility for the minor.
(Ord. 07-2, passed 6-18-2007)
§ 130.04  OWNER AND OPERATOR RESPONSIBILITY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person operating places of amusement or
entertainment to permit any minors to enter or remain in the place of amusement
or entertainment during the hours prohibited by §
130.01 of this chapter; however, the provisions of this section shall not apply
when the minor is accompanied by his or her parent, guardian or other adult
person having the care or custody of the minor.
(Ord. 07-2, passed 6-18-2007)  Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.05  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DWELLING HOUSE. The primary residence of the minor, including the curtilage
and sidewalk abutting the residence.
   EMERGENCY. An unforeseen combination of circumstances that calls for
immediate action.
   MINOR. An unemancipated person under the age of 18.
(Ord. 07-2, passed 6-18-2007)
§ 130.06  ENFORCEMENT; POLICE AUTHORIZATION.
   Every member of the police force, while on duty, shall be authorized to
detain any such minor willfully violating the provisions of this chapter and,
upon apprehension of said minor, shall forthwith notify by telephone or other
appropriate means the parents or legal guardians or person in custody of said
minor.
(Ord. 07-2, passed 6-18-2007)
§ 130.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any violation of this chapter shall constitute an infraction and shall
be punishable by a warning for the first offense, a fine of $20 for the second
offense and a fine of $30 for the third offense. A fourth and any subsequent
violation shall constitute a Class III misdemeanor, a violation of §
130.02 of this chapter, and the parent or guardian of said minor shall be held
liable.
   (B)   Any person violating the provisions of §
130.02 of this chapter shall, upon conviction thereof, be fined in any sum not
exceeding $500 for each offense and shall be assessed court costs of
prosecution.
(Ord. 07-2, passed 6-18-2007)
CHAPTER 131:  OFFENSES AGAINST PEACE, SAFETY AND HEALTH
Section
Property Offenses
   
131.001   Criminal mischief
   
131.002   Criminal trespass
   
131.003   Electrical interference
   
131.004   Injury to trees
   
131.005   Posting
Offenses Against Public Order
   
131.020   Disorderly conduct
   
131.021   Street games
   
131.022   Obstruction of public ways
   
131.023   Obstructing water flow
   
131.024   Disturbing the peace
Offenses Against Public Justice and Administration
   
131.035   Impersonating a public servant
   
131.036   Impersonating a peace officer
   
131.037   Refusing to aid a peace officer
   
131.038   Resisting arrest without the use of a deadly or dangerous weapon
   
131.039   Obstructing a peace officer
   
131.040   Interfering with firefighter
   
131.041   False reporting
Offenses Against Public Health and Safety
   
131.055   Maintaining a nuisance
   
131.056   Appliances in yard
   
131.057   Putting carcass or filthy substance into well, spring, brook or
stream
   
131.058   Prohibited fences
   
131.059   Littering
   
131.060   Weeds, litter and stagnant water
Offenses Against Public Morals
   
131.075   Prostitution
   
131.076   Public indecency
   
131.077   Gambling
Substance Offenses
   
131.090   Use of tobacco by persons under the age of 21
   
131.091   Sale of tobacco to persons under the age of 21
   
131.092   Misrepresentation by person under the age of 21 to obtain tobacco
   
131.093   Misrepresentation by minor to obtain alcohol
   
131.094   Minors; prohibited acts involving alcoholic liquor
   
131.095   Drinking on public property; open beverage container
Motor Vehicle and Highway Offenses
   
131.110   Abandoned automobiles
   
131.111   Unlicensed or inoperable vehicles
Weapons Offenses
   
131.125   Discharge of firearms
   
131.126   Slingshots, air guns, BB guns
 
   
131.999   Penalty
PROPERTY OFFENSES
§ 131.001  CRIMINAL MISCHIEF.
   (A)   A person commits criminal mischief if he or she:
      (1)   Damages property of another intentionally or recklessly;
      (2)   Intentionally tampers with property of another so as to endanger
person or property; or
      (3)   Intentionally or maliciously causes another to suffer pecuniary
loss by deception or threat.
   (B)   Criminal mischief is an offense:
      (1)   If the actor intentionally or maliciously causes pecuniary loss of
$500 or more, but less than $5,000; or
      (2)   If the actor intentionally, maliciously or recklessly causes
pecuniary loss in an amount of less than $500 or if his or her action results
in no pecuniary loss.
(Neb. RS 28-519)  Penalty, see §
131.999
§ 131.002  CRIMINAL TRESPASS.
   (A)   A person commits first degree criminal trespass if:
      (1)   He or she enters or secretly remains in any building or occupied
structure, or any separately secured or occupied portion thereof, knowing that
he or she is not licensed or privileged to do so; or
      (2)   He or she enters or remains in or on a public power infrastructure
facility knowing that he or she does not have the consent of a person who has
the right to give consent to be in or on the facility.
   (B)   First degree criminal trespass is a Class I misdemeanor.
   (C)   For purposes of this section, PUBLIC POWER INFRASTRUCTURE FACILITY
means a power plant, an electrical station or substation or any other facility
which is used by a public power supplier as defined in Neb. RS 70-2103 to
support the generation, transmission or distribution of electricity and which
is surrounded by a fence or is otherwise enclosed.
(Neb. RS 28-520)
   (D)   (1)   A person commits second degree criminal trespass if, knowing
that he or she is not licensed or privileged to do so, to enter or remain in
any place as to which notice against trespass is given by:
         (a)   Actual communication to the actor;
         (b)   Posting in a manner prescribed by law or reasonably likely to
come to the attention of intruders; or
         (c)   Fencing or other enclosure manifestly designed to exclude
intruders, except as otherwise provided in division (A) above.
      (2)   Second degree criminal trespass is a Class III misdemeanor, except
as provided for in division (D)(3) below.
      (3)   Second degree criminal trespass is a Class II misdemeanor if the
offender defies an order to leave personally communicated to him or her by the
owner of the premises or other authorized person.
(Neb. RS 28-521)  (Prior Code, § 6-304)  Penalty, see §
131.999
§ 131.003  ELECTRICAL INTERFERENCE.
   (A)   Any person operating, or causing to be operated, any motor, sign or
other electrical apparatus that is connected with the light and power system
shall equip the apparatus with proper filtering attachments to eliminate
interference; provided that, the provisions herein shall not apply to the use
of necessary medical equipment or apparatus where electrical interference
cannot be reasonably and safely eliminated.
   (B)   Any person who so operates or causes to be operated any such
electrical apparatus that interferes habitually with radio and television
reception shall be deemed to be guilty of an offense.
Penalty, see §
131.999
Statutory reference:
   Provisions on nuisances, see Neb. RS 18-1720 and 28-1321
§ 131.004  INJURY TO TREES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person purposely or carelessly and
without lawful authority to cut down, carry away, injure, break down or destroy
any fruit, ornamental, shade or other tree or trees standing or growing on any
land belonging to another person or persons or on any public land in the
corporate limits.
   (B)   Any public service company desiring to trim or cut down any tree,
except on property owned and controlled by it, shall make an application to the
City Council to do so, and the written permit of the City Council in accordance
with its decision to allow such an action shall constitute the only lawful
authority on the part of the company to do so.
Penalty, see §
131.999
§ 131.005  POSTING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to use the streets, sidewalks or public
grounds of the city for signs, signposts or the posting of handbills or
advertisements without written permission of the City Council.
Penalty, see §
131.999
OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC ORDER
§ 131.020  DISORDERLY CONDUCT.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in conduct or behavior which
disturbs the peace and good order of the city by clamor or noise, intoxication,
drunkenness, fighting or using obscene or profane language in the streets or
other public places or otherwise violating the public peace by indecent or
disorderly conduct or lewd or lascivious behavior.
(Prior Code, § 6-318)  Penalty, see §
131.999
Statutory reference:
   Authority to prevent disorderly conduct, see Neb. RS 17-129
   Authority to regulate noise, riots and routs, see Neb. RS 17-556
§ 131.021  STREET GAMES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to play catch, bat a ball, or kick
or throw a football, or to engage in any exercise or sport, upon the city
streets and sidewalks.
   (B)   Nothing herein shall be construed to prohibit or prevent the City
Council from ordering from time to time certain streets and public places
blocked off for the purpose of providing a safe area to engage in such exercise
and sport.
Penalty, see §
131.999
Statutory reference:
   Additional authority, see Neb. RS 17-555 and 17-557
   Authority to regulate excavation and obstruction of streets, see Neb. RS 17-
142
§ 131.022  OBSTRUCTION OF PUBLIC WAYS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to erect, maintain or suffer to remain
on any street or public sidewalk a stand, wagon, display or other obstruction
inconvenient to or inconsistent with the public use of the same.
Penalty, see §
131.999
Statutory reference:
   Additional authority, see Neb. RS 17-555 and 17-557
   Authority to regulate excavation and obstruction of streets, see Neb. RS 17-
142
   Penalties for injuring or obstructing roads, see Neb. RS 39-301 and 39-302
§ 131.023  OBSTRUCTING WATER FLOW.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to stop or obstruct the passage of water
in a street gutter, culvert, water pipe or hydrant.
Penalty, see §
131.999
Statutory reference:
   Authority to abate nuisances, see Neb. RS 17-555
   Authority to prevent water obstruction, see Neb. RS 17-920
§ 131.024  DISTURBING THE PEACE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person intentionally to disturb the peace and
quiet of any person, family or neighborhood.
(Neb. RS 28-1322)  (Prior Code, § 6-317)  Penalty, see §
131.999
OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC JUSTICE AND ADMINISTRATION
§ 131.035  IMPERSONATING A PUBLIC SERVANT.
   It shall be unlawful for any person falsely to pretend to be a public
servant other than a peace officer and perform any act in that pretended
capacity. It is no defense that the office the actor pretended to hold did not
in fact exist.
(Neb. RS 28-609)  Penalty, see §
131.999
§ 131.036  IMPERSONATING A PEACE OFFICER.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to falsely pretend to be a peace officer
and perform any act in that pretended capacity.
(Neb. RS 28-610)  Penalty, see §
131.999
§ 131.037  REFUSING TO AID A PEACE OFFICER.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, upon a request by a person known to him
or her to be a peace officer, unreasonably to refuse or fail to aid the peace
officer in:
   (A)   Apprehending any person charged with or convicted of any offense
against any of the laws of the state or city;
   (B)   Securing the offender when apprehended; or
   (C)   Conveying the offender to the jail of the county or the city.
(Neb. RS 28-903)  (Prior Code, § 6-301)  Penalty, see §
131.999
§ 131.038  RESISTING ARREST WITHOUT THE USE OF A DEADLY OR DANGEROUS WEAPON.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, without the use of a deadly or
dangerous weapon, while intentionally preventing or attempting to prevent a
peace officer, acting under color of his or her official authority, from
effecting an arrest of the actor or another, to:
      (1)   Use or threaten to use physical force or violence against the peace
officer or another;
      (2)   Use any other means which creates a substantial risk of causing
physical injury to the peace officer or another; or
      (3)   Employ means requiring substantial force to overcome resistance to
effecting the arrest.
   (B)   It is an affirmative defense to prosecution under this section if the
peace officer involved was out of uniform and did not identify himself or
herself as a peace officer by showing his or her credentials to the person
whose arrest is attempted.
(Neb. RS 28-904)  (Prior Code, § 6-302)  Penalty, see §
131.999
§ 131.039  OBSTRUCTING A PEACE OFFICER.
   (A)   A person commits the offense of obstructing a peace officer when, by
using or threatening to use violence, force, physical interference or obstacle,
he or she intentionally obstructs, impairs or hinders:
      (1)   The enforcement of the penal law or the preservation of the peace
by a peace officer or judge acting under color of his or her official
authority; or
      (2)   A police animal assisting a peace officer acting pursuant to the
peace officer’s official authority.
   (B)   For purposes of this section, POLICE ANIMAL means a horse or dog owned
or controlled by the state or any county, city or village for the purpose of
assisting a peace officer acting pursuant to his or her official authority.
(Neb. RS 28-906)  Penalty, see §
131.999
§ 131.040  INTERFERING WITH FIREFIGHTER.
   A person commits the offense of interfering with a firefighter if at any
time and place where any firefighter is discharging or attempting to discharge
any official duties, the person willfully:
   (A)   Resists or interferes with the lawful efforts of any firefighter in
the discharge or attempt to discharge an official duty;
   (B)   Disobeys the lawful orders given by any firefighter while performing
his or her duties;
   (C)   Engages in any disorderly conduct which delays or prevents a fire from
being extinguished within a reasonable time; or
   (D)   Forbids or prevents others from assisting or extinguishing a fire, or
exhorts another person, as to whom he or she has no legal right or obligation
to protect or control, not to assist in extinguishing a fire.
(Neb. RS 28-908)  (Prior Code, § 6-307)  Penalty, see §
131.999
§ 131.041  FALSE REPORTING.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to:
      (1)   Furnish material information he or she knows to be false to any
peace officer or other  official with the intent to instigate an investigation
of an alleged criminal matter or impede the investigation of an actual criminal
matter;
      (2)   Furnish information he or she knows to be false alleging the
existence of the need for the assistance of an emergency medical service or
out-of-hospital emergency care provider or an emergency in which human life or
property are in jeopardy to any hospital, emergency medical service or other
person or governmental agency;
      (3)   Furnish any information, or cause such information to be furnished
or conveyed by electric, electronic, telephonic or mechanical means, knowing
the same to be false concerning the need for assistance of a fire department or
any personnel or equipment of such department;
      (4)   Furnish any information he or she knows to be false concerning the
location of any explosive in any building or other property to any person; and/
or
      (5)   Furnish material information he or she knows to be false to any
governmental department or agency with the intent to instigate an investigation
or to impede an ongoing investigation and which actually results in causing or
impeding such investigation.
   (B)   A person who violates this section commits the offense of false
reporting.
(Prior Code, § 6-328)  (Ord. 98-28, passed 10-5-1998)  Penalty, see §
131.999
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 28-907
OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC HEALTH AND SAFETY
§ 131.055  MAINTAINING A NUISANCE.
   (A)   A person commits the offense of maintaining a nuisance if he or she
erects, keeps up or continues and maintains any nuisance to the injury of any
part of the citizens of the city.
   (B)   The erecting, continuing, using or maintaining of any building,
structure or other place for the exercise of any trade, employment, manufacture
or other business which, by occasioning noxious exhalations, noisome or
offensive smells, becomes injurious and dangerous to the health, comfort or
property of individuals or the public; the obstructing or impeding, without
legal authority, of the passage of any navigable river, harbor or collection of
water; or the corrupting or rendering unwholesome or impure of any watercourse,
stream or water; or unlawfully diverting any such watercourse from its natural
course or state to the injury or prejudice of others; and the obstructing or
encumbering by fences, building, structures or otherwise of any of the public
highways or streets or alleys of the city, shall be deemed nuisances.
   (C)   A person guilty of erecting, continuing, using, maintaining or causing
any such nuisance shall be guilty of a violation of this section and in every
such case the offense shall be construed and held to have been committed in any
county whose inhabitants are or have been injured or aggrieved thereby.
   (D)   The court, in case of conviction of such offense, shall order every
such nuisance to be abated or removed.
(Neb. RS 28-1321)  Penalty, see §
131.999
§ 131.056  APPLIANCES IN YARD.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to permit a refrigerator, icebox,
freezer or any other dangerous appliance to be in the open and accessible to
children whether on private or public property unless the person first removes
all doors and makes the same reasonably safe.
(Prior Code, § 6-323)  Penalty, see §
131.999
Statutory reference:
   Authority to prohibit nuisances within zoning jurisdiction, see Neb. RS 18-
1720
§ 131.057  PUTTING CARCASS OR FILTHY SUBSTANCE INTO WELL, SPRING, BROOK OR
STREAM.
   Whoever shall put any dead animal, carcass or part thereof, or other filthy
substance into any well, or into any spring, brook or branch of running water,
of which use is made for domestic purposes, shall be guilty of an offense.
(Neb. RS 28-1304)  Penalty, see §
131.999
§ 131.058  PROHIBITED FENCES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to erect, or cause to be erected, and
maintain any barbed wire or electric fence within the corporate limits, where
the fence abuts a public sidewalk, street or alley.
Penalty, see §
131.999
Statutory reference:
   Restrictions on barbed wire fences, see Neb. RS 39-307
§ 131.059  LITTERING.
   (A)   Any person who deposits, throws, discards or otherwise disposes of any
litter on any public or private property or in any waters commits the offense
of littering unless:
      (1)   Such property is an area designated by law for the disposal of such
material and such person is authorized by the proper public authority to so use
such property; or
      (2)   The litter is placed in a receptacle or container installed on such
property for such purpose.
   (B)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      LITTER. All waste material susceptible of being dropped, deposited,
discarded or otherwise disposed of by any person upon any property in the
state, but does not include wastes of primary processes of farming or
manufacturing.
      WASTE MATERIAL. Any material appearing in a place or in a context not
associated with that material’s function or origin.
   (C)   Whenever litter is thrown, deposited, dropped or dumped from any motor
vehicle or watercraft in violation of this section, the operator of such motor
vehicle or watercraft commits the offense of littering.
(Prior Code, § 6-322)  (Ord. 7-95, passed 2-6-1995)  Penalty, see §
131.999
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 28-523
§ 131.060  WEEDS, LITTER AND STAGNANT WATER.
   (A)   Lots or pieces of ground within the municipality shall be drained or
filled so as to prevent stagnant water or any other nuisance accumulating
thereon.
   (B)   The owner or occupant of any lot or piece of ground within the
municipality shall keep the lot or piece of ground and the adjoining street and
alleys free of any growth of 12 inches or more in height of weeds, grasses or
worthless vegetation.
   (C)   The throwing, depositing or accumulation of litter on any lot or piece
of ground within the municipality is prohibited; provided that, grass, leaves
and worthless vegetation may be used as a ground mulch or in a compost pile.
   (D)   It is hereby declared to be a nuisance to permit or maintain any
growth of 12 inches or more in height of weeds, grasses or worthless vegetation
or to litter or cause litter to be deposited or remain thereon, except in
proper receptacles.
   (E)   Any owner or occupant of a lot or piece of ground shall, upon
conviction of violating this section, be guilty of an offense.
   (F)   (1)   Notice to abate and remove such nuisance shall be given to each
owner or owner’s duly authorized agent and to the occupant, if any, by personal
service or certified mail. Within five days after receipt of such notice, if
the owner or occupant of the lot or piece of ground does not request a hearing
with the municipality or fails to comply with the order to abate and remove the
nuisance, the municipality may have such work done. The costs and expenses of
any such work shall be paid by the owner.
      (2)   If unpaid for two months after such work is done, the municipality
may either:
         (a)   Levy and assess the costs and expenses of the work upon the lot
or piece of ground so benefitted in the same manner as other special taxes for
improvements are levied and assessed; or
         (b)   Recover in a civil action the costs and expenses of the work
upon the lot or piece of ground and the adjoining streets and alleys.
   (G)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      LITTER. Includes, but is not limited to:
         (a)   Trash, rubbish, refuse, garbage, paper, rags and ashes;
         (b)   Wood, plaster, cement, brick or stone building rubble;
         (c)   Grass, leaves and worthless vegetation;
         (d)   Offal and dead animals; and
         (e)   Any machine or machines, vehicle or vehicles, or parts of a
machine or vehicle which have lost their identity, character, utility or
serviceability as such through deterioration, dismantling or the ravages of
time, are inoperative or unable to perform their intended functions, or are
cast off, discarded or thrown away or left as waste, wreckage or junk; and
      WEEDS. Includes, but is not limited to, bindweed (convolvulus arvensis),
puncture vine (tribulus terrestris), leafy spurge (euphorbia esula), Canada
thistle (cirsium arvense), perennial peppergrass (lepidium draba), Russian
knapweed (centaurea picris), Johnson grass (sorghum halepense), nodding or musk
thistle, quack grass (agropyron repens), perennial sow thistle (sonchus
arvensis), horse nettle (solanum carolinense), bull thistle (cirsium
lanceolatum), buckthorn (rhamnus sp.) (tourn), hemp plant (canabis sativa), and
ragweed (ambrosiaceae).
(Prior Code, § 6-325)  (Ord. 13-95, passed 7-10-1995)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-563, 18-1720
OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC MORALS
§ 131.075  PROSTITUTION.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (C) below, any person who performs,
offers or agrees to perform any act of sexual contact or sexual penetration, as
those terms are defined in Neb. RS 28-318, with any person not his or her
spouse, in exchange for money or other thing of value, commits the offense of
prostitution.
   (B)   It is an affirmative defense to prosecution under this section that
such person was a trafficking victim, as defined in Neb. RS 28-830.
   (C)   If the law enforcement officer determines, after a reasonable
detention for investigative purposes, that a person suspected of or charged
with a violation of division (A) above is:
      (1)   A person engaging in those acts as a direct result of being a
trafficking victim as defined in Neb. RS 28-830, such person shall be immune
from prosecution for a prostitution offense; or
      (2)   A person under 18 years of age, such person shall be immune from
prosecution for a prostitution offense under this section and shall be subject
to temporary custody under Neb. RS 43-248 and further disposition under the
state’s Juvenile Code. A law enforcement officer who takes a person under 18
years of age into custody under this section shall immediately report an
allegation of a violation of Neb. RS 28-831 to the Department of Health and
Human Services which shall commence an investigation within 24 hours under the
Child Protection and Family Safety Act.
(Neb. RS 28-801)  Penalty, see §
131.999
§ 131.076  PUBLIC INDECENCY.
   (A)   A person, 18 years of age or over, commits the offense of public
indecency if such person performs or procures, or assists any other person to
perform, in a public place and where the conduct may reasonably be expected to
be viewed by members of the public:
      (1)   An act of sexual penetration as defined in Neb. RS 28-318;
      (2)   An exposure of the genitals of the body done with intent to affront
or alarm any person; or
      (3)   A lewd fondling or caressing of the body of another person of the
same or opposite sex.
   (B)   It shall not be a violation of this section for an individual to
breast-feed a child in a public place.
(Neb. RS 28-806)  Penalty, see §
131.999
§ 131.077  GAMBLING.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the definitions found in Neb. RS 28-
1101 shall be used.
   (B)   A person commits the offense of promoting gambling if he or she
knowingly:
      (1)   Advances or profits from any unlawful gambling activity by:
         (a)   Engaging in bookmaking;
         (b)   Receiving, in connection with any unlawful gambling scheme or
enterprise, any amount of money played in the scheme or enterprise in any one
day; or
         (c)   Betting something of value in an amount of $500 or more with one
or more persons in one day.
(Neb. RS 28-1102 and 28-1103)
      (2)   Participates in unlawful gambling as a player by betting less than
$500 in any one day.
(Neb. RS 28-1104)
   (C)   (1)   A person commits the offense of possession of a gambling device
if he or she manufactures, sells, transports, places, possesses or conducts or
negotiates any transaction affecting or designed to affect ownership, custody
or use of any gambling device, knowing that it shall be used in the advancement
of unlawful gambling activity.
      (2)   The owner or operator of a retail establishment who is not a
manufacturer, distributor or seller of mechanical amusement devices, as defined
under the Mechanical Amusement Device Tax Act, shall have an affirmative
defense to possession of a gambling device described in division (C)(1) above
if the device bears an unexpired mechanical amusement device decal as required
by such Act. However, such affirmative defense may be overcome if the owner or
operator had actual knowledge that operation of the device constituted unlawful
gambling activity at any time such device was operated on the premises of the
retail establishment.
      (3)   Notwithstanding any other provisions of this division (C), any
mechanical game or device classified by the federal government as an illegal
gambling device and requiring a Federal Gambling Device Tax Stamp as required
by the Internal Revenue Service in its administration of 26 U.S.C. §§ 4461 and
4462, amended 7-1-1965, by Pub. Law No. 89-44, is hereby declared to be
illegal.
(Neb. RS 28-1107)
   (D)   In any prosecution under this section, it shall be an affirmative
defense that the writing, paper, instrument or article possessed by the
defendant was neither used nor intended to be used in the advancement of an
unlawful gambling activity.
(Neb. RS 28-1108)
   (E)   Proof of possession of any gambling device shall be prima facie
evidence of possession thereof with knowledge of its contents and character.
(Neb. RS 28-1109)
   (F)   It shall be no defense to a prosecution under any provision of this
section relating to gambling that the gambling is conducted outside this city
and is not in violation of the laws of the jurisdiction in which it is
conducted.
(Neb. RS 28-1110)
   (G)   In addition to any other penalty, a sentencing court may order that
any money, securities, negotiable instruments, firearms, conveyances or
electronic communication devices as defined in Neb. RS 28-833 or any equipment,
components, peripherals, software, hardware or accessories related to
electronic communication devices, or any gambling devices be forfeited as a
part of the sentence imposed if it finds by clear and convincing evidence
adduced at a separate hearing in the same prosecution, conducted pursuant to
Neb. RS 28-1601, that any or all such property was derived from, used or
intended to be used to facilitate a violation of this section.
(Neb. RS 28-1111)
   (H)   In any prosecution for an offense defined in this section, when the
defendant’s status as a player constitutes an excusing condition, the fact that
the defendant was a player shall constitute an affirmative defense.
(Neb. RS 28-1112)
   (I)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to:
      (1)   Apply to or prohibit wagering on the results of horseraces by the
parimutuel or certificate method when conducted by licensees within the
racetrack enclosure at licensed horserace meetings; or
      (2)   Prohibit or punish the conducting or participating in any bingo,
lottery by the sale of pickle cards, lottery, raffle or gift enterprise when
conducted in accordance with the state’s Bingo Act, the state’s County and City
Lottery Act, the state’s Lottery and Raffle Act, the state’s Pickle Card
Lottery Act, the state’s Small Lottery and Raffle Act, the state’s Lottery Act
or Neb. RS 9-701.
(Neb. RS 28-1113)
   (J)   In any prosecution under this section in which it is necessary to
prove the occurrence of a sporting event, a published report of its occurrence
in any daily newspaper, magazine or other periodically printed publication of
general circulation shall be admissible in evidence and shall constitute prima
facie evidence of the occurrence of the event.
(Neb. RS 28-1117)  Penalty, see §
131.999
SUBSTANCE OFFENSES
§ 131.090  USE OF TOBACCO BY PERSONS UNDER THE AGE OF 21.
   (A)   Whoever, being a person under the age of 21 years, shall smoke
cigarettes or cigars, use electronic nicotine delivery systems or alternative
nicotine products or use tobacco in any form whatever in the city, shall be
guilty of an offense.
   (B)   Any person charged with a violation of this section may be free from
prosecution if he or she furnishes evidence for the conviction of the person or
persons selling or giving him or her the cigarettes, cigars, electronic
nicotine delivery systems, alternative nicotine products or tobacco.
(Neb. RS 28-1418)  Penalty, see §
131.999
§ 131.091  SALE OF TOBACCO TO PERSONS UNDER THE AGE OF 21.
   Whoever shall sell, give or furnish in any way any tobacco in any form
whatever, or any cigarettes or cigarette paper, electronic nicotine delivery
systems or alternative nicotine products, to any person under 21 years of age
is guilty of an offense.
(Neb. RS 28-1419)  Penalty, see §
131.999
§ 131.092  MISREPRESENTATION BY PERSON UNDER THE AGE OF 21 TO OBTAIN TOBACCO.
   Any person under the age of 21 years who obtains cigars, tobacco, cigarettes
or cigarette material, electronic nicotine delivery systems, or alternative
nicotine products from a licensee hereunder by representing that he or she is
of the age of 21 years or over, is guilty of an offense.
(Neb. RS 28-1427)  Penalty, see §
131.999
§ 131.093  MISREPRESENTATION BY MINOR TO OBTAIN ALCOHOL.
   No minor, as defined by Neb. RS 53-103.23, shall obtain, or attempt to
obtain, alcoholic liquor by misrepresentation of age, or by any other method,
in any tavern or other place where alcoholic liquor is sold.
(Neb. RS 53-180.01)  Penalty, see §
131.999
Statutory reference:
   Penalty for manufacturing false identification intended for minors, see Neb.
RS 53-180.05
§ 131.094  MINORS; PROHIBITED ACTS INVOLVING ALCOHOLIC LIQUOR.
   (A)   For purposes of this section, the definitions found in Neb. RS 53-
103.01 through 53-103.42 shall apply, including, but not limited to, the
definitions of the terms ALCOHOLIC LIQUOR, CONSUME, MINOR, SALE and TO SELL.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided, no minor may sell, dispense, consume or
have in his or her possession or physical control any alcoholic liquor in any
tavern or in any other place, including public streets, alleys, roads or
highways, upon property owned by the state or any subdivision thereof, or
inside any vehicle while in or on any other place, including, but not limited
to, the public streets, alleys, roads or highways, or upon property owned by
the state or any subdivision thereof; except that, a minor may consume, possess
or have physical control of alcoholic liquor as a part of a bona fide religious
rite, ritual or ceremony or in his or her permanent place of residence.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person under 21 years of age to
transport, consume or knowingly possess or have under his or her control beer
or other alcoholic liquor in or transported by any motor vehicle.
(Neb. RS 53-180.02)  Penalty, see §
131.999
Statutory reference:
   Minor Alcoholic Liquor Liability Act, see Neb. RS 53-401 through 53-409
§ 131.095  DRINKING ON PUBLIC PROPERTY; OPEN BEVERAGE CONTAINER.
   (A)   Except when the state’s Liquor Control Commission has issued a license
as provided in Neb. RS 53-186(2), it is unlawful for any person to consume
alcoholic liquor upon property owned or controlled by the state or any
governmental subdivision thereof unless authorized by the governing bodies
having jurisdiction over such property.
(Neb. RS 53-186)
   (B)   (1)   It is unlawful for any person in the passenger area of a motor
vehicle to possess an open alcoholic beverage container while the motor vehicle
is located in a public parking area or on any highway in the municipality.
      (2)   Except as provided in Neb. RS 53-186, it is unlawful for any person
to consume an alcoholic beverage:
         (a)   In a public parking area or on any highway in the municipality;
or
         (b)   Inside a motor vehicle while in a public parking area or on any
highway in the municipality.
      (3)   For the purpose of this division (B), the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
         ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE.
            1.   Beer, ale porter, stout and other similar fermented beverages,
including sake or similar products, of any name or description containing 0.5%
or more of alcohol by volume, brewed or produced from malt, wholly or in part,
or from any substitute therefor;
            2.   Wine of not less than 0.5% of alcohol by volume; or
            3.   Distilled spirits which is that substance known as ethyl
alcohol, ethanol or spirits of wine in any form, including all dilutions and
mixtures thereof from whatever source or by whatever process produced.
ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE does not include trace amounts not readily consumable as a
beverage.
         HIGHWAY. A road or street including the entire area within the right-
of-way;
         OPEN ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE CONTAINER. Any bottle, can or other
receptacle:
            1.   That contains any amount of alcoholic beverage; and
            2.   a.   That is open or has a broken seal; or
               b.   The contents of which are partially removed.
         PASSENGER AREA.
            1.   The area designed to seat the driver and passengers while the
motor vehicle is in operation and any area that is readily accessible to the
driver or a passenger while in their seating positions, including any
compartments in such area.
            2.   PASSENGER AREA does not include the area behind the last
upright seat of such motor vehicle if the area is not normally occupied by the
driver or a passenger and the motor vehicle is not equipped with a trunk.
(Prior Code, § 6-309)  (Ord. 2000-11, passed 5-1-2000)  Penalty, see §
131.999
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 60-6,211.08
MOTOR VEHICLE AND HIGHWAY OFFENSES
§ 131.110  ABANDONED AUTOMOBILES.
   (A)   (1)   No person shall cause any vehicle to be an abandoned vehicle as
described in divisions (B)(1)(a), (B)(1)(b), (B)(1)(c) or (B)(1)(d) below.
      (2)   No person other than one authorized by the municipality or
appropriate state agency shall destroy, deface or remove any part of a vehicle
which is left unattended on a highway or other public place without license
plates affixed or which is abandoned.
   (B)   (1)   A motor vehicle is an abandoned vehicle:
         (a)   If left unattended, with no license plates or valid “In Transit”
decals issued pursuant to Neb. RS 60-376 affixed thereto, for more than six
hours on any public property;
         (b)   If left unattended for more than 24 hours on any public
property, except a portion thereof on which parking is legally permitted;
         (c)   If left unattended for more than 48 hours after the parking of
such vehicle has become illegal, if left on a portion of any public property on
which parking is legally permitted;
         (d)   If left unattended for more than seven days on private property
if left initially without permission of the owner, or after permission of the
owner is terminated; or
         (e)   If left for more than 30 days in the custody of a law
enforcement agency after the agency has sent a letter to the last-registered
owner under division (E) below.
      (2)   No motor vehicle subject to forfeiture under Neb. RS 28-431 shall
be an abandoned vehicle under this division (B).
   (C)   If an abandoned vehicle, at the time of abandonment, has no license
plates of the current year or valid “In Transit” decals issued pursuant to Neb.
RS 60-376 affixed and is of a wholesale value, taking into consideration the
condition of the vehicle, of $250 or less, title shall immediately vest in the
municipality.
   (D)   (1)   Except for vehicles governed by division (C) above, the
municipality shall make an inquiry concerning the last-registered owner of an
abandoned vehicle as follows:
         (a)   Abandoned vehicle with license plates affixed, to the
jurisdiction which issued such license plates; or
         (b)   Abandoned vehicle with no license plates affixed, to the
Department of Motor Vehicles.
      (2)   The municipality shall notify the last-registered owner, if any,
that the vehicle in question has been determined to be an abandoned vehicle and
that, if unclaimed, either:
         (a)   It will be sold or will be offered at public auction after five
days from the date such notice was mailed; or
         (b)   Title will vest in the municipality 30 days after the date such
notice was mailed.
      (3)   (a)   If the municipality is notified that a lien or mortgage
exists, the notice described in division (D)(2) above shall also be sent to the
lienholder or mortgagee.
         (b)   Any person claiming such vehicle shall be required to pay the
cost of removal and storage of such vehicle.
      (4)   Title to an abandoned vehicle, if unclaimed, shall vest in the
municipality:
         (a)   Five days after the date the notice is mailed if the vehicle
will be sold or offered at public auction under division (D)(2)(a) above;
         (b)   Thirty days after the date the notice is mailed if the
municipality will retain the vehicle; or
         (c)   If the last-registered owner cannot be ascertained, when notice
of such fact is received.
      (5)   After title to the abandoned vehicle vests pursuant to division (D)
(4) above, the municipality may retain for use, sell or auction the abandoned
vehicle. If the municipality has determined that the vehicle should be retained
for use, the municipality shall, at the same time that the notice, if any, is
mailed, publish in a newspaper of general circulation in the jurisdiction an
announcement that the municipality intends to retain the abandoned vehicle for
its use and that title will vest in the municipality 30 days after publication.
   (E)   (1)   If the municipal law enforcement agency has custody of a motor
vehicle for investigatory purposes and has no further need to keep it in
custody, it shall send a certified letter to each of the last-registered owners
stating that the vehicle is in the custody of the agency, that the vehicle is
no longer needed for law enforcement purposes and that, after 30 days, the
agency will dispose of the vehicle.
      (2)   This division (E) shall not apply to motor vehicles subject to
forfeiture under Neb. RS 28-431.
      (3)   No storage fees shall be assessed against the registered owner of a
motor vehicle held in custody for investigatory purposes under this division
(E) unless the registered owner or the person in possession of the vehicle when
it is taken into custody is charged with a felony or misdemeanor related to the
offense for which the law enforcement agency took the vehicle into custody. If
a registered owner or the person in possession of the vehicle when it is taken
into custody is charged with a felony or misdemeanor, but is not convicted, the
registered owner shall be entitled to a refund of the storage fees.
   (F)   Any proceeds from the sale of an abandoned vehicle, less any expenses
incurred by the municipality, shall be held by the municipality without
interest, for the benefit of the owner or lienholders of such vehicle for a
period of two years. If not claimed within such two-year period, the proceeds
shall be paid into the General Fund of the municipality.
   (G)   Neither the owner, lessee, nor occupant of the premises from which any
abandoned vehicle is removed, nor the municipality, shall be liable for any
loss or damage to such vehicle which occurs during its removal or while in the
possession of the municipality or its contractual agent or as a result of any
subsequent disposition.
   (H)   The last-registered owner of an abandoned vehicle shall be liable to
the municipality for the costs of removal and storage of such vehicle.
   (I)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      PRIVATE PROPERTY. Any privately owned property which is not included
within the definition of public property.
      PUBLIC PROPERTY. Any public right-of-way, street, highway, alley or park
or other state, county or municipally owned property.
   (J)   Any person who violates the provisions of this section is guilty of an
offense.
(Prior Code, § 6-326)  (Ord. 2000-10, passed 5-1-2000)  Penalty, see §
131.999
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 60-1901 through 60-1911
§ 131.111  UNLICENSED OR INOPERABLE VEHICLES.
   No person in charge or control of any property within the municipality,
other than municipal property, whether as owner, tenant, occupant, lessee or
otherwise, shall allow any partially dismantled, inoperable, wrecked, junked or
discarded vehicle to remain on such property longer than 30 days. No unlicensed
vehicle shall be permitted to remain on any private or public property for any
length of time; provided, this section shall not apply to a vehicle in an
enclosed building; to a vehicle on the premises of a business enterprise,
operated in a lawful place and manner, when such vehicle is necessary to the
lawful operation of the business; or to a vehicle in an appropriate storage
place or depository maintained in a lawful place and manner by the
municipality. Any vehicle allowed to remain on property in violation of this
section shall constitute a nuisance and shall be abated, and any person
violating this section shall be guilty of an offense.
(Ord. 07-4, passed 9-10-2007)  Penalty, see §
131.999
WEAPONS OFFENSES
§ 131.125  DISCHARGE OF FIREARMS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, except an officer of the law in the
discharge of his or her official duty, to fire or discharge any gun, pistol, or
other fowling piece within one mile of the corporate limits; provided, nothing
herein shall be construed to apply to officially sanctioned public celebrations
or sanctioned firing ranges if the persons so discharging firearms have written
permission from the governing body.
(Prior Code, § 6-310)  (Ord. 446, passed 6-5-1989)  Penalty, see §
131.999
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-556
§ 131.126  SLINGSHOTS, AIR GUNS, BB GUNS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to discharge a slingshot, air gun, BB
gun or the like loaded with rock or other dangerous missiles at any time or
under any circumstances within the city.
(Prior Code, § 6-311)  Penalty, see §
131.999
§ 131.999  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, or any person’s agent or servant, who violates any of the
provisions of this chapter, unless otherwise specifically provided herein,
shall be deemed guilty of an offense and, upon conviction thereof, shall be
fined in any sum not exceeding $500. A new violation shall be deemed to have
been committed every 24 hours of failure to comply with the provisions of this
chapter.
   (B)   (1)   Whenever a nuisance exists, as defined in this chapter, the
municipality may proceed by a suit in equity to enjoin, abate and remove the
same in the manner provided by law.
      (2)   Whenever, in any action, it is established that a nuisance exists,
the court may, together with the fine or penalty imposed, enter an order of
abatement as a part of the judgment in the case.
(Prior Code, § 6-401)  (Ord. 2000-16, passed 5-1-2000)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-505, 18-1720, 18-1722
CHAPTER 132:  SEXUAL PREDATOR RESIDENCY
Section
   
132.01   Definitions
   
132.02   Prohibited location of residence
   
132.03   Measurement of distance
   
132.04   Exceptions
 
   
132.99   Penalty
§ 132.01  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires otherwise.
   CHILD CARE FACILITY. A facility licensed pursuant to the Child Care
Licensing Act.
   RESIDENCE. A place where the person regularly sleeps, where the person has
established his or her home, where he or she is habitually present, and to
which when he or she departs he or she intends to return. A RESIDENCE may
include more than one location and may be mobile or transitory. Residency may
be shown by, among other evidence, receipt of mail at the premises or
identification of the premises as a residence on a driver’s license, vehicle
registration, or other document.
   SCHOOL. A public, private, denominational, or parochial school which meets
the requirements for state accreditation or approval.
   SEX OFFENDER. An individual who has been convicted of a crime listed in Neb.
RS 29-4003, and who is required to register as a SEX OFFENDER pursuant to the
Sex Offender Registration Act, or any person convicted under the law of another
state if, at the time of the conviction under the law of such other state, the
offense for which the person was convicted would have required registration
under the state Sex Offender Registration Act, if the conviction occurred in
the state.
   SEXUAL PREDATOR. An individual who is required to register under the Sex
Offender Registration Act, who has committed an aggravated offense as defined
in Neb. RS 29-4001.01(1)(b), and who has victimized a person under the age of
13.
(Ord. 11-3, passed 9-12-2011)
§ 132.02  PROHIBITED LOCATION OF RESIDENCE.
   It is unlawful for any person who is a sexual predator as defined herein or
under similar provisions of any other state and who has victimized a person 13
years of age or younger, to reside within 500 feet of a school or child care
facility.
(Ord. 11-3, passed 9-12-2011)  Penalty, see §
132.99
§ 132.03  MEASUREMENT OF DISTANCE.
   For purposes of determining the minimum distance separation, the requirement
shall be measured by following a straight line from the outer property line of
the permanent residence or temporary residence to the nearest outer boundary
line of a school or child care facility.
(Ord. 11-3, passed 9-12-2011)
§ 132.04  EXCEPTIONS.
   A person residing within 500 feet of any real property comprising of school
or child care facility does not commit a violation of this chapter if any of
the following apply:
   (A)   The person resides within a prison or correctional facility or
treatment facility operated by the state or a political subdivision;
   (B)   The person established a residence before the effective date of this
chapter and has not moved from that residence;
   (C)   The person established a residence after the effective date of this
chapter and the school or child care facility triggering the restriction was
established after the initial date of the sexual predator’s residence at that
location; or
   (D)   The person’s place of residence becomes a violation of this chapter
solely because of annexation into the city.
(Ord. 11-3, passed 9-12-2011)
§ 132.99  PENALTY.
   A person who violates this chapter shall be subject to a maximum fine of
$1,000 or six months in jail, or both.
(Ord. 11-3, passed 9-12-2011)
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   BUILDING REGULATIONS; CONSTRUCTION
      
151.   STREETS, SIDEWALKS AND PUBLIC WAYS AND PROPERTY
      
152.   FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT
      
153.   ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT
      
154.   SUBDIVISIONS
      
155.   ZONING
CHAPTER 150:  BUILDING REGULATIONS; CONSTRUCTION
Section
Building Permits and Regulations
   
150.01   Requirement
   
150.02   Limitation
   
150.03   Duplicate to County Assessor
   
150.04   Excavations and exposures; barricades and lights
Moving of Buildings
   
150.15   Regulations
   
150.16   Deposit
Unsafe Buildings
   
150.30   Definition
   
150.31   Prohibitions
   
150.32   Determination; notice
   
150.33   Appeal; demolition; duty to inform county
   
150.34   Emergency
   
150.35   Special assessments
Building Inspector
   
150.50   Power and authority
   
150.51   Right of entry
   
150.52   Permit cards
   
150.53   Time of inspection
   
150.54   Appeal from decision
Construction and Building Regulations
   
150.65   Lead pipes, solder and flux
   
150.66   Plans, plats and the like
   
150.67   Liquified petroleum gas; location of containers
 
   
150.99   Penalty
BUILDING PERMITS AND REGULATIONS
§ 150.01  REQUIREMENT.
   Any person desiring to commence or proceed to erect, construct, repair,
enlarge, demolish or relocate any building or dwelling, or cause the same to be
done, shall file with the City Clerk an application for a building permit. The
application shall be in writing on a form to be furnished by the City Clerk for
that purpose. Every such application shall set forth the legal description of
the land upon which the construction or relocation is to take place, the nature
of the use or occupancy, the principal dimensions, the estimated cost, the
names of the owner, architect and contractor, and such other information as may
be requested thereon. The application, plans and specifications so filed with
the City Clerk shall be checked and examined by the City Council, and if they
are found to be in conformity with the requirements of this chapter and all
other ordinances applicable thereto, the City Council shall authorize the City
Clerk to issue the applicant a permit upon payment of a permit fee set by the
Council by resolution. Whenever there is a discrepancy between permit
application procedures contained herein and those contained in any Building
Code adopted by reference, the provisions contained herein shall govern.
Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.02  LIMITATION.
   If the work for which a permit has been issued shall not have begun within
six months of the date thereof, or if the construction is discontinued for a
period of six months, the permit shall be void. Before work can be resumed, a
new permit shall be obtained in the same manner and form as an original permit.
Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.03  DUPLICATE TO COUNTY ASSESSOR.
   Whenever a building permit is issued for the erection, alteration or repair
of any building within the city’s jurisdiction, if the improvement is $2,500 or
more, a duplicate of the permit shall be issued to the County Assessor.
(Neb. RS 18-1743)
§ 150.04  EXCAVATIONS AND EXPOSURES; BARRICADES AND LIGHTS.
   Any owner, tenant or lessee causing the construction, demolition, or moving
of any building or improvement within the city shall protect all excavations,
exposures, open basements, building materials and debris by suitable barricades
or guards by day and by warning lights at night. The failure, neglect or
refusal of the owner, tenant or lessee to erect and maintain such protections
shall constitute a violation of this section, and the Building Inspector or
other city law enforcement authority may stop all work upon the buildings and
improvements until suitable protections are erected and maintained in the
required manner.
Penalty, see §
150.99
MOVING OF BUILDINGS
§ 150.15  REGULATIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to allow buildings or houses to remain in an
unsafe, demolished or damaged condition for a period of over 60 days.
   (B)   No building over 180 square feet shall be moved over or across any
street or public way of the city, until a permit therefor has been issued by
the Zoning Administrator upon the written application presented to the City
Clerk, showing the kind and size of the building and its proposed location, and
that all city taxes and special assessments then due against the building and
lot on which it stands have been paid. Said application shall be accompanied by
a bond in the sum of $2,000 of some responsible surety company, or one that the
applicant has obtained from two sureties who are resident freeholders of the
county. The said bond shall be conditioned among other things, that said
licensee will in all things strictly comply with all provisions of the
ordinances of the city, relating to house moving; that said licensee will save,
indemnify and keep harmless the city from liability, judgments, costs and
expenses which may in any way accrue against it in consequence of granting said
permit. Also, the licensee will pay to the city any and all damages which may
be sustained to any pavement, curb, gutters, sidewalks, streets, crosswalks or
any other city property because of the moving of any building; and that the
licensee will also pay to the owner of any property damaged in the move any and
all damages caused in like manner to any private property in said city. The
Zoning Administrator, in said permit, shall limit the time of removal and shall
specify the route to be followed in moving the building over and across the
streets and ways of the city and it shall be unlawful for any such licensee to
digress from such specified route without the written consent of the Zoning
Administrator. In prescribing the route to be followed, the Zoning
Administrator shall prescribe such route as will least interfere with the wires
of the light system and other public service companies. The permit shall be in
duplicate and a copy at once delivered to the Utility Superintendent. Notice
shall be given to the Zoning Administrator of the hour when such moving shall
actually begin.
   (C)   It is hereby made the duty of the Utility Superintendent upon the
request of a person who has obtained a permit as in division (B) above
specified, to so supervise the passage of any building being lawfully moved
over and across the streets and ways of the city. The said Superintendent
shall, at the time when such work and moving is completed, make out a statement
of account in duplicate against said licensee of the amount of actual cost,
expense or damage incurred by the city by reason of the moving of such
building. One copy of said statement of account shall be given to each licensee
and one copy retained by the Utility Superintendent. In case of injury or
damage to any city property, the Utility Superintendent shall make an estimate
in duplicate of the amount of such injury and damage. One copy of this estimate
he or she shall deliver to the said licensee causing such damage and one copy
he or she shall retain. It is hereby made the duty of the licensee to pay the
amount of said accounts to the City Clerk within five days after the date of
demand for payment thereof and in case of his or her failure to do so the city
shall proceed to collect the same by suit on the bond of the licensee or
otherwise. All expenses and damages collected by the City Clerk under the
provisions of this section shall be placed in the fund of the Department whose
property is damaged or who has furnished the service.
   (D)   Before moving any building, the licensee shall notify the public
service corporations whose wires or other property may obstruct the moving of
such building, of the time and place where such building will be moved at least
24 hours in advance of moving the same, and request such agency to arrange for
the passage of such building and arrange for the probable costs and expense of
the work required to be done. The expense of the work required to be done shall
be borne by the licensee as provided in division (C) above.
(Prior Code, § 9-104)  (Ord. 2000-25, passed 1-8-2001)  Penalty, see §
150.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority to regulate moving of buildings, see Neb. RS 17-142
§ 150.16  DEPOSIT.
   At such time as the building moving has been completed, the Building
Inspector or other designated official shall inspect the premises and report to
the City Clerk as to the extent of damages, if any, resulting from the
relocation and whether any city laws have been violated during the operation.
Upon a satisfactory report from the Building Inspector or other designated
official, the City Clerk shall return the corporate surety bond, cash or check
deposited by the applicant. In the event the basement, foundation or portion
thereof is not properly filled, covered, or in a clean and sanitary condition,
the City Council may apply the money deposited for the purpose of defraying the
expense of correcting the conditions. If the expense of correcting the
hazardous condition is greater than the amount of the deposit set by the City
Council, the City Council may recover the excess expense by civil suit or
otherwise as prescribed by law.
UNSAFE BUILDINGS
§ 150.30  DEFINITION.
   (A)   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      UNSAFE BUILDING. Includes any building, shed, fence or other human-made
structure:
         (a)   Which is dangerous to the public health because of its condition
and which may cause or aid in the spread of disease or injury to the health of
the occupants of it or neighboring structures;
         (b)   Which because of faulty construction, age, lack of proper repair
or any other cause is especially liable to fire and constitutes or creates a
fire hazard; or
         (c)   Which by reason of faulty construction or any other cause is
liable to cause injury or damage by the collapse or fall of all or any part of
the structure.
   (B)   Any such unsafe building in the city is hereby declared to be a
nuisance.
Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.31  PROHIBITIONS.
   It shall be unlawful to maintain or permit the existence of any unsafe
building in the city, and it shall be unlawful for the owner, occupant or
person in custody of any dangerous building to permit the same to remain in an
unsafe condition or to occupy the building or permit it to be occupied while it
is in an unsafe condition.
Penalty, see §
150.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority to prevent and abate nuisances, see Neb. RS 18-1720
§ 150.32  DETERMINATION; NOTICE.
   (A)   (1)   Whenever the City Council or its designee has made a
determination that a building or other structure in the city is an unsafe
building, it shall be the duty of the City Clerk to post the property
accordingly and to file a copy of such determination or resolution in the
office of the County Register of Deeds to be recorded.
(Neb. RS 18-1722.01)
      (2)   The Clerk shall also serve written notice upon the owner and any
occupant of the building or other structure by certified mail or personal
service.
   (B)   This notice shall state that the building has been declared to be in
an unsafe condition, that the dangerous condition must be removed or remedied
by repairing or altering the building or by demolishing it, and that the
condition must be remedied within 60 days from the date of receipt. The notice
may be in the following terms:
 
To                                                                            (owner-occupant of premises), of the
premises known and described as                     .
You are hereby notified that                                            (describe building) on the premises above
mentioned has been determined to be an unsafe building and a nuisance after inspection by                  . The
causes for this decision are                                                        (here insert the facts as to
the dangerous condition).
You must remedy this condition or demolish the building within 60 days from the date of receipt of this notice or
the city will proceed to do so. Appeal of this determination may be made to the City Council, acting as the Board
of Appeals, by filing with the City Clerk within 10 days from the date of receipt of this notice a request for a
hearing.
 
   (C)   If the person receiving the notice has not complied within 60 days
from the date of receipt of the notice, or taken an appeal from the
determination that a dangerous building exists within ten days from the time
when this notice is served upon that person by personal service or certified
mail, the Building Inspector or other designated official may, upon orders of
the City Council, proceed to remedy the condition or demolish the unsafe
building.
§ 150.33  APPEAL; DEMOLITION; DUTY TO INFORM COUNTY.
   (A)   (1)   Upon receiving the notice to repair or demolish the building,
the owner of the building, within the time stipulated, may in writing to the
City Clerk request a hearing before the City Council, sitting as the Board of
Appeals, to present reasons why the building should not be repaired or
demolished.
      (2)   The City Council shall grant such a hearing within ten days from
the date of receiving the request.
      (3)   A written notice of the City Council’s decision following the
hearing shall be sent to the property owner by certified mail.
   (B)   (1)   If the City Council rejects the appeal, the owner shall have 60
days from the sending of the decision to begin repair or demolition and
removal.
      (2)   If, after the 60-day period, the owner has not begun work, the City
Council shall proceed to cause the work to be done; except that, the property
owner may appeal the decision to the appropriate court for adjudication, during
which proceedings the decision of the City Council shall be stayed.
   (C)   Any city police officer or member of the City Council shall at once
inform the County Treasurer of the removal or demolition of or a levy of
attachment upon any item of real property known to him or her.
(Neb. RS 77-1725.01)
§ 150.34  EMERGENCY.
   Where any unsafe building or structure poses an immediate danger to the
health, safety or general welfare of any person or persons and the owner fails
to remedy the situation in a reasonable time after notice to do so, the city
may summarily repair or demolish and remove that building or structure.
§ 150.35  SPECIAL ASSESSMENTS.
   (A)   If any owner of any building or structure fails, neglects or refuses
to comply with notice by or on behalf of the city to repair, rehabilitate or
demolish and remove a building or structure which is an unsafe building or
structure and a public nuisance, the city may proceed with the work specified
in the notice to the property owner. A statement of the cost of this work shall
be transmitted to the City Council.
   (B)   The City Council may:
      (1)   Levy the cost as a special assessment against the lot or real
estate upon which the building or structure is located. Such special assessment
shall be a lien on the real estate and shall be collected in the manner
provided for special assessments; or
      (2)   Collect the cost from the owner of the building or structure and
enforce the collection by civil action in any court of competent jurisdiction.
(Neb. RS 18-1722)
BUILDING INSPECTOR
§ 150.50  POWER AND AUTHORITY.
   The Building Inspector shall be the city official who shall have the duty of
enforcing all city building and housing regulations, if any. He or she shall
inspect all buildings repaired, altered, built or moved in the city as often as
necessary to ensure compliance with all city ordinances. He or she shall have
the power and authority to order, at the direction of the City Council, all
work stopped on any construction, alteration or relocation which violates any
provisions prescribed in any city building and housing regulations. He or she
shall, at the direction of the City Council, issue permission to continue any
construction, alteration, or relocation when the City Council is satisfied that
no provision will be violated. If the stop order is an oral one, it shall be
followed by a written stop order within one hour. This written order may be
served by any city police officer. In the event that the city has building and
housing regulations and the Mayor fails to appoint a Building Inspector, the
chief city law enforcement officer shall be the Building Inspector ex officio.
§ 150.51  RIGHT OF ENTRY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to refuse to allow the Building
Inspector entry into any building or structure where the work of construction,
alteration, repair or relocation is taking place, for the purpose of making
official inspections at any reasonable hour.
Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.52  PERMIT CARDS.
   Upon the issuance of a building permit, the Building Inspector shall furnish
to the applicant a permit card which shall be a distinctive color and shall
contain the nature of the work, the location of the building, the number of the
permit and the date of issuance. The card shall be prominently displayed on the
principal frontage of the building site close to or upon the building or
structure and shall so remain until the final inspection has been made.
Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.53  TIME OF INSPECTION.
   The Building Inspector, upon notification from the permit holder or his or
her agent, shall make the following inspections of the building or structure
and shall either approve that portion of the construction as completed or shall
notify the permit holder or his or her agent that the work fails to comply with
the requirements of the city code: foundation inspection shall be made after
trenches are excavated and the necessary forms erected; frame inspection shall
be made after the roof, framing, fire-blocking and backing is in place and all
pipes, chimneys and vents are complete; and final inspection shall be made
after the building is completed and ready for occupancy. It shall be unlawful
for any person to do work or cause work to be done beyond the point indicated
in each successive inspection without the written approval of the Building
Inspector.
Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.54  APPEAL FROM DECISION.
   In the event it is claimed that the true intent and meaning of any city
building or housing regulation has been wrongly interpreted by the Building
Inspector, that the time allowed for compliance with any order of the Building
Inspector is too short, or that conditions peculiar to a particular building
make it unreasonably difficult to meet the literal requirements prescribed by
the regulation and by the Building Inspector, the owner, his or her agent, or
the occupant may file a notice of appeal within ten days after the decision or
order of the Building Inspector has been made. The City Council shall hear all
appeals and shall have the power and authority, when appealed to, to modify the
decision or order of the Building Inspector. Such a decision shall be final,
subject only to any remedy which the aggrieved person may have at law or
equity. Applications for review shall be in writing and shall state the reasons
why the variance should be made. A variance shall be granted only where it is
evident that reasonable safety and sanitation is assured and may include
conditions not generally specified by the building or housing regulation to
achieve that end. A copy of any variance so granted shall be sent to both the
Building Inspector and the applicant.
CONSTRUCTION AND BUILDING REGULATIONS
§ 150.65  LEAD PIPES, SOLDER AND FLUX.
   (A)   Any pipe, solders or flux used in the installation or repair of any
residential or non-residential facility which is connected to the public water
supply system shall be lead free.
   (B)   For purposes of this section, LEAD FREE shall mean:
      (1)   Solders and flux: not more than 0.2% lead; and
      (2)   Pipe and pipe fittings: not more than 8% lead.
(Prior Code, § 9-101)  (Ord. 441, passed 8-1-1988)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 71-5301
§ 150.66  PLANS, PLATS AND THE LIKE.
   (A)   A municipal official charged with the duty or responsibility of
accepting or approving plans, specifications, plats and reports shall not
accept or approve plans, specifications, plats or reports which have not been
prepared in accordance with the Engineers and Architects Regulation Act, being
Neb. RS 81-3401 through 81-3455.
   (B)   A municipal official charged with the duty or responsibility of
accepting or approving plans, specifications, geological maps and reports shall
not accept or approve plans, specifications, geological maps or reports which
have not been prepared in accordance with the Geologists Regulation Act, being
Neb. RS 81-3501 through 81-3541.
(Prior Code, § 9-102)  (Ord. 98-31, passed 10-5-1998; Ord. 99-5, passed 4-5-
1999)
§ 150.67  LIQUIFIED PETROLEUM GAS; LOCATION OF CONTAINERS.
   (A)   Container location. Containers shall be located with respect to
buildings, public ways and lines of adjoining property which can be built on in
accordance with the following table:
Minimum Separation Between Containers and Buildings, Public Ways or
Lines of Adjoining Property That Can Be Built upon
                   Mounded or          Aboveground          Minimum Separation
Container Capacity Underground         Containers (note 2)  Between Containers
(water gallons)    Containers (note 1) (feet)               (note 2, 3) (feet)
                   (feet)
Minimum Separation Between Containers and Buildings, Public Ways or
Lines of Adjoining Property That Can Be Built upon
                    Mounded or          Aboveground         Minimum Separation
Container Capacity  Underground         Containers (note 2) Between Containers
(water gallons)     Containers (note 1) (feet)              (note 2, 3) (feet)
                    (feet)
x 3.785 for L       x 304.8 for mm
Less than 125 (note 10                  5 (note 5)          None
3, 4)
125 to 150          10                  10                  None
251 to 500          10                  10                  3
501 to 2,000        10                  25 (note 5, 6)      3
2,001 to 30,000     50                  50                  5
30,001 to 70,000    50                  75                  (1/4 of the sum of
70,001 to 90,000    50                  100                 diameters of
                                                            adjacent
90,001 to 120,000   50                  125                 containers)

NOTES TO TABLE:
Note 1. Minimum distance for underground containers shall be measured from the
pressure-relief device and the filling  or liquid-level gauge vent connection
at the container; except that, all parts of an underground container shall be
10 feet (3,048 mm) or more from a building or line of adjoining property which
can be built upon.
Note 2. In applying the distance between buildings and ASME containers of a
125-gallon (473.2 L) or more water capacity, a minimum of 50% of this
horizontal distance shall also apply to all portions of the building which
project more than 5 feet (1,524 mm) from the building wall and which are higher
than the relief valve discharge outlet. This horizontal distance shall be
measured from a point determined by projecting the outside edge of such
overhanging structure vertically downward to grade or other level upon which
the container is installed. Distances to the building wall shall not be less
than those prescribed herein. Exception: installations in which the overhanging
structure is 50 feet (15,240 mm) or more above the relief-valve discharge
outlet.
Note 3. When underground multi-container installations are comprised of
individual containers having a water capacity of 125 gallons (473.2 L) or more,
such containers shall be installed so as to provide access at their ends or
sides to facilitate working with cranes or hoists.
Note 4. At a consumer site, if the aggregate water capacity of a multi-
container installation, comprised of individual containers having a water
capacity of less than 125 gallons (473.2 L), is 500 gallons (1,892.7 L) or
more, the minimum distance shall comply with the appropriate portion of this
table, applying the aggregate capacity rather than the capacity per container.
If more than one such installation is made, each installation shall be
separated from other installations by at least 25 feet (7,620 mm). Minimum
distances between containers need not be applied.
Note 5. The following shall apply to aboveground containers installed alongside
buildings:
1. Containers of less than a 125-gallon (473.2 L) water capacity are allowed
next to the building they serve when in compliance with Items 2, 3 and 4 below.
2. Department of Transportation specification containers shall be located and
installed so that the discharge from the container pressure-relief device is at
least 3 feet (914 mm) horizontally from building openings below the level of
such discharge and shall not be beneath buildings unless the space is well
ventilated to the outside and is not enclosed for more than 50% of its
perimeter. The discharge from container pressure-relief devices shall be
located not less than 5 feet (1,524 mm) from exterior sources of ignition,
openings into direct-vent (sealed combustion system) appliances or mechanical
ventilation air intakes.
3. ASME containers of less than a 125-gallon (473.2 L) water capacity shall be
located and installed such that the discharge from pressure-relief devices
shall not terminate in or beneath buildings and shall be located at least 5
feet (1,524 mm) horizontally from building openings below the level of such
discharge and not less than 5 feet (1,524 mm) from exterior sources of
ignition, openings into direct-vent (sealed combustion system) appliances or
mechanical ventilation air intakes.
4. The filling connection and the vent from liquid level gauges on either DOT
or ASME containers filled at the point of installation shall not be less than
10 feet (3,048 mm) from exterior sources of ignition, openings into direct-vent
(sealed combustion system) appliances or mechanical ventilation air intakes.
Note 6. This distance is allowed to be reduced to not less than 10 feet (3,048
mm) for a single container of 1,200-gallon (4,542 L) water capacity or less;
provided, such container is at least 25 feet (7,620 mm) from other LP-gas
containers of more than 125-gallon (473.2 L) water capacity.
(Source 1994 Uniform Fire Code)
 
   (B)   Maximum capacity. Within residentially zoned areas and the Community
Business District, the aggregate capacity of any one-installation storage of
LP-gas shall not exceed a 2,000-gallon water capacity.
(Prior Code, § 9-103)  (Ord. 99-7, passed 5-3-1999)
§ 150.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, or any person’s agent or servant, who violates any of the
provisions of this chapter, unless otherwise specifically provided herein,
shall be deemed guilty of an offense and, upon conviction thereof, shall be
fined in any sum not exceeding $500. A new violation shall be deemed to have
been committed every 24 hours of failure to comply with the provisions of this
chapter.
   (B)   (1)   Whenever a nuisance exists as defined in this chapter, the
municipality may proceed by a suit in equity to enjoin, abate and remove the
same in the manner provided by law.
      (2)   Whenever, in any action, it is established that a nuisance exists,
the court may, together with the fine or penalty imposed, enter an order of
abatement as a part of the judgment in the case.
(Prior Code, § 9-201)  (Ord. 2000-16, passed 5-1-2000)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-505, 18-1720, 18-1722
CHAPTER 151:  STREETS, SIDEWALKS AND PUBLIC WAYS AND PROPERTY
Section
City Property
   
151.001   Definitions
   
151.002   Streets, alleys, walks, malls and other improvements
   
151.003   Maintenance and control
   
151.004   Regulation of obstructions
   
151.005   Regulation of snow, ice and other encroachments
   
151.006   Permitted use of public street space
   
151.007   Poles, wires and pipe lines
   
151.008   Dangerous stairways and entrances
   
151.009   Excavations and exposures; barricades and lights
   
151.010   Guttering and eave spouts
   
151.011   Prohibited obstructions
   
151.012   Trees in sidewalk space
   
151.013   Overhanging branches
   
151.014   Signs and canopies
   
151.015   Cutting into paving, curb or sidewalk
   
151.016   Heavy equipment
Sale and Acquisition of Property; Public Works
   
151.030   Sale and conveyance; real property
   
151.031   Sale and conveyance; personal property
   
151.032   Acquisition or construction of public buildings; election
requirements
   
151.033   Acquisition of real property; appraisal
   
151.034   Acquisition of real property; public meeting; access for recreational
use
   
151.035   Public works involving architecture or engineering; requirements
   
151.036   Special assessments for public works or improvements; notice to non-
resident property owners
Sidewalks
   
151.050   Requirement to keep clean
   
151.051   Use of space beneath
   
151.052   Construction at owner’s initiative
   
151.053   Construction and repair at city direction
Streets and Alleys
   
151.065   Dedication to public use
   
151.066   Grading, paving and other improvements
   
151.067   Improvement districts; objections
   
151.068   Opening, widening, improving or vacating
   
151.069   Vacating public ways; procedure
   
151.070   Crossings
   
151.071   Names and numbers
   
151.072   Driveway approaches
   
151.073   Excavation
   
151.074   Driving stakes
   
151.075   Mixing concrete
   
151.076   Harmful liquids
   
151.077   Snow, debris and the like on street prohibited
 
   
151.999   Penalty
CITY PROPERTY
§ 151.001  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   OVERSEER OF STREETS. The city official with general charge, direction and
control of streets and sidewalks. If one official is responsible for streets
and another official is responsible for sidewalks, OVERSEER OF STREETS shall
mean whichever one is appropriate in the context the term is used.
   SIDEWALK SPACE. The portion of a street between curb lines and adjacent
property lines.
(Prior Code, § 8-101)
§ 151.002  STREETS, ALLEYS, WALKS, MALLS AND OTHER IMPROVEMENTS.
   (A)   The City Council may grade, partially or to an established grade,
change grade, curb, recurb, gutter, regutter, pave, gravel, regravel,
macadamize, remacadamize, widen or narrow streets or roadways, resurface or re-
lay existing pavement, or otherwise improve any streets, alleys, public
grounds, public ways, entirely or partially, and streets which divide the city
corporate area and the area adjoining the city; construct or reconstruct
pedestrian walks, plazas, malls, landscaping, outdoor sprinkler systems,
fountains, decorative water ponds, lighting systems and permanent facilities;
and construct sidewalks and improve the sidewalk space.
   (B)   These projects may be funded at public cost or by the levy of special
assessments on the property especially benefitted in proportion to such
benefits, except as provided in Neb. RS 19-2428 through 19-2431.
   (C)   The City Council may by ordinance create improvement districts, to be
consecutively numbered, which may include two or more connecting or
intersecting streets, alleys or public ways, and may include two or more types
of the improvements authorized under this section in a single district in one
proceeding.
   (D)   All of the improvements which are to be funded by a levy of special
assessment on the property especially benefitted shall be ordered as provided
in Neb. RS 17-510 to 17-512, except as otherwise provided in Neb. RS 17-509.
(Neb. RS 17-509)
Statutory reference:
   Other provisions on improvements, assessments and bonds, see Neb. RS 17-513
to 17-524, 18-1751, 19-2401 and 19-2408 to 19-2415
§ 151.003  MAINTENANCE AND CONTROL.
   The City Council shall have the care, supervision and control of all public
highways, bridges, streets, alleys, public squares and commons within the city
and shall cause the same to be kept open and in repair and free from nuisances.
(Neb. RS 17-567)  (Prior Code, § 8-102)
§ 151.004  REGULATION OF OBSTRUCTIONS.
   (A)   The city may remove all obstructions from the sidewalks, curbstones,
gutters and crosswalks at the expense of the person placing them there or at
the expense of the city and require and regulate the planting and protection of
shade trees in and along the streets and the trimming and removing of such
trees.
   (B)   The city may regulate the building of bulkheads, cellar and basement
ways, stairways, railways, windows, doorways, awnings, hitching posts and
rails, lampposts, awning posts, all other structures projecting upon or over
and adjoining and all other excavations through and under the sidewalks in the
city.
(Neb. RS 17-555)
§ 151.005  REGULATION OF SNOW, ICE AND OTHER ENCROACHMENTS.
   (A)   The city shall have power to prevent and remove all encroachments,
including snow, ice, mud or other obstructions, into and upon all sidewalks,
streets, avenues, alleys and other city property.
(Neb. RS 17-557)
   (B)   If the abutting property owner refuses or neglects, after five days’
notice by publication or, in place thereof, personal service of such notice, to
remove all encroachments from sidewalks, as provided in division (A) above, the
city through the proper officers may cause such encroachments to be removed,
and the cost of removal shall be paid out of the Street Fund. The City Council
shall assess the cost of the notice and removal of the encroachment against the
abutting property as a special assessment. The special assessment shall be
known as a special sidewalk assessment and, together with the cost of notice,
shall be levied and collected as a special assessment in addition to the
general revenue taxes and shall be subject to the same penalties as other
special assessments and shall draw interest from the date of the assessment.
Upon payment of the assessment, the assessment shall be credited to the Street
Fund.
(Neb. RS 17-557.01)
§ 151.006  PERMITTED USE OF PUBLIC STREET SPACE.
   Any person engaged in the erection, construction, reconstruction, wrecking
or repairing of any building, or the construction or repair of a sidewalk along
any street, may occupy the public street space with the building material and
equipment as long as is necessary if such person makes application to and
receives a permit to do so in writing from the Overseer of Streets. No permit
shall authorize the occupancy of more than one-third of the roadway of the
public space adjacent to the real estate on which the building or sidewalk is
to be erected, constructed, reconstructed, wrecked or repaired. A suitable
passageway for pedestrians shall be maintained within the public space included
in the permit, which passageway shall be protected and lighted in the manner
required by the Overseer of Streets.
Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.007  POLES, WIRES AND PIPE LINES.
   (A)   Poles, wires, conduits, gas mains, pipe lines and other appurtenances
of public service companies shall be located or erected over, upon or under the
streets, alleys and common grounds of the city. Application for location of
such appurtenances shall be made to the City Council in writing. Approval by
the Council shall be issued in writing. Any public service company granted a
right-of-way for the erection and maintenance of poles, wires, conduits, gas
mains, pipe lines or other appurtenances shall at all times erect and locate
their appurtenances at such places and in such manner as shall be designated by
the Council.
   (B)   All poles, wires, conduits, gas mains, pipe lines and other
appurtenances shall be removed or relocated by the companies at their own
expense when requested to do so by the Council. Any such removal or relocation
shall be ordered by resolution of the Council and the City Clerk shall notify
any and all companies affected. The companies shall, within 24 hours after
receiving notice, at their own expense, cause the poles, wires, conduits, gas
mains, pipe lines or other appurtenances to be removed or relocated. The
Council shall designate another location as closely as possible where the
appurtenances may be reset or placed.
   (C)   All poles, wires, conduits, gas mains, pipe lines or other
appurtenances shall be reset, placed, or erected in such a manner that they
will not interfere with the water system; the sewerage system; any poles,
wires, conduits, mains, lines or other appurtenances of any public utility; any
adjacent buildings; or travel on the public ways and property. Whenever
possible, all poles, wires, conduits, gas mains, pipe lines and appurtenances
shall be confined to the alleys of the city.
§ 151.008  DANGEROUS STAIRWAYS AND ENTRANCES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to construct or maintain any stairway,
open cellarway, open basement way, or open entrance thereto in or adjacent to
any sidewalk, pavement or street, and any such entrance is hereby declared to
be a public nuisance; except that, all existing stairways, open cellarways,
open basement ways or open entrances thereto in or adjacent to sidewalks,
pavements or streets may be permitted to remain from and after the adoption of
this prohibition if the person owning or using the opening in the sidewalk,
pavement or street satisfies the Overseer of Streets that the opening is
properly protected by a balustrade, or coping of durable material, and
furnishes the city with a bond in the amount set by the City Council for the
benefit of any person who might suffer an injury or damage by reason of the use
of the stairway, cellarway, basement way or entrance.
§ 151.009  EXCAVATIONS AND EXPOSURES; BARRICADES AND LIGHTS.
   Any owner or occupant engaged in construction or demolition of any building
or improvement upon or near the public ways and property shall protect all
excavations or exposures of any kind by suitable barricades or guards by day
and by warning lights at night. The failure, neglect, or refusal of the owner
or occupant to erect and maintain such protections shall constitute a violation
of this section, and the city may stop all work upon the buildings and
improvements until suitable protections are erected and maintained in the
required manner.
§ 151.010  GUTTERING AND EAVE SPOUTS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to erect or maintain any dwelling house
or business building within the limits of the city where the dwelling or
building abuts on any sidewalk or street without providing proper guttering and
eave spouts to receive the waste waters that collect on the sidewalks and
streets. All eave spouts erected on any dwelling house or business building
shall be constructed to drain into the alleys or shall be buried beneath the
sidewalks and drain into the streets where it is found to be impossible to
drain the eave spouts into the alley.
§ 151.011  PROHIBITED OBSTRUCTIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to obstruct, or encumber, by
fences, gates, buildings, structures, or otherwise, any of the streets, alleys
or sidewalks.
   (B)   The public ways and property shall be considered to be obstructed when
the owner or occupant of the adjacent property permits or suffers to remain on
any premises owned or controlled by him or her any hedge, shrubbery, bush or
similar growth within two feet adjacent to the lot line, whether there is a
sidewalk abutting or adjoining the premises or not. It shall be the duty of
owners and occupants to at all times keep trimmed and pruned all such similar
growth.
   (C)   Trees and shrubs growing upon the lot line partially on public ground
and partially upon the abutting property, or wholly upon the abutting property,
and interfering with the use, making or construction of any public improvement
or so that the roots thereof interfere with any utility wire or pipe shall be
deemed an obstruction. Such trees and shrubs and their roots may be removed by
the city at the expense of the owner of the property upon which the trees or
shrubs are partially or wholly located if the owner fails or neglects, after
notice, to do so.
   (D)   When any obstruction described in this section is determined to exist,
the city may proceed against the owner or occupant of the property adjacent to
the sidewalk space.
(Prior Code, § 8-105)  Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.012  TREES IN SIDEWALK SPACE.
   (A)   No person shall plant any tree or allow any tree to grow within the
sidewalk space without first making a written or verbal application to and
receiving a written permit from the Overseer of Streets upon payment of the
fee, if any, established by the City Council.
   (B)   Any tree planted within the sidewalk space after the adoption of this
prohibition shall be deemed to be unlawfully planted and growing and may be
determined to be a nuisance. Nothing in this section shall be construed to
apply to any trees growing within the sidewalk space prior to the adoption of
this prohibition.
   (C)   When any such tree is determined to be a nuisance, the city may
proceed against the owner or occupant of the property adjacent to the sidewalk
space.
(Prior Code, § 8-103)  Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.013  OVERHANGING BRANCHES.
   (A)   The owner or occupant of any lot, piece or parcel of ground abutting
or adjacent to any street or sidewalk over which there extend the branches of
trees shall at all times keep the branches or limbs thereof trimmed to the
height of at least eight feet above the surface of the walk and at least 14
feet above the surface of the street or to the heights otherwise specified by
the City Council.
   (B)   Whenever the branches or limbs of any tree extend over streets or
sidewalks contrary to such provisions so as to interfere with the lighting of
the street from street lights or with the convenience of the public using the
street or sidewalk, the city may proceed against the owner or occupant of the
property abutting or adjacent to the street or sidewalk.
(Prior Code, § 8-107)  Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.014  SIGNS AND CANOPIES.
   (A)   No person shall erect or maintain any sign, signboard, poster or rigid
canopy over any street, sidewalk or alley or on other public property without
having first obtained a permit therefor. Permits for signs, signboards, posters
and canopies shall be issued by the City Clerk, subject to the approval of the
Overseer of Streets, upon the payment of the fee, if any, established by the
City Council.
   (B)   All signs, signboards, posters and canopies extending over any public
sidewalk, street, alley or other public place must be securely fastened and
constructed so that there will be no danger of the them being dislodged by
ordinary winds or falling from other causes.
   (C)   No sign, signboard, poster or canopy shall be erected or maintained
which extends over any public sidewalk, street, alley or other public place in
such a location as to obstruct the view of any traffic light, sign or signal.
   (D)   Upon a determination that a sign, signboard, poster or canopy is in
violation of this section, the city may proceed against the owner or occupant
of the premises where such the sign, signboard, poster or canopy is located.
Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.015  CUTTING INTO PAVING, CURB OR SIDEWALK.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to cut into any paving, curb or
sidewalk for the purpose of constructing a driveway or any other purpose
whatsoever without first having obtained a written permit from the City
Council. Before any person obtains a permit, he or she shall inform the City
Clerk of the place where such cutting is to be done and it shall be the duty of
the Overseer of Streets to inspect the proposed place of entry into the paving,
sidewalk or curb.
   (B)   When cutting into any paving, curb or sidewalk, it shall be the duty
of the party to comply with such rules and regulations as may be prescribed by
the Council or the City Engineer. When the applicant is ready to close the
opening made, he or she shall inform the Overseer of Streets, who shall
supervise and inspect the materials used and the work done in closing the
opening.
   (C)   (1)   It shall be discretionary with the Council to order the Overseer
of Streets, under the supervision and inspection of the City Engineer or the
committee of the Council on the streets and alleys, to do the cutting and
closing of the paving, curb or sidewalk and charge the costs thereof to the
party who obtained the permit.
      (2)   The Council may consent to the cutting and closing of the paving,
curb or sidewalk by the party holding the permit.
   (D)   (1)   Before any permit is issued by the Council, the applicant for
the permit shall deposit with the City Treasurer a sum set by resolution of the
Council for all paving, curb or sidewalk to be cut. Such sum shall be set on a
per square foot cost of construction basis.
      (2)   The deposit shall be retained by the city for the purpose of
replacing the paving, curb or sidewalk in the event the work is done by the
city.
      (3)   If the Board elects to require the applicant to replace the paving,
curb or sidewalk, the deposit shall be retained by the city until the work is
completed to the satisfaction of the Overseer of Streets or of the committee of
the Council on streets and alleys.
   (E)   In addition to making the deposit, the applicant shall, before any
permit is issued, execute a bond to the city with a good and sufficient surety
to be approved by the Council in a sum set by resolution.
§ 151.016  HEAVY EQUIPMENT.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to move or operate heavy equipment
across any curb, gutter, bridge, culvert, sidewalk, crosswalk or crossing on
any unpaved street without first having protected such curb, gutter, bridge,
culvert, sidewalks, crosswalk or crossing with heavy plank sufficient in
strength to warrant against the breaking or damaging of such curb, gutter,
bridge, culvert, sidewalk, crosswalk or crossing.
   (B)   Except as provided, it shall be unlawful to run, drive, move, operate
or convey over or across any paved street a vehicle, machine or implement with
sharp discs or sharp wheels that bear upon the pavement; with wheels having
cutting edges; with wheels having lugs, any protruding parts, or bolts thereon
that extend beyond a plain tire so as to cut, mark, mar, indent or otherwise
injure or damage any pavement, gutter or curb; except that, where heavy
vehicles, structures and machines move along paved or unpaved streets the city
police are hereby authorized and empowered to choose the route over which the
moving of such vehicles, structures or machines will be permitted and allowed.
SALE AND ACQUISITION OF PROPERTY; PUBLIC WORKS
§ 151.030  SALE AND CONVEYANCE; REAL PROPERTY.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (I) below, the power of the
municipality to convey any real and personal property owned by it, including
land used for park purposes and public squares, except real property used in
the operation of public utilities, shall be exercised by resolution, directing
the sale at public auction or by sealed bid of such real and personal property
and the manner and terms thereof; except that, such real and personal property
shall not be sold at public auction or by sealed bid when:
      (1)   Such property is being sold in compliance with the requirements of
federal or state grants or programs;
      (2)   Such property is being conveyed to another public agency; or
      (3)   Such property consists of streets and alleys.
   (B)   The governing body may establish a minimum price for such real and
personal property at which bidding shall begin or shall serve as a minimum for
a sealed bid.
   (C)   After the passage of the resolution directing the sale, notice of all
proposed sales of real and personal property described in division (A) above
and the terms thereof, shall be published once each week for three consecutive
weeks in a legal newspaper published in or of general circulation in the
municipality.
   (D)   If, within 30 days after the third publication of the notice, a
remonstrance against such sale is signed by registered voters of the
municipality equal in number to 30% of the registered voters of the
municipality voting at the last regular municipal election held therein, and is
filed with the governing body, such property shall not then, nor within one
year thereafter, be sold. If the date for filing the remonstrance falls upon a
Saturday, Sunday or legal holiday, the signatures shall be collected within the
30-day period, but the filing shall be considered timely if filed or postmarked
on or before the next business day.
   (E)   Upon the receipt of the remonstrance, the governing body, with the aid
and assistance of the Election Commissioner or County Clerk, shall determine
the validity and sufficiency of signatures on the remonstrance. The governing
body shall deliver the remonstrance to the Election Commissioner or County
Clerk by hand carrier, by use of law enforcement officials, or by certified
mail, return receipt requested. Upon receipt of the remonstrance, the Election
Commissioner or County Clerk shall issue to the governing body a written
receipt that the remonstrance is in the custody of the Election Commissioner or
County Clerk. The Election Commissioner or County Clerk shall compare the
signature of each person signing the remonstrance with the voter registration
records to determine if each signer was a registered voter on or before the
date on which the remonstrance was filed with the governing body. The Election
Commissioner or County Clerk shall also compare the signer’s printed name,
street and number or voting precinct, and municipal or post office address with
the voter registration records to determine whether the signer was a registered
voter. The signature and address shall be presumed to be valid only if the
Election Commissioner or County Clerk determines that the printed name, street
and number or voting precinct and municipal or post office address matches the
registration records and that the registration was received on or before the
date on which the remonstrance was filed with the governing body. The
determinations of the Election Commissioner or County Clerk may be rebutted by
any credible evidence which the governing body finds sufficient. The express
purpose of the comparison of names and addresses with the voter registration
records, in addition to helping to determine the validity of the remonstrance,
the sufficiency of the remonstrance, and the qualifications of the signer,
shall be to prevent fraud, deception and misrepresentation in the remonstrance
process. Upon completion of the comparison of names and addresses with the
voter registration records, the Election Commissioner or County Clerk shall
prepare in writing a certification under seal setting forth the name and
address of each signer found not to be a registered voter and the signature
page number and line number where the name is found, and if the reason for the
invalidity of the signature or address is other than the non-registration of
the signer, the Election Commissioner or County Clerk shall set forth the
reason for the invalidity of the signature. If the Election Commissioner or
County Clerk determines that a signer has affixed his or her signature more
than once to the remonstrance and that only one person is registered by that
name, the Election Commissioner or County Clerk shall prepare in writing a
certification under seal setting forth the name of the duplicate signature and
shall count only the earliest dated signature. The Election Commissioner or
County Clerk shall certify to the governing body the number of valid signatures
necessary to constitute a valid remonstrance. The Election Commissioner or
County Clerk shall deliver the remonstrance and the certifications to the
governing body within 40 days after the receipt of the remonstrance from the
governing body. The delivery shall be by hand carrier, by use of law
enforcement officials, or by certified mail, return receipt requested. Not more
than 20 signatures on one signature page shall be counted.
   (F)   The governing body shall, within 30 days after the receipt of the
remonstrance and certifications from the Election Commissioner or County Clerk,
hold a public hearing to review the remonstrance and certifications and receive
testimony regarding them. The governing body shall, following the hearing, vote
on whether or not the remonstrance is valid and shall uphold the remonstrance
if sufficient valid signatures have been received.
   (G)   Real estate now owned or hereafter owned by the municipality may be
conveyed without consideration to the state for state armory sites or, if
acquired for state armory sites, such property shall be conveyed strictly in
accordance with the conditions of Neb. RS 18-1001 to 18-1006.
   (H)   (1)   After the following, the property shall then be sold:
         (a)   Passage of the resolution directing a sale;
         (b)   Publishing of the notice of the proposed sale; and
         (c)   Passing of the 30-day right of remonstrance period.
      (2)   Such sale shall be confirmed by passage of an ordinance stating the
name of the purchaser and terms of the sale. The Municipal Clerk shall, upon
passage of such ordinance, certify the name of the purchaser to the Register of
Deeds of the county in which the property is located.
   (I)   Divisions (A) to (H) above shall not apply to the sale of real and
personal property if the authorizing resolution directs the sale of an item or
items of real and personal property, the total fair market value of which is
less than $5,000. Following passage of the resolution directing the sale of the
property, notice of the sale shall be posted in three prominent places within
the municipality for a period of not less than seven days prior to the sale of
the property. The notice shall give a general description of the property
offered for sale and state the terms and conditions of sale. Confirmation of
the sale by passage of an ordinance may be required.
(Prior Code, § 8-104)  (Ord. 9-94, passed 6-6-1994; Ord. 27-95, passed 12-4-
1995; Ord. 98-29, passed 10-5-1998)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-503, 17-503.01
§ 151.031  SALE AND CONVEYANCE; PERSONAL PROPERTY.
   (A)   The power of the city to convey any personal property owned by it
shall be exercised by resolution directing the sale and the manner and terms of
the sale. Following passage of the resolution directing the sale of the
property, notice of the sale shall be posted in three prominent places within
the city for a period of not less than seven days prior to the sale of the
property. If the fair market value of the property is greater than $5,000,
notice of the sale shall also be published once in a legal newspaper in or of
general circulation in the city at least seven days prior to the sale of the
property. The notice shall give a general description of the property offered
for sale and state the terms and conditions of sale.
   (B)   Personal property may be conveyed notwithstanding the procedure in
division (A) above when:
      (1)   Such property is being sold in compliance with the requirements of
federal or state grants or programs; or
      (2)   Such property is being conveyed to another public agency.
(Neb. RS 17-503.02)
§ 151.032  ACQUISITION OR CONSTRUCTION OF PUBLIC BUILDINGS; ELECTION
REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The city is authorized and empowered to purchase, accept by gift or
devise, purchase real estate upon which to erect, and erect a building or
buildings for an auditorium, fire station, city building or community house for
housing city enterprises and social and recreation purposes, and other public
buildings, including the construction of buildings authorized to be constructed
by Neb. RS Ch. 72, Art. 14, and including construction of buildings to be
leased in whole or in part by the city to any other political or governmental
subdivision of the state authorized by law to lease such buildings, and
maintain, manage and operate the same for the benefit of the inhabitants of the
city.
   (B)   Except as provided in division (C) below, before any such purchase can
be made or building erected, the question shall be submitted to the electors of
the city at a general city election or at an election duly called for that
purpose, or as set forth in division (D) below, and be adopted by a majority of
the electors voting on such question.
(Neb. RS 17-953)
   (C)   If the funds to be used to finance the purchase or construction of a
building pursuant to this section are available other than through a bond
issue, then either:
      (1)   Notice of the proposed purchase or construction shall be published
in a newspaper of general circulation in the city and no election shall be
required to approve the purchase or construction unless within 30 days after
the publication of the notice, a remonstrance petition against the purchase or
construction is signed by registered voters of the city equal in number to 15%
of the registered voters of the city voting at the last regular city election
held therein and is filed with the City Council. If the date for filing the
petition falls upon a Saturday, Sunday or legal holiday, the signatures shall
be collected within the 30-day period, but the filing shall be considered
timely if filed or postmarked on or before the next business day. If a petition
with the necessary number of qualified signatures is timely filed, the question
shall be submitted to the voters of the city at a general city election or a
special election duly called for that purpose. If the purchase or construction
is not approved, the property involved shall not then, nor within one year
following the election, be purchased or constructed; or
      (2)   The City Council may proceed without providing the notice and right
of remonstrance required in division (C)(1) above if the property can be
purchased below the fair market value as determined by an appraisal, there is a
willing seller and the purchase price is less than $25,000. The purchase shall
be approved by the City Council after notice and public hearing as provided in
§
151.034 of this chapter.
(Neb. RS 17-953.01)
   (D)   (1)   The Mayor and City Council adopting the proposition to make such
purchase or erect such building or buildings for the purposes set forth in
division (A) above shall have the power to borrow money and pledge the property
and credit of the city upon its negotiable bonds. No such bonds shall be issued
until after the same have been authorized by a majority vote of the electors
voting on the proposition of their issuance, at a general city election or at a
special election called for the submission of such proposition. The question of
such purchase or erection of such a building or buildings, as set forth in
division (A) above, and the question of the issuance of the negotiable bonds
referred to in this division (D) may be submitted as one question at a general
city or special election if so ordered by resolution or ordinance.
      (2)   Notice of the time and place of the election shall be given by
publication in some legal newspaper printed in or of general circulation in the
city three successive weeks immediately prior thereto.
      (3)   No such election for the issuance of such bonds shall be called
until a petition therefor signed by at least 10% of the legal voters of the
city has been presented to the City Council. The number of voters voting at the
last regular city election prior to the presenting of the petition shall be
deemed the number of votes in the city for the purpose of determining the
sufficiency of the petition.
      (4)   The question of bond issues for such purpose in the city when
defeated shall not be resubmitted for six months from and after the date of
such election.
      (5)   When the building to be constructed is to be used by the state or
its agency or agencies under a lease authorized by Neb. RS Ch. 72, Art. 14, or
the building is to be leased by any other political or governmental subdivision
of the state, when the combined area of the building to be leased by the state
or its agency or agencies and the political or governmental subdivision of the
state is more than 50% of the area of the building, and when such sum does not
exceed $2,000,000, then no such vote of the electors will be required.
(Neb. RS 17-954)
§ 151.033  ACQUISITION OF REAL PROPERTY; APPRAISAL.
   The municipality shall not purchase, lease-purchase or acquire for
consideration real property having an estimated value of $100,000 or more
unless an appraisal of such property has been performed by a certified real
estate appraiser.
(Prior Code, § 8-110)  (Ord. 9-95, passed 2-6-1995)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 13-403
§ 151.034  ACQUISITION OF REAL PROPERTY; PUBLIC MEETING; ACCESS FOR
RECREATIONAL USE.
   (A)   When acquiring an interest in real property by purchase or eminent
domain, the municipality shall do so only after the governing body has
authorized the acquisition by action taken in a public meeting after notice and
public hearing.
(Prior Code, § 8-109)
   (B)   The city shall provide to the public a right of access for
recreational use to real property acquired for public recreational purposes.
Such access shall be at designated access points and shall be equal to the
right of access for recreational use held by adjacent landowners. The right of
access granted to the public for recreational use shall meet or exceed such
right held by a private landowner adjacent to the real property.
(Ord. 8-95, passed 2-6-1995)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 18-1755
§ 151.035  PUBLIC WORKS INVOLVING ARCHITECTURE OR ENGINEERING; REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The municipality is authorized and empowered to do the following for
housing municipal enterprises and social and recreation purposes, and other
public buildings, and maintain, manage and operate the same for the benefit of
the inhabitants of the municipality:
      (1)   Purchase;
      (2)   Accept by gift or devise;
      (3)   Purchase real estate upon which to erect; and
      (4)   Erect a building or buildings for an auditorium, fire station,
municipal building or community house.
   (B)   Except as provided in division (C) below, before any such purchase can
be made or building erected, the question shall be submitted to the electors of
the municipality at a general municipal election or at an election duly called
for that purpose, or as set forth in Neb. RS 17-954, and be adopted by a
majority of the electors voting on such question.
   (C)   If the funds to be used to finance the purchase or construction of a
building pursuant to this section are available other than through a bond
issue, then either:
      (1)   Notice of the proposed purchase or construction shall be published
in a newspaper of general circulation in the municipality and no election shall
be required to approve the purchase or construction unless within 30 days after
the publication of the notice, a remonstrance against the purchase or
construction is signed by registered voters of the municipality equal in number
to 15% of the registered voters of the municipality voting at the last regular
municipal election held therein and is filed with the governing body. If the
date for filing the remonstrance falls upon a Saturday, Sunday or legal
holiday, the signatures shall be considered timely if filed or postmarked on or
before the next business day. If a remonstrance with the necessary number of
qualified signatures is timely filed, the question shall be submitted to the
voters of the municipality at a general municipal election or a special
election duly called for that purpose. If the purchase or construction is not
approved, the property involved shall not then, nor within one year following
the election, be purchased or constructed; or
      (2)   The governing body may proceed without providing the notice and
right of remonstrance required in division (C)(1) above if the property can be
purchased below the fair market value as determined by an appraisal, there is a
willing seller, and the purchase price is less than $25,000. The purchase shall
be approved by the governing body after notice and public hearing as provided
in Neb. RS 18-1755.
(Prior Code, § 8-111)  (Ord. 28-95, passed 12-4-1995; Ord. 98-30, passed 10-5-
1998; Ord. 2000-15, passed 5-1-2000)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-953, 17-953.01
§ 151.036  SPECIAL ASSESSMENTS FOR PUBLIC WORKS OR IMPROVEMENTS; NOTICE TO NON-
RESIDENT PROPERTY OWNERS.
   (A)   Before any political subdivision or special taxing district for public
works or public improvements shall be formed, and before the city or any
political subdivision or special taxing district may impose any special
assessment for public works or public improvements, a copy of any notice
required to be published by law shall be mailed to the last-known address of
all non-resident property owners as shown on the current tax rolls at the time
such notice is first published.
(Neb. RS 13-310)
   (B)   The City Clerk or any other person upon whom the duty is imposed by
law to publish notice required by law in regard to the formation of a special
taxing district for public works or public improvements shall mail by certified
mail with return receipt requested a copy of the published notice in regard to
the formation of any special taxing district within the city to the last-known
address as shown on the current tax rolls of each non-resident property owner.
(Neb. RS 13-311)
   (C)   The City Clerk or any other person upon whom the duty is imposed by
law to publish notice required by law in regard to any special assessment by a
special taxing district shall mail by certified mail with return receipt
requested a copy of such notice to be published to the last-known address as
shown on the current tax rolls of each non-resident property owner.
(Neb. RS 13-312)
   (D)   The failure of the City Clerk any other person upon whom the duty is
imposed by law to mail a copy of a published notice as provided in this section
shall invalidate the assessment against the property involved while permitting
all other assessments and procedures to be lawful.
(Neb. RS 13-313)
   (E)   For the purpose of this section, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      NON-RESIDENT PROPERTY OWNER. Any person or corporation whose residence
and mailing address as shown on the current tax rolls is outside the boundaries
of the county and who is a record owner of property within the boundaries of
the city, special assessment district or taxing district involved.
(Neb. RS 13-314)
SIDEWALKS
§ 151.050  REQUIREMENT TO KEEP CLEAN.
   It shall be unlawful for the occupant of any lot or lots or the owner of any
vacant lot or lots within the corporate limits to allow snow, sleet, mud, ice
or other substance to accumulate on the sidewalks or to permit any snow, sleet,
ice, mud or other substance to remain upon the sidewalk. Unless the City
Council has provided otherwise, all sidewalks within the business district
shall be cleaned within five hours after the cessation of a storm, unless the
storm or fall of snow shall have taken place during the night, in which case
the sidewalk shall be cleaned before 9:00 a.m. the following day, and sidewalks
within the residential areas of the city shall be cleaned within 24 hours after
the cessation of the storm.
(Prior Code, § 8-201)  Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.051  USE OF SPACE BENEATH.
   (A)   No person shall be allowed to keep or use the space beneath the
sidewalk lying between lot line and curb line unless a permit has been obtained
from the City Council. Before any permit is granted, the applicant shall submit
plans and specifications of any present or proposed construction to the City
Engineer.
   (B)   If the plans or specifications are disapproved by the Engineer, no
permit shall be granted.
   (C)   All permits hereafter granted shall continue only upon the condition
that the party receiving them builds, maintains and keeps in repair a sidewalk
over the space used or constructed to be used and pays all damages that may be
sustained by any person by reason of such use or by reason of the sidewalk
being defective or in a dangerous condition. As a condition precedent to the
issuance or continuance of any permit for the use of any space underneath the
city sidewalks as contemplated in this section, the City Council may require
the applicant to furnish a bond to the city as obligee for the benefit of any
person who may suffer an injury or damage by reason of such use.
   (D)   The bond shall be in such sum as the City Council, in its discretion,
may designate.
Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.052  CONSTRUCTION AT OWNER’S INITIATIVE.
   (A)   Any person desiring to construct, or cause to be constructed, any
sidewalk shall do so only as provided in this section. It shall be unlawful for
any person to construct any sidewalk without first having obtained a permit.
   (B)   The owner shall make application in writing for a permit and file such
application in the office of the City Clerk. The permit shall give a
description of the lot or piece of land along which the sidewalk is to be
constructed. The Overseer of Streets shall issue the desired permit unless good
cause appears why the permit should be denied; except that, if it is desired to
construct the sidewalk at any other than the regularly prescribed location,
grade or elevation, the Overseer of Streets shall submit the application to the
City Council for determination as to whether the permit should be granted or
denied. It shall be unlawful for any person to construct, or cause to be
constructed, such sidewalk at any other location, grade or elevation than so
designated by the city. All sidewalks shall be built and constructed on the
established grade or elevation and, if there is no established grade, then on
the grade or elevation indicated by the Overseer of Streets.
(Prior Code, § 8-203)
§ 151.053  CONSTRUCTION AND REPAIR AT CITY DIRECTION.
   (A)   (1)   The Mayor and City Council may construct and repair sidewalks or
cause the construction and repair of sidewalks in such manner as the Mayor and
City Council deem necessary and assess the expense of such construction or
repairs on the property in front of which such construction or repairs are
made, after having given notice:
         (a)   By publication in one issue of a legal newspaper of general
circulation in the city; and
         (b)   By either causing a written notice to be served upon the
occupant in possession of the property involved or to be posted upon such
premises ten days prior to the commencement of such construction or repair.
      (2)   The powers conferred under this section are in addition to those
provided in Neb. RS 17-509 to 17-521 and may be exercised without creating an
improvement district.
      (3)   If the owner of any property abutting any street or avenue or part
thereof fails to construct or repair any sidewalk in front of the owner’s
property within the time and in the manner as directed and requested by the
Mayor and City Council, after having received due notice to do so, the Mayor
and City Council may cause the sidewalk to be constructed or repaired and may
assess the cost of such construction or repairs  against the property.
(Neb. RS 17-522)
   (B)   All sidewalks shall be constructed and repaired in conformity with
such plans and specifications as may be approved by the City Council.
   (C)   Assessments made under the provisions of this section shall be made
and assessed in the following manner:
      (1)   Such assessment shall be made by the City Council at a special
meeting, by a resolution, taking into account the benefits derived or injuries
sustained in consequence of such improvements, and the amount charged against
the same, which, with the vote, shall be recorded in the minutes. Notice of the
time of holding such meeting and the purpose for which it is to be held shall
be published in a legal newspaper in or of general circulation in the in the
city at least four weeks before the same shall be held or, in lieu thereof,
personal service may be made upon persons owning or occupying property to be
assessed; and
      (2)   All such assessments shall be known as special assessments for
improvements and shall be levied and collected as a separate tax, in addition
to the taxes for general revenue purposes, and shall be placed on the tax roll
for collection, subject to the same penalties and collected in like manner as
other city taxes.
(Neb. RS 17-524)
Statutory reference:
    Authority to improve through sidewalk district, see Neb. RS 19-2417 through
19-2419
STREETS AND ALLEYS
§ 151.065  DEDICATION TO PUBLIC USE.
   No street or alley which shall hereafter be dedicated to public use, by the
proprietor of ground in the city, shall be deemed a public street or alley, or
be under the use or control of the City Council, unless the dedication shall be
accepted and confirmed by an ordinance especially passed for such purpose.
(Neb. RS 17-567)
§ 151.066  GRADING, PAVING AND OTHER IMPROVEMENTS.
   The city has the power to provide for the grading and repair of any street,
avenue or alley and the construction of bridges, culverts and sewers. No
street, avenue or alley shall be graded unless the grading is ordered to be
done by the affirmative vote of two-thirds of the City Council.
Statutory reference:
   Acquisition of additional land or easement, see Neb. RS 18-1705
   Boundary street with county or another municipality, see Neb. RS 18-2005
   Grading and repair, see Neb. RS 17-508
   Limited street improvement districts, see Neb. RS 19-2416
§ 151.067  IMPROVEMENT DISTRICTS; OBJECTIONS.
   Whenever the governing body deems it necessary to make any improvements
allowed by statute which are to be funded by a levy of special assessment on
the property especially benefitted, the governing body shall by ordinance
create a paving, graveling or other improvement district and, after the
passage, approval and publication or posting of such ordinance, shall publish
notice of the creation of any such district for six days in a legal newspaper
of the municipality, if a daily newspaper, or for two consecutive weeks if it
is a weekly newspaper. If no legal newspaper is published in the municipality,
the publication shall be in a legal newspaper of general circulation in the
municipality. If the owners of the record title representing more than 50% of
the front footage of the property directly abutting on the street or alley to
be improved file with the Municipal Clerk within 20 days after the first
publication of such notice written objections to the creation of such district,
such improvement shall not be made as provided in such ordinance, but such
ordinance shall be repealed. If objections are not filed against the district
in the time and manner prescribed in this section, the governing body shall
immediately cause such work to be done or such improvement to be made, shall
contract for the work or improvement, and shall levy assessments on the lots
and parcels of land abutting on or adjacent to such street or alley especially
benefitted in such district in proportion to such benefits to pay the cost of
such improvement.
(Prior Code, § 8-308)  (Ord. 30-95, passed 12-4-1995)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-511
§ 151.068  OPENING, WIDENING, IMPROVING OR VACATING.
   (A)   (1)   The city shall have power to open, widen or otherwise improve or
vacate any street, avenue, alley or lane within the limits of the city and also
to create, open and improve any new street, avenue, alley or lane. All damages
sustained by the citizens of the city, or by the owners of the property
therein, shall be ascertained in that manner as shall be provided by ordinance.
      (2)   Whenever any street, avenue, alley or lane is vacated, the same
shall revert to the owners of the abutting real estate, one-half on each side
thereof, and become a part of that property, unless the city reserves title in
the ordinance vacating such street or alley. If title is retained by the city,
such property may be sold, conveyed, exchanged or leased upon such terms and
conditions as shall be deemed in the best interests of the city.
      (3)   When a portion of a street, avenue, alley or lane is vacated only
on one side of the center thereof, the title to the land shall vest in the
owner of the abutting property and become a part of that property, unless the
city reserves title in the ordinance vacating a portion of such street or
alley. If title is retained by the city, such property may be sold, conveyed,
exchanged or leased upon such terms and conditions as shall be deemed in the
best interests of the city.
      (4)   When the city vacates all or any portion of a street, avenue, alley
or lane, the city  shall, within 30 days after the effective date of the
vacation, file a certified copy of the vacating ordinance with the Register of
Deeds for the county in which the vacated property is located to be indexed
against all affected lots.
      (5)   The title to property vacated pursuant to this section shall be
subject to the following:
         (a)   There is reserved to the city the right to maintain, operate,
repair and renew public utilities existing at the time title to the property is
vacated there; and
         (b)   There is reserved to the city, any public utilities and any
cable television systems the right to maintain, repair, renew and operate water
mains, gas mains, pole lines, conduits, electrical transmission lines, sound
and signal transmission lines and other similar services and equipment and
appurtenances, including lateral connections or branch lines, above, on or
below the surface of the ground that are existing as valid easements at the
time title to the property is vacated for the purposes of serving the general
public or the abutting properties and to enter upon the premises to accomplish
such purposes at any and all reasonable times.
(Neb. RS 17-558)
   (B)   The city shall have power to create, open, widen or extend any street,
avenue, alley, off-street parking area or other public way, or annul, vacate or
discontinue the same.
(Neb. RS 17-559)  (Prior Code, § 8-302)
§ 151.069  VACATING PUBLIC WAYS; PROCEDURE.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      SPECIAL DAMAGES. Only those losses or damages or injuries which a
property owner suffers that are peculiar or special or unique to his or her
property and which result from the City Council vacating a street, avenue,
alley, lane or similar public way. SPECIAL DAMAGES shall not mean those losses
or damages or injuries that a property owner suffers that are in common with
the rest of the city or public at large, even though those losses or damages or
injuries suffered by the property owner are greater in degree than the rest of
the city or public at large.
   (B)   Whenever the City Council decides that it would be in the best
interests of the city to vacate a street, avenue, alley, lane or similar public
way, the City Council shall comply with the following procedure.
      (1)   Notice. Notice shall be given to all abutting property owners
either by first class mail to their last known addresses or, if there is no
known address, then by publishing the notice in a newspaper that is of general
circulation in the city. The content of the notice shall advise the abutting
property owners that the City Council will consider vacating that street,
avenue, alley, lane or similar public way at its next regular meeting or, if a
special meeting is scheduled for the discussion, then the date, time and place
of that meeting.
      (2)   Consent; waiver. The City Council may have all the abutting
property owners sign a form stating that they consent to the action being taken
by the City Council and waive their right of access. The signing of this form
shall have no effect on claims for special damages by the abutting property
owners, but shall create the presumption that the City Council’s action was
proper. If the abutting property owners do not sign the consent/waiver form,
the City Council may still proceed with vacating the street, avenue, alley,
lane or similar public way under the authority granted by Neb. RS 17-558 and
17-559.
      (3)   Ordinance. The City Council shall pass an ordinance that includes
essentially the following provisions:
         (a)   A declaration that the action is expedient for the public good
or in the best interests of the city;
         (b)   A statement that the city will have an easement for maintaining
all utilities; and
         (c)   A method or procedure for ascertaining special damages to
abutting property owners.
   (C)   The Mayor shall appoint three or five or seven disinterested residents
of the city to a special commission to ascertain the amount of special damages
that the abutting property owners are entitled to receive and which resulted
from the City Council vacating the street, avenue, alley, lane or similar
public way. The appointees of the special commission shall be approved by the
City Council. Only special damages shall be awarded to the abutting property
owners.
   (D)   In determining the amount of compensation to award the abutting
property owners as special damages, the commission shall use the following
rule: an abutting property owner is entitled to recover as compensation the
difference between the value of the property immediately before and immediately
after the vacating of the street, avenue, alley, lane or similar public way. If
no difference in value exists, the abutting property owner is entitled to no
compensation.
§ 151.070  CROSSINGS.
   The City Council may order and cause to be constructed, under the
supervision of the Overseer of Streets, those street, avenue and alley
crossings as the City Council deems necessary. When a petition for the
construction of any such crossings is filed by an interested resident in the
office of the City Clerk, the City Clerk shall refer the application to the
Overseer of Streets, who shall investigate and make a recommendation to the
City Council. Action by the City Council on the application, whether the
application is approved or rejected, shall be considered final.
§ 151.071  NAMES AND NUMBERS.
   The City Council may at any time, by ordinance, rename any street or provide
a name for any new street. Buildings used for residence or business purposes
and located along those streets shall retain those numbers as the City Council
may require. It shall be the duty of the Overseer of Streets, upon the erection
of any new building, to assign the proper numbers to the building and give
notice to the owner and occupant of the same.
(Prior Code, § 8-301)  Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.072  DRIVEWAY APPROACHES.
   (A)   The Overseer of Streets may require the owner of property served by a
driveway approach constructed or maintained upon the street right-of-way to
repair or replace any such driveway approach which is cracked, broken or
otherwise deteriorated to the extent that it is causing or is likely to cause
damage to or interfere with any street structure, including pavement or
sidewalks.
   (B)   The City Clerk shall give the property owner notice by registered
letter or certified mail, directed to the last known address of the owner or
the agent of the owner, directing the repair or replacement of the driveway
approach. If, within 30 days of mailing the notice, the property owner fails or
neglects to cause the repairs or replacements to be made, the Overseer of
Streets may cause the work to be done and assess the cost upon the property
served by the approach.
(Neb. RS 18-1748)  Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.073  EXCAVATION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to make an excavation in any street or
streets for any purpose whatsoever unless a written permit is issued by the
Overseer of Streets authorizing those excavations.
Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.074  DRIVING STAKES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to drive any peg or stake of any kind
into the pavement in any street or alley without first procuring the written
consent of the Overseer of Streets.
(Prior Code, § 8-303)  Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.075  MIXING CONCRETE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to mix any concrete or plastering
material directly on the street pavement for any reason whatsoever.
(Prior Code, § 8-304)  Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.076  HARMFUL LIQUIDS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to place or permit to leak in the gutter
of any street any waste gasoline, kerosene or high lubricating oils, which
damage or act as a solvent upon the streets.
(Prior Code, § 8-305)  Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.077  SNOW, DEBRIS AND THE LIKE ON STREET PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful to place, push or deposit snow, sleet, ice or mud, or
any debris, including leaves, grass and branches, from private property onto
the streets of the city.
Penalty, see §
151.999
Statutory reference:
   Authority to regulate, see Neb. RS 17-557
§ 151.999  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, or any person’s agent or servant, who violates any of the
provisions of this chapter, unless otherwise specifically provided herein,
shall be deemed guilty of an offense and, upon conviction thereof, shall be
fined in any sum not exceeding $500. A new violation shall be deemed to have
been committed every 24 hours of failure to comply with the provisions of this
chapter.
   (B)   (1)   Whenever a nuisance exists as defined in this chapter, the
municipality may proceed by a suit in equity to enjoin, abate and remove the
same in the manner provided by law.
      (2)   Whenever, in any action, it is established that a nuisance exists,
the court may, together with the fine or penalty imposed, enter an order of
abatement as a part of the judgment in the case.
(Prior Code, § 8-401)  (Ord. 2000-16, passed 5-1-2000)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-505, 18-1720, 18-1722
CHAPTER 152:  FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT
Section
General Provisions
   
152.01   Statutory authorization
   
152.02   Findings of fact
   
152.03   Statement of purpose
   
152.04   Lands to which chapter applies
   
152.05   Enforcement officer
   
152.06   Rules for interpretation of district boundaries
   
152.07   Compliance
   
152.08   Abrogation and greater restrictions
   
152.09   Interpretation
   
152.10   Warning and disclaimer of liability
   
152.11   Severability
   
152.12   Appeal
   
152.13   Development permit
   
152.14   Amendments
   
152.15   Definitions
Floodplain Development
   
152.30   Establishment of Floodplain Zoning District
   
152.31   Standards for floodplain development
   
152.32   Variances; procedures
   
152.33   Non-conforming uses
 
   
152.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 152.01  STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION.
   The legislature of the state has delegated the responsibility to local
governmental units to adopt zoning regulations designed to protect the public
health, safety and general welfare. The legislature, Neb. RS 31-1001 to 31-
1022, as amended, has further assigned the responsibility to adopt, administer
and enforce floodplain management regulations to the county, city or village
with zoning jurisdiction over the flood-prone area. Therefore, the City Council
ordains as follow.
(Ord. 15-1, passed 9-9-2015)
§ 152.02  FINDINGS OF FACT.
   (A)   Flood losses resulting from periodic inundation. The flood hazard
areas of the city are subject to inundation which results in loss of life and
property, health and safely hazards, disruption of commerce and governmental
services, extraordinary public expenditures for flood protection and relief and
impairment of the tax base all of which adversely affect the public health,
safety and general welfare.
   (B)   General Causes of the flood losses. These flood losses are caused by:
      (1)   The cumulative effect of obstructions in floodplains causing
increases in flood heights and velocities; and
      (2)   The occupancy of flood hazard areas by uses vulnerable to floods or
hazardous to others, which are inadequately elevated or otherwise unprotected
from flood damages.
   (C)   Methods used to analyze flood hazards. This chapter uses a reasonable
method of analyzing flood hazards which consist of a series of interrelated
steps:
      (1)   Selection of a regulatory flood which is based upon engineering
calculations which permit a consideration of such flood factors as its expected
frequency of occurrence, the area inundated and the depth of inundation. The
base flood is selected for this chapter. It is representative of large floods
which arc reasonably characteristic of what can be expected to occur on the
particular streams subject to this chapter. It is in the general order of a
flood which could be expected to have a 1% chance of occurrence in any one
year, as delineated on the Federal Insurance Administration’s Flood Insurance
Study, and illustrative materials dated 10-2-2015, as amended;
      (2)   Calculation of water surface profiles based on a hydraulic
engineering analysis of the capacity of the stream channel and overbank areas
to convey the base flood; and
      (3)   Delineation of the floodplain which is subject to inundation by the
base flood.
(Ord. 15-1, passed 9-9-2015)
§ 152.03  STATEMENT OF PURPOSE.
   It is the purpose of this chapter to promote the public health, safety and
general welfare and to minimize those losses described in §
152.02(A) of this chapter by applying the provisions of this chapter to:
   (A)   Restrict or prohibit uses which are dangerous to health, safety or
property in times of flooding or cause undue increases in flood heights or
velocities;
   (B)   Require that uses vulnerable to floods, including public utilities
which serve such uses, be provided with flood protection at the time of initial
construction;
   (C)   Protect individuals from buying lands which are unsuited for intended
purposes because of flood hazard; and
   (D)   Assure that eligibility is maintained for property owners in the
community to purchase flood insurance in the National Flood Insurance Program.
(Ord. 15-1, passed 9-9-2015)
§ 152.04  LANDS TO WHICH CHAPTER APPLIES.
   This chapter shall apply to all lands within the jurisdiction of the city
identified on the Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM) dated 10-2-2015 as numbered
and unnumbered A Zones (including AE, AO and AH Zones) and within the zoning
district established in §
152.30 of this chapter. In all areas covered by this chapter, no development
shall be permitted, except upon issuance of a floodplain permit to develop,
granted by the City Council or its duly designated representative under such
safeguards and restrictions as the City Council or the designated
representative may reasonably impose for the promotion and maintenance of the
general welfare, health of the inhabitants of the community and where
specifically noted in §
152.31 of this chapter.
(Ord. 15-1, passed 9-9-2015)
§ 152.05  ENFORCEMENT OFFICER.
   The City Administrator is hereby designated of the community’s duly
designated enforcement officer under this chapter.
(Ord. 15-1, passed 9-9-2015)
§ 152.06  RULES FOR INTERPRETATION OF DISTRICT BOUNDARIES.
   The boundaries of the Floodplain Overlay District shall be determined by
scaling distances on the official zoning map or on the Flood Insurance Rate
Map. Where interpretation is needed lo the exact location of the boundaries of
the districts as shown on the official zoning map, as for example where there
appears to be a conflict between a mapped boundary and actual field conditions,
the enforcement officer shall make the necessary interpretation. In such cases
where the interpretation is contested, the City Council will resolve the
dispute. The regulatory flood elevation for the point in question shall be (he
governing factor in locating the district boundary on the land. The person
contesting the location of the district boundary shall be given a reasonable
opportunity to present his or her case to the City Council and to submit his or
her own technical evidence, if he or she so desires.
(Ord. 15-1, passed 9-9-2015)
§ 152.07  COMPLIANCE.
   Within identified special flood hazard areas of this community, no
development shall be located, extended, converted or structurally altered
without full compliance with the terms of this chapter and other applicable
regulations.
(Ord. 15-1, passed 9-9-2015)
§ 152.08  ABROGATION AND GREATER RESTRICTIONS.
   It is not intended by this chapter to repeal, abrogate or impair any
existent easements, covenants or deed restrictions. However, where this chapter
imposes greater restrictions, the provisions of this chapter shall prevail. All
other ordinances inconsistent with this chapter are hereby repealed to the
extent of the inconsistency only.
(Ord. 15-1, passed 9-9-2015)
§ 152.09  INTERPRETATION.
   In their interpretation and application, the provisions of this chapter
shall be held to be minimum requirements and shall be liberally construed in
favor of the governing body and shall not be deemed a limitation or repeal of
any other powers granted by state statutes.
(Ord. 15-1, passed 9-9-2015)
§ 152.10  WARNING AND DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY.
   (A)   The degree of flood protection required by this chapter is considered
reasonable for regulatory purposes and is based on engineering and scientific
methods of study. Larger floods may occur on rare
occasions or the flood height may be increased by human-made or natural causes,
such as ice jams and bridge openings restricted by debris.
   (B)   This chapter does not imply that areas outside floodplain district
boundaries or land uses permitted within the district will be free from
flooding or flood damage. This chapter shall not create liability on the part
of the city or any officer or employee thereof for any flood damages that may
result from reliance on this chapter or any administrative decision lawfully
made thereunder.
(Ord. 15-1, passed 9-9-2015)
§ 152.11  SEVERABILITY.
   If any section, clause, provision or portion of this chapter is adjudged
unconstitutional or invalid by a court of competent jurisdiction, the remainder
of this chapter shall not be affected thereby.
(Ord. 15-1, passed 9-9-2015)
§ 152.12  APPEAL.
   Where a request for a permit to develop or a variance is denied by the City
Administrator, the application may apply for such permit or variance directly
to the City Council.
(Ord. 15-1, passed 9-9-2015)
§ 152.13  DEVELOPMENT PERMIT.
   (A)   Permit required. No person, firm or corporation shall initiate any
floodplain development or substantial improvement or cause the same to be done
without first obtaining a separate permit for development, as defined in §
152.15 of this chapter.
   (B)   Administration.
      (1)   The City Administrator is hereby appointed to administer and
implement the provisions of this chapter.
      (2)   Duties of the City Administrator shall include, but not be limited
to:
         (a)   Review all development permit applications to assure that sites
are reasonably safe from flooding and that permit requirements of this chapter
have been satisfied;
         (b)   Review applications for proposed development to assure that all
necessary permits have been obtained from those federal, state or local
governmental agencies from which prior approval is required;
         (c)   Notify adjacent communities and the state’s Department of
Natural Resources prior to any alteration or relocation of a watercourse, and
submit evidence of such notification to the Federal Emergency Management
Agency;
         (d)   Assure that maintenance is provided within the altered or
relocated portion of said watercourse so that the flood carrying capacity is
not diminished;
         (e)   Verily, record and maintain record of the actual elevation (in
relation to mean sea level) of the lowest floor (including basement) of all new
or substantially improved structures in special flood hazard areas;
         (f)   Verily, record and maintain record of the actual elevation (in
relation to mean sea level) to which new or substantially improved structures
have been flood-proofed; and
         (g)   When flood-proofing is utilized for a particular structure, the
City Administrator shall be presented certification from a registered
professional engineer or architect.
   (C)   Application for permit. To obtain a floodplain development permit, the
applicant shall file an application in writing on a form furnished for that
purpose. Every such application shall:
      (1)   Identify and describe the development to be covered by the
floodplain development permit;
      (2)   Describe the land on which the proposed development is to be done
by lot, block, tract and house and street address, or similar description that
will readily identify and definitely locate the proposed building or
development;
      (3)   Indicate the use or occupancy for which the proposed development is
intended;
      (4)   Be accompanied by plans and specifications for proposed
construction;
      (5)   Be signed by the permitted or his or her authorized agent who may
be required to submit evidence to indicate such authority; and
      (6)   Give such other information as reasonably may be required by the
City Administrator.
(Ord. 15-1, passed 9-9-2015)
§ 152.14  AMENDMENTS.
   The regulations, restrictions and boundaries set forth in this chapter may
from time to time be amended, supplemented, changed or appealed to reflect any
and all changes in the National Flood Disaster Protection Act of 1973, being 42
U.S.C. §§ 4001 et seq.; provided, however, that, no such action may be taken
until after a public hearing in relation thereto, at which parties in interest
and citizens shall have an opportunity to be heard. Notice of the time and
place of such hearing shall be published in a newspaper of general circulation
in the city. At least 15 days shall elapse between the date of this publication
and the public hearing. A copy of such amendments will be provided to the
Federal Emergency Management Agency. The regulations of this chapter are in
compliance with the National Flood Insurance Program Regulations as published
in C.F.R. Title 44 and the 1983 State Floodplain Management Act, being Neb. RS
31-1001 through 31-1023.
(Ord. 15-1, passed 9-9-2015)
§ 152.15  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   APPEAL. A request for a review of the City Administrator’s interpretation of
any provision of this chapter or a request for a variance.
   AREA OF SHALLOW FLOODING. A designated AO or AH Zone on a community’s Flood
Insurance Rate Map (FIRM) with a 1% or greater annual chance of flooding to an
average depth of one to three feet where a clearly defined channel is
unpredictable and where velocity flow may be evident. Such flooding is
characterized by ponding or sheet flow.
   BASE FLOOD. The flood having 1% chance of being equaled or exceeded in any
given year.
   BASEMENT. Any area of the building having its floor subgrade (below ground
level) on all sides.
   DEVELOPMENT. Any human-made change to improved or unimproved real estate,
including, but not limited to, buildings or other structures, mining, dredging,
filling, grading, paving, excavation or drilling operations or storage of
equipment or materials.
   EXISTING CONSTRUCTION. For the purposes of determining rates, structures for
which the START OF CONSTRUCTION commenced before the effective date of the FIRM
or before 1-1-1975, for FIRM’s effective before that date. EXISTING
CONSTRUCTION may also refer to “existing structures”.
   EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including, at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is complete before the effective date
of the floodplain management regulations adopted by a community.
   EXPANSION OF EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME FORK OR SUBDIVISION. The preparation
of additional sites by the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including the installation of
utilities, the construction of streets and either final site grading or the
pouring of concrete pads).
   FLOOD or FLOODING. A general and temporary condition of partial or complete
inundation of normally dry land areas from:
      (1)   The overflow of inland or tidal waters; and/or
      (2)   The unusual and rapid accumulation of runoff of surface waters from
any source.
   FLOOD FRINGE. The area of the floodplain, outside of the floodway, that on
the average is likely to be flooded once every 100 years.
   FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (FIRM). An official map of a community, on which
the Administrator has delineated both the special flood hazard areas and the
risk premium applicable to the community.
   FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY. The official report provided by the Federal Emergency
Management Agency. The report contains flood profiles, as well as the Flood
Boundary Floodway Map and the water surface elevation of the base flood.
   FLOODPLAIN. Any land area susceptible to being inundated by water from any
source. (See definition of FLOODING.)
   FLOODWAY or REGULATORY FLOODWAY. The channel of the river or other
watercourse and the adjacent land areas that must be reserved in order to
discharge the base flood without cumulatively increasing the water surface
elevation more than one foot.
   FREEBOARD. A factor of safety usually expressed in feet above a flood level
for purposes of floodplain management. FREEBOARD tends to compensate for the
many unknown factors that could contribute to flood heights greater than the
height calculated for a selected size flood and floodplain conditions, such as
wave action, clogged bridge openings and the hydrological effect of
urbanization of the watershed.
   HIGHEST ADJACENT GRADE. The highest natural elevation of the ground surface
prior to construction next to the proposed walls of a structure.
   HISTORIC STRUCTURE. Any structure that is:
      (1)   Listed individually in the National Register of Historic Places (a
listing maintained by the Department of Interior) or preliminarily determined
by the Secretary of the Interior as meeting the requirements for individual
listing on the National Register;
      (2)   Certified or preliminarily determined by the Secretary of the
Interior as contributing to the historical significance of a registered
historic district or a district preliminarily determined by the Secretary to
qualify as a registered historic district;
      (3)   Individually listed on a state inventory of historic places in
states with historic preservation programs which have been approved by the
Secretary of the Interior; or
      (4)   Individually listed on a local inventory of historic places in
communities with historic-preservation programs that have been certified
either:
         (a)   By an approved state program as determined by the Secretary of
the Interior; or
         (b)   Directly by the Secretary of the Interior in states without
approved programs.
   LOWEST FLOOR. The lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area (including
basement). An unfinished or flood-resistant enclosure, usable solely for
parking of vehicles, building access or storage, in an area other than a
basement area, is not considered a building’s LOWEST FLOOR; provided that, such
enclosure is not built so as to render the structure in violation of the
applicable non-elevation design requirements of this chapter.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. A structure, transportable in one or more sections, which
is built on a permanent chassis and is designed for use with or without a
permanent foundation when attached to the required utilities. The term
MANUFACTURED HOME does not include a “recreational vehicle”.
   MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A parcel (or contiguous parcels) of
land divided into two or more manufactured home lots for rent or sale.
   NEW CONSTRUCTION. For floodplain management purposes, NEW CONSTRUCTION means
structures for which the start of construction commenced on or after the
effective date of the floodplain management regulation adopted by a community
and includes any subsequent improvements to such structures.
   NEW MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including at a minimum the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed on or after the effective
date of floodplain management regulations adopted by a community.
   OVERLAY DISTRICT. A district in which additional requirements act in
conjunction with the underlying zoning district(s). The original zoning
district designation does not change.
   PRINCIPALLY ABOVE GROUND. That at least 51% of the actual cash value of the
structure is above ground.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. A vehicle which is:
      (1)   Built on a single chassis;
      (2)   Four hundred square feet or less when measured at the largest
horizontal projection;
      (3)   Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light
duty truck; and
      (4)   Designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling, but as
temporary living quarters for recreational camping, travel or seasonal use.
   SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA. The land in the floodplain within a community
subject to 1% or greater chance of flooding in any given year.
   START OF CONSTRUCTION. For other than new construction or substantial
improvements under the Coastal Barrier Resources Act (Pub. Law No. 97-348),
being 16 U.S.C. §§ 3501 et seq., includes substantial improvement, and means
the date the building permit was issued; provided, the actual start of
construction, repair, reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition, placement or
other improvement was within 180 days of the permit date. The actual START
means the first placement of permanent construction of a structure on a site,
such as the pouring of slab or footings, the installation of piles, the
construction of columns or any work beyond the stage of excavation; or the
placement of a manufactured home on a foundation. Permanent construction does
not include land preparation, such as clearing, grading and filling; nor does
it include the installation of streets and/or walkways; nor does it include
excavation for a basement, footings, piers or foundations or the erection of
temporary forms; nor does it include the installation on the property of
accessory buildings, such as garages or sheds not occupied as dwelling units or
not part of the main structure. For a substantial improvement, the actual START
OF CONSTRUCTION means the first alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor or other
structural part of a building, whether or not the alteration affects the
external dimensions of the building.
   STRUCTURE. A walled and roofed building that is principally above ground, as
well as a manufactured home, and a gas or liquid storage tank that is
principally above ground.
   SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE. Damage of any origin sustained by a structure whereby
the cost of restoring the structure to its before-damaged condition would equal
or exceed 50% of the market value of the structure before the damage occurred.
   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT.
      (1)   Any reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition or other improvement
of a structure, the cost of which equals or exceeds 50% of the market value of
the structure before “start of construction” of the improvement. This includes
structures which have incurred “substantial damage”, regardless of the actual
repair work performed.
      (2)   The term does not, however, include either:
         (a)   Any project for improvement of a structure to correct existing
violations of stale or local health, sanitary or safety code specifications,
which have been identified by the local code enforcement official and which are
the minimum necessary to assure safe living conditions; or
         (b)   Any alteration of a “historic structure”; provided that, the
alteration will not preclude the structure’s continued designation as a
“historic structure”.
   VARIANCES. A grant of relief to a person from the requirements of this
chapter, which permits construction in a manner otherwise prohibited by this
chapter where specific enforcement would result in unnecessary hardship.
   VIOLATION. The failure of a structure or other development to be fully
compliant with the community’s floodplain management regulations.
(Ord. 15-1, passed 9-9-2015)
FLOODPLAIN DEVELOPMENT
§ 152.30  ESTABLISHMENT OF FLOODPLAIN ZONING DISTRICT.
   The mapped floodplain areas within the jurisdiction of this chapter are
hereby established as the floodplain overlay district as identified in the
Flood Insurance Study and accompanying map(s). Within this district, all uses
not meeting the standards of this chapter and those standards of the underlying
zoning district shall be prohibited.
(Ord. 15-1, passed 9-9-2015)
§ 152.31  STANDARDS FOR FLOODPLAIN DEVELOPMENT.
   (A)   No permit for development shall be granted for new construction,
substantial improvements and other developments, including the placement of
manufactured homes within all numbered and unnumbered A Zones (including AE, AO
and AH Zones) unless the conditions of this section are satisfied.
   (B)   All areas identified as unnumbered A Zones on the FIRM are subject to
inundation of the base flood; however, the water surface elevation was not
provided. The unnumbered A Zones shall be subject to all development provisions
of this chapter. If Flood Insurance Study data is not available, the community
shall utilize any base flood elevation or floodplain data currently available
from federal, state or other sources.
   (C)   Until a floodway has been designated, no development or substantial
improvement may be permitted within special flood hazard areas unless the
applicant has demonstrated that the proposed development or substantial
improvement, when combined with all other existing and reasonably anticipated
developments or substantial improvements, will not increase the water surface
elevation of the base flood more than one foot at any location as shown on the
Flood Insurance Study.
   (D)   New construction, subdivision proposals, substantial improvements,
prefabricated buildings, placement of manufactured homes and other developments
shall require:
      (1)   Design or anchorage to prevent floatation, collapse or lateral
movement of the structure resulting from hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads,
including the effects of buoyancy;
      (2)   New or replacement water supply systems and/or sanitary sewage
systems be designed to minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into
the systems and discharges from the systems into flood waters, and on-site
waste disposal systems be located so as to avoid impairment or contamination;
      (3)   Construction with materials resistant to flood damage, utilizing
methods and practices that minimize flood damages, and with electrical,
heating, ventilation, plumbing and air conditioning equipment and other service
facilities that are designed and/or located so as to prevent water from
entering or accumulating within the components during conditions of flooding;
and
      (4)   All utility and sanitary facilities be elevated or flood-proofed up
to the regulatory flood protection elevation.
   (E)   (1)   The storage or processing of materials that are in time of
flooding buoyant, flammable, explosive or could be injurious to human, animal
or plant life is prohibited.
      (2)   Storage of other material or equipment may be allowed if not
subject to major damage by floods and firmly anchored to prevent floatation or
if readily removable from the area within the time available after flood
warning.
   (F)   Subdivision proposals and other proposed new development, including
manufactured home parks or subdivisions, be required to assure that:
      (1)   All such proposals are consistent with the need to minimize flood
damage;
      (2)   All public utilities and facilities, such as sewer, gas, electrical
and water systems are located, elevated and constructed to minimize eliminate
flood damage;
      (3)   Adequate drainage is provided so as to reduce exposure to flood
hazards; and
      (4)   Proposals for development (including proposals for manufactured
home parks and subdivision) of five acres of 50 lots, whichever is lesser,
include within such proposals the base flood elevation.
   (G)   Require new construction or substantial improvements of residential
structures to have the lowest floor, including basement, elevated to or one
above the base flood elevation.
   (H)   Require new construction or substantial improvements or non-
residential structures to have the lowest floor, including basement, elevated
to or above one above the base flood elevation or, together with attendant
utility and sanitary facilities, to be flood-proofed so that below that level
the structure is water-tight with walls substantially impermeable to the
passage of water and with structural components having the capability of
resisting hydrostatic and hydrodynamic loads and effects of buoyancy. A
registered professional engineer or architect shall certify that the standards
of this division (H) are satisfied. Such certification shall be provided to the
City Administrator as set forth in §
152.13(B)(2)(g) of this chapter.
   (I)   Require for all new construction and substantial improvements that
fully enclosed areas below the lowest floor that are usable solely for parking
of vehicles, building access or storage in an area other than a basement and
which are subject to flooding shall be designed to automatically equalize
hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls by allowing for the entry and exit
of flood waters. Designs for meeting this requirement must be certified by a
registered professional engineer or architect or meet or exceed the following
minimum criteria: a minimum of two openings having a total net area of net less
than one square inch for every square loot of enclosed area subject to flooding
shall be provided. The bottom of all opening shall be not higher than one foot
above grade. Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, valves or other
coverings or devices; provided that, they permit the automatic entry and exit
of flood waters.
   (J)   Within AH Zones, adequate drainage paths around structures on slopes
shall be required in order to guide flood waters around and away from proposed
structures.
   (K)   (1)   All manufactured homes shall be anchored to resist floatation,
collapse or lateral movement. Manufactured homes must be anchored in accordance
with local building codes or FEMA guidelines. In the event that over-the-top
frame lies to ground anchors are used, the following, specific requirements (or
their equivalent) shall be met:
         (a)   Over-the-top ties be provided at each of the four corners of the
manufactured home, with two additional ties per side at intermediate locations
and manufactured homes less than 50 feet long requiring one additional tie per
side;
         (b)   Frame ties be provided at each corner of the home with live
additional ties per side at intermediate points and manufactured homes less
than 50 feet long requiring four additional ties per side;
         (c)   All components of the anchoring system by capable of carrying a
force of 4,800 pounds; and
         (d)   Any additions to the manufactured home be similarly anchored.
      (2)   Require that all manufactured homes be placed or substantially
improved within special flood hazard areas on the community’s FIRM on sites:
         (a)   Outside of a manufactured home park or subdivision;
         (b)   In a new manufactured home park or subdivision;
         (c)   In an expansion to an existing manufactured home park or
subdivision; or
         (d)   In an existing manufactured home park or subdivision on which a
manufactured home has incurred “substantial damage” as the result of a flood,
be elevated on a permanent foundation such that the lowest floor of the
manufactured home is at or above the base flood elevation: and be securely
anchored to an adequately anchored foundation system in accordance with the
provisions of division (K)(1) above.
      (3)   Require that manufactured homes be placed or substantially improved
on sites in an existing manufactured home park or subdivision within special
flood hazard areas on the community’s FIRM that are not subject to the
provisions of division (K)(2) above be elevated so that either:
         (a)   The lowest floor of the manufactured home is at or above one
foot above the base flood elevation; or
         (b)   The manufactured home chassis is supported by reinforced piers
of other elements at least equivalent strength that are no less than 36 inches
in height above grade; and be securely anchored to an adequately anchored
foundation system in accordance with the provisions of division (K)(1) above.
   (L)   (1)   Recreational vehicles placed on sites within the special flood
hazard areas on the community’s official map shall either:
         (a)   Be on the site for fewer than 180 consecutive days;
         (b)   Be fully licensed and ready for highway use; or
         (c)   Meet the permit requirements and the elevation and anchoring
requirements for “manufactured homes” of this chapter.
      (2)   A recreational vehicle is ready for highway use if it is on its
wheels or jacking system, is attached to the site only by quick-disconnect type
utilities and security devices and has no permanently attached additions.
   (M)   Located within the areas of special flood hazard established in §
152.04 of this chapter are areas designated as AO Zones. These areas have
special flood hazards associated with base flood depths of one to three feet
where a clearly defined channel does not exist and where the path of flooding
is unpredictable and indeterminate; therefore, the following provisions apply
within AO Zones.
      (1)   All new construction and substantial improvements of residential
structures shall have the lowest floor (including basement) elevated above the
highest adjacent grade at least as high as one foot above the depth number
specified in feet on the community’s  FIRM (at least two feet if no depth
number is specified).
      (2)   All new construction and substantial improvements of non-
residential structures shall:
         (a)   Have the lowest floor elevated above the highest adjacent grade
at least as high as one foot above the depth number specified in feet on the
community’s FIRM (at least two feet if no depth number is specified); and
         (b)   Together with attendant utility and sanitary facilities be
completely flood-proofed or above that level so that any space below that level
is watertight with walls substantially impermeable to the passage of water and
with structural components having the capability of resisting hydrostatic and
hydrodynamic loads and effects of buoyancy. Such certification shall be
provided to the official as set forth in §
152.13(B)(2)(g) of this chapter.
      (3)   Adequate drainage paths around structures on slopes shall be
required in order to guide flood waters around and away from proposed
structures.
(Ord. 15-1, passed 9-9-2015)
§ 152.32  VARIANCES; PROCEDURES.
   (A)   (1)   The City Council, as established by the city, shall hear and
decide appeals and requests for variances from requirements of this chapter.
      (2)   The City Council shall hear and decide appeals when it is alleged
that there is an error in any requirement, decision or determination made by
the City Administrator in the enforcement or Administration of this chapter.
      (3)   Any person aggrieved by the decision of the City Council or any
taxpayer may appeal such decision to the District Court as provided in Neb. RS
23-168.04 (for counties) and Neb. RS 19-912 (for municipalities).
      (4)   In passing upon such applications, the City Council shall consider
all technical evaluation, all relevant factors, standards specified in other
sections of this chapter, and:
         (a)   The danger that materials may be swept onto other lands to the
injury of others;
         (b)   The danger to life and property due to flooding or erosion
damage;
         (c)   The susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents to
flood damage and the effect of such damage on the individual owner;
         (d)   The importance of the services provided by the proposed facility
to the community;
         (e)   The necessity to the facility of a waterfront location, where
applicable;
         (f)   The availability of alternative locations, not subject to
flooding or erosion damage, for the proposed use;
         (g)   The compatibility of the proposed use with casting and
anticipated development;
         (h)   The relationship of the proposed use to the Comprehensive Plan
and Floodplain Management Program for that area; and
         (i)   The safety of access to the property in times of flood for
ordinary and emergency vehicles:
            1.   The expected heights, velocity, duration, rate of rise and
sediment transport of the flood waters and the effects of wave action, if
applicable, expected at the site; and
            2.   The costs of providing governmental services during and after
flood conditions, including maintenance and repair of public utilities and
facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical and water systems and streets and
bridges.
   (B)   (1)   Generally, variances may be issued for new construction and
substantial improvements to be erected on a lot of one-half acre or less in
size contiguous to and surrounded by lots with existing structures constructed
below the base flood level, providing divisions (B)(2) through (B)(5) below
have been fully considered. As a lot size increases beyond the one-half acre,
the technical justification required for issuing the variance increases.
      (2)   Variances may be issued for the repair or rehabilitation of
historic structures upon a determination that the proposed repair or
rehabilitation will not preclude the structure’s continued designation as a
historic structure and the variance is the minimum necessary to preserve the
historic character and design of the structure.
      (3)   Variances shall only be issued upon a determination that the
variance is the minimum necessary, considering the flood hazard, to afford
relief.
      (4)   Variances shall only be issued upon:
         (a)   A showing of good aid sufficient cause;
         (b)   A determination that failure to grant the variance would result
in exceptional hardship to the applicant; and
         (c)   A determination that the granting of the variance will not
result in increased flood heights, additional threats to public safety,
extraordinary public expense, create nuisances, cause fraud on or victimization
of the public or conflict with existing local laws ordinances.
      (5)   (a)   The applicant shall be given a written notice over the
signature of a community official that:
            1.   The issuance of a variance to construct a structure below base
flood level will result in increased premium rates for flood insurance up to
amounts as high as $25 for $100 of insurance coverage; and
            2.   Such construction below the base flood level increases risks
to life and property.
         (b)   Such notification shall be maintained with the record of all
variance actions as required by this chapter.
(Ord. 15-1, passed 9-9-2015)
§ 152.33  NON-CONFORMING USES.
   (A)   A structure or the use of a structure or premises which was lawful
before the passage or amendment of this chapter, but which is not in conformity
with the provisions of this chapter may be continued subject to the following
conditions:
      (1)   If such use is discontinued six consecutive months, any future use
of the building premises shall conform to this chapter. The Utility Department
shall notify the City Administrator in writing of instances of non-conforming
uses where utility services have been discontinued for a period of six months.
      (2)   Uses or adjuncts thereof that are or become nuisances shall not be
entitled to continue as non-conforming uses.
   (B)   In any non-conforming use or structure is destroyed by any means,
including flood, it shall not be reconstructed if the cost is more than 50% of
the market value of the structure before the damage occurred; except that, if
it is reconstructed in conformity with the provisions of this chapter. This
limitation does not include the cost of any alteration to comply with existing
state or local health, sanitary, building or safely codes or regulations or the
cost of any alteration of a structure listed on the National Register of
Historic Places or a Slate Inventory of Historic Places; provided that, the
alteration shall not preclude its continued designation.
(Ord. 15-1, passed 9-9-2015)
§ 152.99  PENALTY.
   Violation of the provisions of this chapter or failure to comply with any of
its requirements (including violations of conditions and safeguards established
in connection with grants of variances or special exceptions) shall constitute
a misdemeanor. Any person who violates this chapter or fails to comply with any
of its requirements shall, upon conviction thereof, be fined no more than $100
and, in addition, shall pay all costs and expenses involved in the ease. Each
day such violation continues shall be considered a separate offense.
(Ord. 15-1, passed 9-9-2015)
CHAPTER 153:  ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT
Section
   
153.01   Economic Development Program
§ 153.01  ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM.
   There is hereby established an Economic Development Program in conformity
with the Local Option Municipal Economic Development Act, being Neb. RS 18-2701
through 18-2739, and the Economic Development Program Plan approved by the
voters of the city on 5-15-2012, for the period 10-1-2012 to 9-30-2025. The
Economic Development Plan is adopted by reference and incorporated as if fully
set forth herein. A copy of the Economic Development Plan is on file in the
office of the City Clerk and available for public inspection during normal
business hours.
(Prior Code, § 11-401)  (Ord. 02-3, passed 6-3-2002; Ord. 12-2, passed 5-15-
2012)
CHAPTER 154:  SUBDIVISIONS
Section
   
154.01   Regulations adopted by reference
§ 154.01  REGULATIONS ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   To provide for the orderly development of the city and its environs by
ensuring, through the prescribed rules and standards, functional arrangements
of street layouts; open spaces; adequate community facilities and utilities, to
coordinate development with the city’s transportation, land use and capital
facilities plan, and to generally provide conditions favorable for the health,
safety and convenience of the community, the subdivision regulations are
adopted by Ord. 97-22, passed 9-8-1997. These regulations shall be known,
referred to and cited as “The Subdivision Regulations” of the city. Three
copies of the adopted subdivision regulations shall be kept on file with the
Municipal Clerk and available for inspection by any member of the public during
office hours.
(Prior Code, § 11-301)  (Ord. 97-22, passed 9-8-1997; Ord. 13-2, passed - -
2013)
CHAPTER 155:  ZONING
Section
   
155.01   Regulations adopted by reference
   
155.02   Mobile homes; approved locations
 
   
155.99   Penalty
§ 155.01  REGULATIONS ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   Ord. 97-21 has been made in accordance with a comprehensive plan and to
promote the health and general welfare of the community; to lessen congestion
in streets; to secure safety from fire and other dangers; to provide adequate
light and air; to promote the distribution of population, land classifications
and land development to support provisions for adequate transportation, water
flows, water supply, drainage, sanitation, recreation and other public
requirements; to protect property against blight and depreciation; and to
secure economy in governmental expenditures. Ord. 97-21, passed on 9-8-1997 may
be known and may be cited and referred to as the “Zoning Ordinance of the City
of Bloomfield, Nebraska”. Three copies of the adopted zoning regulations shall
be kept on file with the Municipal Clerk and available for inspection by any
member of the public during office hours.
(Prior Code, § 11-201)  (Ord. 97-21, passed 9-8-1997)
§ 155.02  MOBILE HOMES; APPROVED LOCATIONS.
   (A)   No mobile home shall be used as a residence within the city, except
within a mobile home subdivision, unless all mobile home subdivisions are full.
   (B)   For the purposes of this section, a MOBILE HOME shall be defined as a
dwelling unit, factory built and factory assembled, designed for conveyance
after fabrication, on streets and highways on its own wheels or a flatbed or
other trailer and arriving at the site where it is to be occupied as a dwelling
unit complete for occupancy, except for minor and incidental unpacking and
assembly operations. A prefabricated or modular home shall not be included in
this definition. A MOBILE HOME SUBDIVISION shall be defined as a subdivision
designed and intended for residential use where residences are in mobile homes
exclusively.
   (C)   The mobile homes subdivisions approved for the city are as follows:
Block 42 of Oric Addition; Lloyd’s Court Addition; Lloyd’s Second Court
Addition; and the east 200 feet of Block 51 of Oric Addition.
   (D)   No non-conforming mobile home now in the city at the effective date of
this section shall be affected by the adoption of this section and shall be
allowed to remain at its present location, without regard to any changes of
ownership.
(Prior Code, § 11-202)  (Ord. 427, passed 9-4-1985; Ord. 448, passed 3-5-1990) 
Penalty, see §
155.99
§ 155.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, or any person’s agent or servant, who violates any of the
provisions of this chapter, unless otherwise specifically provided herein,
shall be deemed guilty of an offense and, upon conviction thereof, shall be
fined in any sum not exceeding $500. A new violation shall be deemed to have
been committed every 24 hours of failure to comply with the provisions of this
chapter.
   (B)   (1)   Whenever a nuisance exists as defined in this chapter, the
municipality may proceed by a suit in equity to enjoin, abate and remove the
same in the manner provided by law.
      (2)   Whenever, in any action, it is established that a nuisance exists,
the court may, together with the fine or penalty imposed, enter an order of
abatement as a part of the judgment in the case.
(Prior Code, § 11-501)  (Ord. 2000-16, passed 5-1-2000)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, Neb. RS 17-505, 18-1720, 18-1722
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Nebraska Revised Statutes
References to Prior Code
References to Resolutions
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO NEBRASKA REVISED STATUTES
Neb. RS Cites Code Section
Neb. RS Cites               Code Section
3-501 through 3-514         35.48
9-501 through 9-513         113.09
9-701                       131.077
10-101 through 10-145       35.12
10-606 through 10-612       35.12
Ch. 11, Art. 1              34.26
11-101                      32.26
11-104                      32.25
11-105                      32.25
11-109                      32.25
11-110                      32.25
11-111                      32.25
11-112                      32.25
11-113                      32.25
11-114                      32.25
11-115                      32.25
11-116                      32.25
11-117                      32.25
11-118                      32.25
12-301 through 12-403       94.01
13-310                      151.036
13-311                      151.036
13-312                      151.036
13-313                      151.036
13-314                      151.036
13-403                      151.033
13-503                      35.01
13-504                      35.28
13-505                      35.28
13-506                      35.29
13-507                      35.29
13-508                      35.30
13-509                      35.50
13-509.01                   35.27
13-509.02                   35.27
13-510                      35.33
13-511                      35.34
13-518 through 13-522       35.34
13-606                      35.02
13-609                      35.14
                            30.55;
13-801 through 13-827       34.27;
                            35.48
13-903                      35.05
13-1802                     34.27
13-2001 through 13-2043     51.01;
                            51.02
13-2016.01                  51.05
13-2501 through 13-2550     30.55;
                            35.48
16-318(3)                   32.05
16-691.01                   35.11
16-714 through 16-716       35.10
17-102                      30.15;
                            31.12
17-103                      30.15
17-104                      30.15
17-106                      30.53
                            30.01;
                            30.03;
17-107                      32.01;
                            32.08;
                            34.28
17-108                      32.40
                            30.02;
17-108.02                   30.15;
                            32.03
17-110                      30.02
17-111                      30.02
17-112                      30.02
17-113                      30.02
17-114                      30.02
17-117                      30.02
17-119                      32.12
17-121                      91.01;
                            91.02
17-123                      53.17
17-129                      131.020
17-134                      112.01
                            131.021;
17-142                      131.022;
                            150.15
17-147                      34.01
17-148                      30.16
17-150                      32.13
17-501 to 17-560            32.10
17-503                      151.030
17-503.01                   151.030
17-503.02                   151.031
                            10.99;
                            30.30;
                            50.99;
                            53.17;
                            70.99;
                            90.99;
17-505                      91.99;
                            92.99;
                            110.99;
                            131.999;
                            150.99;
                            151.999;
                            155.99
17-506                      35.45
17-507                      35.46
17-508                      151.066
17-509                      151.002
17-509 to 17-521            151.053
17-510 to 17-512            151.002
17-511                      151.067
17-513 to 17-524            151.002
17-522                      151.053
17-524                      151.053
17-525                      110.15;
                            112.01
17-526                      Ch. 90;
                            90.17
17-531                      53.01
17-534                      53.01
17-536                      53.09
17-537                      53.17
17-538                      53.07
17-540                      35.11
17-541                      32.01;
                            32.10
17-542                      53.05
17-543                      32.10
17-549                      92.01;
                            92.02
                            92.39;
                            92.40;
17-550                      92.41;
                            92.42;
                            92.43
                            91.23;
17-555                      131.021;
                            131.023;
                            151.004
                            92.02;
17-556                      92.44;
                            131.020;
                            131.125
                            131.021;
17-557                      131.022;
                            151.005;
                            151.077
17-557.01                   151.005
17-558                      151.068;
                            151.069
17-559                      151.068;
                            151.069
17-563                      91.21;
                            131.060
17-567                      151.003;
                            151.065
17-568                      32.13
17-568.01                   32.13;
                            35.03
17-568.02                   35.03
17-574                      54.001
17-602                      31.03
                            32.14;
17-604                      32.25;
                            32.40
17-605                      32.04
17-606                      32.05
17-606(2)                   32.05
17-607                      35.09
17-608                      35.11
17-609                      35.11
17-610                      32.06
17-611                      32.40
17-612                      32.40
                            30.33;
                            30.35;
17-613                      30.36;
                            30.37;
                            35.03
                            10.15;
17-614                      30.33;
                            30.34;
                            30.38
17-616                      30.34
17-701                      35.25
17-702                      35.08;
                            35.49
17-703                      35.06
17-706                      35.31
17-708                      35.04
17-709                      35.04
17-710                      35.07
17-711                      35.04
17-714                      35.05
17-715                      35.05
17-718                      34.01
17-720                      35.10
17-803                      35.11
17-804                      32.10
17-919                      32.13
17-920                      131.023
17-925.01                   54.001
17-925.02                   54.003
17-938                      94.04
17-941                      94.03
17-948                      93.01;
                            93.40
17-948 through 17-952       93.01
17-949                      93.01;
                            93.41
17-951                      93.01;
                            93.40
17-952                      93.01;
                            93.40
17-953                      151.032;
                            151.035
17-953 et seq.              34.01
17-953.01                   151.032;
                            151.035
17-954                      151.032;
                            151.035
17-1001                     91.21
18-132                      10.16;
                            92.35
18-305 through 18-312       32.41
18-412.01                   35.03
18-1001 to 18-1006          151.030
18-1214                     35.51
18-1216                     35.06
18-1705                     151.066
                            10.99;
                            50.99;
                            70.99;
                            90.99;
                            91.21;
                            91.23;
                            91.99;
                            92.99;
18-1720                     110.99;
                            131.003;
                            131.056;
                            131.060;
                            131.999;
                            150.31;
                            150.99;
                            151.999;
                            155.99
                            10.99;
                            50.99;
                            70.99;
                            90.99;
                            91.99;
18-1722                     92.99;
                            110.99;
                            131.999;
                            150.35;
                            150.99;
                            151.999;
                            155.99
18-1722.01                  150.32
18-1743                     150.03
18-1748                     151.072
18-1751                     151.002
18-1755                     151.034;
                            151.035
18-1756                     35.03
18-1801 through 18-1805     35.12
18-2005                     151.066
18-2101 through 18-2155     35.48
18-2401 through 18-2485     30.55
18-2701 through 18-2739     153.01
18-2801 through 18-2808     35.28
18-2803                     35.35
18-2804                     35.02;
                            35.35
18-2805                     35.35
18-2806                     35.35
18-2807                     35.35
18-2808                     35.35
18-3301                     32.13
19-613                      30.15
19-710                      91.22
19-902                      92.35
19-908                      33.02
19-912                      152.32
19-922                      92.35
19-925 through 19-929       33.02
19-929                      33.02
19-1101                     32.05
19-1102                     32.04
19-1103                     32.05
19-1104                     32.04
19-1301                     35.08
19-1302                     35.08
19-1303                     35.08
19-1304                     35.08
19-1305                     53.01
19-1309                     35.47
19-1309 through 19-1312     35.47
19-1825 through 19-1848     32.14
19-2401                     151.002
19-2408 to 19-2415          151.002
19-2416                     151.066
19-2417 through 19-2419     151.053
19-2428 through 19-2431     151.002
19-2701                     53.12
19-2902                     35.02
19-2903                     35.02
19-2904                     35.02
19-2905                     35.02
19-2906 through 19-2909     35.02
19-3101                     30.19
19-3301 through 19-3326     35.48
19-3701                     30.37
20-301 through 20-322       95.08
                            95.01;
20-301 through 23-344       95.03;
                            95.08
23-168.04                   152.32
25-505.01                   31.10
28-318                      131.075;
                            131.076
28-401                      95.02
28-431                      131.110
28-512                      94.06
28-519                      131.001
28-520                      131.002
28-521                      131.002
28-523                      93.02;
                            131.059
28-609                      131.035
28-610                      131.036
28-801                      131.075
28-806                      131.076
28-830                      131.075
28-831                      131.075
28-833                      131.077
28-903                      131.037
28-904                      131.038
28-906                      131.039
28-907                      131.041
                            92.16;
28-908                      92.18;
                            92.20;
                            131.040
28-1101                     131.077
28-1102                     131.077
28-1103                     131.077
28-1104                     131.077
28-1107                     131.077
28-1108                     131.077
28-1109                     131.077
28-1110                     131.077
28-1111                     131.077
28-1112                     131.077
28-1113                     131.077
28-1117                     131.077
28-1213                     92.02
28-1229                     92.02
28-1233                     92.02
28-1233(3)                  92.02
28-1304                     131.057
                            91.21;
28-1321                     91.23;
                            131.003;
                            131.055
28-1322                     131.024
28-1418                     131.090
28-1419                     131.091
28-1427                     131.092
28-1601                     131.077
29-215                      34.27
29-4001.01(1)(b)            132.01
29-4003                     132.01
31-1001 to 31-1022          152.01
31-1001 through 31-1023     152.14
32-101                      30.15;
                            Ch. 31
32-101 through 32-1551      35.48
32-109                      30.02;
                            30.15
32-110                      31.03
32-115                      31.03
32-404                      31.01;
                            31.05
32-533                      30.01;
                            30.15
32-552                      30.15
32-553                      30.15
32-554                      30.15
32-556                      31.01
32-557                      30.15;
                            31.06
32-559                      31.04
                            30.03;
32-560                      30.18;
                            30.19
32-560 through 32-572       30.03;
                            30.18
32-561                      30.03;
                            30.18
32-562                      31.10
32-567 to 32-570            31.10
32-568                      30.03;
                            30.18
32-569                      30.18
32-574                      31.10
32-603                      30.02;
                            30.15
32-604                      30.02;
                            30.15
32-606                      31.07
32-607                      31.07
32-608                      31.08;
                            31.09
32-615                      31.09
32-616                      31.09
32-617                      31.09
32-618                      31.09
32-621                      31.09
32-622                      31.07
32-625                      31.07
32-625(2)                   31.09
32-627                      31.07;
                            31.09
32-628                      31.09
32-628 through 32-631       35.48
32-629                      31.09;
                            31.10
32-630                      31.09;
                            31.10
32-710                      31.09
32-802                      31.02;
                            35.48
32-952 through 32-959       31.04
32-1301                     31.10
32-1302                     31.10
32-1303                     31.10
32-1304                     31.10
32-1305                     31.10
32-1306                     31.10
32-1307                     31.10
                            30.03;
32-1308                     30.18;
                            31.10
32-1309                     31.10
32-1525                     31.11
33-139.01                   34.03
33-141                      32.05
35-102                      34.03
35-103                      34.03
35-108                      34.03
39-301                      131.022
39-302                      131.022
39-307                      131.058
39-2512                     32.12
43-248                      131.075
44-4301 through 44-4339     30.55
45-623                      35.13
45-601 through 45-622       35.13
48-115                      34.03
48-1503                     35.03
49-801(16)                  10.05
49-1408                     32.41
49-1425                     32.41
49-1499.03                  32.41
49-1499.04                  32.41
49-14,102                   32.41
49-14,103.01                32.41
49-14,103.02                32.41
49-14,103.03                32.41
49-14,103.04                32.41
49-14,103.05                32.41
49-14,103.06                32.41
51-201                      35.48;
                            93.15
51-201 through 51-219       93.16
51-201.01                   93.20
51-205                      93.16
51-206                      93.19
51-207                      93.16
51-209                      93.15
51-210                      93.17
                            93.16;
51-211                      93.20;
                            93.21
51-212                      93.20
51-213                      93.22
51-214                      93.23
51-215                      35.08;
                            93.24
51-216                      35.08;
                            93.18
51-501                      35.48
                            111.03;
53-101 through 53-1,122     111.21;
                            111.23
53-103.01 through 53-103.42 111.01;
                            131.094
53-103.23                   131.093
53-116.01                   111.24
53-118                      111.47
53-124                      111.23;
                            111.48
53-124(5)                   111.23;
                            111.26
53-124.12                   111.26
53-124.12(1)                111.26
53-124.12(3)                111.26
53-124.12(4)                111.26
53-124.12(6)                111.26
53-124.15                   111.45
53-131                      111.23
53-131(2)                   111.23
53-133                      111.23;
                            111.45
53-134                      111.23
                            111.23;
53-134.03                   111.47;
                            111.51
53-134.04                   111.23;
                            111.30
53-135                      111.25
53-135.01                   111.23;
                            111.25
53-148                      111.27
53-167.02                   111.52
53-167.03                   111.52
53-168.06                   111.20;
                            111.21
53-175                      111.21
53-177                      111.45
53-177.01                   111.45
53-178                      111.46
53-179                      111.48
53-180                      111.02
53-180.01                   131.093
53-180.02                   131.094
53-180.05                   131.093
53-183                      111.49
53-184                      111.50
53-186                      131.095
53-186(1)                   111.03
53-186(2)                   111.03;
                            131.095
53-186.01                   111.03
53-194.03                   111.21
53-1,101                    111.28
53-1,102                    111.29
53-1,115                    111.30
53-1,121                    111.04
53-401 through 53-409       131.094
54-601                      Ch. 90
54-602                      Ch. 90
54-603                      Ch. 90;
                            90.17
60-301                      35.51;
                            71.48
60-376                      131.110
60-462                      70.07
Ch. 60, Art. 6              70.01
60-601                      Ch. 70
60-606 through 60-676       70.01
60-624                      72.15
60-658.01                   71.10
60-678                      70.02
                            70.03;
60-680                      71.07;
                            71.08;
                            71.40
60-681                      70.04;
                            71.06
60-682.01                   71.10
60-683                      70.07
60-1901 through 60-1911     131.110
60-4,126                    72.17
60-6,108                    70.05
60-6,110                    70.08
60-6,114                    70.10;
                            73.11
60-6,119                    70.09
60-6,121                    70.06
60-6,129                    71.03
60-6,130                    71.04
60-6,134.01                 71.10
60-6,138                    71.01
60-6,142                    72.01
60-6,148                    71.02
60-6,164                    71.41
60-6,165                    71.56
60-6,166                    71.42;
                            92.19
60-6,167                    71.51
60-6,168                    71.53
60-6,183                    92.22
60-6,184                    92.21
60-6,185                    71.25
60-6,186                    71.25;
                            71.26
60-6,187                    71.26;
                            71.28
60-6,188                    71.26;
                            71.28
60-6,189                    71.27
60-6,190                    71.25;
                            71.28
60-6,211.08                 131.095
60-6,250                    71.05
60-6,288                    71.05
60-6,288 to 60-6,290        70.10
60-6,294                    70.10
60-6,305                    71.26;
                            71.28
60-6,307                    72.02
60-6,313                    71.26;
                            71.28
60-6,315                    72.01
60-6,317                    72.01
60-6,318                    72.01
60-6,355                    72.15
60-6,356                    72.16
70-624.04                   32.41
70-1601                     50.02
70-1602 et seq.             50.01
70-2103                     131.002
71-423                      111.04
71-1522                     33.03
71-1524 through 71-1526     33.03
71-1529                     33.03
71-1536                     33.03
71-1537                     33.03
71-1552                     33.03
71-1572 through 71-15,168   33.03;
                            35.48
71-1576                     33.03
71-1637                     35.48
71-4412                     Ch. 90;
                            90.17
71-5301                     150.65
Ch. 72, Art. 14             151.032
73-101 et seq.              35.03
76-704 through 76-724       93.17
77-1601                     35.50
77-1601.02                  35.50
77-1606                     35.48;
                            35.50
77-1702                     35.14
77-1725.01                  150.33
77-2201                     32.05
77-2201 through 77-2215     32.05
77-2202                     32.05
77-2209                     32.05
77-2210                     32.05
77-2212                     32.05
77-2304                     35.10
77-2337                     35.08
77-2341                     35.11
77-2362                     35.09
77-2363                     35.09
77-2364                     35.09
77-2365.01                  35.09
77-2366                     35.09;
                            35.10
77-2386                     35.09
77-2386 through 77-23,108   35.10
77-2701 to 77-27,135        35.52
77-27,142 to 77-27,148      35.52
                            35.47;
                            35.48;
77-3442                     35.49;
                            93.01;
                            93.15
77-3443                     35.48;
                            93.15
77-3444                     35.48
81-145 through 81-162       35.03
81-501.01 to 81-531         34.07
81-502                      92.35
81-506                      34.10
81-512                      34.07
81-520.01                   92.45
81-829.51                   35.34
81-829.65                   34.27
81-1438                     32.01;
                            32.08
81-1439 through 81-1446     32.08
81-1444                     34.26
81-3401 through 81-3455     150.66
81-3501 through 81-3541     150.66
84-712                      32.04
84-712 through 84-712.09    32.05
84-1201 through 84-1220     32.04
84-1408                     30.51
84-1408 to 84-1414          30.55
84-1409                     30.50;
                            30.55
84-1410                     30.56;
                            30.57
                            30.51;
84-1411                     30.52;
                            30.54;
                            30.55
84-1411(3)                  30.55
84-1412                     30.58
84-1413                     30.60;
                            30.62
                            
 
 
REFERENCES TO PRIOR CODE
Prior Code 2021 Code
Prior Code 2021 Code
1-101      30.02
1-102      30.16
1-103      30.15
1-106      30.03
1-201      32.01
1-202      32.03
1-203      32.04
1-204      32.05
1-205      32.05
1-207      32.06
1-209      32.07
1-210      32.09
1-211      32.13
1-213      32.10
1-214      32.14
1-301      32.25
1-302      32.26
1-501      30.50
1-502      30.50
1-504      30.56
1-505      30.54
1-506      30.62
1-507      30.60
1-508      30.52
1-509      30.51
1-510      30.53
1-511      30.59
1-512      30.63
1-514      30.55
1-515      30.55
1-601      30.30
1-602      30.31
1-603      30.32
1-604      30.33
1-605      30.33
1-606      30.34
1-607      30.35
1-608      30.36
1-609      30.37
1-610      30.38
1-701      31.01
1-704      31.09
1-706      31.08
1-708      31.04
1-710      31.09
1-711      31.03
1-713      31.12
1-801      35.25
1-802      35.28
1-803      35.29
1-804      35.30
1-806      35.31
1-807      35.47
1-812      35.49
1-814      35.03
1-815      35.02
1-816      35.05
1-818      35.07
1-819      35.08
1-820      35.09
1-820.1    35.10
1-821      35.11
1-822      35.12
1-825      35.48
1-826      35.14
1-827      35.52
1-901      32.40
1-902      32.41
1-1001     10.99
2-202      33.01
2-206      33.02
2-207      33.03
2-208      33.03
2-209      33.03
2-210      33.03
2-211      33.03
2-212      33.03
2-213      33.03
3-101      53.01
3-102      53.02
3-103      53.03
3-104      53.04
3-105      53.05
3-106      53.06
3-107      53.07
3-108      53.08
3-109      53.09
3-110      53.10
3-111      53.11
3-112      53.12
3-113      53.13
3-114      53.14
3-115      53.15
3-117      53.16
3-118      53.17;
           53.99
3-201      54.001
3-202      54.002
3-203      54.003
3-204      54.004
3-205      54.005
3-206      54.006
3-207      54.007
3-208      54.008
3-209      54.008
3-210      54.030
3-211      54.031
3-212      54.032
3-213      54.033
3-214      54.034
3-215      54.035
3-216      54.050
3-217      54.051
3-218      54.052
3-219      54.053
3-220      54.054
3-221      54.055
3-222      54.056
3-223      54.009
3-224      54.070
3-225      54.071
3-226      54.072
3-227      54.073
3-228      54.074
3-229      54.010
3-230      54.011
3-231      54.012
3-232      54.013
3-233      54.014
3-234      54.014
3-235      54.014
3-236      54.015
3-237      54.016
3-301      34.01
3-302      34.02
3-303      34.03
3-304      34.05
3-305      34.06
3-306      34.06
3-310      34.09
3-311      34.10
3-401      34.25
3-402      34.27
3-403      34.28
3-501      93.01
3-502      93.02
3-601      93.40
3-602      93.41
3-701      93.15
3-703      93.25
3-704      93.20
3-801      94.01
3-802      94.02
3-803      94.03
3-804      94.04
3-805      94.05
3-806      94.06
3-1001     50.02
3-1002     50.02
3-1101     50.99
4-101      91.01
4-102      91.02
4-104      91.03
4-201      91.20
4-202      91.20
4-203      91.21
4-205      91.23
4-301      51.01
4-302      51.02
4-303      51.03
4-304      51.04
4-305      51.05
4-401      52.01
4-402      52.02
4-403      52.03
4-404      52.99
4-501      91.99
5-101      70.01
5-201      71.06
5-202      71.07
5-203      70.10
5-204      71.08
5-205      71.04
5-207      71.09
5-208      71.10
5-209      71.10
5-302      71.25
5-303      71.29
5-403      71.45
5-405      71.43
5-407      71.54
5-408      71.47
5-410      71.49
5-411      71.50
5-501      72.01
5-601      72.02
5-701      73.01
5-702      73.02
5-703      73.03
5-704      73.04
5-705      73.05
5-706      73.06
5-707      73.07
5-708      73.08
5-709      73.09
5-710      73.10
5-711      73.11
5-712      73.99
5-801      70.99
6-201      90.01
6-301      131.037
6-302      131.038
6-304      131.002
6-307      131.040
6-309      131.095
6-310      131.125
6-311      131.126
6-317      131.024
6-318      131.020
6-322      131.059
6-323      131.056
6-325      131.060
6-326      131.110
6-328      131.041
6-401      90.99;
           131.999
7-101      92.15
7-102      92.16
7-103      92.17
7-104      92.18
7-105      92.19
7-106      92.20
7-107      92.21
7-108      92.22
7-109      92.23
7-110      92.24
7-201      92.35
7-202      92.36
7-203      92.37
7-204      92.38
7-205      92.39
7-206      92.40
7-207      92.41
7-208      92.42
7-209      92.43
7-210      92.44
7-211      92.44
7-212      92.45
7-301      92.01
7-401      92.02
7-501      92.99
8-101      151.001
8-102      151.003
8-103      151.012
8-104      151.030
8-105      151.011
8-107      151.013
8-109      151.034
8-110      151.033
8-111      151.035
8-201      151.050
8-203      151.052
8-301      151.071
8-302      151.068
8-303      151.074
8-304      151.075
8-305      151.076
8-308      151.067
8-401      151.999
9-101      150.65
9-102      150.66
9-103      150.67
9-104      150.15
9-201      150.99
10-101     111.01
10-102     111.20
10-103     111.45
10-104     111.46
10-105     111.27
10-107     111.22
10-108     111.25
10-109     111.23
10-110     111.28
10-111     111.29
10-113     111.49
10-116     111.48
10-117     111.47
10-119     111.03
10-120     111.21
10-121     111.26
10-201     112.01
10-202     112.02
10-301     110.15
10-303     110.16
10-304     110.17
10-305     110.18
10-306     113.01—
           113.09
10-401     110.01
10-501     110.02
10-601     113.10
10-701     95.01
10-702     95.02
10-703     95.03
10-704     95.04
10-705     95.05
10-706     95.06
10-707     95.07
10-708     95.08
10-801     110.99
11-201     155.01
11-202     155.02
11-301     154.01
11-401     153.01
11-501     155.99
           
 
REFERENCES TO RESOLUTIONS
Res. No. Date Passed  Code Section
Res. No. Date Passed  Code Section
04-5     10-4-2004      Ch. 74, Schd. I
04-6     10-4-2004      Ch. 74, Schd. I
04-7     11-1-2004      Ch. 74, Schd. I
08-7     - -2008        36.01
08-8     12-1-2008      Ch. 75, Schd. I
2014-08  11-3-2014   71.04
2014-07  12-1-2014      Ch. 75, Schd. I
2017-09  6-16-2017      Ch. 75, Schd. I
2018-03  2-12-2018      Ch. 75, Schd. I
2018-06  7-9-2018       Ch. 74, Schd. II
20-1     1-6-2020       53.05;
                        54.004
20-3     6-8-2020       53.13
                       
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
411      4-3-1978    53.05;
                     53.06
                     73.01—
417      12-1-1980   73.11;
                     73.99
422      5-11-1983   111.22
427      9-4-1985    155.02
437      10-15-1987  110.02
438      12-10-1987  51.01—
                     51.04
439      3-7-1988    32.14
441      8-1-1988    150.65
443      10-3-1988   53.03
445      5-1-1989    53.13
446      6-5-1989    131.125
448      3-5-1990    155.02
450      10-22-1990  110.15
451      1-7-1991    113.01—
                     113.09
3-93     10-4-1993   53.14
7-93     10-4-1993   53.15
8-93     10-4-1993   71.09
9-93     10-4-1993   32.04
11-93    10-4-1993   30.56
15-93    12-6-1993   51.01;
                     51.02
1-94     1-10-1994   32.41
3-94     6-6-1994    35.28
4-94     6-6-1994    35.30
6-94     6-6-1994    70.01
7-94     6-6-1994    72.01
8-94     6-6-1994    92.02
9-94     6-6-1994    151.030
10-94    7-11-1994   111.48
1-95     2-6-1995    53.05;
                     53.06
2-95     2-6-1995    30.56
3-95     2-6-1995    30.34
5-95     2-6-1995    34.27
6-95     2-6-1995    91.23
7-95     2-6-1995    131.059
8-95     2-6-1995    151.034
9-95     2-6-1995    151.033
13-95    7-10-1995   131.060
14-95    8-7-1995    71.25
19-95    10-2-1995   51.05
20-95    10-2-1995   111.26
21-95    10-2-1995   92.45
22-95    12-4-1995   30.53
24-95    12-4-1995   35.30
26-95    12-4-1995   34.28
27-95    12-4-1995   151.030
28-95    12-4-1995   151.035
29-95    12-4-1995   111.21
30-95    12-4-1995   151.067
3-96     4-1-1996    113.10
97-3     9-8-1997    32.01
97-4     9-8-1997    30.55
97-5     9-8-1997    30.30
97-6     9-8-1997    30.31
97-7     9-8-1997    30.34
97-8     9-8-1997    30.35
97-9     9-8-1997    30.37
97-10    9-8-1997    30.38
97-11    9-8-1997    31.04
97-12    9-8-1997    35.28
97-13    9-8-1997    35.30
97-15    9-8-1997    33.01
97-16    9-8-1997    50.02
97-17    9-8-1997    111.26
97-21    9-8-1997    155.01
97-22    9-8-1997    154.01
                     73.01—
97-24    11-3-1997   73.11;
                     73.99
98-4     4-6-1998    33.03
98-6     6-1-1998    35.52
98-7     8-3-1998    53.05;
                     53.06
98-11    10-5-1998   35.28
98-12    10-5-1998   35.29
98-13    10-5-1998   35.30
98-14    10-5-1998   35.49
98-17    10-5-1998   35.47
98-20    10-5-1998   35.10
98-22    10-5-1998   35.14
98-23    10-5-1998   33.02
98-24    10-5-1998   54.001
98-25    10-5-1998   34.27
98-26    10-5-1998   71.10
98-27    10-5-1998   71.10
98-28    10-5-1998   131.041
98-29    10-5-1998   151.030
98-30    10-5-1998   151.035
98-31    10-5-1998   150.66
99-3     4-5-1999    51.01;
                     51.02
99-4     4-5-1999    50.02
99-5     4-5-1999    150.66
99-7     5-3-1999    150.67
99-11    11-1-1999   95.01—
                     95.08
                     52.01—
2000-2   1-3-2000    52.03;
                     52.99
2000-5   5-1-2000    53.16
2000-6   5-1-2000    111.03
2000-7   5-1-2000    111.23
2000-9   5-1-2000    35.48
2000-10  5-1-2000    131.110
2000-11  5-1-2000    131.095
2000-12  5-1-2000    33.03
2000-13  5-1-2000    30.55
2000-14  5-1-2000    30.55
2000-15  5-1-2000    151.035
                     10.99;
                     50.99;
                     70.99;
                     90.99;
                     91.99;
2000-16  5-1-2000    92.99;
                     110.99;
                     131.999;
                     150.99;
                     151.999;
                     155.99
2000-17  5-1-2000    111.26
2000-21  6-5-2000    53.01;
                     53.02
2000-25  1-8-2001    150.15
02-3     6-3-2002    153.01
02-4     1-6-2003    53.17;
                     53.99
03-3     11-3-2003   53.05
03-4     12-1-2003   53.06;
                     53.13
05-1     6-6-2005    53.05
05-3     - -2005     91.20
                     130.01—
07-2     6-18-2007   130.06;
                     130.99
07-4     9-10-2007   131.111
09-5     - -2009     93.03;
                     93.99
10-1     - -2010     111.48
10-3     - -2010     35.03
10-4     - -2010     51.02
10-5     - -2010     72.15—
                     72.18
11-1     5-2-2011    51.02
                     132.01—
11-3     9-12-2011   132.04;
                     132.99
12-1     4-2-2012    51.02
12-2     5-15-2012   153.01
13-2     - -2013     154.01
                     152.01—
                     152.15;
15-1     9-9-2015    152.30—
                     152.33;
                     152.99
16-3     11-1-2016   90.02;
                     90.99
16-4     12-5-2016   90.03;
                     90.99
18-1     6-4-2018    90.15—
                     90.31
                    
 
 
