BRADY, NEBRASKA
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2021 S-1 Supplement contains:
Local legislation current through Ord. 2021-06, passed 4-14-2021
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing Corporation
525 Vine Street, Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio  45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Fax: (513) 763-3562
Internet:  www.amlegal.com
ADOPTING ORDINANCE
ORDINANCE NO. 2020-03
   An ordinance to revise all the ordinances of the Village of Brady, Nebraska,
to repeal prior ordinances, to require filing, and to provide an effective
date.
   BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CHAIRPERSON AND BOARD OF TRUSTEES OF THE VILLAGE OF
BRADY, NEBRASKA:
   Section 1. The general ordinances of the Village of Brady, Nebraska, are
hereby revised, codified, and printed in book form as the "Code of Ordinances
of Brady, Nebraska," with revisions as provided in Section 2 below, consisting
of the following Titles:
         TITLE I:            GENERAL PROVISIONS
         TITLE III:            ADMINISTRATION
         TITLE V:            PUBLIC WORKS
         TITLE VII:            TRAFFIC CODE
         TITLE IX:            GENERAL REGULATIONS
         TITLE XI:            BUSINESS REGULATIONS
         TITLE XIII:         GENERAL OFFENSES
         TITLE XV:            LAND USAGE
   Section 2. The Code of Ordinances as presented in book form shall hereby be
amended and codified in the following respects:
         Section 2.01. TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE, CHAPTER 71: PARKING RULES, §
71.10: PROHIBITED PARKING, shall be amended by removing division (B) thereof.
         Section 2.02. TITLE XI: BUSINESS  REGULATIONS, CHAPTER 111: AMUSEMENTS
AND LEISURE, § 111.01, shall be amended and restated as follows:
   "It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to sell fireworks of any
description whatsoever, except permissible fireworks annually listed and
promulgated by the State Fire Marshal may be sold at retail at all times;
provided that, all other fireworks named may be sold only between June 25 and
July 5; provided that, fireworks of any description are permissible for
purposes of public exhibitions or displays as authorized by the governing body;
and, further provided that, said vendor shall secure a license prior to such
sales. Application shall be filed with the Village Clerk upon forms supplied by
the municipality and requesting such information and documents as the governing
body may deem necessary as to whether or not to grant said license. Any license
so issued may be revoked at any time by the governing body upon proper notice
and hearing if one is requested by the licensee."
         Section 2.03. TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES, CHAPTER 130: GENERAL
PROVISIONS, § 130.28, shall be amended and restated as follows:
   "It shall be unlawful for any person to ignite or cause to be exploded
fireworks or firecrackers of any description whatsoever within the
municipality, except permissible fireworks annually listed and promulgated by
the State Fire Marshal. Fireworks may lawfully be shot off beginning June 25
and ending July 3 of each year from 10:00 a.m. to 10:00 p.m. each day and on
July 4 of each year from 10:00 a.m. to 11:59 p.m."
         Section 2.04. TITLE XV: LAND USAGE, CHAPTER 154: ZONING CODE, §
154.097: FENCES, WALLS AND HEDGES, shall be amended by removing division (B)
(10) thereof.
   Section 3. The Code of Ordinances contains all of the provisions of a
general nature pertaining to the subjects enumerated and embraced in the code.
All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated by the code are
repealed, except that nothing shall affect any rights acquired under, actions
involving, or fines, penalties, forfeitures, or liabilities incurred pursuant
to such ordinances prior to repeal.
   Section 4. All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other
ordinances pertaining to subjects not embraced in the Code of Ordinances,
including ordinances specified in this section, shall remain in full force and
effect unless repealed expressly or by necessary implication.
   1.      Vacating or setting the boundaries of streets, alleys, or other
public places.
   2.      Annexing or detaching territory.
   3.      Granting or accepting easements, plats, or dedication of land to
public use.
   4.      Providing for the acquisition or conveyance of real or personal
property.
   5.      Authorizing or directing public improvements to be made.
   6.      Levying taxes or special assessments.
   7.      Appropriating money.
   8.      Granting franchises or special licenses.
   9.      Providing for the issuance of bonds or other instruments of
indebtedness.
   Section 5. At least one copy of the Code of Ordinances shall be on file in
the office of the Village Clerk and available for inspection by members of the
public during the hours the office is kept open for the ordinary transaction of
business. The Clerk shall file a copy of the ordinances with the County Court.
   Section 6. This ordinance shall be in full force and shall take effect from
and after its passage, approval, and publication according to law.
Passed and approved December 9, 2020.
                                                    /s/                       
                                    Chairperson
                /s/                       
Village Clerk
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
      
11.   VILLAGE STANDARDS
CHAPTER 10:  RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
Section
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Interpretation
   
10.03   Application to future ordinances
   
10.04   Captions
   
10.05   Definitions
   
10.06   Rules of interpretation
   
10.07   Severability
   
10.08   Reference to other sections
   
10.09   Reference to offices
   
10.10   Errors and omissions
   
10.11   Official time
   
10.12   Reasonable time
   
10.13   Ordinances repealed
   
10.14   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.15   Repeal or modification of ordinance
   
10.16   Section histories; statutory references
   
10.17   Local changes to this code of ordinances
 
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01  TITLE OF CODE.
   This codification of ordinances shall be designated as the Brady Code of
Ordinances and may be so cited.
§ 10.02  INTERPRETATION.
   Unless otherwise provided herein, or by law or implication required, the
same rules of construction, definition and application shall govern the
interpretation of this code as those governing the interpretation of state law.
§ 10.03  APPLICATION TO FUTURE ORDINANCES.
   All provisions of Title I compatible with future legislation shall apply to
ordinances hereafter adopted amending or supplementing this code unless
otherwise specifically provided.
§ 10.04  CAPTIONS.
   Headings and captions used in this code other than the title, chapter and
section numbers are employed for reference purposes only and shall not be
deemed a part of the text of any section.
§ 10.05  DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   General rule. Words and phrases shall be taken in their plain,
ordinary and usual sense. However, technical words and phrases having a
peculiar and appropriate meaning in law shall be understood according to their
technical import.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this code, the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      BOARD OF TRUSTEES, VILLAGE BOARD or GOVERNING BODY. The legislative body
of Brady, Nebraska.
      CODE,THIS CODE, or THIS CODE OF ORDINANCES. The village code, as modified
by amendment, revision and adoption of new titles, chapters or sections.
      COUNTY. Lincoln County, Nebraska.
      MAY. The act referred to is permissive.
      MONTH. A calendar month.
      OATH. Includes an affirmation in all cases in which, by law, an
affirmation may be substituted for an oath and, in such cases, the words SWEAR
and SWORN shall be equivalent to the words AFFIRM and AFFIRMED.
      OFFICER, OFFICE, EMPLOYEE, COMMISSION or DEPARTMENT. An officer, office,
employee, commission or department of the village unless the context clearly
requires otherwise.
      PERSON. Includes bodies politic and corporate, societies, communities,
the public generally, individuals, partnerships, limited liability companies,
joint-stock companies and associations.
(Neb. RS 49-801(16))
      PRECEDING or FOLLOWING. Next before or next after, respectively.
      SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory.
      SIGNATURE or SUBSCRIPTION. Includes a mark when the person cannot write.
      STATE. The State of Nebraska.
      SUBCHAPTER. A division of a chapter, designated in this code by a heading
in the chapter analysis and a capitalized heading in the body of the chapter,
setting apart a group of sections related by the subject matter of the heading.
Not all chapters have SUBCHAPTERS.
      VILLAGE, MUNICIPAL CORPORATION or MUNICIPALITY. The village adopting this
code.
      WRITTEN. Any representation of words, letters or figures, whether by
printing or otherwise.
      YEAR. A calendar year, unless otherwise expressed.
§ 10.06  RULES OF INTERPRETATION.
   The construction of all ordinances of the village shall be by the following
rules, unless that construction is plainly repugnant to the intent of the
Village Board or of the context of the same ordinance.
   (A)   ANDorOR. Either conjunction shall include the other as if written
“and/or”, if the sense requires it.
   (B)   Acts by assistants. When a statute or ordinance requires an act to be
done which, by law, an agent or deputy as well may do as the principal, the
requisition shall be satisfied by the performance of the act by an authorized
agent or deputy.
   (C)   Gender; singular and plural; tenses. Words denoting the masculine
gender shall be deemed to include the feminine and neuter genders; words in the
singular shall include the plural, and words in the plural shall include the
singular; the use of a verb in the present tense shall include the future, if
applicable.
   (D)   General term. A general term following specific enumeration of terms
is not to be limited to the class enumerated unless expressly so limited.
§ 10.07  SEVERABILITY.
   If any provision of this code as now or later amended or its application to
any person or circumstance is held invalid, the invalidity does not affect
other provisions that can be given effect without the invalid provision or
application.
§ 10.08  REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   Whenever a section refers to another section hereof, that reference shall
extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently amended, revised,
recodified or renumbered unless the subject matter is materially altered by the
amendment or revision.
§ 10.09  REFERENCE TO OFFICES.
   Reference to a public office or officer shall be deemed to apply to any
office, officer or employee of the village exercising the powers, duties or
functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any transfer of
functions or change in the official title of the functionary.
§ 10.10  ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error is discovered, consisting of the misspelling of any
words; the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention of
the provisions affected; the use of a word or words to which no meaning can be
attached; or the use of a word or words when another word or words was clearly
intended to express the intent, the spelling shall be corrected and the word or
words supplied, omitted or substituted as will conform with the manifest
intention, and the provisions shall have the same effect as though the correct
words were contained in the text as originally published. No alteration shall
be made or permitted if any question exists regarding the nature or extent of
the error.
§ 10.11  OFFICIAL TIME.
   The official time, as established by applicable state/federal laws, shall be
the official time within the village for the transaction of all village
business.
§ 10.12  REASONABLE TIME.
   (A)   In all cases where an ordinance requires an act to be done in a
reasonable time or requires reasonable notice to be given, REASONABLE TIME OR
NOTICE shall be deemed to mean the time which is necessary for a prompt
performance of the act or the giving of the notice.
   (B)   (1)   The time within which an act is to be done, as herein provided,
shall be computed by excluding the first day and including the last.
      (2)   If the last day is Sunday, it shall be excluded.
§ 10.13  ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   (A)   This code contains all of the provisions of a general nature
pertaining to the subjects enumerated and embraced in this code.
   (B)   All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated by this code
are repealed; except that, nothing shall affect any rights acquired under,
actions involving or fines, penalties, forfeitures or liabilities incurred
pursuant to those ordinances prior to repeal.
§ 10.14  ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   (A)   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other
ordinances pertaining to subjects not embraced in this code, including
ordinances specified in this section, shall remain in full force and effect
unless repealed expressly or by necessary implication:
      (1)   Vacating or setting the boundaries of streets, alleys or other
public places;
      (2)   Annexing or detaching territory;
      (3)   Granting or accepting easements, plats or dedication of land to
public use;
      (4)   Providing for the acquisition or conveyance of real or personal
property;
      (5)   Authorizing or directing public improvements to be made;
      (6)   Levying taxes or special assessments;
      (7)   Appropriating money;
      (8)   Granting franchises or special licenses; or
      (9)   Providing for the issuance of bonds or other instruments of
indebtedness.
   (B)   All ordinances codified herein shall remain in full force and effect
unless repealed expressly.
§ 10.15  REPEAL OR MODIFICATION OF ORDINANCE.
   (A)   Whenever any ordinance or part of an ordinance is repealed or modified
by a subsequent ordinance, the ordinance or part of an ordinance thus repealed
or modified shall continue in force until the publication of the ordinance
repealing or modifying it to give effect thereto.
   (B)   No suit, proceedings, right, liability, fine, forfeiture or penalty
instituted, created, given, secured or accrued under any ordinance previous to
its repeal shall in any way be affected, released or discharged, but may be
prosecuted, enjoyed and recovered as fully as if the ordinance had continued in
force, unless it is otherwise expressly provided.
   (C)   When any ordinance repealing a former ordinance, clause or provision
is itself repealed, the repeal shall not be construed to revive the former
ordinance, clause or provision, unless it is expressly provided.
Statutory reference:
   Requirements for amendments and revisions, see Neb. RS 17-614
§ 10.16  SECTION HISTORIES; STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   A statutory cite included in the history indicates that the text of
the section reads substantially the same as the statute. Example: (Neb. RS 18-
132)
   (B)   A statutory cite set forth as a “statutory reference“ following the
text of the section indicates that the reader should refer to that statute for
further information. Example:
      § 39.01  PUBLIC RECORDS AVAILABLE.
      This municipality shall make available to any person for inspection or
      copying all public records, unless otherwise exempted by state law.
      Statutory reference:
         Inspection of public records, see Neb. RS 84-712 et seq.
§ 10.17  LOCAL CHANGES TO THIS CODE OF ORDINANCES.
   (A)   Any provision of this code of ordinances may be repealed, modified or
superseded by an ordinance passed by the Village Board.
   (B)   An ordinance repealing, modifying or superseding any provision of this
code may be codified as part of this code herein.
   (C)   Local legislation shall preempt other provisions of this code on the
same or similar subjects as expressly stated herein. To the extent that there
exists any conflict between local legislation codified herein and any other
provision of this code, the local legislation shall control.
§ 10.99  GENERAL PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who violates any of the provisions of this village code,
unless otherwise specifically provided herein, shall be deemed guilty of an
offense and, upon conviction thereof, shall be fined in any sum not exceeding
$500. A new violation shall be deemed to have been committed every 24 hours of
failure to comply with the provisions of this code.
   (B)   (1)   Whenever a nuisance exists, as defined in Title IX of this code,
the village may proceed by a suit in equity to enjoin and abate the same, in
the manner provided by law.
      (2)   Whenever, in any action, it is established that a nuisance exists,
the court may, together with the fine or penalty imposed, enter an order of
abatement as a part of the judgment in the case.
Statutory reference:
   Authority to abate nuisances, see Neb. RS 18-1720 and 18-1722
   Authority to impose fines, see Neb. RS 17-207 and 17-505
CHAPTER 11:  VILLAGE STANDARDS
Section
   
11.01   Corporate seal
§ 11.01  CORPORATE SEAL.
   (A)   The official corporate seal of the municipality shall be kept in the
office of the Municipal Clerk and shall bear the following inscription:
“VILLAGE SEAL, VILLAGE OF BRADY, LINCOLN, COUNTY, NEBRASKA”.
   (B)   The Municipal Clerk shall affix an impression of the said official
seal to all warrants, licenses, permits, ordinances and all other official
papers issued by order of the governing body and countersigned by the Municipal
Clerk.
(Prior Code, § 1-401)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-502
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   GOVERNING BODY
      
31.   ELECTED AND APPOINTED OFFICIALS
      
32.   ORGANIZATIONS
      
33.   ELECTIONS
      
34.   ORDINANCES, INITIATIVES AND REFERENDUMS
      
35.   FISCAL MANAGEMENT
      
36.   GENERAL VILLAGE POLICIES
CHAPTER 30:  GOVERNING BODY
Section
Board of Trustees
   
30.01   Members; election
   
30.02   Organization
   
30.03   Chairperson
   
30.04   Powers and duties
   
30.05   Vacancies
BOARD OF TRUSTEES
§ 30.01  MEMBERS; ELECTION.
   The corporate powers and duties of every village shall be vested in the
Board of Trustees, which shall consist of five members. The members of the
Village Board of Trustees shall be elected at the statewide general election as
provided in Neb. RS 17-202 and each four years thereafter. The terms shall
begin on the first regular meeting of the Board of Trustees in December
following the statewide general election. Except as provided in Neb. RS 17-202
RS Neb., the term of each Board member shall be four years or until his or her
successor is elected and qualified. Any person who is a citizen of the United
States, resides in the village and is a registered voter may be eligible to be
elected to the Board of Trustees.
(Prior Code, § 1-101)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-202, 32-532
§ 30.02  ORGANIZATION.
   Every trustee, before entering upon the duties of his or her office, shall
take an oath to support the Constitution of the United States and the
Constitution of the state and faithfully and impartially to discharge the
duties of his or her office. All Trustees elected to office shall qualify and
meet on the first regular meeting of the Board in December thereafter,
organize, elect a Chairperson of the Board, and appoint the officers required
by law. The Board of Trustees shall, by ordinance, fix the time and place of
holding its stated meetings and may be convened at any time by the Chairperson.
(Prior Code, § 1-102)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-204
§ 30.03  CHAIRPERSON.
   The Board of Trustees Chairperson shall be selected at the first regular
meeting of the Board in December by the Board of Trustees from its own
membership. The Chairperson shall preside at all meetings of the Board. In the
absence of the Chairperson, the Board shall elect one of its own body to occupy
the place temporarily who shall hold the title of Chairperson pro tempore. The
Chairperson and Chairperson Pro Tempore shall have the same powers and
privileges as other members of the Board. The Chairperson shall cause the
ordinances of the Board to be printed and published for the information of the
inhabitants. The Chairperson shall also perform all duties of his or her office
in accordance with the laws of the state and the ordinances of the
municipality. The qualifications for the Chairperson shall be the same general
qualifications that apply to the Board of Trustees.
(Prior Code, § 1-103)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-202 through 17-210
§ 30.04  POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The Board shall have the power to pass ordinances to prevent and remove
nuisances; to prevent, restrain and suppress gambling and disorderly houses; to
license and regulate amusements; to establish police protection; to prevent the
spread of contagious diseases; to regulate business; to erect, repair,
construct and regulate the public ways and property; to maintain good
government, public welfare and domestic tranquility; and to enforce all
ordinances by inflicting penalties upon inhabitants or other persons for
violation thereof not exceeding $100 for any one offense.
(Prior Code, § 1-104)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-207
§ 30.05  VACANCIES.
   (A)   Every elective office shall be vacant upon the happening of any of the
events specified in Neb. RS 32-560.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in divisions (D) or (E) below, vacancies
in village elected offices shall be filled by the Board of Trustees for the
balance of the unexpired term. Notice of a vacancy, except a vacancy resulting
from the death of the incumbent, shall be in writing and presented to the Board
at a regular or special meeting and shall appear as a part of the minutes of
such meeting. The Board shall at once give public notice of the vacancy by
causing to be published in a newspaper of general circulation within the
village or by posting in three public places in the village the office vacated
and the length of the unexpired term.
   (C)   The Chairperson of the Board shall, within four weeks of the meeting
at which such notice of vacancy has been presented or upon the death of the
incumbent, call a special meeting of the Board or place the issue of filling
such vacancy on the agenda at the next regular meeting at which time the
Chairperson shall submit the name of a qualified registered voter to fill the
vacancy for the balance of the unexpired term. The Board shall vote upon such
nominee and, if a majority votes in favor of such nominee, the vacancy shall be
declared filled. If the nominee fails to receive a majority of the votes, the
nomination shall be rejected and the Chairperson shall, at the next regular or
special meeting, submit the name of another qualified registered voter to fill
the vacancy. If the subsequent nominee fails to receive a majority of the
votes, the Chairperson shall continue at such meeting to submit the names of
qualified registered voters in nomination and the Board shall continue at such
meeting to submit the names of qualified registered voters in nomination and
the Board shall continue to vote upon such nominations until the vacancy is
filled. All Trustees shall cast a ballot for or against the nominee. Any member
of the Board who has been appointed to fill a vacancy on the Board shall have
the same rights, including voting, as if such person were elected.
       (D)   The Chairperson and Board of Trustees may, in lieu of filling a
vacancy in a village elected office as provided in divisions (B) and (C) above,
call a special election to fill such vacancy.
   (E)    If vacancies exist in the offices of a majority of the members of the
Board of Trustees, the Secretary of State shall conduct a special election to
fill such vacancies; except that, the Board of Trustees of a village situated
in more than one county shall have the power to fill by appointment any vacancy
that may occur in their number.
     (F)   No official who is removed at a recall election or who resigns after
the initiation of the recall process shall be appointed to fill the vacancy
resulting from his or her removal or the removal of any other member of the
same governing body during the remainder of his or her term of office.
(Prior Code, § 1-105)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 32-560 through 32-572, 32-1308
CHAPTER 31:  ELECTED AND APPOINTED OFFICIALS
Section
General Provisions
   
31.01   Compensation
   
31.02   Bonds and oaths
Appointed Officials
   
31.15   General authority
   
31.16   Merger of offices
   
31.17   Village Clerk
   
31.18   Village Treasurer
   
31.19   Special Engineer
   
31.20   Utilities Superintendent
   
31.21   Municipal Attorney
Meetings of Public Bodies
   
31.35   Definition
   
31.36   “Public body” defined
   
31.37   Open to public; notice; agenda
   
31.38   Closed sessions
   
31.39   Emergency meetings
   
31.40   Minutes
   
31.41   Votes
   
31.42   Notice to news media
   
31.43   Public participation
   
31.44   Governing body’s meetings
Cross-reference:
   Board of Trustees, see §§
30.01 through
30.05
   Elections, see
Ch. 33
   Fiscal Management, see
Ch. 35
   Organizations, see
Ch. 32
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 31.01  COMPENSATION.
   (A)   (1)   The compensation of any elective official of the municipality
shall not be increased or diminished during the term for which he or she shall
have been elected, except when there has been a merger of offices; provided,
the compensation of the members of the governing body, a board or commission
may be increased or diminished at the beginning of the full term of any member
whether or not the terms of one or more members commence and end at different
times. No elected official may be reappointed at a greater salary if he or she
resigns and desires to be reappointed during the unexpired term of office. He
or she may be reappointed after the term of office during which he or she
resigned at a greater salary. All salaries shall be set by ordinance of the
governing body and will be available for public inspection at the office of the
Municipal Clerk. Compensation shall be paid on a quarterly basis for regular
and special meetings actually attended, and any special assignments or seminars
attended payable the next meeting following expiration of the quarter.
      (2)   Board members shall be reimbursed for actual expenses and shall
receive a per diem meeting fee of $100 per meeting for attending Village Board
approved conferences or seminars and $25 per special meetings. The Chairperson
of the Board will receive $125 per meeting.
(Prior Code, § 1-901)
   (B)   (1)   No officer of the municipality shall be permitted to benefit
from any contract to which the municipality is a party when the consideration
of the said contract is in an amount in excess of $20,000 in any one year and
no contract may be divided for the purpose of evading the requirements of this
section.
      (2)   Any such interest in a conflict shall void any obligation on the
part of the municipality; provided, the receiving of deposits, cashing of
checks and buying and selling of the warrants and bonds of the municipality
shall not be considered a contract under the provisions of this section.
      (3)   No official shall receive any pay as compensation from the
municipality other than his or her salary.
      (4)   The governing body shall not pay or appropriate any money or other
valuable thing to pay a person who is not an officer for the performance of any
act, service or duty which shall come within the proper scope of the duties of
any officer of the municipality; provided that, ownership of less than 1% of
the outstanding stock of any class in a corporation shall not constitute an
interest within the meaning of this section.
(Prior Code, § 1-902)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-209.02, 17-611, 17-612
§ 31.02  BONDS AND OATHS.
   (A)   Official bonds of the municipality shall be in form, joint and several
and shall be made payable to the municipality in such penalty as the governing
body may set by resolution; provided, the penalty amount on any bond shall not
fall below the legal minimum when one has been set by the state for each
particular official. All official bonds of the municipal officials shall be
executed by the principal named in such bonds and by at least two sufficient
sureties who shall be freeholders of the county or by the official as principal
and by a guaranty, surety, fidelity or bonding company; provided, no municipal
official while still in his or her official term of office shall be accepted as
surety on any other official’s bond, contractor’s bond or appeal bond under any
circumstances. Only companies that are legally authorized to transact business
in the state shall be eligible for suretyship on the bond of an official of the
municipality. All said bonds shall obligate the principal and sureties for the
faithful discharge of all duties required by law of such principal and shall
inure to the benefit of the municipality and any person who may be injured by a
breach of the conditions of such bonds. No bond shall be deemed to be given or
complete until the approval of the governing body and all sureties are endorsed
in writing on the said instrument by the Chairperson of the governing body and
Municipal Clerk pursuant to the said approval of the governing body. The
premium on any official bond required to be given may be paid out of the
General Fund or other proper municipal fund upon a resolution to that effect by
the governing body at the beginning of any municipal year. All official bonds
meeting the conditions herein shall be filed with the Municipal Clerk for his
or her official record and it shall be the duty of the Municipal Clerk to
furnish a certified copy of any bond so filed upon the payment of a fee which
shall be set by resolution of the governing body. In the event that the
sureties of the official bond of any officer of the municipality in the opinion
of the governing body become insufficient, the governing body may, by
resolution, fix a reasonable time within which the said officer may give a new
bond or additional sureties as directed. In the event that the officer should
fail, refuse or neglect to give a new bond or additional sureties to the
satisfaction and approval of the governing body, then the office shall by such
failure refusal or neglect become vacant and it shall be the duty of the
governing body to appoint a competent and qualified person to fill the said
office. Any official who is re-elected to office shall be required to file a
new bond after each election.
(Prior Code, § 1-301)
   (B)   All officials of the municipality whether elected or appointed, except
when a different oath is specifically provided herein shall before entering
upon their respective duties take and subscribe the following oath which shall
be endorsed upon their respective bonds: “I,                      , do solemnly
swear that I will support the Constitution of the United States and the
Constitution of the State of Nebraska against all enemies, foreign and
domestic; that I will bear true faith and allegiance to the same; that I will
take this obligation freely and without mental reservation or for the purpose
of evasion; and that I will faithfully and impartially perform the duties of
the office of                          according to law and to the best of my
ability. And I do further swear that I do not advocate nor am I am member of
any political party or organization that advocates the overthrow of the
government of the United States or of this State by force or violence; and that
during such time as I am in this position I will not advocate nor become a
member of any political party or organization that advocates the overthrow of
the government of the United States or of this State by force or violence. So
help me God.”
(Prior Code, § 1-302)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 11-101, 11-103 through 11-118, 17-604
APPOINTED OFFICIALS
§ 31.15  GENERAL AUTHORITY.
   The governing body may appoint a Municipal Clerk, a Municipal Treasurer, a
Municipal Utilities Superintendent, Street Commissioner and a Municipal
Marshal. It shall also appoint a Board of Health consisting of three members.
The Chairperson of the governing body shall be the Chairperson of the Board of
Health; the Marshal shall be the Secretary and Quarantine Officer of the Board
of Health; and an additional member who shall be a physician when a physician
is residing permanently in the municipality and, when there is no physician
present, then such other person as the governing body may select. They shall
also appoint such additional officials and employees as they may determine the
municipality needs. All such appointees shall hold office for one year unless
sooner removed by the Chairperson of the Board and with the advice and consent
of the governing body.
(Prior Code, § 1-201)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-208
§ 31.16  MERGER OF OFFICES.
   The governing body of the municipality may, at its discretion, by ordinance
combine and merge any elective or appointive offices of employment, except
members of the governing body, with any other elective or appointive office or
employment so that one or more of such offices may be held by the same officer
at the same time; except that, Trustees may perform seasonal or emergency work
subject to Neb. RS 49-14,103.01 to 49-14,103.06; provided, the offices so
merged and combined shall always be construed to be separate and the effect of
the combination shall be limited to a consolidation of the official duties
only; and, provided further, the salary of the officer holding the merged
offices shall not be in excess of the maximum amount provided by law for the
salary of the office so combined. For the purposes of this section, volunteer
firefighters and ambulance drivers shall not be considered officers.
(Prior Code, § 1-202)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-209.02, 49-14,103.01 through 49-103.06
§ 31.17  VILLAGE CLERK.
   (A)   The Village Clerk shall have the custody of all laws and ordinances
and shall keep a correct journal of the proceedings of the Board of Trustees.
After the period of time specified by the State Records Administrator pursuant
to the Records Management Act, the Clerk may transfer the journal of the
proceedings of the Board of Trustees to the State Archives of the Nebraska
State Historical Society for permanent preservation. The Clerk shall also
perform such other duties as may be required by the ordinances of the village.
If the Clerk is acting as the Treasurer, he or she shall also comply with the
requirements of § 31.18(A)(3).
   (B)   (1)   It shall be the duty of the Clerk to prepare and publish the
official proceedings of the Board of Trustees within 30 days after any meeting
of the Council. The publication shall be in a newspaper of general circulation
in the village, shall set forth a statement of the proceedings of the meeting,
and shall also include the amount of each claim allowed, the purpose of the
claim, and the name of the claimant, except that the aggregate amount of all
payroll claims may be included as one item. Between July 15 and August 15 of
each year, the employee job titles and the current annual, monthly, or hourly
salaries corresponding to such job titles shall be published. Each job title
published shall be descriptive and indicative of the duties and functions of
the position. The charge for the publication shall not exceed the rates
provided for in Neb. RS 23-122.
      (2)   Publication under division (B)(1) shall be made in one legal
newspaper of general circulation in the village. If no legal newspaper is
published in the village, then the publication shall be made in one legal
newspaper published or of general circulation within the county in which the
village is located. The cost of publication shall be paid out of the general
funds of the village.
   (C)   The Clerk shall dispose of or destroy village public records when the
records have been determined to be of no further legal, administrative, fiscal,
or historical value by the State Records Administrator pursuant to Neb. RS 84-
1201 through 84-1220, provided the provisions of this division shall not apply
to the minutes of the Clerk and the permanent ordinance and resolution books,
or any other record classified as permanent by the State Records Administrator.
   (D)   (1)   The Clerk shall permit any person to examine and copy the public
records in the Clerk's custody, and may charge a fee for providing copies of a
public record, as provided in Neb. RS 84-712 through 84-712.09.
      (2)   The Clerk may charge a reasonable fee for certified copies of any
record in his or her office as set by resolution of the Board of Trustees.
   (E)   The Clerk shall permit no records, public papers, or other documents
of the village kept and preserved in his or her office to be taken therefrom,
except by such officers of the village as may be entitled to the use of the
same, but only upon their leaving a receipt therefor, and except pursuant to
Neb. RS 84-712(2). He or she shall keep all the records of his or her office,
including a record of all licenses issued by him or her, in a blank book with a
proper index. He or she shall include as part of his or her records all
petitions under which the Board of Trustees shall order public work to be done
at the expense of the property fronting thereon, together with references to
all resolutions and ordinances relating to the same. He or she shall endorse
the date and hour of filing upon every paper or document so filed in his or her
office. All such filings made by him or her shall be properly docketed.
Included in his or her records shall be all standard codes, amendments thereto,
and other documents incorporated by reference and arranged in triplicate in a
manner convenient for reference. He or she shall keep an accurate and complete
account of the appropriation of the several funds and draw, sign, and attest
all warrants ordered for the payment of money on the particular fund from which
the same is payable. At the end of each month, he or she shall then make a
report of the amounts appropriated to the various funds and the amount of the
warrants drawn thereon.
   (F)   The Clerk shall deliver all warrants, ordinances, and resolutions
under his or her charge to the Chairperson for his or her signature. He or she
shall also deliver to officers, employees, and committees all resolutions and
communications which are directed at such officers, employees, or committees.
With the seal of the village, he or she shall duly attest the Chairperson's
signature to all ordinances, deeds, and papers required to be attested to when
ordered to do so by the Board of Trustees.
   (G)   The Clerk shall issue and sign all licenses, permits, and occupation
tax receipts authorized by law and required by the village ordinances. He or
she shall collect all occupation taxes and license money, except where some
other village officer is specifically charged with that duty. He or she shall
keep a register of all licenses granted in the village and the purpose for
which they have been issued.
   (H)   The Clerk shall keep in a book with a proper index, copies of all
notices required to be published or posted by the Clerk by order of the Board
of Trustees or under the ordinances of the village. To each of the file copies
of the notices shall be attached the printer's affidavit of publication, if the
notices are required to be published, or the Clerk's certificate under seal
where the same are required to be posted only.
   (I)   The Clerk shall receive all objections to creation of paving districts
and other street improvements. He or she shall receive the claims of any person
against the village, and in the event that the claim is disallowed in part or
in whole, the Clerk shall notify the claimant or his or her agent or attorney
by letter within five days after the disallowance, and the Clerk shall then
prepare transcripts on appeals of any disallowance of a claim in all proper
cases.
(Prior Code, § 1-203)  (Ord. 2021-01, passed 3-10-2021)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-605, 18-1701, 19-1102 through 19-1104,
84-712, 84-1201 through 84-1220
§ 31.18  VILLAGE TREASURER.
   (A)   (1)   The Village Treasurer shall be the custodian of all money
belonging to the village. He or she shall keep a separate account of each fund
or appropriation and the debts and credits belonging thereto. He or she shall
give every person paying money into the Treasury a receipt therefor, specifying
the date of payment and on what account paid. He or she shall also file copies
of such receipts with his or her monthly reports. The Treasurer shall, at the
end of every month, and as often as may be required, render an account to the
Board of Trustees, under oath, showing the state of the Treasury at the date of
such account and the balance of money in the Treasury. He or she shall also
accompany such accounts with a statement of all receipts and disbursements,
together with all warrants redeemed and paid by him or her, which warrants,
with any and all vouchers held by him or her, shall be filed with his or her
account in the Village Clerk's office. If the Treasurer fails to render his or
her account within 20 days after the end of the month, or by a later date
established by the Board of Trustees, the Chairperson may use this failure as
cause to remove the Treasurer from office.
      (2)   The Treasurer shall keep a record of all outstanding bonds against
the village, showing the number and amount of each bond, for and to whom the
bonds were issued, and the date upon which any bond is purchased, paid, or
canceled. The Treasurer shall accompany the annual statement submitted pursuant
to Neb. RS 19-1101 with a description of the bonds issued and sold in that year
and the terms of sale, with every item of expense thereof.
      (3)   The Treasurer shall annually complete continuing education through
a program approved by the Auditor of Public Accounts, and proof of completion
of such program shall be submitted to the Auditor of Public Accounts.
   (B)   (1)   The Treasurer shall prepare and publish annually within 60 days
after the close of the village fiscal year a statement of the receipts and
expenditures of funds of the village for the preceding fiscal year. The
statement shall also include the information required by Neb. RS 16-318(3) or
Neb. RS 17-606(2). Not more than the legal rate provided for in Neb. RS 33-141
shall be charged and paid for such publication.
      (2)   Publication shall be made in one legal newspaper of general
circulation in the village. If no legal newspaper is published in the village,
then such publication shall be made in one legal newspaper published or of
general circulation within the county in which the village is located.
   (C)   (1)   All warrants upon the Treasurer shall be paid in the order of
their presentation therefor and as otherwise provided in Neb. RS 77-2201
through 77-2215.
      (2)   The Treasurer shall keep a warrant register, which register shall
show in columns arranged for that purpose the number, the date, and the amount
of each warrant presented and registered, the particular fund upon which the
same is drawn, the date of presentation, the name and address of the person in
whose name the warrant is registered, the date of payment, the amount of
interest, and the total amount paid thereon, with the date when notice to the
person in whose name such warrant is registered is mailed.
      (3)   The Treasurer shall make duplicate receipts for all sums which
shall be paid into his or her office, which receipts shall show the source from
which such funds are derived, and shall, by distinct lines and columns, show
the amount received to the credit of each separate fund, and whether the same
was paid in cash, in warrants, or otherwise. The Treasurer shall deliver one of
the duplicates to the person making the payment and retain the other in his or
her office.
      (4)   The Treasurer shall daily, as money is received, foot the several
columns of the cash book and of the register, and carry the amounts forward,
and at the close of each year, in case the amount of money received by the
Treasurer is insufficient to pay the warrants registered, he or she shall close
the account for that year in the register and shall carry forward the excess.
      (5)   The cash book, register, and retained receipts of the Treasurer
shall at all times be open to the inspection of any person in whose name any
warrants are registered and unpaid.
   (D)   The Treasurer shall permit any person to examine and copy the public
records in the Treasurer's custody, and may charge a fee for providing copies
of a public record, as provided in Neb. RS 84-712 through 84-712.09.
   (E)   The Treasurer shall keep all money belonging to the village separate
and distinct from his or her own money. He or she shall cancel all bonds,
coupons, warrants, and other evidences of debt against the village, whenever
paid by him or her, by writing or stamping on the face thereof, "Paid by the
Village Treasurer," with the date of payment written or stamped thereon. He or
she shall collect all special taxes, allocate special assessments to the
several owners, and obtain from the County Treasurer a monthly report as to the
collection of delinquent taxes.
(Ord. 2021-01, passed 3-10-2021)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-606 through 17-609, 19-1101, 19-1103, 77-
2201, 77-2202, 77-2209, 77-2210, 77-2212, 84-712
§ 31.19  SPECIAL ENGINEER.
   The governing body may employ a Special Engineer to make any particular
estimate, survey or other work. The Special Engineer shall make a record of the
minutes of his or her surveys and all other work done for the municipality. He
or she shall, when directed by the governing body, accurately make all plats,
sections, profiles and maps as may be necessary in the judgment of the
governing body. He or she shall, upon request of the governing body, make
estimates of the costs of labor and material which may be done or furnished by
contract with the municipality and make all surveys, estimates and calculations
necessary for the establishment of grades, bridges or culverts and for the
building, constructing or repairing of any public improvement of the
municipality. All records of the Engineer shall be public records which shall
belong to the municipality and shall be turned over to his or her successor. He
or she shall when directed by the governing body inspect all works of public
improvement and, if found to be properly done, shall accept the same and report
his or her acceptance to the governing body. He or she shall estimate the cost
of all proposed municipal utilities and public improvements, together with any
extensions thereof which the governing body may propose to construct or
improve.
(Prior Code, § 1-207)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-568, 17-919, 18-3301
§ 31.20  UTILITIES  SUPERINTENDENT.
   (A)   General. A Utilities Superintendent shall be appointed in the event
that there is more than one municipal utility and the governing body determines
that it is in the best interest of the municipality to appoint one official to
have the immediate control over all the said municipal utilities and municipal
streets. The Utilities Superintendent may be removed at any time by a majority
vote of the governing body. Any vacancy occurring in the said office by death,
resignation or removal may be filled in the manner herein provided for the
appointment of all municipal officials. The Utilities Superintendent’s duties
over the following departments shall be as stated herein.
   (B)   Water Department. He or she shall have general supervision and control
over the municipal water system and shall be primarily responsible for its
economic operation and prudent management. Included in the said water system
shall be the water plant, the pump house, all machinery and appliances used in
connection with producing and distributing water to inhabitants of the
municipality. All actions, decisions and procedures of the Utilities
Superintendent shall be subject to the general directives and control of the
governing body. The Utilities Superintendent shall have the general control and
supervisory authority over all employees of the water system which the
governing body may from time to time hire to operate and maintain the said
system. Unless some other official is specifically designated, he or she shall
collect all money received by the municipality on account of the said system of
water works and shall faithfully account for and pay over to the Municipal
Treasurer all such money collected in the name of the municipality and receive
a receipt from the Municipal Treasurer for the depository evidence of his or
her faithful discharge of this duty. This receipt shall be kept by the
Superintendent. He or she shall make a detailed report to the governing body at
least once every six months of the condition of the said water system of all
mains, pipes, hydrants, reservoirs and machinery and such improvements, repairs
and extension thereof as he or she may think proper. This report shall show the
amount of receipts and expenditures on account thereof for the preceding six
months. No money shall be expended for improvements, repairs, extensions of the
said waterworks system, except upon the recommendation of the Superintendent.
The Utilities Superintendent shall provide a bond conditioned upon the faithful
discharge of his or her duties which shall amount to not less than the amount
set by resolution of the governing body and on file in the office of the
Municipal Clerk. He or she shall perform such additional duties as may be
prescribed by the governing body.
   (C)   Sewer Department. He or she shall have general supervision and control
over the municipal sewer system and shall be primarily responsible for its
economic operation and prudent management. All actions, decisions and
procedures of the Utilities Superintendent shall be subject to the general
directives and control of the governing body. The Utilities Superintendent
shall have the general control and supervisory authority over all employees of
the sewer system which the governing body may from time to time hire to operate
and maintain the said system. Unless some other official is specifically
designated, he or she shall collect all money received by the municipality on
account of the said system of sewer works and shall faithfully account for and
pay over to the Municipal Treasurer all such money collected in the name of the
municipality and receive a receipt from the Municipal Treasurer for the
depository evidence of his or her faithful discharge of this duty. This receipt
shall be kept by the Superintendent. He or she shall make a detailed report to
the governing body at least once every six months of the condition of the said
sewer system of all mains, pipes, treatment facilities and machinery and such
improvements, repairs and extension thereof as he or she may think proper. This
report shall show the amount of receipts and expenditures on account thereof
for the preceding six months. No money shall be expended for improvements,
repairs, extensions of the said sewer works system, except upon the
recommendation of the Superintendent. The Utilities Superintendent shall
provide a bond conditioned upon the faithful discharge of his or her duties
which shall amount to not less than the amount set by resolution of the
governing body and on file in the office of the Municipal Clerk. He or she
shall perform such additional duties as may be prescribed by the governing
body.
   (D)   Street Department. The Utilities Superintendent shall, subject to the
orders and directives of the governing body, have general charge, direction and
control of all work on the streets, sidewalks, culverts, alleys and bridges of
the municipality and shall perform such other duties as the governing body may
require. It shall be his or her responsibility to see that gutters and drains
therein function properly and that the same are kept in good repair. He or she
shall, at the request of the governing body, make a detailed report to the
governing body on the condition of the streets, sidewalks, culverts, alleys and
bridges of the municipalities and shall direct his or her attention to such
improvements, repairs, extensions, additions and additional employees as he or
she may believe are needed to maintain a satisfactory street system in the
municipality along with an estimate of the cost thereof. He or she shall have
other duties as the governing body may direct.
   (E)   Park Department. The Utilities Superintendent shall have general
supervision and control over the Park Department and shall be primarily
responsible for its economic operation and prudent management. All actions,
decisions and procedures of the Utilities Superintendent shall be subject to
the general directives and control of the governing body. The Utilities
Superintendent shall have general control and supervisory control over all
employees of the Park Department, which the governing body may from time to
time hire to operate and maintain said system. He or she shall make a detailed
report to the governing body prior to budget time and following the end of the
park season.
(Prior Code, § 1-208)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-119, 17-541, 17-543
§ 31.21  MUNICIPAL ATTORNEY.
   The Municipal Attorney is the municipality’s legal advisor and, as such, he
or she shall commence, prosecute and defend all suits on behalf of the
municipality. When requested by the governing body, he or she shall attend
meetings of the governing body and shall advise any municipal official in all
matters of law in which the interests of the municipality may be involved. He
or she shall draft such ordinances, bonds, contracts and other writings as may
be required in the administration of the affairs of the municipality. He or she
shall examine all bonds, contracts and other writings as may be required in the
administration of the affairs of the municipality. He or she shall examine all
bonds, contracts and documents on which the governing body will be required to
act and attach thereto a brief statement in writing to all such instruments and
documents as to whether or not the document is in legal and proper form. He or
she shall prepare complaints, attend and prosecute violations of the municipal
ordinances when directed to do so by the governing body. Without direction, he
or she shall appear and prosecute all cases for violation of the municipal
ordinances that have been appealed to and are pending in any higher court. He
or she shall also examine when requested to do so by the governing body the
ordinance records.
(Prior Code, § 1-209)
MEETINGS OF PUBLIC BODIES
§ 31.35  DEFINITION.
   MEETINGS, as used in this subchapter, shall mean all regular, special or
called meetings of a public body for the purposes of briefing, discussion or
public business, formation of tentative policy or the taking of any formal
action.
(Prior Code, § 1-501)
§ 31.36  “PUBLIC BODY” DEFINED.
   (A)   PUBLIC BODY, as used in this subchapter, shall mean:
      (1)   The governing body of the municipality;
      (2)   All independent boards, commissions, bureaus, committees, 
councils, subunits or any other bodies now or hereafter created by
Constitution, statute or otherwise pursuant to law; and
      (3)   Advisory committees of the bodies listed above.
   (B)   This subchapter shall not apply to subcommittees of such bodies unless
a quorum of the public body attends a subcommittee meeting or unless such
subcommittees are holding hearings, making policy or taking formal action on
behalf of their parent bodies.
(Prior Code, § 1-502)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 84-1409(1)
§ 31.37  OPEN TO PUBLIC; NOTICE; AGENDA.
   (A)   The formation of public policy is public business and may not be
conducted in secret. Every meeting of a public body shall be open to the public
in order that citizens may exercise their democratic privilege of attending and
speaking at meetings of public bodies, except as otherwise provided by the
Constitution of Nebraska, federal statutes, and the Open Meetings Act.
   (B)   (1)   Each public body shall give reasonable advance publicized notice
of the time and place of each meeting as provided in division (B)(2) of this
section. The notice shall be transmitted to all members of the public body and
to the public.
      (2)   The notice shall be published by:
         (a)   Publication in a newspaper of general circulation within the
public body's jurisdiction and, if available, on such newspaper's web site; or
         (b)   Posting written notice in three conspicuous public places in the
village. The notice shall be posted in the same three places for each meeting.
      (3)   In addition to a method of notice required by division (B)(2) of
this section, the notice shall also be provided by any other appropriate method
designated by the public body.
      (4)   Each public body shall record the methods and dates of the notice
in its minutes.
      (5)   The notice shall contain an agenda of subjects known at the time of
the publicized notice or a statement that the agenda, which shall be kept
continually current, is readily available for public inspection at the office
of the public body during normal business hours. Agenda items shall be
sufficiently descriptive to give the public reasonable notice of the matters to
be considered at the meeting. Except for items of an emergency nature, the
agenda shall not be altered later than 24 hours before the scheduled
commencement of the meeting or 48 hours before the scheduled commencement of a
meeting of the Board of Trustees scheduled outside the corporate limits of the
village. The public body shall have the right to modify the agenda to include
items of an emergency nature only at such public meeting.
(Prior Code, § 1-503)  (Ord. 2021-01, passed 3-10-2021)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 84-1408 through 84-1413
§ 31.38  CLOSED SESSIONS.
   (A)   Any public body may hold a closed session by the affirmative vote of a
majority of its voting members if a closed session is clearly necessary for the
protection of the public interest or for the prevention of needless injury to
the reputation of an individual and if such individual has not requested a
public meeting.
   (B)   Closed sessions may be held for, but shall not be limited to, such
reasons as:
      (1)   Strategy sessions with respect to collective bargaining, real
estate purchases, pending litigation or litigation which is imminent as
evidenced by communication of a claim or threat of litigation to or by the
public body;
      (2)   Discussion regarding deployment of security personnel or devices;
      (3)   Investigate proceedings regarding allegations of criminal
misconduct; or
      (4)   Evaluation of the job performance of a person when  necessary to
prevent needless injury to the reputation of a person and if such person has
not requested a public meeting.
   (C)   Nothing in this section shall permit a closed meeting for discussion
of the appointment or election of a new member to any public body.
   (D)   The vote to hold a closed session shall be taken in open session. The
vote of each member on the question of holding a closed session, the reason for
the closed session and the time when the closed session commenced and concluded
shall be recorded in the minutes. The public body holding such a closed session
shall restrict its consideration to matters during the closed portions to only
those purposes set forth in the minutes as the reason for the closed session.
The meeting shall be reconvened in open session before any formal action may be
taken. For purpose of this section, FORMAL ACTION shall mean collective
decision or a collective commitment or promise to make a decision on any
question, motion, proposal, resolution, order or ordinance or formation of a
position or policy.
   (E)   (1)   Any member of any public body shall have the right to challenge
the continuation of a closed session if the member determines that the session
has exceeded the reason stated in the original motion to hold a closed session
or if the member contends that the closed session is neither clearly necessary
for:
         (a)   The protection of the public interest; or
         (b)   The prevention of needless injury to the reputation of an
individual.
      (2)   Such challenge shall be overruled only by a majority vote of the
members of the public body. Such challenge and its disposition shall be
recorded in the minutes.
   (F)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to require that any meeting
be closed to the public. No person or public body shall fail to invite a
portion of its members to a meeting and no public body shall designate itself a
subcommittee of the whole body for the purpose of circumventing the provisions
of this subchapter. No closed session, informal meeting, chance meeting, social
gathering or electronic communication be used for the purpose of circumventing
the provisions of this subchapter. The provision of this subchapter shall not
apply to chance meetings, or attendance at or travel to conventions or
workshops of members of a public body at which there is no meeting of the body
then intentionally convened and there is no vote or other action taken
regarding any matter over which the public body has supervision, control,
jurisdiction or advisory power.
(Prior Code, § 1-504)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 84-1410
§ 31.39  EMERGENCY MEETINGS.
   When it is necessary to hold an emergency meeting without reasonable advance
public notice, the nature of the emergency shall be stated in the minutes and
any formal action taken in such meeting shall pertain only to the emergency.
Such emergency meetings may be held by means of electronic or telecommunication
equipment. The provisions of §
31.42 of this chapter shall be complied with in conducting emergency meetings.
(Prior Code, § 1-505)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 84-1411
§ 31.40  MINUTES.
   Each public body shall keep minutes of all meetings showing the time, place,
members present and absent and the substance of all matters discussed. The
minutes shall be public records and open to public inspection during normal
business hours. Minutes shall be written and available for inspection within
ten working days or prior to the next convened meeting, whichever occurs
earlier.
(Prior Code, § 1-506)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 84-1413
§ 31.41  VOTES.
   (A)   Any action taken on any question or motion duly moved and seconded
shall be by roll call vote of the public body in open session and record shall
state how each member voted or if the member was absent or not voting.
   (B)   The vote to elect leadership within a public body may be taken by
secret ballot, but the total number of votes for each candidate shall be
recorded in the minutes.
(Prior Code, § 1-507)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 84-1413
§ 31.42  NOTICE TO NEWS MEDIA.
   The Municipal Clerk, Secretary or other designee of each public body shall
maintain a list of the news media requesting notification of meetings and shall
make reasonable efforts to provide advance notification to them of the time and
place of each meeting and the subjects to be discussed at that meeting.
(Prior Code, § 1-508)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 84-1411
§ 31.43  PUBLIC PARTICIPATION.
   (A)   Subject to the provisions of this subchapter, the public shall have
the right to attend and the right to speak at meetings of public bodies and all
or any part of a meeting of a public body, except for closed meetings called
pursuant to this subchapter may be videotaped, televised, photographed,
broadcast or recorded by any person in attendance by means of a tape recorder,
camera, video equipment or any other means of pictorial or sonic reproduction
or in writing.
   (B)   (1)   It shall not be a violation of this section for any public body
to make and enforce reasonable rules and regulations regarding the conduct of
persons attending, speaking at, videotaping, televising, photographing,
broadcasting or recording its meetings. A body is not required to allow
citizens to speak at each meeting, nor may it forbid public participation at
all meetings.
      (2)   No public body shall require members of the public to identify
themselves as a condition for admission to the meeting. The body may require
any member of the public desiring to address the body to identify himself or
herself. No public body for the purposes of circumventing the provisions of
this subchapter hold a meeting in a place known by the body to be to small to
accommodate the anticipated audience. No public body shall be deemed in
violation of this section if it holds its meetings in its traditional meeting
place which is located in the state.
      (3)   An agency which contracts with municipalities outside the state may
hold meetings of any committee outside the state if such meetings are held only
in such contracting municipalities.
      (4)   Final action on any agenda item shall only be taken by the agency
at a meeting in the state, which meeting shall comply with Neb. RS 84-1408 to
84-1414.
      (5)   The public body shall, upon request, make a reasonable effort to
accommodate the public’s right to hear the discussion and testimony presented
at the meeting. Public bodies shall make available at the meeting, for
examination and copying by members of the public, at least one copy of all
reproducible written material to be discussed at an open meeting.
(Prior Code, § 1-509)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 84-1412
§ 31.44  GOVERNING BODY’S MEETINGS.
   (A)   Generally. The meetings of the governing body shall be held in the
meeting place of the municipality. Regular meetings shall be held on the second
Wednesday of each month at the hour of 7:00 p.m. Special meetings may be called
by the Board Chairperson or by a majority of the governing body, the object of
which shall be submitted to the governing body members in writing. The call and
object, as well as the disposition thereof, shall be entered upon the journal
by the Municipal Clerk. No other business shall be transacted at such meeting
unless all members of the governing body are present and consent thereto. On
filing the call for a special meeting, the Municipal Clerk shall notify the
governing body of the special meeting, stating the time and its purpose. Notice
of a special meeting need not be given to a member of the governing body who is
known to be out of the state or physically unable to be present. A majority of
the members of the governing body shall constitute a quorum for the transaction
of business, but a smaller number may adjourn from day to day and compel the
attendance of the absent members; provided that, on the request of any two
members, whether a quorum is present or not, all absent members shall be sent
for and compelled to attend. At the hour appointed for the meeting, the
Municipal Clerk shall proceed to call the roll of members and announce whether
a quorum is present. If a quorum is present, the governing body shall be called
to order by the Board Chairperson. In the absence of the Board Chairperson from
any meeting of the governing body, the Board shall have the power to appoint a
Chairperson Pro Tempore who shall exercise and have the powers and perform the
same duties as the regular Chairperson.
(Prior Code, § 1-510)
   (B)   Order of business. All meetings of the governing body shall be open to
the public. Promptly at the hour set by law on the day of each regular meeting,
the members of the governing body, the Municipal Clerk and such other municipal
officials that may be required shall take their regular stations in the meeting
place and the business of the municipality shall be taken up for consideration
and disposition in the manner prescribed by the official agenda on file at the
office of the Municipal Clerk.
(Prior Code, § 1-511)
   (C)   Change in office. The Chairperson and governing body shall meet at 7:
00 p.m., on the second Wednesday in December in each election year and the
outgoing officers and the outgoing members of the governing body shall present
their reports and, upon the old Board having completed its business, the
outgoing members of said Board shall surrender their offices to the incoming
members and the outgoing officers shall thereupon each surrender to his or her
successor in office all property, records, papers and moneys belonging to the
same.
(Prior Code, § 1-512)
   (D)   Reorganizational meeting. The newly elected Board shall convene at the
regular place of meeting on the second Wednesday of December in each election
year immediately after the prior Board adjourns and proceed to organize
themselves for the ensuing year. The Chairperson Pro Tempore shall call the
meeting to order. The Board shall then proceed to examine the credentials of
its members and other elective officers of the municipality to see that each
has been duly and properly elected and to see that such oaths and bonds have
been given as are required. After ascertaining that all members and officers
are fully qualified, the Board shall then elect one of its own body who shall
be styled as Chairperson of the governing body. The Chairperson shall then
nominate his or her candidates for appointive offices and said offices shall
hold office until their successors are duly appointed and qualified. He or she
shall then proceed with the regular order of business. It is hereby made the
duty of each and every member of the Board or of its successors in office and
of each officer hereafter elected to any office to qualify prior to the second
Wednesday in December following the election, each officer elected at the
regular municipal election shall take possession of his or her office. Each
appointive officer who is required to give bond shall qualify by filing the
required bond, approved by the governing body, in the office of the Municipal
Clerk within two weeks from the date of his or her said appointment; provided,
on said bond shall be endorsed the same oath as required of a member of the
governing body. Failure to qualify by elective or appointive officers within
the time and manner provided in this section shall and does in itself create a
vacancy in the office to which said person failing to qualify shall have been
elected or appointed.
(Prior Code, § 1-513)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-204, 17-205, 17-210
CHAPTER 32:  ORGANIZATIONS
Section
   
32.01   General appointment
   
32.02   Standing committees
   
32.03   Board of Health
   
32.04   Library Board
   
32.05   Planning Commission
   
32.06   Tree Board
§ 32.01  GENERAL APPOINTMENT.
   (A)   The governing body shall appoint members of such commissions and
boards as the governing body may by ordinance or resolution create. It shall
appoint a Board of Health.
   (B)   Members of the following boards and commissions shall be appointed or
reappointed as terms of office expire or resignations are accepted:
      (1)   Board of Health;
      (2)   Library Board;
      (3)   Tree Board;
      (4)   Planning Commission; and
      (5)   Zoning Board of Adjustment.
(Prior Code, § 2-101)
§ 32.02  STANDING COMMITTEES.
   (A)   General provisions.
      (1)   At the organizational meeting of the governing body, the
Chairperson shall appoint members of such standing committees as the governing
body may, by ordinance or resolution, create. The membership of such standing
committees may be changed at any time by the Chairperson of the Governing body.
The Chairperson of the governing body shall be a members, ex officio, of each
standing committee. The members of the standing committees shall serve a term
of office of one year unless reappointed.
      (2)   The following standing committees shall be appointed or reappointed
each year until changed by the governing body:
         (a)   Sewer and Water;
         (b)   Streets;
         (c)   Parks and Recreation; and
         (d)   West Central Nebraska Development District.
(Prior Code, § 2-201)
   (B)   Responsibilities.
      (1)   Each committee appointed shall have charge of the public facilities
assigned to their committee and shall have the power to establish rules for the
management, care and use of the same.
      (2)   All actions of the committees shall be subject to the review and
control of the governing body.
(Prior Code, § 2-202)
§ 32.03  BOARD OF HEALTH.
   (A)   Composition. The Board of Health shall be composed of three members:
the Chairperson of the governing body, who shall be the Chairperson; the
Marshal, who shall be the Secretary and Quarantine Officer; and one other
member. The third member shall be a physician when a physician is residing
permanently in the municipality or such other person as the governing body may
select.
(Prior Code, § 2-102)
   (B)   Responsibilities. The members of the Board shall serve a one-year term
of office unless reappointed and shall reorganize at the first meeting in June
of each year. It shall be the duty of the Secretary to keep the full and
correct minutes and records of all meetings and to file the same with the
Municipal Clerk where they shall be available for public inspection at any
reasonable time. The Board may be funded by the governing body from time to
time from the General Fund. A majority of the Board shall constitute a quorum
for the purpose of doing business. The Board shall meet at such times as the
governing body may designate. Special meetings may be held upon the call of the
Chairperson or any two members of the Board. It shall be the duty of the Board
to enact rules and regulations which shall have the full force and effect of
the law, to safeguard the health of the residents of the municipality. The
Board shall enforce the rules and regulations and provide fines and punishments
for any violations thereof. It may regulate, suppress and prevent the
occurrence of nuisances and shall actively enforce all laws of the matters of
sanitation’s which affect the health and safety of the people. The Board shall
regularly inspect such premises and businesses as the governing body may
direct. All actions of the Board shall be subject to the review and supervision
of the governing body. The Board shall be responsible for making such reports
and performing such other duties as the governing body may designate. No member
of the Board of Health shall hold more than one Board of Health position.
(Prior Code, § 2-103)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-208
§ 32.04  LIBRARY BOARD.
   (A)   The Library Board shall be appointed by the Chairperson of the Board
of Trustees with the advise and consent of the Board of Trustees. The nominated
members must receive a majority vote of the governing body. The Board shall
consist of five members. The members of the Library Board shall serve without
compensation and may be required, in the discretion of the governing body, to
give a bond in a sum set by resolution of the governing body, and conditioned
upon the faithful performance of their duties. At the time of the Board’s first
meeting in July of each year, the Board shall organize by selecting from its
number a Chairperson and Secretary. It shall be the duty of the Secretary to
keep the full and correct minutes and records of all meetings, and to file the
same with the Municipal Clerk where they shall be available for public
inspection at any reasonable time. A majority of the Board members shall
constitute a quorum for the transaction of business. The Library Board shall
meet at such times as the Board may designate. Special meetings may be held
upon the call of the Chairperson, or any three members of the Board. The
Library Board shall have the authority to appoint a Librarian and all other
employees. It shall be the duty of the Board to have general charge of the
Municipal Library and to establish appropriate rules and regulations for the
management, operation and use of the same. The Board shall have supervisory
authority over all employees of the library including the Librarian. All
actions of the Board shall be subject to the review and supervision of the
governing body. The Board shall be responsible for making such reports and
performing such additional duties as the governing body may designate from time
to time.
   (B)   No member of the body shall serve as a member of the Library Board
while serving a term of office as a member of the governing body. No member of
the Library Board shall serve in the capacity of both Chairperson and Secretary
of the Board.
(Prior Code, § 2-104)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 51-201 to 51-220
§ 32.05  PLANNING COMMISSION.
   (A)   (1)   If the Board of Trustees adopts zoning or other regulations
pursuant to Neb. RS 19-901 et seq., the Planning Commission shall consist of
five, seven, or nine regular members, as specified by the Board of Trustees by
ordinance, who shall represent, insofar as is possible, the different
professions or occupations in the village and shall be appointed by the
Chairperson of the Board of Trustees by and with the approval of a majority
vote of the members elected to the Board. Two of the regular members may be
residents of the area over which the village is authorized to exercise
extraterritorial zoning and subdivision regulation. When there are 200
residents in the area over which the village exercises extraterritorial zoning
and subdivision regulation, one regular member of the Commission shall be a
resident from such area. If it is determined by the Board of Trustees that 200
residents reside in the area subject to extraterritorial zoning or subdivision
regulation, and no such resident is a regular member of the Commission, the
first available vacancy on the Commission shall be filled by the appointment of
such an individual. A number of Commissioners equal to a majority of the number
of regular members appointed to the Commission shall constitute a quorum for
the transaction of any business. All regular members of the Commission shall
serve without compensation. The term of each regular member shall be three
years, except that one-third or fewer of the regular members of the first
Commission to be so appointed shall serve for terms of one year, one-third or
fewer for terms of two years, and the remaining members for terms of three
years. All regular members shall hold office until their successors are
appointed. Any member may, after a public hearing before the Board of Trustees,
be removed by the Chairperson of the Board with the consent of a majority vote
of the members elected to the Board for inefficiency, neglect of duty, or
malfeasance in office or other good and sufficient cause. Vacancies occurring
otherwise than through the expiration of term shall be filled for the unexpired
portion of the term by the Chairperson of the Board.
      (2)   The Chairperson of the Board of Trustees may, with the approval of
a majority vote of the elected members of the Board, appoint one alternate
member to the Planning Commission. The alternate member shall serve without
compensation and shall hold no other village office. The term of the alternate
member shall be three years, and he or she shall hold office until his or her
successor is appointed and approved. The alternate member may be removed from
office in the same manner as a regular member. If the alternate member position
becomes vacant other than through the expiration of the term, the vacancy shall
be filled for the unexpired portion of the term by the Chairperson of the Board
with the approval of a majority vote of the elected members of the Board. The
alternate member may attend any meeting and may serve as a voting and
participating member of the Commission at any time when less than the full
number of regular Commission members is present and capable of voting.
      (3)   A regular or alternate member of the Planning Commission may hold
any other municipal office except a member of the Village Board of Trustees, a
member of any community redevelopment authority or limited community
redevelopment authority created under Neb. RS 18-2102.01, or a member of any
citizen advisory review committee created under Neb. RS 18-2715.
   (B)   The Commission shall elect its Chairperson from its members and create
and fill such other of its offices as it may determine. The term of the
Chairperson shall be one year, and he or she shall be eligible for reelection.
The Commission shall hold at least one regular meeting in each calendar
quarter, except as provided in this section. The Board of Trustees may require
the Commission to meet more frequently and the Chairperson of the Commission
may call for a meeting when necessary to deal with business pending before the
Commission. If no business is pending before the Commission, the Chairperson
may cancel a quarterly meeting, but no more than three quarterly meetings may
be cancelled per calendar year. The Commission shall adopt rules and
regulations for the transaction of business and shall keep a record of its
resolutions, transactions, findings, and determinations, which shall be a
public record.
   (C)   No member of the Commission shall serve in the capacity of both the
Chairperson and Secretary of the Commission. The Secretary shall keep the full
and correct minutes and records of all meetings and file them with the Village
Clerk where they shall be available for public inspection during office hours.
   (D)   The Board of Trustees may provide the funds, equipment, and
accommodations necessary for the work of the Commission, but the expenditures
of the Commission, exclusive of gifts, shall be within the amounts appropriated
for that purpose by the Board; and no expenditures nor agreements for
expenditures shall be valid in excess of such amounts.
   (E)   (1)   (a)   Except as provided in Neb. RS 19-930 to 19-933, the
Planning Commission shall:
            1.   Make and adopt plans for the physical development of the
village, including any areas outside its boundaries which in the Commission's
judgment bear relation to the planning of such village and including a
comprehensive development plan as defined by Neb. RS 19-903;
            2.   Prepare and adopt such implemental means as a capital
improvement program, subdivision regulations, building codes, and a zoning
ordinance in cooperation with other interested village departments; and
            3.   Consult with and advise public officials and agencies, public
utilities, civic organizations, educational institutions, and citizens with
relation to the promulgation and implementation of the Comprehensive
Development Plan and its implemental programs. The Commission may delegate
authority to any such group to conduct studies and make surveys for the
Commission, make preliminary reports on its findings, and hold public hearings
before submitting its final reports.
         (b)   The Board of Trustees shall not take final action on matters
relating to the Comprehensive Development Plan, capital improvements, building
codes, subdivision development, the annexation of territory, or zoning until it
has received the recommendation of the Planning Commission, provided that the
Planning Commission shall make its recommendation so that it is received by the
Board of Trustees within 60 days after the Commission begins consideration of a
matter or within such other number of days as the Board of Trustees has set by
ordinance.
         (c)   A recommendation from the Planning Commission shall not be
required for subdivision of existing lots and blocks whenever all required
public improvements have been installed, no new dedication of public rights-of-
way or easements is involved, and such subdivision complies with the ordinance
requirements concerning minimum areas and dimensions of such lots and blocks,
if the Board of Trustees has designated, by ordinance, an agent pursuant to
Neb. RS 19-916.
      (2)   (a)   The Commission may, with the consent of the Board of
Trustees, in its own name:
            1.   Make and enter into contracts with public or private bodies;
            2.   Receive contributions, bequests, gifts, or grant funds from
public or private sources;
            3.   Expend the funds appropriated to it by the village;
            4.   Employ agents and employees; and
            5.   Acquire, hold, and dispose of property.
         (b)   The Commission may on its own authority make arrangements
consistent with its program, conduct or sponsor special studies or planning
work for any public body or appropriate agency, receive grants, remuneration,
or reimbursement for such studies or work, and at its public hearings, summon
witnesses, administer oaths, and compel the giving of testimony.
      (3)   (a)   The Commission may grant conditional uses or special
exceptions to property owners for the use of their property if the Board of
Trustees has, through a zoning ordinance or special ordinance, generally
authorized the Commission to exercise such powers and has approved the
standards and procedures adopted by the Commission for equitably and
judiciously granting such conditional uses or special exceptions. The granting
of a conditional use permit or special exception shall only allow property
owners to put their property to a special use if it is among those uses
specifically identified in the zoning ordinance as classifications of uses
which may require special conditions or requirements to be met by the owners
before a use permit or building permit is authorized.
         (b)   The power to grant conditional uses or special exceptions shall
be the exclusive authority of the Commission, except that the Board of Trustees
may choose to retain for itself the power to grant conditional uses or special
exceptions for those classifications of uses specified in the zoning ordinance.
The Board may exercise such power if it has formally adopted standards and
procedures for granting such conditional uses or special exceptions in a manner
that is equitable and will promote the public interest.
         (c)   An appeal of a decision by the Commission or Board regarding a
conditional use or special exception shall be made to the District Court.
(Prior Code, § 2-109)  (Ord. 2021-01, passed 3-10-2021)
Cross-reference:
   Local legislation regarding Planning Commission, see Chapter 153
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 19-925 through 19-933
§ 32.06  TREE BOARD.
   A Tree Board shall be appointed by the Chairperson, with the consent of the
Village Board. The Tree Board shall consist of four members who shall be
residents of the village. The members of the Tree Board shall serve a four-year
term of office, and the terms of the initial Board shall be staggered upon
appointment. The Board shall serve without compensation and may be required, in
the discretion of the governing body, to give a bond in the sum set by
resolution of the governing body conditioned upon the faithful performance of
their duties. At the time of the Board’s first meeting in January of each year,
the Board shall organize by selecting from its number a Chairperson and
Secretary. It shall be the duty of the Secretary to keep the full and correct
minutes and records of all meetings and shall file the same with the Village
Clerk where they shall be available for public inspection at any reasonable
time. A majority of the Board members shall constitute a quorum for the
transaction of business. The Board shall meet at such times as the governing
body may designate. Special meetings may be held upon the call of the
Chairperson or any three members of the Board. The Board shall, with consent of
the governing body, appoint a forester and have other employees. It shall be
the duty of the Board to have the general charge of the inspection, planting,
preservation and condemnation of all trees within the municipality. The Board
shall establish a planting program for the enhancement and beautification of
all public ways. The Board shall have supervisory authority over all employees
of the Board. All actions of the Board shall be subject to the review and
supervision of the governing body. The Board shall be responsible for making
such reports and such additional duties as the governing body may designate
from time to time. Any member of the governing body may serve as a member of
the Tree Board.
(Prior Code, § 2-110)
CHAPTER 33:  ELECTIONS
Section
   
33.01   General municipal elections
   
33.02   Special elections
   
33.03   Petition candidates
   
33.04   Voter qualifications
   
33.05   Caucus candidates
   
33.06   Ballots
   
33.07   Certificate of election
   
33.08   Inability to assume office
   
33.09   Recall procedure
   
33.10   Exit polls; poll watchers
§ 33.01  GENERAL MUNICIPAL ELECTIONS.
   No later than June 15 of each even-numbered year, the Village Board shall
certify to the Secretary of State, the Election Commissioner, or the County
Clerk, the name of the village, the number of officers to be elected, the
length of the terms of office, the vacancies to be filled by election and
length of remaining term, and the number of votes to be cast by a registered
voter for each office. The Secretary of State, Election Commissioner, and
County Clerk shall prescribe the forms to be used for certification to him or
her.
(Neb. RS 32-404)  (Prior Code, § 1-701)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 32-505
§ 33.02  SPECIAL ELECTIONS.
   (A)   (1)   Except as provided in Neb. RS 77-3444, any issue to be submitted
to the registered voters at a special election by the village shall be
certified by the Village Clerk to the Election Commissioner or County Clerk at
least 50 days prior to the election. A special election may be held by mail as
provided in Neb. RS 32-952 through 32-959. Any other special election under
this section shall be subject to division (B) of this section.
      (2)   In lieu of submitting the issue at a special election, the village
may submit the issue at a statewide primary or general election or at any
scheduled county election, except that no such issue shall be submitted at a
statewide election or scheduled county election unless the issue to be
submitted has been certified by the Village Clerk to the Election Commissioner
or County Clerk by March 1 for the primary election and by September 1 for the
general election.
      (3)   After the Election Commissioner or County Clerk has received the
certification of the issue to be submitted, he or she shall be responsible for
all matters relating to the submission of the issue to the registered voters,
except that the Village Clerk shall be responsible for the publication or
posting of any required special notice of the submission of the issue other
than the notice required to be given of the statewide election issues. The
Election Commissioner or County Clerk shall prepare the ballots and issue
ballots for early voting and shall also conduct the submission of the issue,
including the receiving and counting of ballots on the issue. The election
returns shall be made to the Election Commissioner or County Clerk. The ballots
shall be counted and canvassed at the same time and in the same manner as the
other ballots. Upon completion of the canvass of the vote by the County
Canvassing Board, the Election Commissioner or County Clerk shall certify the
election results to the Board of Trustees. The canvass by the County Canvassing
Board shall have the same force and effect as if made by the Board of Trustees.
   (B)   Any special election under the Election Act shall be held on the first
Tuesday following the second Monday of the selected month unless otherwise
specifically provided. No special election shall be held under the Election Act
in April, May, June, October, November, or December of an even-numbered year
unless it is held in conjunction with the statewide primary or general
election. No special election shall be held under the Election Act in September
of an even-numbered year except for a special election by a political
subdivision pursuant to Neb. RS 13-519 or Neb. RS 77-3444 to approve a property
tax levy or exceed a property tax levy limitation.
(Ord. 2021-01, passed 3-10-2021)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 32-405 and 32-559
§ 33.03  PETITION CANDIDATES.
   (A)   (1)   Any registered voter who was not a candidate in the primary
election may have his or her name placed on the general election ballot for a
partisan office by filing petitions as prescribed in this section and Neb. RS
32-621 or by nomination by political party convention or committee.
      (2)   Any candidate who was defeated in the primary election and any
registered voter who was not a candidate in the primary election may have his
or her name placed on the general election ballot if a vacancy exists on the
ballot under Neb. RS 32-625 and the candidate files for the office by petition
as prescribed in this section.
   (B)   (1)   The number of signatures of registered voters needed to place
the name of a candidate upon the non-partisan ballot for the general election
shall be at least 20% of the total vote for Governor or President of the United
States at the immediately preceding general election in the municipality.
      (2)   The number of signatures of registered voters needed to place the
name of a candidate upon the partisan ballot for the general election shall be
at least 20% of the total vote for Governor or President of the United States
at the immediately preceding general election within the municipality, not to
exceed 2,000.
   (C)   (1)   Petitions for nomination shall conform to the requirements of
Neb. RS 32-628. Petitions shall state the office to be filled and the name and
address of the candidate. Petitions for partisan office shall also indicate the
party affiliation of the candidate. Petitions shall be signed by registered
voters residing in the municipality and shall be filed with the filing officer
in the same manner as provided for candidate filing forms in Neb. RS 32-607.
      (2)   No petition for nomination shall be filed unless there is attached
thereto a receipt showing payment of the required filing fee.
      (3)   The petitions shall be filed by September 1 in the year of the
general election.
(Prior Code, § 1-704)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 32-616 through 32-618
§ 33.04  VOTER QUALIFICATIONS.
   Electors shall mean every person of the constitutionally prescribed age or
upwards who shall have the right to vote for all officers to be elected to
public office and, upon all questions and proposals, lawfully submitted to the
voters at any and all elections authorized or provided for by the Constitution
or the laws of the state, except school elections; provided, no person shall be
qualified to vote in any election unless such person shall be a resident of the
state and shall have been properly registered with the election official of the
county.
(Prior Code, § 1-705)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 32-102
§ 33.05  CAUCUS CANDIDATES.
   The governing body of the municipality may by ordinance call a caucus for
the purpose of nominating candidates for offices to be filed in the municipal
election. Such caucus shall be held at least ten days prior to the filing
deadline for such election. Notice of such caucus must be published in one
newspaper of general circulation in the municipality at least once in each of
two consecutive weeks prior to said caucus. The Municipal Clerk shall notify
the person so nominated of his or her nomination and such notification shall
take place not less than five days after the said caucus. A candidate so
nominated shall not have his or her name placed upon the ballot unless, not
more than ten days after the holding of such caucus, he or she shall have filed
with the Municipal Clerk a written statement accepting the nomination of the
caucus and shall have paid the filing fee, if any, for the office for which he
or she was nominated.
(Prior Code, § 1-706)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-601.01, 17-601.02
§ 33.06  BALLOTS.
   It shall be the duty of the County Clerk to provide printed ballots for
every general municipal election and the expense of printing and delivering the
ballots and cards of instruction shall be a charge upon the municipality.
(Prior Code, § 1-707)
Statutory reference:
   Ballots; number; printing and delivery, see Neb. RS 32-807
§ 33.07  CERTIFICATE OF ELECTION.
   After the canvass of the vote at the municipal election, the Municipal Clerk
shall prepare a certificate of election for each person whom the Canvassing
Board has declared to have received the highest vote and in the form as nearly
as possible prescribed by state law which shall be signed by the Chairperson of
the governing body under the seal of the municipality and countersigned by the
Municipal Clerk. The said certificate shall then be delivered to the persons so
elected.
(Prior Code, § 1-708)
§ 33.08  INABILITY TO ASSUME OFFICE.
   In a general election where the person who received the highest number of
votes is ineligible, disqualified, deceased or for any other reason is unable
to assume the office for which he or she was a candidate and the electorate had
reasonable notice of such disability at the time of the election, the candidate
in such election who received the next highest number of votes shall be
declared elected and shall be entitled to the certificate of election; provided
that, any candidate so declared elected received not less than 35% of the total
number of votes cast for such office in the election. If any of the
qualifications of this section are not met by the candidate to be declared
elected or reasonable notice of the winner’s ineligibility is not available to
the voters, a vacancy in such office shall be declared to exist at the time of
commencement of the term and shall be filled as prescribed by law.
(Prior Code, § 1-709)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 32-560
§ 33.09  RECALL PROCEDURE.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      FILING CLERK. The Election Commissioner or County Clerk.
   (B)   Any member of the Board of Trustees may be removed from office by
recall pursuant to this section.
   (C)   (1)   A petition demanding that the question of removing a member of
the Board of Trustees be submitted to the registered voters shall be signed by
registered voters equal in number to at least 45% of the total vote cast for
the person receiving the most votes for that office in the last general
election. The signatures shall be affixed to petition papers and shall be
considered part of the petition.
      (2)   Petition circulators shall conform to the requirements of Neb. RS
32-629 and 32-630.
      (3)   The petition papers shall be procured from the Filing Clerk. Prior
to the issuance of such petition papers, a recall petition filing form shall be
signed and filed with the Filing Clerk by at least one registered voter. Such
voter or voters shall be deemed to be the principal circulator or circulators
of the recall petition. The filing form shall state the name and office of the
Trustee sought to be removed, shall include in concise language of 60 words or
less the reason or reasons for which recall is sought, and shall request that
the Filing Clerk issue initial petition papers to the principal circulator for
circulation. The Filing Clerk shall notify the Trustee by any method specified
in Neb. RS 25-505.01 or, if notification cannot be made with reasonable
diligence by any of the methods specified in Neb. RS 25-505.01, by leaving a
copy of the filing form at the Trustee's usual place of residence and mailing a
copy by first-class mail to the Trustee's last-known address. If the Trustee
chooses, he or she may submit a defense statement in concise language of 60
words or less for inclusion on the petition. Any such defense statement shall
be submitted to the Filing Clerk within 20 days after the Trustee receives the
copy of the filing form. The Filing Clerk shall prepare the petition papers
within five business days after receipt of the defense statement. The principal
circulator or circulators shall gather the petition papers within 20 days after
being notified by the Filing Flerk that the petition papers are available. The
Filing Clerk shall notify the principal circulator or circulators that the
necessary signatures must be gathered within 30 days from the date of issuing
the petitions.
      (4)   The Filing Clerk, upon issuing the initial petition papers or any
subsequent petition papers, shall enter in a record, to be kept in his or her
office, the name of the principal circulator or circulators to whom the papers
were issued, the date of issuance, and the number of papers issued. The Filing
Clerk shall certify on the papers the name of the principal circulator or
circulators to whom the papers were issued and the date they were issued. No
petition paper shall be accepted as part of the petition unless it bears such
certificate. The principal circulator or circulators who check out petitions
from the Filing Clerk may distribute such petitions to persons who may act as
circulators of such petitions.
      (5)   Petition signers shall conform to the requirements of Neb. RS 32-
629 and 32-630. Each signer of a recall petition shall be a registered voter
and qualified by his or her place of residence to vote for the office in
question.
   (D)   Each petition paper shall conform to the requirements of Neb. RS 32-
1304.
   (E)   (1)   The principal circulator or circulators shall file, as one
instrument, all petition papers comprising a recall petition for signature
verification with the Filing Clerk within 30 days after the Filing Clerk issues
the initial petition papers to the principal circulator or circulators as
provided in division (C) of this section.
      (2)   Within 15 business days after the filing of the petition, the
Filing Clerk shall ascertain whether or not the petition is signed by the
requisite number of registered voters. No new signatures may be added after the
initial filing of the petition papers. No signatures may be removed unless the
Filing Clerk receives an affidavit signed by the person requesting his or her
signature be removed before the petitions are filed with the Filing Clerk for
signature verification. If the petition is found to be sufficient, the Filing
Clerk shall attach to the petition a certificate showing the result of such
examination. If the requisite number of signatures has not been gathered, the
Filing Clerk shall file the petition in his or her office without prejudice to
the filing of a new petition for the same purpose.
   (F)   (1)   If the recall petition is found to be sufficient, the Filing
Clerk shall notify the Trustee whose removal is sought and the Board of
Trustees that sufficient signatures have been gathered. Notification of the
Trustee may be by any method specified in Neb. RS 25-505.01 or, if notification
cannot be made with reasonable diligence by any of the methods specified in
Neb. RS 25-505.01, by leaving such notice at the Trustee's usual place of
residence and mailing a copy by first-class mail to the Trustee's last-known
address.
      (2)   The Board of Trustees shall, within 21 days after receipt of the
notification from the Filing Clerk pursuant to division (F)(1) of this section,
order an election. The date of the election shall be the first available date
that complies with Neb. RS 32-405 and that can be certified to the Election
Commissioner or County Clerk at least 50 days prior to the election, except
that if any other election is to be held in the village within 90 days after
such notification, the Board shall provide for the holding of the recall
election on the same day.
      (3)   All resignations shall be tendered as provided in Neb. RS 32-562.
If the Trustee whose removal is sought resigns before the recall election is
held, the Board may cancel the recall election if the Board notifies the
Election Commissioner or County Clerk of the cancellation at least 24 days
prior to the election, otherwise the recall election shall be held as
scheduled.
      (4)   If the Board of Trustees fails or refuses to order a recall
election within the time required, the election may be ordered by the District
Court having jurisdiction over a county in which the Trustee serves. If a
Filing Clerk is subject to a recall election, the Secretary of State shall
conduct the recall election.
   (G)   The form of the official ballot at a recall election held pursuant to
division (F) of this section shall conform to the requirements of Neb. RS 32-
1307.
   (H)   (1)   If a majority of the votes cast at a recall election are against
the removal of the Trustee named on the ballot or the election results in a
tie, the Trustee shall continue in office for the remainder of his or her term
but may be subject to further recall attempts as provided in division (I) of
this section.
      (2)   If a majority of the votes cast at a recall election are for the
removal of the Trustee named on the ballot, he or she shall, regardless of any
technical defects in the recall petition, be deemed removed from office unless
a recount is ordered. If the Trustee is deemed removed, the removal shall
result in a vacancy in the office which shall be filled as otherwise provided
in this section and Neb. RS 32-567 to 32-570 and 32-574.
      (3)   If the election results show a margin of votes equal to 1% or less
between the removal or retention of the Trustee in question, the Secretary of
State, Election Commissioner, or County Clerk shall order a recount of the
votes cast unless the Trustee files a written statement with the Filing Clerk
that he or she does not want a recount.
      (4)   If there are vacancies in the offices of one-half or more of the
members of the Board of Trustees at one time due to the recall of such members,
a special election to fill such vacancies shall be conducted as expeditiously
as possible by the Secretary of State, Election Commissioner, or County Clerk.
      (5)   No Trustee who is removed at a recall election or who resigns after
the initiation of the recall process shall be appointed to fill the vacancy
resulting from his or her removal or the removal of any other member of the
Board of Trustees during the remainder of his or her term of office.
   (I)   No recall petition filing form shall be filed against an elected
Trustee within 12 months after a recall election has failed to remove him or
her from office or within six months after the beginning of his or her term of
office or within six months prior to the incumbent filing deadline for the
office.
(Prior Code, § 1-710)  (Ord. 2021-01, passed 3-10-2021)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 32-1301 through 32-1309
§ 33.10  EXIT POLLS; POLL WATCHERS.
   (A)   No person shall conduct an exit poll, a public opinion poll, or any
other interview with voters on election day seeking to determine voter
preference within 20 feet of the entrance of any polling place or, if inside
the polling place or building, within 100 feet of any voting booth.
   (B)   (1)   No poll watcher shall interfere with any voter in the
preparation or casting of such voter's ballot or prevent any election worker
from performing the worker's duties.
      (2)   A poll watcher shall not provide assistance to a voter as described
in Neb. RS 32-918 unless selected by the voter to provide assistance as
provided in Neb. RS 32-918.
      (3)   A poll watcher shall not engage in electioneering as defined in
Neb. RS 32-1524 while engaged in observing at a polling place.
      (4)   A poll watcher shall maintain a distance of at least eight feet
from the sign-in table, the sign-in register, the polling booths, the ballot
box, and any ballots which have not been cast, except that if the polling place
is not large enough for a distance of eight feet, the judge of election shall
post a notice of the minimum distance the poll watcher must maintain from the
sign-in table, the sign-in register, the polling booths, the ballot box, and
any ballots which have not been cast. The posted notice shall be clearly
visible to the voters and shall be posted prior to the opening of the polls on
election day. The minimum distance shall not be determined to exclude a poll
watcher from being in the polling place.
(Ord. 2021-01, passed 3-10-2021)  Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 32-1525
CHAPTER 34:  ORDINANCES, INITIATIVES AND REFERENDUMS
Section
Ordinances
   
34.01   Grant of power
   
34.02   Introduction
   
34.03   Resolutions and motions
   
34.04   Style
   
34.05   Title
   
34.06   How enacted; title
   
34.07   Contracts; appointments; vote and record
   
34.08   Publication
   
34.09   Emergency ordinances
   
34.10   Amendments and revisions
Initiatives and Referendums
   
34.25   Definitions
   
34.26   Petitions and ballots
   
34.27   Petitions, forms and declaratory judgments
   
34.28   Signature sheets
   
34.29   Petitions and affidavits
   
34.30   Petitions and notifications
   
34.31   Frequency and occurrence
   
34.32   Direct vote
   
34.33   Elections
   
34.34   Ballots
   
34.35   Initiative
   
34.36   Referendum limitations
   
34.37   Referendum; passage
 
   
34.99   Penalty
ORDINANCES
§ 34.01  GRANT OF POWER.
   The governing body shall have the responsibility of making all ordinances,
bylaws, rules, regulations and resolutions not inconsistent with the laws of
the state as may be necessary and proper for maintaining the peace, good
government and welfare of the municipality and its trade, commerce and
security.
(Prior Code, § 1-601)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-505
§ 34.02  INTRODUCTION.
   Ordinances shall be introduced by members of the governing body in either of
the following ways:
   (A)   With the recognition of the Chairperson, a member of the governing
body may, in the presence  and hearing of a majority of the members elected to
the Board, read aloud the substance of his or her proposed ordinance and file a
copy of the same with the Municipal Clerk for future consideration; or
   (B)   With the recognition of the Chairperson, a member of the governing
body may present his or her proposed ordinance to the Clerk, who is in
presence, and hearing of the majority of the members elected to the Board shall
read aloud the substance of the same and shall file the same for future
consideration.
(Prior Code, § 1-602)
§ 34.03  RESOLUTIONS AND MOTIONS.
   (A)   Resolutions and motions shall be introduced in one of the methods
prescribed for the introduction of ordinances.
   (B)   After their introduction, they shall be fully and distinctly read in
the presence and hearing of majority of the members elected to the governing
body. The issue raised by said resolutions or motions shall be disposed of in
accordance with the usage of parliamentary law adopted for the guidance of the
governing body.
   (C)   A majority vote shall be required to pass any resolution or motion and
shall be by roll call vote.
(Prior Code, § 1-603)
§ 34.04  STYLE.
   The style of all municipal ordinances shall be: “Be it Ordained by the
Chairperson and the Board of Trustees of the Village of Brady, Lincoln County,
Nebraska.”
(Prior Code, § 1-604)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-613
§ 34.05  TITLE.
   No ordinance shall contain a subject not clearly expressed in its title.
(Prior Code, § 1-605)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-614
§ 34.06  HOW ENACTED; TITLE.
   (A)   All ordinances and resolutions or orders for the appropriation or
payment of money shall require for their passage or adoption the concurrence of
a majority of all members elected to the Board of Trustees.
   (B)   Ordinances of a general or permanent nature shall be read by title on
three different days unless three-fourths of the Board of Trustees vote to
suspend this requirement; except that, such requirement shall not be suspended
for any ordinance for the annexation of territory.
   (C)   In case such requirement is suspended, the ordinances shall be read by
title and then moved for final passage.
   (D)   Three-fourths of the Board of Trustees may require a reading of any
such ordinance in full before enactment under either procedure set out in this
section.
(Prior Code, § 1-606)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-614
§ 34.07  CONTRACTS; APPOINTMENTS; VOTE AND RECORD.
   (A)   On the passage or adoption of every bylaw or ordinance, and every
resolution or order to enter into a contract by the Board of Trustees, the yeas
and nays shall be recorded. To pass or adopt any bylaw, ordinance or any such
resolution or order, concurrence of a majority of the whole number of members
elected to the Board of Trustees shall be required.
   (B)   All appointments of the officers by any Trustees shall be made by viva
voce; and the concurrence of a like majority shall be required, and the names
of those, and for whom they voted, on the vote resulting in an appointment,
shall be recorded. The requirements of a roll call or viva voce vote shall be
satisfied by a village which utilizes an electronic voting device which allows
the yeas and nays of each member of the Board of Trustees to be readily seen by
the public.
(Prior Code, § 1-607)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-616
§ 34.08  PUBLICATION.
   All ordinances of a general nature shall be published one time within 15
days after they are passed in some newspaper published in the municipality or,
if no paper is published in the municipality, then by posting a written or
printed copy thereof in each of three public places in the municipality.
(Prior Code, § 1-608)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-613
§ 34.09  EMERGENCY ORDINANCES.
   (A)   In the case of riot, infectious contagious diseases or other impending
danger, failure of a public utility or other emergency requiring its immediate
operation, such ordinance shall take effect upon the proclamation of the
Chairperson of the governing body and the posting thereof in at least three of
the most public places in the municipality.
   (B)   Such emergency notice shall recite the emergency and be passed by a
three-fourths vote of the governing body and entered upon the Municipal Clerk’s
minutes.
(Prior Code, § 1-609)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-613
§ 34.10  AMENDMENTS AND REVISIONS.
   No ordinance or section thereof shall be revised or amended unless the new
ordinance contains the entire ordinance or section as revised or amended and
the ordinance or section so amended shall be repealed.
(Prior Code, § 1-610)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-614
INITIATIVES AND REFERENDUMS
§ 34.25  DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   (1)   The powers of initiative and referendum are reserved to the
qualified electors of the municipality by state law.
      (2)   This subchapter shall govern the use of initiative to enact and the
use of referendum to amend or repeal measures affecting the governance of the
municipality.
   (B)   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      CIRCULATOR. Any person who solicits signatures for an initiative or
referendum petition.
      MUNICIPAL CLERK. The Municipal Clerk or the municipal official in charge
of elections.
      GOVERNING BODY. The legislative authority of the municipality.
      MEASURE. An ordinance, charter provision or resolution which is within
the legislative authority of the governing body to pass and which is not
excluded from the operation of referendum by the exceptions in §
34.36 of this chapter.
      MUNICIPALITY. The Village of Brady, Nebraska.
      PETITION. A document authorized for circulation pursuant to §
34.26 of this chapter or any copy of such document.
      PLACE OF RESIDENCE. The street and number of the residence. If there is
no street and number for the residence, PLACE OF RESIDENCE shall mean the
mailing address.
      PROSPECTIVE PETITION. A sample document containing the information
necessary for a completed petition, including a sample signature sheet, which
has not yet been authorized for circulation.
      QUALIFIED ELECTORS. All persons registered to vote at the time the
prospective petition is filed in the jurisdiction governed or to be governed by
any measure sought to be enacted by initiative or altered or repealed by
referendum.
      RESIDENCE. The place at which a person has established his or her home,
where he or she is habitually present and to which, when he or she departs, he
or she intends to return.
      SIGNATURE SHEET. A sheet of paper which is part of a petition and which
is signed by persons wishing to support the petition effort.
(Prior Code, § 1-1101)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 18-2501 through 18-2511
§ 34.26  PETITIONS AND BALLOTS.
   (A)   (1)   Before circulating an initiative or referendum petition, the
petitioner shall file with the Municipal Clerk a prospective petition. The
Municipal Clerk shall date the prospective petition immediately upon its
receipt. The Municipal Clerk shall verify that the prospective petition is in
proper form and shall provide a ballot title for the initiative or referendum
proposal as described below. If the prospective petition is in proper form, the
Municipal Clerk shall authorize the circulation of the petition and such
authorization shall be given within three working days from the date the
prospective petition was filed. If the form of the prospective petition is
incorrect, the Municipal Clerk shall within three working days from the date
the prospective petition was filed, inform the petitioner of necessary changes
and request that those changes be made. When the requested changes have been
made and the revised prospective petition has been submitted to the Municipal
Clerk in proper form, the Municipal Clerk shall authorize the circulation of
the petition and such authorization shall be given within two working days from
the receipt of the properly revised petition.
      (2)   Verification by the Municipal Clerk that the prospective petition
is in proper form does not constitute an admission by the Municipal Clerk,
governing body or municipality that the measure is subject to referendum or
limited referendum or that the measure may be enacted by initiative.
   (B)   The ballot title of any measure to be initiated or referred shall
consist of:
      (1)   A briefly worded caption by which the measure is commonly known or
which accurately summarizes the measure;
      (2)   A briefly worded question which plainly states the purpose of the
measure and is phrased so that an affirmative response to the question
corresponds to an affirmative vote on the measure; and
      (3)   A concise and impartial statement of not more than 75 words of the
chief purpose of the measure. The ballots used when voting on an initiative or
referendum proposal shall contain the entire ballot title.
   (C)   (1)   Proposals for initiative and referendum shall be submitted on
separate ballots and the ballots shall be printed in lower case ten-point type;
except that, the caption shall be in bold face type.
      (2)   All initiative and referendum measures shall be submitted in a
nonpartisan manner without indicating or suggesting on the ballot that they
have or have not been approved or endorsed by any political party or
organization.
(Prior Code, § 1-1102)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 18-2512, 18-2513
§ 34.27  PETITIONS, FORMS AND DECLARATORY JUDGMENTS.
   (A)   The Secretary of State shall design the form to be used for initiative
and referendum petitions including signature sheets. These forms shall be made
available to the public by the Municipal Clerk and they shall serve as a guide
for individuals preparing prospective petitions. Substantial compliance with
initiative and referendum forms is required before authorization to circulate
such petition shall be granted by the Municipal Clerk pursuant to §
34.26 of this chapter. Chief petitioners or circulators preparing prospective
petitions shall be responsible for making copies of the petition for
circulation, once authorization for circulation has been granted, and each
petition presented for signature must be identical to the petition authorized
for circulation by the Municipal Clerk pursuant to §
34.26 of this chapter.
   (B)   The municipality or any chief petitioner may seek a declaratory
judgment regarding any questions arising under this subchapter as it may be
from time to time amended, including, but not limited to, determining whether a
measure is subject to referendum or limited referendum or whether a measure may
be enacted by initiative. If a chief petitioner seeks a declaratory judgment,
the municipality shall be served by personal, residence or certified mail
service upon the chief executive officer or Municipal Clerk. If the
municipality seeks a declaratory judgment, only the chief petitioner or chief
petitioners shall be required to be served. Any action brought for declaratory
judgment for purposes of determining whether a measure is subject to limited
referendum or referendum, or whether a measure may be enacted by initiative,
may be filed in the district court at any time after the filing of a referendum
or initiative petition with the Municipal Clerk for signature verification
until 40 days from the date the governing body received notification, pursuant
to §
34.30 of this chapter. If the municipality does not bring an action for
declaratory judgment to determine whether the measure is subject to limited
referendum or referendum, or whether the measure may be enacted by initiative
until after it has received notification pursuant to §
34.30 of this chapter, it shall be required to proceed with the initiative or
referendum election in accordance with the provisions of this subchapter. If
the municipality does file such an action prior to receiving notification
pursuant to §
34.30 of this chapter, it shall not be required to proceed to hold such
election until a final decision has been rendered in the action. Any action for
a declaratory judgment shall be governed generally by Neb. RS 25-21,149 to 25-
21,164; except that, only the municipality and each chief petitioner shall be
required to be made parties. The municipality, Municipal Clerk, governing body
or any of the municipality’s officers shall be entitled to rely on any order
rendered by the court in any such proceeding. Any action brought for
declaratory judgment pursuant to this section shall be given priority in
scheduling hearing and in disposition as determined by the court when an action
is brought to determine whether the measure is subject to limited referendum or
referendum or whether a measure may be enacted by initiative, a decision shall
be rendered by the court no later than five days prior to the election. The
provisions of this section relating to declaratory judgments shall not be
construed as limiting, but construed as supplemental and additional to other
rights and remedies conferred by law.
   (C)   Every petition shall contain the name and place of residence of not
more than three persons as chief petitioners or sponsors of the measure. The
chief petitioners or sponsors shall be qualified electors of the municipality
potentially affected by the initiative or referendum proposal. Every petition
shall contain the caption and ballot title required in §
34.26 of this chapter and only qualified electors shall circulate petitions.
When a special election is being requested, such fact shall be stated on every
petition.
(Prior Code, § 1-1103)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 25-510.02
§ 34.28  SIGNATURE SHEETS.
   Every signature sheet shall:
   (A)   Contain the caption required in §
34.26(A) of this chapter;
   (B)   Be part of a complete and authorized petition when presented to
potential signatories; and
   (C)   Provide space for signatories to write their names, places of
residence and the date of signing; and contain a statement that anyone
falsifying information on a signature sheet shall be subject to penalties
provided by Lawton more than 25 signatures on each signature sheet shall be
counted. In order to be valid, a signature shall be that of an individual
registered to vote at the time of signing in the jurisdiction governed or to be
governed by the measure addressed in the petition. A signature shall include
the signatory’s full name, his or her place of residence and the date of
singing. No signatory shall use ditto marks as a means of affixing his or her
place of residence or date on any petition. A wife shall not use her husband’s
Christian or given name when she signs a petition and she shall sign her own
Christian or given name along with her surname.
(Prior Code, § 1-1104)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 18-2516
§ 34.29  PETITIONS AND AFFIDAVITS.
   Included in the contents of every petition shall be an affidavit to be
signed by the circulator in the presence of a notary, which states that the
circulator is a qualified elector, that each person who signed the petition did
so in the presence of the circulator on the date indicated and that the
circulator believes that each signatory was registered to vote in the affected
jurisdiction at the time he or she signed the petition and that the circulator
believes that each signatory has stated his or her name and place of residence
correctly.
(Prior Code, § 1-1105)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 18-2517
§ 34.30  PETITIONS AND NOTIFICATIONS.
   (A)   Signed petitions shall be filed with the Municipal Clerk for signature
verification. Upon the filing of a petition and passage of a resolution by the
governing body, the municipality and the County  Clerk or Election Commissioner
of the county in which such municipality is located may by mutual agreement
provide that the County Clerk or Election Commissioner shall ascertain whether
the petition is signed by the requisite number of voters. The municipality
shall reimburse the county for any costs incurred by the County Clerk or
Election Commissioner. When the verifying official has determined that 100% of
the necessary signatures required by this subchapter have been obtained, he or
she shall notify the governing body of that fact and shall immediately forward
to the governing body a copy of the petition.
   (B)   In order for an initiative or referendum proposal to be submitted to
the governing body and the voters, the necessary signatures shall be on file
with the Municipal Clerk within six months from the date the prospective
petition was authorized for circulation. If the necessary signatures are not
obtained by such date, the petition shall be void.
(Prior Code, § 1-1106)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 18-2518
§ 34.31  FREQUENCY AND OCCURRENCE.
   (A)   The same measure either in form or in essential substance may not be
submitted to the people by initiative petition either affirmatively or
negatively more often than once every two years.
   (B)   No attempt to repeal or alter an existing measure or portion of such
measure by referendum petition may be made within two years from the last
attempt to do the same.
   (C)   Such prohibition shall apply only when the subsequent attempt to
repeal or alter is designed to accomplish the same or essentially the same
purpose as the previous attempt.
(Prior Code, § 1-1107)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 18-2519
§ 34.32  DIRECT VOTE.
   The executive officer and governing body of the municipality may at any time
by resolution provide for the submission to a direct vote of the electors of
any measure pending before it, passed by it, including an override of any veto
if necessary, or enacted by the electors under this subchapter and may provide
in such resolution that such measure shall be submitted at a special election
or the next regularly scheduled primary or general election. Immediately upon
the passage of any such resolution for submission, the Municipal Clerk shall
cause such measure to be submitted to a direct vote of the electors at the time
specified in such resolution and in the manner provided in this subchapter for
submission of measures upon proposals and petitions filed by voters. Such
matter shall become law if approved by a majority of the votes cast.
(Prior Code, § 1-1108)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 18-2520
§ 34.33  ELECTIONS.
   (A)   (1)   The Municipal Clerk shall call elections under this subchapter,
either at a special election or regularly scheduled primary or general
election. He or she shall cause notice of every such election to be printed in
one or more newspapers of general circulation in such municipality at least
once not less than 30 days prior to such election and also posted in the office
of the Municipal Clerk and in at least three conspicuous places in such
municipality at least 30 days prior to such election.
      (2)   The notice shall be substantially as follows:
 
Notice is hereby given that on Tuesday, the              day of                          , 20           , at    
(identify polling place or precinct)   of the Municipality of                                  , Nebraska, an election
will be held at which there will be submitted to the electors of the Municipality for their approval or rejection, the
following measures, propositions or issues:                                                                            
                                                                                                                (naming
measures, propositions or issues)                                                                                     
        , which election will be open at 8:00 a.m., and will continue open until 8:00 p.m., of the same day.
Dated this                day of                                    , 20             .
                                                                            Municipal Clerk
         Village of                                                    , Nebraska
 
 
   (B)   (1)   The Municipal Clerk shall make available for photocopying a copy
in pamphlet form of measures initiated or referred.
      (2)   Such notice provided in this section shall designate where such a
copy in pamphlet form may be obtained.
(Prior Code, § 1-1109)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 18-2521
§ 34.34  BALLOTS.
   All ballots for use in special elections under this subchapter shall be
prepared by the Municipal Clerk and furnished by the governing body, unless the
governing body contracts with the county for such service, and shall be in form
the same as provided by law for election of the executive officer and governing
body of such municipality. When ordinances under such sections are submitted to
the electors at a regularly scheduled primary or general election, they shall
be placed upon the official ballots as provided in this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 1-1110)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 18-2522
§ 34.35  INITIATIVE.
   (A)   The power of initiative allows citizens the right to enact measures
affecting the governance of the municipality. An initiative proposal shall not
have as its primary or sole purpose the repeal or modification of existing law,
except if such repeal or modification is ancillary to and necessary for the
adoption and effective operation of the initiative measure. An initiative shall
not be effective if the direct or indirect effect of the passage of such
initiative measure shall be to repeal or alter an existing law or portion
thereof, which is not subject to referendum or subject only to limited
referendum pursuant to §
34.36 of this chapter. Whenever an initiative petition bearing signatures equal
in number to at least 15% of the qualified electors of the municipality has
been filed with the Municipal Clerk and verified, it shall be the duty of the
governing body to consider passage of the measure contained in the petition
including an override of any veto if necessary. If the governing body fails to
pass the measure without amendment including an override of any veto if
necessary within 30 days from the date if received notification, the Municipal
Clerk shall cause the measure to be submitted to a vote of the people at the
next regularly scheduled primary or general election held within the
municipality.
   (B)   If the governing body desires to submit the measure to a vote of the
people at a special election prior to the next regularly scheduled primary or
general election held within the municipality, the governing body shall, by
resolution, direct the Municipal Clerk to cause the measure to be submitted at
a special election. Such resolution shall not be subject to referendum or
limited referendum. Whenever an initiative petition bearing signatures equal in
number to at least 20% of the qualified electors which requests that a special
election be called to submit the initiative measure to a vote of the people has
been filed with the Municipal Clerk and verified pursuant to §
34.30 of this chapter, it shall be the duty of the governing body to consider
passage of the measure contained in the petition including an override of any
veto if necessary. If the governing body fails to pass the measure without
amendment including an override of any veto if necessary within 30 days from
the date it received notification, the Municipal Clerk shall cause the measure
to be submitted to a vote of the people at a special election called for such
purpose. The date of such election shall not be less than 30, nor more than 60,
days from the date the governing body received notification pursuant to §
34.30 of this chapter. If a majority of voters voting on the initiative measure
shall vote in favor of such measure, it shall become a valid and binding
measure of the municipality 30 days after certification of the election results
unless the governing body by resolution orders an earlier effective date or the
measure itself provided for a later effective date, which resolution shall not
be subject to referendum or limited referendum. A measure passed by such method
shall not be amended or repealed, except by two-thirds majority of the members
of the governing body. No such attempt to amend or repeal shall be made within
one year from the passage of the measure by the electors.
(Prior Code, § 1-1111)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 18-2523 through 18-2526
§ 34.36  REFERENDUM LIMITATIONS.
   The power of referendum allows citizens the right to repeal or amend
existing measures or portions thereof affecting the governance of the
municipality.
   (A)   The following measures shall not be subject to referendum or limited
referendum: 
      (1)   Measures necessary to carry out contractual obligations including,
but not limited to, those relating to the issuance of or provided for in bonds,
notes, warrants or other evidences of indebtedness for projects previously
approved by a measure which was or is subject to referendum or limited 
referendum or previously approved by a measure adopted prior to the effective
date of this subchapter;
      (2)   Measures relating to any industrial development projects,
subsequent to measures giving initial approval to such projects;
      (3)   Measures adopting proposed budget statements following compliance
with procedures set forth in the state’s Budget Act, being Neb. RS 13-501 to
13-513;
      (4)   Measures relating to the immediate preservation of the public
peace, health or safety which have been designated as urgent measures by
unanimous vote of those present and voting of the governing body and approved
by its executive officer;
      (5)   Measures relating to projects for which notice has been given as 
provided for in division (D) below for which a sufficient referendum petition
was not filed within the time limit stated in such notice or which received
voter approval after the filing of such petition;
      (6)   Resolutions directing the Municipal Clerk to cause measures to be
submitted to a vote of the people at a special election as provided in division
(D) below and in §
34.37 of this chapter; and resolutions ordering an earlier effective date for
measures enacted by initiative as provided herein; and
      (7)   Measures relating to any facility or system adopted or enacted
pursuant to the Integrated Solid Waste Management Act by the municipality and
which are necessary to carry out contractual obligations provided for in
previously issued bonds, notes, warrants or other evidence of indebtedness.
   (B)   The following measures shall be subject to limited referendum;
      (1)   Measures in furtherance of a policy of the municipality or relating
to projects previously approved by a measure which was subject to referendum or
which was enacted by initiative or has been approved by the voters at an
election; except that, such measures shall not be subject to referendum or
limited referendum for a period of one year after any such policy or project
was approved at a referendum election, enacted by initiative or approved by the
voters at an election;
      (2)   Measures relating to the acquisition, construction, installation,
improvement or enlargement, including the financing or refinancing of the costs
of public ways, public property, utility systems and other capital projects and
measures giving initial approval for industrial development projects;
      (3)   Measures setting utility system rates and charges, except for
measures necessary to carry out contractual obligations provided for in
previously issued bonds, notes, warrants or other evidences of indebtedness and
pay rates and salaries for municipal employees other than the members of the
governing body and the executive officer; and
      (4)   Measures relating to any facility or system adopted or enacted
pursuant to the Integrated Solid Waste Management Act by the municipality,
except for measures necessary to carry out contractual obligations provided for
in previously issued bonds, notes, warrants or other evidence of indebtedness.
   (C)   Measures subject to limited referendum shall ordinarily take effect 30
days after their  passage by the governing body, including an override of any
veto if necessary. Referendum petitions directed at measures subject to limited
referendum shall be filed for signature verification pursuant to §
34.30 of this chapter within 30 days after such measure’s passage by the
governing body, including an override of any veto if necessary or after notice
is first published pursuant to division (D)(3) below. If the necessary number
of signatures as provided in §
34.35 of this chapter has been obtained within the time limitation, the
effectiveness of the measure shall be suspended unless approved by the voters.
   (D)   For any measure relating to the acquisition, construction,
installation, improvement or enlargement of public ways, public property,
utility systems or other capital projects, or any measure relating to any
facility or system adopted or enacted pursuant to the Integrated Solid Waste
Management Act, being Neb. RS 13-2001 to 13-2043, a municipality may exempt all
subsequent measures relating to the same project from the referendum and
limited referendum procedures provided for in this subchapter by the following
procedure:
      (1)   By holding a public hearing on the project, the time and place of
such hearing being published at least once not less than five days prior to the
date set for hearing in a newspaper of general circulation within the governing
body’s jurisdiction;
      (2)   By passage of a measure approving the project including an override
of a veto if necessary at a meeting held on any date subsequent to the date of
hearings; and
      (3)   After passage of such measure, including an override of a veto if
necessary by giving notice as follows:
         (a)   For those projects for which applicable statutes require an
ordinance or resolution of necessity creating a district or otherwise
establishing the project, notice shall be given for such project by including
either as part of such ordinance or  resolution or as part of any publicized
notice concerning such ordinance or resolution or as part of any publicized
notice concerning such ordinance or resolution a statement that the project as
described in the ordinance or resolution is subject to limited referendum for a
period of 30 days after the first publication of such notice and that after
such 30-day period, the project and measures related to it will not be subject
to any further right of referendum; and
         (b)   For projects for which applicable statutes do not require an
ordinance or resolution of  necessity, notice shall be given by publication of
a notice concerning such projects stating in general terms the nature of the
project and the Engineer’s estimate of costs of such project and stating that
the project described in the notice is subject to limited referendum for a
period of 30 days after the first publication of such notice and that after
such 30-day period, the project and measures related to it will not be subject
to any further right of referendum. The notice required by this division (D)(3)
(b) shall be published in at least one newspaper of general circulation within
the municipality and shall be published not later than 15 days after passage by
the governing body, including an override of a veto if necessary of a measure
approving the project.
      (4)   The right to hold such a hearing prior to the passage of the
measure by the governing body and give such notice after passage of such
measure by the governing body to obtain exemption for any particular project in
a manner described in this division (D) is optional and the municipality shall
not be required to hold such a hearing or give such notice for any particular
project.
   (E)   All measures, except as provided in divisions (A), (B) and (D) above,
shall be subject to the referendum procedure at any time after such measure has
been passed by the governing body including an override of a veto if necessary
or enacted by the voters by initiative.
(Prior Code, § 1-1112)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 18-2527, 18-2528
§ 34.37  REFERENDUM; PASSAGE.
   (A)   Whenever a referendum petition bearing signatures equal in number to
at least 15% of the qualified electors of the municipality has been filed with
the Municipal Clerk and verified pursuant to §
34.30 of this chapter, it shall be the duty of the governing body to reconsider
the measure or portion of such measure which is the object of the referendum.
If the governing body fails to repeal or amend the measure or portion thereof
in the manner proposed by the referendum including an override of any veto if
necessary within 30 days from the date of the governing body receives
notification pursuant to §
34.30 of this chapter, the Municipal Clerk shall cause the measure to be
submitted to a vote of the people at the next regularly scheduled primary or
general election held within the municipality. If the governing body desires to
submit the measure to a vote of the people at a special election prior to the
next regularly scheduled primary or general election held within the
municipality, the governing body shall, by resolution, direct the Municipal
Clerk to cause the measure to be submitted at a special election. Such
resolution shall not be subject to referendum or limited referendum.
   (B)   Whenever a referendum petition bearing signatures equal in number to
at least 20% of the qualified voters of the municipality which requests that a
special election be called to submit the referendum measure to a vote of the
people has been filed with the Municipal Clerk and verified, it shall be the
duty of the governing body to reconsider the measure or portion of such measure
which is the object of the referendum. If the governing body fails to repeal or
amend the measure or portion thereof in the manner proposed by the referendum
including an override of any veto if necessary, the Municipal Clerk shall cause
the measure to be submitted to a vote of the people at a special election
called for such purpose within 30 days from the date the governing body
received notification. The date of such  special election shall not be less
than 30, nor more than 60, days from the date the governing body received
notification.
   (C)   If a majority of the electors voting on the referendum measure shall
vote in favor of such measure, the law subject to the referendum shall be
repealed or amended. A measure repealed or amended by referendum shall not be
reenacted or returned to its original form, except by a two-thirds majority of
the members of the governing body. No such attempt to reenact or return the
measure to its original form shall be made within one year of the repeal or
amendment of the measure by the electors. If the referendum measure does not
receive a majority vote, the ordinance shall immediately become effective or
remain in effect.
(Prior Code, § 1-1113)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 18-2529 through 18-2531
§ 34.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   (1)   Whoever knowingly or willfully makes a false affidavit or takes
a false oath regarding the qualifications of any person to sign petitions under
Neb. RS 18-2501 through 18-2531 shall be guilty of a Class I misdemeanor with a
limit of $300 on the fine.
      (2)   Whoever falsely makes or willfully destroys a petition or any part
thereof or signs a false name thereto or signs or files any petition knowing
the same or any part thereof to be falsely made or suppresses any petition or
any part thereof which has been duly filed pursuant to Neb. RS 18-2501 through
18-2531 shall be guilty of a Class I misdemeanor with a limit of $500 on the
fine.
      (3)   Whoever signs any petition under Neb. RS 18-2501 through 18-2531
knowing that he or she is not a registered voter in the place where such
petition is made, aids or abets any other person in doing any of the acts
mentioned in this division (B), bribes or gives or pays any money or thing of
value to any person directly or indirectly to induce him or her to sign such
petition or engages in any deceptive practice intended to induce any person to
sign a petition shall be guilty of a Class I misdemeanor with a limit of $300
on the fine.
      (4)   Any Municipal Clerk who willfully refuses to comply with the
provision of Neb. RS 18-2501 through 18-2531, or who willfully causes
unreasonable delay in the execution of his or her duties under such sections,
shall be guilty of a Class I misdemeanor, but imprisonment shall not be
included as part of the punishment.
(Prior Code, § 1-1114)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 18-2532 through 18-2535
CHAPTER 35:  FISCAL MANAGEMENT
Section
   
35.01   Fiscal year
   
35.02   Proposed budget statement; hearing; adoption; certification of tax
amount
   
35.03   Adopted budget statement; filing; certification of tax amount
   
35.04   Budget procedure
   
35.05   Appropriations
   
35.06   Property tax; certification of amount
   
35.07   Extraordinary levy
   
35.08   Property tax levy; maximum; authority to exceed
   
35.09   All-purpose levy; allocation; abandonment; extraordinary levies
   
35.10   Expenditures
   
35.11   Contracts and purchases; bidding and other requirements
   
35.12   Unaudited statement of cash receipts and disbursements
   
35.13   Claims
   
35.14   Warrants
   
35.15   Funds; deposits; investments
   
35.16   Property tax levy and request; authority to set
   
35.17   Transfer of funds
   
35.18   Bond issues
   
35.19   Certificates of deposit; time deposits; conditions
   
35.20   Motor vehicle fee
   
35.21   Debt collection; authority to contract with collection agency
§ 35.01  FISCAL YEAR.
   The fiscal year of the municipality for the purposes of taxation and
appropriations shall begin October 1 each year.
(Prior Code, § 1-801)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-701
§ 35.02  PROPOSED BUDGET STATEMENT; HEARING; ADOPTION; CERTIFICATION OF TAX
AMOUNT.
   (A)   The Board of Trustees shall each year or biennial period conduct a
public hearing on its proposed budget statement. Such hearing shall be held
separately from any regularly scheduled meeting of the governing body and shall
not be limited by time. Notice of the place and time of the hearing, together
with a summary of the proposed budget statement, shall be published four
calendar days prior to the date set for hearing in a newspaper of general
circulation within the village's jurisdiction. For purposes of such notice, the
four calendar days shall include the day of publication but not the day of
hearing. When the total operating budget, not including reserves, does not
exceed $10,000 per year or $20,000 per biennial period, the proposed budget
summary may be posted at the Board of Trustees's principal headquarters. At
such hearing, the governing body shall make at least three copies of the
proposed budget statement available to the public and shall make a presentation
outlining key provisions of the proposed budget statement, including, but not
limited to, a comparison with the prior year's budget. Any member of the public
desiring to speak on the proposed budget statement shall be allowed to address
the governing body at the hearing and shall be given a reasonable amount of
time to do so.
   (B)   After the hearing, the proposed budget statement shall be adopted, or
amended and adopted as amended, and a written record shall be kept of the
hearing. The amount to be received from personal and real property taxation
shall be certified to the Levying Board after the proposed budget statement is
adopted or is amended and adopted as amended. The certification of the amount
to be received from personal and real property taxation shall specify
separately the amount to be applied to the payment of principal or interest on
bonds issued by the Board of Trustees and the amount to be received for all
other purposes.
   (C)   If the adopted budget statement reflects a change from that shown in
the published proposed budget statement, a summary of the changes shall be
published within 20 calendar days after its adoption in the manner provided in
this section, but without provision for hearing, setting forth the items
changed and the reasons for the changes.
   (D)   Upon approval by the Board of Trustees, the budget shall be filed with
the Auditor of Public Accounts. The Auditor may review the budget for errors in
mathematics, improper accounting, and noncompliance with the Nebraska Budget
Act or Neb. RS 13-518 to 13-522. If the Auditor detects such errors, he or she
shall immediately notify the Board of such errors. The Board shall correct any
such error as provided in this chapter. Warrants for the payment of
expenditures provided in the budget adopted under this section shall be valid
notwithstanding any errors or noncompliance for which the Auditor has notified
the Board.
   (E)   When a levy increase has been authorized by vote of the electors, the
adopted budget statement shall indicate the amount of the levy increase.
(Ord. 2021-01, passed 3-10-2021)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 13-506, 13-507
§ 35.03  ADOPTED BUDGET STATEMENT; FILING; CERTIFICATION OF TAX AMOUNT.
   (A)   After publication and hearing on the proposed budget statement and
within the time prescribed by law, the governing body shall file with and
certify to the levying board on or before September 20 of each year and file
with the Auditor of Public Accounts, a copy of the adopted budget statement,
together with the amount of the tax required to fund the adopted budget,
setting out separately:
      (1)   The amount to be levied for the payment of principal or interest on
bonds issued by the governing body; and
      (2)   The amount to be levied for all other purposes. Proof of
publication shall be attached to the statements.
   (B)   The governing body, in certifying the amount required, may make
allowance for delinquent taxes not exceeding 5% of the amount required plus the
actual percentage of delinquent taxes for the preceding year and for the amount
of estimated tax loss from any pending or anticipated litigation which involves
taxation and in which tax collections have been or can be withheld or escrowed
by court order. For purposes of this section, anticipated litigation shall be
limited to the anticipation of an action being filed by a taxpayer who or which
filed a similar action for a preceding year which is still pending. Except for
such allowances, the governing body shall not certify an amount of tax more
than 1% greater or lesser than the amount determined in the proposed budget
statement.
   (C)   The governing body may designate one of its members to perform any
duty or responsibility required of such body by this section.
(Prior Code, § 1-804)
§ 35.04  BUDGET PROCEDURE.
   The Manual of Instructions for City/Village: Budgets, prepared by the
Auditor of Public Accounts, State Capitol, Lincoln, Nebraska 68509, is
incorporated by reference for the purpose of proper budget preparation.
(Prior Code, § 1-805)
§ 35.05  APPROPRIATIONS.
   The governing body shall adopt a budget statement pursuant to the state’s
Budget Act, being Neb. RS 13-501 to 13-513 to be termed “The Annual
Appropriation Bill”, in which such corporate authorities may appropriate such
sums of money as may be deemed necessary to defray all necessary expenses and
liabilities of such corporation.
(Prior Code, § 1-806)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-706
§ 35.06  PROPERTY TAX; CERTIFICATION OF AMOUNT.
   The governing body shall, at the time and in the manner provided by law,
cause to be certified to the County Clerk the amount of tax to be levied upon
the taxable value of all the taxable property of the municipality which the
municipality requires for the purposes of the adopted budget statement for the
ensuing year, including all special assessments and taxes assessed as otherwise
provided. Subject to Neb. RS 77-3442, the maximum amount of tax which may be so
certified, assessed and collected shall not require a tax levy in excess of the
amounts specified in Neb. RS 17-702.
(Prior Code, § 1-807)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-702
§ 35.07  EXTRAORDINARY LEVY.
   Otherwise authorized extraordinary levies to service and pay bonded
indebtedness of the municipality and to pay judgments obtained against the
municipality may be made in addition to the all purpose levy.
(Prior Code, § 1-808)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 19-1309
§ 35.08  PROPERTY TAX LEVY; MAXIMUM; AUTHORITY TO EXCEED.
   (A)   Property tax levies for the support of the municipality for fiscal
years beginning on or after 7-1-1998 shall be limited to the amounts set forth
in this division (A), except as provided in divisions (C) and (D) below. The
municipality may levy a maximum levy of $0.45 per $100 of taxable valuation of
property subject to the levy, plus an additional $0.05 per $100 of taxable
valuation to provide financing for the municipality’s share of revenue required
under an agreement or agreements executed pursuant to the Interlocal
Cooperation Act, being Neb. RS 13-801 to 13-827. The maximum levy shall include
amounts levied to pay for sums to support a library pursuant to Neb. RS 51-201,
museum pursuant to Neb. RS 51-501, visiting community nurse, home health nurse
or home health agency pursuant to Neb. RS 71-1637 or statue, memorial or
monument pursuant to Neb. RS 80-202. Property tax levies for judgments obtained
against the municipality which require or obligate the municipality to pay such
judgment, to the extent such judgment is not paid by liability insurance
coverage of the municipality, for preexisting lease-purchase contracts approved
prior to 7-1-1998, and for bonded indebtedness approved according to law and
secured by a levy on property are not included in the levy limits established
by this division (A). The limitations on tax levies provided in this division
(A) are to include all other general or special levies provided by law.
Notwithstanding other provisions of law, the only exceptions to the limits in
this division (A) are those provided by or authorized by this division (A). Tax
levies in excess of the limitations in this section shall be considered
unauthorized levies under Neb. RS 77-1606 unless approved under divisions (C)
or (D) below.
   (B)   (1)   All city airport authorities established under the Cities
Airport Authorities Act, being Neb. RS 3-501 et seq. and community
redevelopment authorities established under the Community Development Law,
being Neb. RS 18-2101 to 18-2154 may be allocated property taxes as authorized
by law which are authorized by the municipality and are counted in the
municipality’s levy limit provided by division (A) above; except that, such
limitation shall not apply to property tax levies for preexisting lease-
purchase contracts approved prior to 7-1-1998, and for bonded indebtedness
approved according to law and secured by a levy on property. The governing body
shall review and approve or disapprove the levy requests of the political
subdivisions subject to this division (B). The governing body may approve all
or a portion of the levy request and may approve a levy request that would
allow a greater levy than that permitted by law. The levy allocated by the
municipality may be exceeded as provided in Neb. RS 77-3444. On or before
August 1, all political subdivisions subject to municipal levy authority under
this division (B) shall submit a preliminary request for levy allocation to the
governing body. The preliminary request of the political subdivision shall be
in the form of a resolution adopted by a majority vote of members present of
the political subdivisions governing body. The failure of a political
subdivision to make a preliminary request shall preclude such political
subdivision from using procedures set forth in Neb. RS 77-3444 to exceed the
final levy allocation as determined in this division (B).
      (2)   The governing body shall:
         (a)   Adopt a resolution by majority vote of members present which
determines a final allocation of levy authority to its political subdivisions;
and
         (b)   Forward a copy of such resolution to the chairperson of the
governing body of each of its political subdivisions.
      (3)   No final levy allocation shall be changed after September 1, except
by agreement between both the governing body and the governing body of the
political subdivision whose final levy allocation is at issue.
   (C)   (1)   The municipality may exceed the limits provided in division (A)
above by an amount not to exceed a maximum levy approved by a majority of
registered voters voting on the issue in a primary, general or special election
at which the issue is placed before the registered voters. A vote to exceed the
limits must be approved prior to October 10 of the fiscal year which is to be
the first to exceed the limits. The governing body may call for the submission
of the issue to the voters:
         (a)   By passing a resolution calling for exceeding the limits by a
vote of at least two-thirds of the members of the governing body and delivering
a copy of the resolution to the County Clerk or Election Commissioner of every
county which contains all or part of the municipality; or
         (b)   Upon receipt of a petition by the County Clerk or Election
Commissioner of every county containing all or part of the municipality
requesting an election signed by at least 5% of the registered voters residing
in the municipality.
      (2)   The resolution or petition shall include the amount of the levy
which would be imposed in excess of the limits provided in division (A) above
and the duration of the excess levy authority. The excess levy authority shall
not have a duration greater than five years. Any resolution or petition calling
for a special election shall be filed with the County Clerk or Election
Commissioner no later than 30 days prior to the date of the election, and the
time of the publication and providing a copy of the notice of election required
in Neb. RS 32-802 shall be no later than 20 days prior to the election. The
County Clerk or Election Commissioner shall place the issue on the ballot at an
election as called for in the resolution or petition which is at least 30 days
after receipt of the resolution of petition. The election shall be held
pursuant to the Election Act, being Neb. RS 32-101 to 32-1551. For petitions
filed with the County Clerk or Election Commissioner on or after 5-1-1998, the
petition shall be in the form as provided in Neb. RS 32-628 to 32-631 RS Neb.
Any excess levy authority approved under this subsection shall terminate
pursuant to its terms, on a vote of the governing body to terminate the
authority to levy more than the limits, at the end of the fourth fiscal year
following the first year in which the levy exceeded the limit, or as provided
in division (E) below, whichever is earliest. The governing body may pass no
more than one resolution calling for an election pursuant to this division (C)
during any one calendar year. There shall be no limit on the number of
elections held pursuant to this division (C), which are initiated by the
petition. The ballot question may include any terms and conditions set forth in
the resolution or petition and shall include the language specified in Neb. RS
77-3444. If a majority of the votes cast upon the ballot question are in favor
of such tax, the County Board shall authorize a tax in excess of the limits in
division (A) above, but such tax shall not exceed the amount stated in the
ballot question. If a majority of those voting on the ballot question are
opposed to such tax, the governing body shall not impose such tax. The County
Clerk or Election Commissioner may set a uniform date for a special election to
be held before 10-10-1998, to submit the issue of exceeding the limits provided
in Neb. RS 77-3442 or the final levy allocation as provided in Neb. RS 77-3443
to the voters of political subdivisions in the county seeking additional levy
authority. The municipality may individually or in conjunction with one or more
other political subdivisions conduct a special election on a date different
from that set by the County Clerk or Election Commissioner; except that, the
governing body shall pass a resolution calling for a special election for this
purpose and deliver a copy of the resolution to the County Clerk or Election
Commissioner no later than 30 days prior to the date of the election.
   (D)   In lieu of the election procedures in division (A) above, the
municipality may approve a levy in excess of the limits in division (A) above
for a period of one year at a meeting of the residents of the municipality at
least 20 days prior to the meeting. At least 10% of the registered voters
residing in the municipality shall constitute a quorum for purposes of taking
action to exceed the limits. If a majority of the registered voters present at
the meeting vote in favor of exceeding the limits, a copy of the record of that
action shall be forwarded to the County Board prior to October 10 and the
County Board shall authorize a levy as approved by the residents for the year.
   (E)   (1)   The municipality may rescind or modify a previously approved
excess levy authority prior to its expiration by a majority of registered
voters voting on the issue in a primary, general or special election at which
the issue is placed before the registered voters. A vote to rescind or modify
must be approved prior to October 10 of the fiscal year for which it is to be
effective. The governing body may call for the submission of the issue to the
voters:
         (a)   By passing a resolution calling for the rescission or
modification by a vote of at least two-thirds of the members of the governing
body and delivering a copy of the resolution to the County Clerk or Election
Commissioner of every county which contains all or part of the municipality; or
         (b)   Upon request of a petition by the County Clerk or Election
Commissioner of every county containing all or part of the municipality
requesting an election signed by at least 5% of the registered voters residing
in the municipality.
      (2)   The resolution or petition shall include the amount and the
duration of the previously approved excess levy authority and a statement that
either such excess levy authority will be rescinded or such excess levy
authority will be modified. If the excess levy authority will be modified, the
amount and duration of such modification shall be stated. The modification
shall not have a duration greater than five years. The County Clerk or Election
Commissioner shall place the issue on the ballot at an election as called for
in the resolution or petition which is at least 30 days after receipt of the
resolution or petition, and the time of publication and providing a copy of the
notice of election required in Neb. RS 32-802 shall be no later than 20 days
prior to the election. The election shall be held pursuant to the Election Act,
being Neb. RS 32-101 to 32-1551.
(Prior Code, § 1-809)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 77-3442 through 77-3444
§ 35.09  ALL-PURPOSE LEVY; ALLOCATION; ABANDONMENT; EXTRAORDINARY LEVIES.
   (A)   The governing body has decided to certify to the County Clerk for
collection one all-purpose levy required to be raised by taxation for all
municipal purposes instead of certifying a schedule of levies for specific
purposes added together. Subject to the limits in Neb. RS 77-3442, the all-
purpose levy shall not exceed the annual levy specified in Neb. RS 19-1309 to
be levied upon the taxable valuation of all taxable property in the
municipality.
   (B)   The amount of the all-purpose levy shall be certified as a single
amount for General Fund purposes. The governing body shall allocate the amount
raised by the all-purpose levy to the several departments of the municipality
in its annual budget and appropriation ordinance, or in other legal manner, as
the governing body deems wisest and best.
   (C)   The municipality shall be bound by its election to follow the all-
purpose levy method during the ensuing fiscal year, but may abandon such method
in succeeding fiscal years.
   (D)   Otherwise authorized extraordinary levies to service and pay bonded
indebtedness of the municipality may be made by the municipality in addition to
the all-purpose levy.
(Prior Code, § 1-810)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 19-1309 through 19-1312
§ 35.10  EXPENDITURES.
   No municipal official shall have the power to appropriate, issue or draw any
order or warrant on the Municipal Treasury for money unless the same has been
appropriated or ordered by ordinance. No expenditure for any improvement to be
paid for out of the General Fund of the municipality shall exceed in any one
year the amount provided for that improvement in the adopted budget statement.
(Prior Code, § 1-811)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-708
§ 35.11  CONTRACTS AND PURCHASES; BIDDING AND OTHER REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Except as provided in Neb. RS 18-412.01 for a contract with a public
power district to operate, renew, replace or add to the electric distribution,
transmission, or generation system of the municipality, no contract for
enlargement or general improvements, such as water extensions, sewers, public
heating system, bridges, work on streets or any other work or improvement when
the cost of such enlargement or improvement is assessed to the property,
costing over $20,000 shall be made unless it is first approved by the governing
body.
   (B)   Except as provided in Neb. RS 18-412.01, before the governing body
makes any contract in excess of $20,000 for enlargement of general
improvements, such as water extensions, sewers, public heating system, bridges,
work on streets or any other work or improvement when the cost of such
enlargement of improvement is assessed to the property, an estimate of the cost
shall be made by the Municipal Engineer and submitted to the governing body. In
advertising for bids as provided in divisions (C) and (E) below, the governing
body may publish the amount of the estimate.
   (C)   Advertisements for bids shall be required for any contract costing
over $20,000 entered into:
      (1)   For enlargement or general improvements, such as water extensions,
sewers, public heating system, bridges, work on streets or any other work or
improvement when the cost of such enlargement of improvement is assessed to the
property; or
      (2)   For the purchase of equipment used in the construction of such
enlargement or general improvements.
   (D)   A municipal electric utility may enter into a contract for the
enlargement or improvement of the electric system or for the purchase of
equipment used for such enlargement or improvement without advertising for bids
if the price is:
      (1)   Twenty thousand dollars or less;
      (2)   Forty thousand dollars or less and the municipal electric utility
has gross annual revenue from retail sales in excess of $1,000,000;
      (3)   Sixty thousand dollars or less and the municipal electric utility
has gross annual revenue from retail sales in excess of $5,000,000; or
      (4)   Eighty thousand dollars or less and the municipal electric utility
has gross annual revenue from retail sales in excess of $10,000,000.
   (E)   The advertisement provided for in division (C0 above shall be
publishes at least seven days prior to the bid closing in a legal newspaper
published in or of general circulation in the municipality and, if there is no
legal newspaper published in or of general circulation in the municipality,
then in some newspaper of general circulation published in the county in which
the municipality is located, and if there is no legal newspaper of general
circulation published in the county in which the municipality is located, then
in a newspaper designated by the County Board, having a general circulation
within the county where bids are required, and if no newspaper is published in
the municipality or county, or if no newspaper has general circulation in the
county, then by posting a written or printed copy thereof in each of three
public places in the municipality at least seven days prior to the bid closing.
In case of a public emergency resulting from infectious or contagious diseases,
destructive windstorms, floods, snow, war, or an exigency or pressing necessity
or unforeseen need calling for immediate action or remedy to prevent a serious
loss of, or serious injury or damage to life, health or property, estimates of
costs and advertising for bids may be waived in the emergency ordinance
authorized by Neb. RS 17-613, when adopted by a three-fourths vote of the
governing body and entered of record.
   (F)   If, after advertising for bids as provided in this section, the
governing body receives fewer than two bids on a contract or if the bids
received by the governing body contain a price which exceeds the estimated
cost, the governing body may negotiate a contract in an attempt to complete the
proposed enlargement or general improvements at a cost commensurate with the
estimate given.
   (G)   If the materials are of such a nature that, in the opinion of the
manufacturer and with the concurrence of the governing body, no cost can be
estimated until the materials have been manufactured or assembled to the
specific qualifications of the purchasing municipality, the governing body may
authorize the manufacture and assemblage of such materials and may thereafter
approve the estimated cost expenditure when it is proved by the manufacturer.
   (H)   Any municipal bidding procedure may be waived by the governing body:
      (1)   When materials or equipment are purchased at the same price and
from the same seller as materials or equipment which have formerly been
obtained pursuant to the state bidding procedure in Neb. RS 73-101 and 81-145
to 81-162; or
      (2)   When the contract is negotiated directly with a sheltered workshop
pursuant to Neb. RS 48-1501.
   (I)   Notwithstanding any other provisions of law or a home rule charter, a
municipality which has established, by an interlocal agreement with any county,
a joint purchasing division or agency may purchase personal property without
competitive bidding fi the price for the property has been established by the
Federal General Services Administration or the material division of the
Department of Administrative Services. For purposes of this division (I):
      (1)   PERSONAL PROPERTY includes, but is not limited to, supplies,
materials and equipment used by or furnished to any officer, office,
department, institution, board or other agency; and
      (2)   PURCHASING or PURCHASE means the obtaining of personal property by
sale, lease or other contractual means.
(Prior Code, § 1-812)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-568.01, 17-568.02, 18-1756
§ 35.12  UNAUDITED STATEMENT OF CASH RECEIPTS AND DISBURSEMENTS.
   The governing body shall cause an unaudited statement of cash receipts and
disbursements to be filed annually in lieu of an annual audit. Such unaudited
statement shall be filed with the Auditor of Public Accounts in a form
prescribed by him or her. The person preparing the unaudited statement of cash
receipts and disbursements shall submit not less than three copies of the
unaudited statement to the municipal authorities of the municipality. The
Auditor of Public Accounts may require an audit of any municipality’s account
based upon information contained in its unaudited statement and may specify the
period within which such audit must be performed. The unaudited statement of
cash receipts and disbursements shall become a part of the public records of
the Clerk of the municipality involved and shall, at all times thereafter, be
open and subject to public inspections.
(Prior Code, § 1-813)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 19-2903, 19-2905
§ 35.13  CLAIMS.
   All claims against the municipality shall be presented to the governing body
in writing with a full account of the items and no claim or demand shall be
audited or allowed unless presented as provided for in this section. No costs
shall be recovered against the municipality in any action brought against it
for an unliquidated claim which has not been presented to the governing to be
audited, nor upon claims allowed in part unless the recovery, shall be for a
greater sum than the amount allowed with the interest due. No order or warrant
shall be drawn in excess of 85% of the current levy for the purpose for which
it is drawn unless there shall be sufficient money in the Municipal Treasury
for the appropriate fund against which it is to be drawn; provided that, in the
event there exists obligated funds from the federal and/or state government for
the general purpose of such warrant, then such warrant may be drawn in excess
of 85%, but not more than 100% of the current levy for the purpose for which
said warrant is drawn.
(Prior Code, § 1-814)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-714, 17-715
§ 35.14  WARRANTS.
   All warrants drawn upon the Municipal Treasury must be signed by the
Chairperson of the Board and countersigned by the Municipal Clerk, stating the
particular fund to which the warrant is chargeable, the person to whom it is
payable and the purpose of the expenditure. No money shall be otherwise paid
than upon warrants so drawn. Each warrant shall specify the amount included in
the adapted budget statement for such fund upon which it is drawn and the
amount already expended of such fund.
(Prior Code, § 1-815)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-711
§ 35.15  FUNDS; DEPOSITS; INVESTMENTS.
   (A)   Special assessment funds. All money received on special fund to be
applied to the payment of the improvement for which the assessment was made and
such money shall be used for no other purpose unless to reimburse the
municipality for money expended for any such improvement.
(Prior Code, § 1-816)
   (B)   Sinking funds. The governing body, subject to the limitation set forth
herein, shall have the power to levy a tax not to exceed that prescribed by
state law upon the assessed value of all taxable property within the
municipality for a term not to exceed that prescribed by state law in addition
to the amount of tax which may be annually levied for the purpose of the
adopted budget statement of the municipality, for the purpose of establishing a
sinking fund for the construction, purchase, improvement, extension or repair
of the approved uses as authorized by state law. To initiate the said sinking
fund, the governing body shall declare its purpose by resolution to submit to
the qualified electors of the municipality the proposition to provide the
improvement at the next general municipal election. The resolution shall set
forth the improvement, the estimated cost, the amount of the annual levy, the
number of years required to provide the required revenue, the name of the
sinking fund proposed and the proposition shall be published in its entirety
three times on successive weeks before the day of the election in a legal
newspaper of general circulation in the municipality. The sinking fund may be
established after the election if a majority or more of the legal votes were in
favor of the establishment of the fund. The governing body may then proceed to
establish the said fund in conformity with the provisions of the proposition
and applicable state law. The funds received by the Municipal Treasurer shall,
as they accumulate, be immediately invested with the written approval of the
governing body in the manner provided by state law. No sinking fund so
established shall be used for any purpose or purposes contrary to the purpose
as it appeared on the ballot unless the governing body is authorized to do so
by 60% of the qualified electors of the municipality voting at a general
election favoring such a change in the use of the sinking fund.
(Prior Code, § 1-817)
   (C)   Deposit of funds.
      (1)   The governing body, at its first meeting in each fiscal year, shall
designate some one or more banks or capital stock financial institutions of
approved and responsible standing in which the Municipal Treasurer shall keep
at all times, subject to payment on his or her demand, all money held by him or
her as Municipal Treasurer. If there is one or more banks or capital stock
financial institutions located in the municipality which apply for the
privilege of keeping such money and give bond or give security for the
repayment of deposits as provided in this section, such banks or capital stock
financial institutions shall be selected as such depositories. The Municipal
Treasurer shall not give a preference to any one or more of them in the money
he or she may so deposit.
      (2)   (a)   The governing body shall require from all banks or capital
stock financial institutions:
            1.   A bond in such penal sum as may be the maximum amount on
deposit at any time less the amount insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance
Corporation; or, in lieu thereof
            2.   Security given as provided in the Public Funds Deposit
Security Act, being Neb. RS 77-2386 to 77-23,108 to secure the payment of all
such deposits and accretions.
         (b)   The governing body shall approve such bond or giving of
security. The Municipal Treasurer shall not be liable for any loss of any money
sustained by reason of the failure of any such depository so designated and
approved. The fact that a stockholder, director or other officer of such bank
or capital stock financial institution is also serving as a member of the
governing body or as any other officer of the municipality shall not disqualify
such bank or capital stock financial institution from acting as a depository
for such municipal funds.
      (3)   The insurance afforded to depositors in banks or capital stock
financial institutions through the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation shall
be deemed and construed to be surety bond to the extent that the deposits are
insured by such corporation. For deposits so insured, no other surety bond or
other security shall be required. The provisions of Neb. RS 77-2366 shall apply
to deposits in capital stock financial institutions.
      (4)   The Municipal Treasurer may deposit the funds received and held by
him or her, by virtue of such office, with a cooperative credit association
situated within the boundaries of the county, or a county adjoining thereto,
where the municipality is situated, if the municipality is the depositor, as
well as in a commercial state of national bank if the cooperative credit
association performs all the conditions precedent required by the laws of the
state of commercial state and national banks to qualify them to receive
deposits of such public funds. It shall not be necessary for the municipality,
in making such a deposit of public funds, to purchase shares in such
cooperative credit association or become a member thereof and such a
cooperative credit association is hereby authorized and empowered to receive
such money under such conditions.
(Prior Code, § 1-818)
   (D)   Investment of funds. Whenever the municipality has accumulated a
surplus of any fund in excess of its current needs or has accumulated a sinking
fund for the payment of its bonds and the money in such sinking fund exceeds
the amount necessary to pay the principal and interest of any such bonds which
may become due during the current year, the governing body of such municipality
may invest any surplus in certificates of deposit, in time deposits and in any
securities in which the state investment officer is authorized by law and as
provided in the authorized investment guidelines of the state’s Investment
Council in effect on the date the investment is made.
(Prior Code, § 1-819)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-607, 17-608, 17-609, 17-710, 19-1301
through 19-1304, 77-2337, 77-2341, 77-2362 through 77-2364, 77-2386 through 77-
2397
§ 35.16  PROPERTY TAX LEVY AND REQUEST; AUTHORITY TO SET.
   (A)   After publication and hearing on the proposed budget statement and
within the time prescribed by law, the governing body shall file with the
levying board on or before October 14 of each year and file with the Auditor of
Public Accounts a certified copy of any resolution passed setting a tax levy
which shall not exceed the maximum levy prescribed by state law and a statement
reconciling the levy set by the governing body with the adopted budget
statement files as otherwise required by law. The levy shall be set to fund
property tax requirements in the adopted budget to four to eight places to the
right of the decimal point. The governing body shall use the final adjusted
values as provided by the County Assessor pursuant to Neb. RS 13-509. For the
current year in setting or certifying the levy, the governing body may
designate one of its members to perform any duty of responsibility required of
such body by this division (A).
   (B)   The property tax request for the prior year shall be the property tax
request for the current year for purposes of the levy set by the County Board
of Equalization in Neb. RS 77-1601 unless the governing body passes by a
majority vote a resolution of ordinance setting the tax request at a different
amount. Such resolution or ordinance shall only be passed after a special
public hearing called for such purpose is held and after notice is published in
a newspaper of general circulation in the area of the municipality at least
five days prior to the hearing. The hearing notice shall contain the following
information: the dollar amount of the prior year’s tax request and the property
tax rate that was necessary to fund that tax request; the property tax rate
that would be necessary to fund last year’s tax request if applied to the
current year’s valuation; and the proposed dollar amount of the tax request for
the current year and the property tax rate that will be necessary to fund that
tax request. Any resolution setting a tax request under this division (B) shall
be certified and forwarded to the County Clerk prior to October 14 of the year
for which the tax request is to apply. Any tax levy which is not in compliance
with this division (B) and Neb. RS 77-1601 shall be construed as an
unauthorized levy under Neb. RS 77-1606.
(Prior Code, § 1-820)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 13-508, 77-1601.02
§ 35.17  TRANSFER OF FUNDS.
   (A)   The governing body may, whenever, during the current fiscal year, it
becomes apparent due to unforeseen emergencies that there is temporarily
insufficient money in a particular fund to meet the requirements of the adopted
budget of expenditures for that fund, by a majority vote, transfer money from
such other funds to such fund. No expenditure during any fiscal year shall be
made in excess of the amounts indicated in the adopted budget statement, except
as authorized therein.
   (B)   If, as the result of unforeseen circumstance, the revenue of the
current fiscal year shall be insufficient, the governing body may propose to
supplement the previously adopted budget statement and shall conduct a public
hearing at which time any taxpayer may appear or file a written statement
protesting the application for additional money.
   (C)   A written record shall be kept of all such hearings. Notice of a place
and time for the said hearing shall be published at least five days prior to
the date set for the hearing in a newspaper of general circulation in the
municipality. The published notice shall set forth the time and place of the
proposed hearing, the amount of additional money required, the purpose of the
required money, a statement setting forth the reasons why the adopted budget of
expenditures cannot be reduced to meet the need for additional money and a copy
of the summary of the originally adopted budget previously published. Upon the
conclusion of the public hearing on the proposed supplemental budget and the
approval by the governing body, the governing body shall file with the County
Clerk and the State Auditor a copy of the supplemental budget and shall certify
the amount of additional tax to be levied. The governing body may then issue
warrants in payment for expenditures authorized by the adopted supplemental
budget. The said warrants shall be repaid during the next fiscal year from
funds derived from taxes levied therefor.
(Prior Code, § 1-821)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 13-510, 13-511
§ 35.18  BOND ISSUES.
   (A)   The governing body may, after meeting all requirements of state law,
issue bonds, fund bonds and retire bonds for such purposes as may be permitted
by state law.
   (B)   The governing body shall have the authority to levy special
assessments for the payment of interest and principal on such bonds and may
spread the payments up to the maximum number of years permitted by state law.
(Prior Code, § 1-822)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 10-201 through 10-411, 10-601 through 10-
614, 12-1001, 17-529.01, 17-529.08, 17-534, 17-905, 17-908, 17-911, 17-939, 17-
958, 17-968, 18-1801 through 18-1805, 23-3513, 39-836
§ 35.19  CERTIFICATES OF DEPOSIT; TIME DEPOSITS; CONDITIONS.
   (A)   The Municipal Treasurer may, upon resolution of the governing body
authorizing the same, purchase certificates of deposit from and make time
deposits in any bank or capital stock financial institution in the state to the
extent that such certificates of deposit or time deposits are insured by the
Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation. Deposits may be made in excess of the
amounts so secured by the corporation, and the amount of the excess deposit
shall be secured by a bond or by security given in the manner provided in this
section. The provisions of Neb. RS 77-2366 shall apply to deposits in capital
stock financial institutions.
   (B)   For the security of the fund so deposited, the Municipal Treasurer
shall require each depository to give bond for the safekeeping and payment of
such deposits and the accretions thereof, which bond shall run to the
municipality and be approved by the Chairperson. The bond shall be conditioned
that such a depository shall, at the end of every quarter, render to the
Treasurer a statement in duplicate, showing the several daily balances, the
amount of money of the municipality held by it during the quarter, the amount
of the accretion thereto and how credited. The bond shall also be conditioned
that the depository shall generally do and perform whatever may be required by
the provisions of this section and all regulations imposed by law or adopted by
the governing body for the receiving and holding thereof and shall faithfully
discharge the trust reposed in the depository. The bond shall be nearly as
practicable in the form provided in Neb. RS 77-2304. No person in any way
connected with any depository as an officer or stockholder shall be accepted as
a surety on any bond given by the depository of which he or she is an officer
or stockholder. The bond shall be deposited with the Municipal Clerk.
   (C)   In lieu of the bond required by division (B) above, any bank or
capital stock financial institution making application to become a depository
may give security as provided in the Public Funds Deposit Security Act, being
Neb. RS 77-2386 to 77-23,108 to the Municipal Clerk. The penal sum of such bond
shall be equal to or greater that the amount of the deposit in excess of that
portion of such deposit insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation.
   (D)   The Treasurer shall not have on deposit in any bank or capital stock
financial institution at any time more than the amount insured by the Federal
Deposit Insurance Corporation, plus the maximum amount of the bond given by the
bank or capital stock financial institution if the bank or capital stock
financial institution gives a surety bond, not in any bank or capital stock
financial institution giving a personal bond, more than the amount insured by
the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, plus one-half of the amount of the
bond of such bank or capital stock financial institution, and the amount so on
deposit any time with any such bank or capital stock financial institution
shall not in either case exceed the amount insured by the Federal Deposit
Insurance Corporation, plus the paid-up capital stock and surplus of such bank
or capital stock financial institution. The Treasurer shall not be liable for
any loss sustained by reason of the failure of any such bonded depository whose
bond has been duly approved by the Chairperson as provided in division (B)
above or which has, in lieu of a surety bond, given security as provided in
division (C) above.
(Prior Code, § 1-823)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-720, 16-714 through 16-716
§ 35.20  MOTOR VEHICLE FEE.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      LIMITS OF THE VILLAGE. Includes the extraterritorial zoning jurisdiction
of the village.
      PERSON. Includes bodies corporate, societies, communities, the public
generally, individuals, partnerships, limited liability companies, joint-stock
companies, cooperatives, and associations. PERSON does not include any federal,
state, or local government or any political subdivision thereof.
   (B)   (1)   Except as otherwise provided in division (D) of this section,
the governing body of the village shall have power to require any individual
whose primary residence or person who owns a place of business which is within
the limits of the village and that owns and operates a motor vehicle within
such limits to pay an annual motor vehicle fee and to require the payment of
such fee upon the change of ownership of such vehicle. All such fees which may
be provided for under this section shall be used exclusively for constructing,
repairing, maintaining, or improving streets, roads, alleys, public ways, or
parts thereof or for the amortization of bonded indebtedness when created for
such purposes.
      (2)   To ensure compatibility with the Vehicle Title and Registration
System maintained by the Department of Motor Vehicles:
         (a)   Any village that collects the annual motor vehicle fee
authorized under this section shall use the plate types listed under Neb. RS
60-3,104 and, as applicable, weight categories listed under the Motor Vehicle
Registration Act when reporting information to the Vehicle Title and
Registration System; and
         (b)   Any village that adopts an annual motor vehicle fee under this
section or that modifies an existing motor vehicle fee shall notify the
Department of Motor Vehicles of such new or modified fee within ten business
days after the passage of the ordinance authorizing such new or modified fee
and at least 60 days prior to the implementation of such new or modified fee.
   (C)   No motor vehicle fee shall be required under this section if:
      (1)   A vehicle is used or stored but temporarily in the village for a
period of six months or less in a 12-month period;
      (2)   An individual does not have a primary residence or a person does
not own a place of business within the limits of the village and does not own
and operate a motor vehicle within the limits of the village; or
      (3)   An individual is a full-time student attending a postsecondary
institution within the limits of the village and the motor vehicle's situs
under the Motor Vehicle Certificate of Title Act is different from the place at
which he or she is attending such institution.
   (D)   After December 31, 2012, no motor vehicle fee shall be required of any
individual whose primary residence is or person who owns a place of business
within the extraterritorial zoning jurisdiction of the village.
   (E)   The fee shall be paid to the County Treasurer of the county in which
the village is located when the registration fees as provided in the Motor
Vehicle Registration Act are paid. These fees shall be credited by the County
Treasurer to the road fund of the village.
(Ord. 2021-02, passed 4-14-2021)
Statutory reference:
   Motor Vehicle Registration Act, see Neb. RS 60-301
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 18-1214
§ 35.21  DEBT COLLECTION; AUTHORITY TO CONTRACT WITH COLLECTION AGENCY.
   (A)   The village may contract to retain a collection agency licensed
pursuant to the Collection Agency Act, within or without this state, for the
purpose of collecting public debts owed by any person to the village.
   (B)   No debt owed pursuant to division (A) of this section may be assigned
to a collection agency unless:
      (1)   There has been an attempt to advise the debtor by first-class mail,
postage prepaid, at the last known address of the debtor:
         (a)   Of the existence of the debt; and
         (b)   That the debt may be assigned to a collection agency for
collection if the debt is not paid; and
      (2)   At least 30 days have elapsed from the time the notice was sent.
   (C)   A collection agency which is assigned a debt under this section shall
have only those remedies and powers which would be available to it as an
assignee of a private creditor.
   (D)   For purposes of this section, debt shall include all delinquent fees
or payments except delinquent property taxes on real estate. In the case of
debt arising as a result of an order or judgment of a court in a criminal or
traffic matter, a collection fee may be added to the debt. The collection fee
shall be $25 or 4.5% of the debt, whichever is greater. The collection fee
shall be paid by the person who owes the debt directly to the person or agency
providing the collection service.
(Ord. 2021-03, passed 4-14-2021)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 45-623
CHAPTER 36:  GENERAL VILLAGE POLICIES
Section
   
36.01   Fee schedule
   
36.02   Village equipment
   
36.03   Village forms
   
36.04   Eminent domain
§ 36.01  FEE SCHEDULE.
   (A)   (1)   The municipality shall establish a schedule of rates and fees
necessary to maintain various services or to secure various licenses.
      (2)   Said schedule of rates and fees shall be set at such a level as is
necessary to ensure adequate revenue for the expenses of day-to-day operation,
maintenance and long-term capital improvements or processing or to act as
deterrent, whatever the case may be.
(Prior Code, § 12-100)
   (B)   (1)   The following schedule of rates, fees and taxes is hereby
established for the municipality:
Item Rate Per
Item                                  Rate              Per
Animal control
   Dog license - spayed/neutered   $1                Dog
   Dog license - not spayed/neutere$2                Dog
   Capture fee                     $25               Occurrence
                                      Total Valuation   Fee
                                      $0 to 1,000       $10
                                                        $20 for the first
                                                        $20,000, plus $3 for
                                      $1,001 to 25,000  each additional $1,000
                                                        or fraction thereof, to
                                                        and including $25,000
Building permit fees                                    $35 for the first
                                                        $25,000, plus $3 for
                                      $25,001 to 50,000 each additional $1,000
                                                        or fraction thereof, to
                                                        and including $100,000
                                                        $210 for the first
                                      $100,000 and up   $100,000, plus $2 for
                                                        each additional $1,000
                                                        or fraction thereof
Building/zoning permits
   Special use permit              $75               Permit
   Zoning change request           $75               Request
   Subdivision (plus costs)        $500              Division
   Fence construction              $30
   Sign permit                     $30
   Trailer house/mobile home/motor $35
home
   Hard surface driveway           $30
Other Fees
   Connection fee                  $50               Connection
   Reconnection fee                $50               Reconnection
   Returned check charge           $25               Occurrence
Sewer
   Sewer usage                     $26.12            Monthly
   Sewer usage                     $0.47             Daily
   School sewer usage              $366              Monthly
   Commercial sewer usage          $31.27            Monthly
   Sewer tap                       $400              Tap
Trash
   Regular trash collection        $17.29            Monthly
   Regular trash collection        $1.25             Daily
   Senior trash collection         $15.29            Monthly
Water
   Bulk water                      $20               1,000 Gallon
   Commercial water usage          $35               Monthly
   Commercial water usage          $0.83             Daily
   Heavy commercial water usage    $39               Monthly
   Regular water usage             $30.48            Monthly
   Regular water usage             $0.70             Daily
   School usage                    $250              Monthly
   Senior citizen water usage      $30.48            Monthly
   Water tap                       $450              Tap
 
      (2)   Building permits do not need to be issued for the following:
         (a)   Patios and terraces (unless they will extend past the building
setback line);
         (b)   Patio and terrace roofs not fully enclosed on the sides (unless
they will extend past the building setback line);
         (c)   One-story detached accessory structures used as tool and storage
sheds, playhouses and similar uses; provided, the floor area does not exceed 80
square feet (unless they will extend past the building setback line);
         (d)   Prefabricated swimming pools which are less than 24 inches deep
and do not exceed 5,000 gallons and are installed entirely above ground;
         (e)   Shade cloth structures not enclosed on any sides, constructed
for nursery, agricultural purposes or shelter for automobiles (unless they will
extend past the building setback line);
         (f)   Swings and other playground equipment accessory to the public
parks and family dwellings (unless they will extend past the building setback
line);
         (g)   Shade metal structures not enclosed on any sides, constructed
for nursery, agriculture purposes or shelter automobiles (unless they will
extend past the building setback line); and
         (h)   Replacing driveway.
(Prior Code, § 12-101)
   (C)   (1)   Any amounts owed to the village pursuant to this section shall
accrue interest at the rate of 16% per annum effective 15 days after the date
of billing.
      (2)   In addition, a late payment charge of $10 per month shall be
imposed on any past due accounts owed to the village pursuant to this section
on all accounts not paid within 15 days of the date of billing.
(Prior Code, § 12-103)
(Updated)
§ 36.02  VILLAGE EQUIPMENT.
   (A)   Policy.
      (1)   Village equipment is to be used for the day to day operations,
construction and maintenance and repair of facilities and services owned and
operated by the village.
      (2)   Village equipment is not to be rented out or sold to private
individuals or enterprises.
(Prior Code, § 3-701)
   (B)   Exception. If the work or equipment is not available locally, from
within the village or county, than, with the consent of a majority of the
members of the Village Board of Trustees, the work may be hired out by the
village at a rate of $50 per hour, with a minimum charge of one hour.
(Prior Code, § 3-702)
   (C)   Local government and non-profit organizations.
      (1)   Local government and non-profit organizations may request use of
village equipment.
      (2)   If a majority of the Village Board of Trustees, at a Village Board
meeting, consents, than the equipment may be rented with the following
provisions:
         (a)   A village employee operates the equipment on the particular job;
and
         (b)   The organization is responsible for the village employee’s time
and replacement of all materials (fuel, parts and the like).
(Prior Code, § 3-703)
   (D)   Mutual aid agreements. Nothing in this policy shall prevent the use of
village equipment in mutual aid agreements with other local government
entities.
(Prior Code, § 3-704)
§ 36.03  VILLAGE FORMS.
   Unless otherwise provided, all municipal license applications, license forms
and notice forms shall be substantially as follows, unless otherwise provided
by the governing body:
   (A)   Notice form.
 
NOTICE TO                                                                            , Nebraska, 20                   
         
To:                                                                        owner (occupant) of the premises known as  
                                                             Street, legally described as follows, to-wit:            
                                                                                                                       
                                                                                                             
YOU ARE HEREBY NOTIFIED to                                                                                            
                                                                                                                       
   
YOU ARE FURTHER NOTIFIED that failure to comply with this order constitutes a violation of the ordinances of said      
                                                                       
                                                                                                                       
                                                                                                                       
                                                                                           and that your failure
renders you liable to prosecution and fine in the proper Court of said                                                
                                                                                                                       
                                                      .
                                                                                                       Municipal Clerk
 
RETURN
STATE OF NEBRASKA
County of                              
I,                                                                      , Municipal Clerk of the                    
of                              , Nebraska, hereby certify that on the                day of                          
, 20       at                                  o’clock,      .M., I served the within notice on said                  
                                                                 by delivering a true and correct copy thereof to      
                                                                       personally (or by posting a typewritten copy
thereof on said premises).
                                                                                        Municipal Clerk
 
CERTIFICATE
I,                                                              , Municipal Clerk of the                        of    
                             , Nebraska, hereby certify that the foregoing is a true, accurate and correct copy of a
notice                                  now in my hands for services with all endorsements thereon.
 
                         Date   Municipal Clerk                                                                       
 
 
   (B)   Application form.
 
APPLICATION FOR                                                          LICENSE
                                                           , Nebraska, 20       
I,                                                                                hereby make application to the            
                             and                                        of the                                              
         of                  , Nebraska, for license to                                        in said                      
                 for period ending                        , 20             .
I certify that I am                          and qualified to engage in                        . I agree to conform strictly
to the ordinances of this                                                      relative to said                              
          , and obey all orders, requirements and regulations of its lawfully constituted authorities.
I include with this application all required documents.
I accompany this application with                            Dollars ($                 ) in payment of the occupation tax in
the sum of                                                  Dollars ($                 ), and bond for approval of the      
                             and                                                  of said                                    
                   and other charges required by ordinance for the issuance of said license.
                                                                                                      Applicant             
                                                                                 
 
 
   (C)   License form.
 
                                                                                     LICENSE
License Fee  $                             
FOR THE CALENDAR YEAR                                                                , 20           
KNOW ALL MEN BY THESE PRESENT: THAT                                                                                      
                                   having paid $                   the fee provided by law to                            
                                                                                                                          
       , pursuant to application filed in the office of undersigned, NOW THEREFORE, said                                  
                                          , Nebraska, to                                                            from
the date last hereinafter written to December 31, 20           . Said license is issued on condition that licensee and his
or her employees shall at all times                                                                                       
                                                                                                                         
                                                                                                                         
                                                                                  .
This license is neither negotiable nor transferable and shall be of no force and effect outside the corporate limits of
the Municipality and if revoked and forfeited renders licensee ineligible to receive a new license for a period of one
year from the date of such revocation and forfeiture.
Dated at                                                  , Nebraska, this                  day of                        
                         , 20       
      (SEAL)                                                                Municipal Clerk
 
 
(Prior Code, § 1-1001)
§ 36.04  EMINENT DOMAIN.
   The governing body may, after negotiations in good faith have failed, bring
condemnation actions for the acquisition of property within the municipality.
Such procedure shall be prescribed by state law and damages shall be paid to
the condemnee according to the provisions therein.
(Prior Code, § 1-1201)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 76-701 through 76-724
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   UTILITIES GENERALLY
      
51.   GARBAGE
      
52.   WATER
      
53.   SEWERS
CHAPTER 50:  UTILITIES GENERALLY
Section
   
50.01   Mandatory user service fee; discontinuance; notice procedure
§ 50.01  MANDATORY USER SERVICE FEE; DISCONTINUANCE; NOTICE PROCEDURE.
   (A)   (1)   A mandatory monthly municipal utilities user service fee shall
be charged to all residential and commercial customers for municipal water,
sewer and solid waste collection services.
      (2)   The municipal utilities user service fee shall be collected as a
unit.
      (3)   Partial payments may be accepted.
(Prior Code, § 3-601)
   (B)   (1)   Municipal utilities user service fee bills shall be due on the
first day of each month and shall be payable by the fifteenth day of each month
at the office of the Municipal Clerk. Bills not paid by the fifteenth of the
month in which they are due shall be deemed to be delinquent. Upon being deemed
to be delinquent, the Municipal Clerk shall give written notice to the customer
of such delinquency and shall demand payment immediately.
      (2)   Upon any water and sewer service bill being deemed to be
delinquent, the Municipal Clerk shall send a shut-off notice by mail warning
that service shall be discontinued within seven working days from the date of
the shut-off notice. It shall be the duty of the Utilities Superintendent to
cut off water and sewer services on the specified date if no payment is
received by the Municipal Clerk. If the delinquent customer is a known welfare
recipient, it shall also be the duty of the Municipal Clerk to notify the
state’s Department of Social Services of the proposed termination. Prior to the
discontinuance of service to any domestic subscriber, the domestic subscriber
upon request shall be provided a conference with the governing body. The
governing body shall notify the domestic subscriber of the time, place and date
scheduled for such conference. Whenever the municipality shall discontinue
service to a domestic subscriber for non-payment of a past due account, the
Municipal Clerk shall assess an additional fee to compensate the municipality
for costs incurred to restore the services during regular working hours. The
fee, established by the Board of Trustees, in on file in the Clerk’s office.
      (3)   Procedures for collection of any past due accounts for municipal
solid waste collection are specified in §§
51.17 and
51.18 of this code of ordinances.
      (4)   Any water and sewer and solid waste collection fee payment deemed
delinquent, as defined herein, may be collected by the municipality as a civil
action against the municipal customer, or may be collected by the municipality
by any other method allowed by law.
(Prior Code, § 3-602)
CHAPTER 51:  GARBAGE
Section
Health and Sanitation
   
51.01   Definitions
   
51.02   Unlawful behavior
   
51.03   Hauling
   
51.04   Collection; removal; nuisance; lien
Municipal Solid Waste Regulations
   
51.15   Operation and funding
   
51.16   Mandatory collection service
   
51.17   Schedule of charges
   
51.18   Collection charges
   
51.19   Delinquent collection charges
   
51.20   Storage, collection and disposal of wastes
   
51.21   Maintenance; public and private premises
HEALTH AND SANITATION
§ 51.01  DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      GARBAGE. Items including, but not limited to, kitchen refuse, decayed
waste, dead animals or any thing that may decompose and become offensive and
pose an immediate hazard to the public health.
      WASTE. Items including, but not limited to, cinders, ashes, paper,
plastic, metal, plaster, brick, stone, sawdust or sand and does not pose an
immediate hazard to the public health.
(Prior Code, § 4-201)
   (B)   All municipal solid waste, for the purposes of this subchapter, shall
be considered “garbage”.
(Prior Code, § 4-202)
§ 51.02  UNLAWFUL BEHAVIOR.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to keep in, on or about any dwelling,
building or premises or any other place in the municipality decayed vegetable
or animal substance, garbage or refuse matter of any kind that may be injurious
to the public health or offensive to the residents of the municipality unless
the same is kept in receptacles which are as nearly air-tight as may be
practical so as to prevent the spread of garbage. It shall be unlawful to throw
or sweep into the streets, alleys, parks or other public grounds any dirt,
paper, nails, pieces of glass, refuse, waste or rubbish of any kind. No person
may permit garbage, rubbish, waste or refuse to collect and all persons shall
remove the same from his or her property within 24 hours after being notified
to do so by the municipal law enforcement officer or Municipal Clerk who shall
represent the Board of Health. Any person having garbage, rubbish, waste or
refuse that is subject to decay or fermentation within a short period of time
shall be required to place the same in a standard garbage can with a tight
cover or a durable plastic container that is securely tied at its opening.
(Prior Code, § 4-203)  Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 19-2106
§ 51.03  HAULING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to haul garbage, trash or waste within
the municipality without covering said material with a tarp or other cover
which prevents the escape of trash therefrom.
(Prior Code, § 4-204)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.04  COLLECTION; REMOVAL; NUISANCE; LIEN.
   (A)   The governing body may provide for the collection and removal of
garbage or refuse found upon any lot or land within its corporate roads, or
alleys abutting such lot or land which constitutes a public nuisance. The
governing body may require the owner, duly authorized agent or tenant of such
lot or land to remove the garbage or refuse from such lot or land and streets
and roads or alleys.
(Prior Code, § 4-205)
   (B)   Notice that removal of garbage or refuse is necessary shall be given
to each owner or owner’s duly authorized agent and to the tenant if any. Such
notice shall be provided by personal service or by certified mail. After
providing such notice, the municipality, through its proper offices, shall, in
addition to other proper remedies, remove the garbage or refuse or cause to be
removed, from such lot or land and streets, roads or alleys.
(Prior Code, § 4-206)
   (C)   If the Chairperson of the Board of the governing body declares that
the accumulation of such garbage or refuse upon any lot or land constitutes an
immediate nuisance and hazard to public health and safety, the municipality
shall remove the garbage or refuse, or cause it to be removed, from such lot or
land within 48 hours after notice by personal service or following receipt of a
certified letter if such garbage or refuse has not been removed.
(Prior Code, § 4-207)
   (D)   Whenever a municipality removes any garbage or refuse, or causes it to
be removed, from any lot or land pursuant to this subchapter, it shall, after a
hearing conducted by the governing body, assess the cost of the removal against
such lot or land.
(Prior Code, § 4-208)
Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 16-230, 16-231, 16-246, 16-901
MUNICIPAL SOLID WASTE REGULATIONS
§ 51.15  OPERATION AND FUNDING.
   The municipality shall have the power to establish a solid waste management
system within the corporate limits. When such system shall have been
established, the municipality may provide, by ordinance, for the management and
operation thereof, the rates to be charged for such service, including
collection and disposal, the manner of payment and collection thereof and
prescribe penalties for the violation of such ordinance and do whatever is
necessary to protect the general health in the matter of removal and disposal
of garbage.
(Prior Code, § 3-301)
§ 51.16  MANDATORY COLLECTION SERVICE.
   All solid waste to be disposed of within the municipality shall be placed in
the containers furnished by the contractor with whom the municipality has
entered into an exclusive agreement for the collection and removal of solid
waste, and said solid waste shall be picked up by the contractor. The burning
or placing of hot ashes in the containers furnished by the contractor is hereby
prohibited.
(Prior Code, § 3-302)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.17  SCHEDULE OF CHARGES.
   The governing body shall, by resolution, set forth a schedule of charges for
the collection of solid waste. Any and all amendments or modifications of the
schedule of charges shall likewise be effectuated by the passage of a
resolution by the governing body.
(Prior Code, § 3-303)
§ 51.18  COLLECTION CHARGES.
   The solid waste collection charges shall be billed to the residents of the
municipality along with and at the same time said residents are billed for
water and sewer charges. Charges for solid waste collection shall be collected
at the same time, in the same manner and by the same officers as water and
sewer charges are collected by the municipality. Unpaid solid waste collection
charges shall be deemed delinquent on the same day water and sewer charges are
deemed delinquent.
(Prior Code, § 3-304)
§ 51.19  DELINQUENT COLLECTION CHARGES.
   All delinquent solid waste collection charges are hereby declared to be a
lien upon the premises or real estate for which, or upon which the same was
used or supplied, and upon the refusal of said person, firm or corporation to
pay said delinquent collection fees, they shall be collected by being placed
upon the assessment rolls and the tax books for collection, like other taxes,
as further provided herein. It shall be the duty of the Municipal Clerk on the
second Monday of January of each year to report to the municipal governing body
a list of all unpaid accounts due for solid waste collection, together with a
description of the premises or real estate, upon or for which the same was used
or supplied. Said report shall be examined and, if approved by the governing
body, shall be certified by the Municipal Clerk to the County Clerk, giving the
amounts due and the description of the premises or real estate upon or for
which the collection services were used or supplied, the same to be collected
as other taxes, by the County Treasurer. Prior to certification to the County
Clerk, the municipality shall give 30 days’ written notice to the owner of
record of the subject property, said notice to be by certified mail or
registered mail.
(Prior Code, § 3-305)
§ 51.20  STORAGE, COLLECTION AND DISPOSAL OF WASTES.
   (A)   Storage of wastes. It shall be unlawful for any person to keep in, on
or about any dwelling house, building or premises in the municipality any
decayed vegetable or animal substance, garbage, rubbish, refuse matter or any
substance that may be injurious to the public health or offense to the
residents or inhabitants of the vicinity unless the same is kept in containers
and/or receptacles as set forth in this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 3-306)
   (B)   Collection of wastes. It shall be unlawful to deposit or permit to
fall from any vehicle on any public street or alley in the municipality;
provided that, this section shall not be construed to prohibit solid wastes in
a container complying with the provisions of this subchapter preparatory to
having such material collected and disposed of in the manner provided herein.
(Prior Code, § 3-307)
   (C)   Disposal of wastes.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful to:
         (a)   Dispose of any solid waste, except in compliance with this
subchapter;
         (b)   Transport any solid waste in the municipal dump or landfill,
except in compliance with this subchapter;
         (c)   Collect and dispose of any solid waste within the municipality,
except as authorized in this subchapter; or
         (d)   Burn garbage, trash, waste, refuse, rubbish or debris within the
corporate limits.
      (2)   The Fire Chief may authorize the burning of grass or weeds, and the
burning of old buildings and other combustibles by the Fire Department in
firefighting practice and training.
      (3)   The municipality may authorize the burning of leaves and yard waste
for cleanup purposes during the fall of the year with the approval of the Fire
Chief.
(Prior Code, § 3-308)
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.21  MAINTENANCE; PUBLIC AND PRIVATE PREMISES.
   Nothing herein shall be construed to prohibit the following:
   (A)   Recycling of wastes in any municipally approved program for ecological
purposes;
   (B)   Disposal of garbage or refuse by means of a kitchen or home disposal
unit;
   (C)   Nor shall the container privileges of this subchapter apply to large,
bulky refuse which may not be placed within a suitable container.
(Prior Code, § 3-309)
CHAPTER 52:  WATER
Section
General Provisions
   
52.01   Operation and funding
   
52.02   Definitions
   
52.03   Consumer’s application
   
52.04   Water contracts
   
52.05   Installation procedure
   
52.06   Installation expense
   
52.07   Fees and collections
   
52.08   Water permits
   
52.09   Water bills
   
52.10   Lien
   
52.11   Single premises
   
52.12   Restricted use
   
52.13   Fire hydrants
   
52.14   Pollution
   
52.15   Mandatory hook-ups; prohibited hook-ups
   
52.16   Service contracts
   
52.17   Police reports
   
52.18   Destruction of property
   
52.19   Complaints
   
52.20   Service to non-residents
   
52.21   Inspections
   
52.22   Repairs
   
52.23   Lead pipes, solder and flux
   
52.24   Private wells
   
52.25   Plumbing Code adopted
   
52.26   Wellhead protection area
Cross-Connection Control
   
52.40   General policy
   
52.41   Definitions
   
52.42   Prohibition
   
52.43   Survey and investigations
   
52.44   Type of protection required
   
52.45   Where protection is required
   
52.46   Backflow prevention devices
Wells
   
52.60   Well permit
   
52.61   Temporary well permit
   
52.62   Abandoned wells
   
52.63   Cross-connection prohibited
   
52.64   Review and renewal of permits
   
52.65   Specifications; discontinuance
   
52.66   State minimum standards adopted
   
52.67   Signs; discontinuance or cancellation of permit; consent
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 52.01  OPERATION AND FUNDING.
   The municipality owns and operates the Municipal Water Department. The
governing body for the purpose of defraying the cost of the care, management
and maintenance of the Municipal Water Department may each year levy a tax not
exceeding the maximum limit prescribed by state law on the actual valuation of
all real estate and personal property within the corporate limits that is
subject to taxation. The revenue from the said tax shall be known as the Water
Fund and shall remain in the custody of the Municipal Treasurer. The governing
body shall set the rates to be charged for services rendered by ordinance and
shall file a copy of the rates in the office of the Municipal Clerk for public
inspection at any reasonable time.
(Prior Code, § 3-101)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-531, 17-534, 19-1305
§ 52.02  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning. Where no
definition is specified, the normal dictionary usage of the work shall apply.
   MAIN. Any pipe other than a supply or service pipe that is used for the
purpose of carrying water to and dispersing the same in the municipality.
   SEPARATE PREMISES. More than one consumer procuring water from the same
service or supply pipe. The second premises may be a separate dwelling,
apartment, building or structure used for a separate purpose.
   SERVICE PIPE. Any pipe extending from the supply pipe to the location on the
premises where the water is to be dispersed.
   SUPPLY PIPE. Any pipe extending from the main to a point at or near the lot
line of the consumer’s premises where the shutoff, stop box or curb cock is
located.
   DEEMED AVAILABLE. Any water main which passes through the premises or
through a street, alley or easement adjacent to or abutting such premises.
(Prior Code, § 3-102)
§ 52.03  CONSUMER’S APPLICATION.
   Every person or persons desiring a supply of water must make application
therefor to the Clerk. The Clerk shall require each applicant to pay a tap fee
which shall be the actual cost of the material and labor involved in tapping
the water main. The fee is to be paid prior to turning on the water to the
premises. Water shall not be supplied to any house or private service pipe,
except upon the order of the Municipal Clerk.
(Prior Code, § 3-103)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-537, 19-2701
§ 52.04  WATER CONTRACTS.
   The municipality, through its Water Department, shall furnish water to
persons within its corporate limits whose premises abut a street, alley or
easement in which a commercial main now is or may hereafter be laid. The rules,
regulations and water rates hereinafter named in this chapter and on file in
the office of the Municipal Clerk shall be considered a part of every
application hereafter made for water service and shall be considered a part of
the contract between every consumer now or hereafter served. Without further
formality, the making of application on the part of any applicant or the use or
consumption of water service by present consumers thereof and the furnishing of
water service to said consumer shall constitute a contract between the consumer
and the municipality to which said contract both parties are bound. If the
consumer shall violate any of the provisions of said contract or any reasonable
rules and regulations that the governing body may hereafter adopt, the
Utilities Superintendent or his or her agent may cut off or disconnect the
water service from the building or premises or place of such violation. No
further connection for water service to said building, premises or place shall
again be made save or except by order of said Superintendent or his or her
agent.
(Prior Code, § 3-104)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-537
§ 52.05  INSTALLATION PROCEDURE.
   Upon approval of the customer’s application, the Utilities Superintendent
shall determine the most feasible location for tapping the main. The Utilities
Superintendent shall install the water line from the municipal main to a shut-
off valve located on the village’s utility right-of-way. The customer shall be
responsible for the installation of the water service from the shut-off valve
to the residence. The installation of the water service to the residence shall
be done only by a licensed plumber.
(Prior Code, § 3-105)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-537
§ 52.06  INSTALLATION EXPENSE.
   The expense of providing water service from the municipal main to the
premises served shall be paid by the customer. The necessary expenses incurred
by the Utilities Superintendent when installing the water service, including,
but not limited to, pipe, trenching, corporation cock, service clamp and labor
are the responsibility of the customer.
(Prior Code, § 3-106)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-542
§ 52.07  FEES AND COLLECTIONS.
   The governing body has the power and authority to fix by resolution the
rates to be paid by the water consumers for the use of water from the Water
Department. All such fees shall be on file for public inspection at the office
of the Municipal Clerk. The Municipal Clerk shall collect all money received by
the municipality on the account of the Water Department.
(Prior Code, § 3-107)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-538, 17-541
§ 52.08  WATER PERMITS.
   Upon observation by the Utilities Superintendent or upon filing of complaint
by any citizen in the municipality, any customer of the Water Department using
excessive amounts of water without first obtaining a permit shall be issued a
notice to appear before the governing body to show cause why he or she should
not be required to apply for a heavy user permit and pay additional water fees.
If said customer does not appear before the governing body or does not
satisfactorily show that his or her water use is not excessive, he or she shall
be billed an additional fee set by the governing body and, if the customer
fails to pay said additional fee, he or she shall have his or her water service
disconnected.
(Prior Code, § 3-108)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-542, 70-1601 through 70-1615
§ 52.09  WATER BILLS.
   (A)   Water bills shall be due and payable monthly at the office of the
Municipal Clerk. The Water Commissioner shall direct the Village Clerk to
charge and collect from each customer the amount of the monthly water bill,
established by the Board of Trustees, along with any other charges, properly
itemized, due the Water Department.
   (B)   Bills shall be mailed on the first day of each month following
consumption and shall be payable by the fifteenth day of each month. Bills not
paid by the fifteenth of each month shall be deemed to be delinquent, as herein
defined, the Village Clerk shall give a written notice to the customers of such
delinquency and shall demand payment immediately. In the event the bill is not
paid within 15 days after sending the said notice it shall be the duty of the
Commissioner to cut off service; provided, if the delinquent customer is a
known welfare recipient, it shall be the duty of the Village Clerk to notify
the customer and the state’s Department of Social Services by certified mail of
the proposed termination. In the event the water is shut off for non-payment of
any water bill, the Water Commissioner shall access an additional charge of $50
to restore water service to the delinquent customer.
(Prior Code, § 3-109)
§ 52.10  LIEN.
   In addition to all other remedies, if a customer shall for any reason remain
indebted to the municipality for water service furnished, such amount due,
together with any rents and charges in arrears, shall be considered a
delinquent water rent which is hereby declared to be a lien upon the real
estate for which the same was used or supplied; and such taxes, rents or rates
shall be paid and collected and such lien upon approval by the governing body
shall be certified by the Municipal Clerk to the County Clerk to be collected
as a special tax in the manner provided by law.
(Prior Code, § 3-110)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-538
§ 52.11  SINGLE PREMISES.
   No consumer shall supply water to other families or allow them to take water
from his or her premises, nor, after water is supplied into a building, shall
any person make or employ a plumber or other person to make a tap or connection
with the pipe upon the premises for alteration, extension or attachment without
the written permission of the Utilities Superintendent. It shall further be
unlawful for any person to tamper with any water meter or by means of any
contrivance or device to divert the water from the service pipe so that the
water will not pass through the meter or while passing through said meter will
cause the meter to register inaccurately.
(Prior Code, § 3-111)  Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-537
§ 52.12  RESTRICTED USE.
   (A)   The governing body or the Utilities Superintendent may order a
reduction in the use of water or shut off the water on any premises in the
event of a water shortage due to fire or other good and sufficient cause. In
the event of said water shortage, the governing body or the Utilities
Superintendent shall notify the customers of the Water Department by posting in
three prominent places throughout the municipality notice of said shortage and
the restrictions imposed. In the event that any person abuses his or her
privileges of use of the water system by continued and excessive use to such an
extent as to endanger the health and welfare of the residents of the
municipality, the governing body or Utilities Superintendent shall notify said
customer by personal service or by posting the customer’s premises and if said
excessive use is not abated within 12 hours after said notification, the
Utilities Superintendent shall disconnect the said water service and shall not
reconnect the water service until the customer shall pay to the Municipal
Treasurer a reconnection fee, as established by the governing body.
   (B)   The municipality shall not be liable for any damages caused by
shutting off the supply of water of any consumer while the system or any part
thereof is undergoing repairs or when there is a shortage of water due to
circumstances over which the municipality has no control.
(Prior Code, § 3-112)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-537
§ 52.13  FIRE HYDRANTS.
   All hydrants for the purpose of extinguishing fires are hereby declared to
be public hydrants and it shall be unlawful for any person other than members
of the Municipal Fire Department under the orders of the Fire Chief or members
of the Water Department to open or attempt to open any of the hydrants and draw
water from the same or in any manner to interfere with the hydrants.
(Prior Code, § 3-113)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 52.14  POLLUTION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to pollute or attempt to pollute any
stream or source of water for the supply of the Municipal Water Department.
(Prior Code, § 3-114)  Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-536
§ 52.15  MANDATORY HOOK-UPS; PROHIBITED HOOK-UPS.
   All persons living where water is deemed available shall be required, upon
notice by the governing board, to hook-up with the municipal water system
unless otherwise given special approval for exemption by the governing body;
provided that, no person shall be allowed to hook-up a heat exchanger, heat
pump, cooling device or other mechanical device with the municipal water
systems.
(Prior Code, § 3-115)  Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-539
§ 52.16  SERVICE CONTRACTS.
   Contracts for water service are not transferable. Any person wishing to
change from one location to another shall make a new application and sign a new
contract. If any consumer shall move from the premises where service is
furnished or if the said premises is destroyed by fire or other casualty, he or
she shall at once inform the Utilities Superintendent, who shall cause the
water service to be shut off at the said premises. If the consumer should fail
to give such notice, he or she shall be charged for all water used on the said
premises until the Utilities Superintendent is otherwise advised in such
circumstances.
(Prior Code, § 3-116)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-537
§ 52.17  POLICE REPORTS.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the County Sheriff’s Department to report to
the Utilities Superintendent all cases of leakage and waste in the use of water
and all violations of the municipal code relating to the Water Department.
   (B)   They shall have the additional duty of enforcing the observance of all
such regulations.
(Prior Code, § 3-117)
§ 52.18  DESTRUCTION OF PROPERTY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to willfully or carelessly break, injure
or deface any building, machinery, apparatus, fixture, attachment or
appurtenance of the Municipal Water Department. No person may deposit anything
in a stop box or commit any act tending to obstruct or impair the intended use
of any of the above mentioned property without the written permission of the
Utilities Superintendent.
(Prior Code, § 3-118)  Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-537
§ 52.19  COMPLAINTS.
   Any consumer feeling himself or herself aggrieved by reason of any
controversy with the Utilities Superintendent or Municipal Clerk may appear
before the governing body and present his or her grievance. Any consumer who
considers himself aggrieved by being required to pay the charge demanded for
the use of water or for the resumption of water service after the same shall
have been shut off, shall pay such charge under protest in which event, the
Municipal Clerk shall write on the receipt given such customer the words, “Paid
Under Protest”. Such consumer may then present his or her verified claim in the
manner provided for presenting claims to the governing body for a refund of the
amount so paid under protest. Such claims shall then be considered by the
governing body in this same manner as other claims against the municipality as
set forth in §
35.14 of this code of ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 3-119)
§ 52.20  SERVICE TO NON-RESIDENTS.
   The municipality shall not supply water service to any person outside the
corporate limits without special permission from the governing body; provided,
the entire cost of laying mains, service pipe and supply pipe shall be paid by
the consumer. All mains, service pipe and supply lines shall meet the standards
set by the governing body in regard to size of lines, material used and
workmanship and further be subject to inspection by the Utility Superintendent
prior to being backfilled. Nothing herein shall be construed to obligate the
municipality to provide water service to non-residents.
(Prior Code, § 3-120)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 19-2701
§ 52.21  INSPECTIONS.
   The Utilities Superintendent or his or her duly authorized agents shall have
free access at any reasonable time to all parts of each premises and building
to or in which water is delivered for the purpose of examining the pipes,
fixtures and other portions of the system to ascertain whether there is any
disrepair or unnecessary waste of water.
(Prior Code, § 3-121)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-537
§ 52.22  REPAIRS.
   Repairs to the service pipe shall be made by and at the expense of the
customer. All other repairs to the property of the Water Department shall be
made by the municipality.
(Prior Code, § 3-122)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-542
 
§ 52.23  LEAD PIPES, SOLDER AND FLUX.
   Any pipe, solders or flux used in the installation or repair of any
residential or nonresidential facility which is connected to the public water
supply system shall be lead free. LEAD FREE shall mean, when used with respect
to solders and flux containing not more than 0.2% lead and when used with
respect to pipe and pipe fittings, shall mean pipe and pipe fittings containing
not more than 8% lead.
(Prior Code, § 3-123)  Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 71-5301
§ 52.24  PRIVATE WELLS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, partnership, corporation or
school district to establish or cause to be established any water well for the
purpose of extracting water or injecting water within the corporate limits of
the municipality; provided, such wells shall be permitted use in operating
water to air heat pumps or heat exchangers.
(Prior Code, § 3-124)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 52.25  PLUMBING CODE ADOPTED.
   To provide certain minimum standards, provisions and requirements for safe
and stable installation, methods of connection, and uses of materials in the
installation of plumbing and heating, the latest edition of the National
Plumbing Code, published by the American Society of Mechanical Engineers, and
printed in book or pamphlet form, is hereby incorporated by reference, in
addition to all later editions and revisions thereof, as thought printed in
full herein, in so far as said code does not conflict with the statutes of the
state. One copy of the Plumbing Code shall be on file at the office of the
Municipal Clerk and shall be available for public inspection during normal
office hours. The provision of the Plumbing Code shall be controlling
throughout the municipalities and through its zoning jurisdiction.
(Prior Code, § 3-145)
§ 52.26  WELLHEAD PROTECTION AREA.
   WELLHEAD PROTECTION AREA means the surface and sub surface area surrounding
a water well or well field, supplying public water system, through which
contaminants are reasonably likely to move toward and reach such water well or
well field. The wellhead protection area is designated for the purpose of
protection the public water system. The boundaries of the wellhead protection
area are legally described as follows: beginning at the north east corner of
the SE1/4 NE1/4 of Section 2, Township 12N, Range 27 West of the 6th P.M.,
Lincoln County, Nebraska, thence south to the SE corner of Section 11, Township
12N, Range 27 West of the 6thP.M.; thence west to the south west corner of said
Section 11; thence north to the northwest corner of the SW1/4 NW1/4 of Section
2, Township 12N, Range 27 West of the 6th P.M., Lincoln, County Nebraska;
thence east to the point of beginning. The wellhead protection area includes
the S1/2 NE1/4 and the S1/2 NW1/4 of and also the S1/2 of Section 2, Township
12 North, Range 27 West of the 6th P.M., Lincoln County, Nebraska, and all of
Section 11, Township 12 North, Range 27 West of the 6th P.M., Lincoln County,
Nebraska. The boundaries of the wellhead protection area are set forth on a map
which is available for review in the office of the Village Clerk.
(Prior Code, § 3-146)  (Updated)
CROSS-CONNECTION CONTROL
§ 52.40  GENERAL POLICY.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of this subchapter is:
      (1)   To protect the public potable water supply of the municipal water
system from contamination or pollution by containing within the consumer’s
internal distribution system or private water system contaminants or pollutants
which could backflow through the service connection into the public potable
water supply system;
      (2)   To promote the elimination, containment, isolation or control of
existing cross- connections, actual or potential between the public or
consumer’s potable water systems and non-potable water systems, plumbing
fixtures and industrial-process systems; and
      (3)   To provide for the maintenance of a continuing program of cross-
connection control which will systematically and effectively prevent the
contamination or pollution of all potable water systems.
   (B)   Application. This subchapter shall apply to all premises served by the
public potable water system of the municipality.
 
   (C)   Policy.
      (1)   This subchapter will be reasonably interpreted. It is the
municipality’s intent to recognize the varying degrees of hazard and to apply
the principle that the degree of protection shall be commensurate with the
degree of hazard.
      (2)   The Municipal Water Department and governing body shall be
primarily responsible for protection of the public potable water distribution
system from contamination or pollution due to backflow or contaminants or
pollutants through the water service connection. The cooperation of all
consumers is required to implement and maintain the program to control cross-
connections. The consumer is responsible for preventing contamination of the
water system within the consumer’s own premises.
      (3)   If, in the judgment of the authorized representative, cross-
connection protection is required through either piping modification or
installation of an approved backflow prevention device, 30 days’ notice shall
be given to the consumer. The failure, refusal or inability on the part of the
consumer to provide requested protection within 30 days shall make the consumer
subject to discontinuance of water service at the discretion of the Municipal
Water Department according to the degree of hazard without further notice.
(Prior Code, § 3-125)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-537
§ 52.41  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AIR GAP SEPARATION. The unobstructed vertical distance through the free
atmosphere between the lowest opening from any pipe or faucet supplying water
to a tank, plumbing fixture or other device and the overflow level rim of the
receptacle.
   AUXILIARY WATER SUPPLY. Any water source or system, other than the public
water supply, that may be available in the building or premises.
   BACKFLOW. The flow other than the intended direction of flow or any foreign
liquids, gases or substances into the distribution system of a public water
supply.
   BACKFLOW PREVENTION DEVICE. Any device, method or type of construction
intended to prevent backflow into a potable water system provided backflow
preventers have been tested and approved by a reputable testing laboratory.
   CONSUMER. The owner or person in control of any premises supplied by or in
any manner connected to a public water system.
   CONTAINMENT. Protection of the public water supply by installing a cross-
connection control device or air gap separation on the main service line to a
facility or as an installation within equipment handling potentially hazardous
materials.
   CONTAMINATION. An impairment of the quality of the water by sewage, process
fluids or other wastes to a degree which could create an actual hazard to the
public health through poisoning or through spread of disease by exposure.
   CROSS-CONNECTION. Any physical link between a potable water supply and any
other substance, fluid or source which makes possible contamination of the
potable water supply due to the reversal of flow of the water in the piping or
distribution system.
   HAZARD, DEGREE OF. An evaluation of the potential risk to public health and
the adverse effect of the hazard upon the potable water system.
      (1)   HAZARD, HEALTH. Any condition, device or practice in the water
supply system and its operation which could create or may create a danger to
the health and well-being of the water consumer.
      (2)   HAZARD, PLUMBING. A plumbing type cross-connection in a consumer’s
potable water system that has not been properly protected by a vacuum breaker,
air-gap separation or backflow prevention device.
      (3)   HAZARD, POLLUTIONAL. An actual or potential threat to the physical
properties of the water system or to the potability of the public or the
consumer’s potable water system, but which would constitute a nuisance or be
aesthetically objectionable or could cause damage to the system or its
appurtenances, but would not be dangerous to health.
      (4)   HAZARD, SYSTEM. An actual or potential threat of severe damage to
the physical properties of the public potable water system or the consumer’s
potable water system or of a pollution or contamination which would have a
protracted effect on the quality of the potable water in the system.
   INDUSTRIAL PROCESS SYSTEM. Any system containing a fluid or solution which
may be chemically, biologically or otherwise contaminated or polluted in a form
or concentration such as would constitute a health, system, pollution or
plumbing hazard if introduced into a potable water supply.
   ISOLATION. Protection of a facility service line by installing a cross-
connection control device or air gap separation on an individual fixture,
appurtenance or system.
   POLLUTION. The presence of any foreign substance (organic, inorganic or
biological) in water which tends to degrade its quality so as to constitute a
hazard or impair the usefulness of the water to a degree which does not create
an actual hazard to the public health, but which does adversely and
unreasonably affect such waters for domestic use.
   PUBLIC POTABLE WATER SYSTEM. Any publicly- or privately-owned water system
supplying water to the general public which is satisfactory for drinking,
culinary and domestic purposes and meets the requirements of the state’s
Department of Health.
   SERVICE CONNECTION. The terminal end of a service line from the public water
system. If a meter is installed at the end of the service, then the SERVICE
CONNECTION means the downstream end of the meter.
   WATER DEPARTMENT. The owner, operator or individual in responsible charge of
a public water system.
(Prior Code, § 3-126)
§ 52.42  PROHIBITION.
   (A)   No water service connection shall be installed or maintained to any
premises where actual or potential cross-connections to the public potable or
consumer’s water system may exist unless such actual or potential cross-
connections are abated or controlled to the satisfaction of the Municipal Water
Department and as required by the laws and regulations of the state’s
Department of Health.
   (B)   No connection shall be installed or maintained whereby an auxiliary
water supply may enter a public potable or consumer’s water system unless such
auxiliary water supply and the method of connection and use of such supply
shall have been approved by the Municipal Water Department and the state’s
Department of Health.
   (C)   No water service connection shall be installed or maintained to any
premises in which the plumbing system, facilities and fixtures have not been
constructed and installed using acceptable plumbing practices considered by the
Municipal Water Department as necessary for the protection of health and
safety.
(Prior Code, § 3-127)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 52.43  SURVEY AND INVESTIGATIONS.
   (A)   The consumer shall provide access to the premises at reasonable times
to the Municipal Water Department or his or her authorized representative for
the conduction of surveys and investigations of water use practices within the
consumer’s premises to determine whether there are actual or potential cross-
connections to the consumer’s water system through which contaminants or
pollutants could backflow into the public potable water system.
   (B)   On request by the Municipal Water Department or his or her authorized
representative, the consumer shall furnish information on water use practices
within his or her premises.
   (C)   It shall be the responsibility of the water consumer to conduct
periodic surveys of water use practices on his or her premises to determine
whether there are actual or potential cross-connections to his or her water
system through which contaminants or pollutants could backflow into his, her or
the public potable water system.
(Prior Code, § 3-128)
§ 52.44  TYPE OF PROTECTION REQUIRED.
   The type of protection required by this chapter shall depend on the degree
of hazard which exists as follows.
   (A)   An approved air gap separation shall be installed where the public
potable water system may be contaminated with substances that could cause a
severe health hazard.
   (B)   An approved air gap separation or an approved reduced pressure
principal backflow prevention device shall be installed where the public
potable water system may be contaminated with a substance that could cause a
health hazard.
   (C)   An approved air gap separation or an approved reduced pressure
principal backflow prevention device or an approved double check valve assembly
shall be installed where the public potable water system may be polluted with
substances that could cause a pollution hazard not dangerous to health.
(Prior Code, § 3-129)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 52.45  WHERE PROTECTION IS REQUIRED.
   (A)   An approved backflow prevention device shall be installed in the
service connection line to a consumer’s water system or within any premises
where in the judgment of the Municipal Water Department or the state’s
Department of Health actual or potential hazards to the public potable water
system exists. The type and degree of protection required shall be commensurate
with the degree of hazard.
   (B)   An approved air gap separation or reduced pressure principal backflow
prevention device shall be installed at the service connection or within any
premises where, in the judgment of the Municipal Water Department or the
state’s Department of Health, the nature and extent of activities on the
premises or the materials used in connection with the activities or materials
stored on the premises would present an immediate and dangerous hazard to
health should a cross-connection occur, even though such cross-connection
device is required to be installed. This includes, but is not limited to, the
following situations:
      (1)   Premises having an auxiliary water supply unless the quality of the
auxiliary supply is acceptable to the Municipal Water Department and the
state’s Department of Health;
      (2)   Premises having internal cross-connections that are not correctable
or intricate plumbing arrangements which make it impractical to ascertain
whether or not cross-connections exist;
      (3)   Premises where entry is restricted so that inspections for cross-
connections cannot be made with sufficient frequency or at sufficiently short
notice to assure that cross-connections do not exist;
      (4)   Premises that although not covered by code are subject to frequent
modification which would change their status or premises that have had backflow
code violations;
      (5)   Premises on which any substance is handled under pressure so as to
permit entry into the  public water supply or where a cross-connection could
reasonably be expected to occur. This shall include the handling of process
waters and cooling waters; and
      (6)   Premises where materials of a toxic or hazardous nature are handled
such that, if back siphonage or back pressure should occur, a serious health
hazard may result.
   (C)   The following types of facilities must install or have in operation
any approved air gap separation, atmospheric vacuum breaker or reduced pressure
principal backflow prevention device as required by the Municipal Water
Department and the state’s Department of Health to protect the public water
supply and such must be installed at these facilities unless all hazardous or
potentially hazardous conditions have been eliminated or corrected by other
methods to the satisfaction of the Municipal Water Department and the state’s
Department of Health.
      (1)   Auxiliary water systems;
      (2)   Beverage bottling plants;
      (3)   Canaries, packing houses and reduction plants;
      (4)   Car washing facilities;
      (5)   Chemical manufacturing, processing, compounding or treatment
plants:
         (a)   Chemically contaminated water systems;
         (b)   Dairies and cold storage plants; and
         (c)   Film Laboratories.
      (6)   Fire protection systems;
      (7)   Hazardous waste storage and disposal;
      (8)   Hospital, mortuaries, clinics;
      (9)   Sprinkler systems and hose connections injecting directly,
materials of a toxic or hazardous nature;
      (10)   Laundries and dye works;
      (11)   Metal manufacturing, cleaning, processing and fabricating plants;
      (12)   Oil and gas production, storage or transmission properties;
      (13)   Plating plants;
      (14)   Printing and publishing facilities;
      (15)   Research and analytical laboratories;
      (16)   Sewage and storm drainage facilities – pumping stations;
      (17)   Zoological and horticultural gardens;
      (18)   All cemetery sprinkler systems;
      (19)   Pet grooming and veterinarian hospitals;
      (20)   Class A, B and C swimming pools;
      (21)   Cooling coil service lines (refrigeration, air conditioning and
the like);
      (22)   All hot water and steam boiler heating systems; and
      (23)   All stockyards and sale barns.
(Prior Code, § 3-130)
§ 52.46  BACKFLOW PREVENTION DEVICES.
   (A)   General.
      (1)   Any backflow prevention device required by this section shall be of
a model or construction approved by the Municipal Water Department and the
state’s Department of Health.
         (a)   Air gap separation to be approved shall be at least double the
diameter of the supply pipe measured vertically above the flood level rim of
the vessel, but in no case less than one inch.
         (b)   A double check valve assembly or a reduced pressure principal
backflow prevention device shall be approved by the Municipal Water Department
and shall appear on the current “list of approved backflow prevention devices”
established by the Water Department.
      (2)   Existing backflow prevention devices approved by the Municipal
Water Department at the time of installation and properly maintained shall,
except for inspection and maintenance requirements, be excluded from the
requirements of this section so long as the Municipal Water Department is
assured that they will satisfactorily protect the water system. Whenever the
existing device is moved from its present location or requires more than
minimum maintenance or, when the Water Department finds that the maintenance
constitutes a hazard to health, the unit shall be replaced by a backflow
prevention device meeting the requirements of this section.
(Prior Code, § 3-131)
   (B)   Installation.
      (1)   Backflow prevention devices required by this section shall be
installed at a location and in a manner approved by the Municipal Water
Department and shall be installed at the expense of the water consumer.
      (2)   Backflow prevention devices installed on the service line to the
consumer’s water system shall be located on the consumer’s side of the water
meter as close to the meter as is reasonable practical and prior to any other
connection.
      (3)   Backflow prevention devices shall be located so as to be readily
accessible for maintenance and testing, protected from freezing and where no
part of the device will be submerged or subject to flooding by any fluid.
      (4)   Backflow prevention devices for underground sprinklers that have an
opening to the atmosphere shall be located at least 12 inches above the highest
ground served by the sprinkler system.
(Prior Code, § 3-132)
   (C)   Inspection and maintenance.
      (1)   It shall be the duty of the consumer at any premises on which
backflow prevention devices required by this section are installed to have
inspections, tests and overhauls made in accordance with the following schedule
or more often where inspections indicate a need.
         (a)   Air gap separations shall be inspected at the time of
installation and at least every 12 months thereafter.   
         (b)   Double check valve assemblies shall be inspected and tested for
tightness at the time of installation and at least every 12 months thereafter.
They shall be dismantled, inspected internally, cleaned and repaired whenever
needed.
         (c)   Reduced pressure principal backflow prevention devices shall be
inspected and tested for tightness at the time of installation and at least
every 12 months thereafter. They shall be dismantled, inspected internally,
cleaned and repaired whenever needed.
      (2)   Overhauls of backflow prevention devices shall be made at the
expense of the water consumer and shall be performed by a state-certified
backflow prevention device tester.
      (3)   Backflow prevention devices designed with testing cocks shall be
inspected and tested each year, exempting lawn sprinkler systems, except those
with provisions to inject toxic substances including lawn chemicals. Those
tests performed by the Municipal Water Department will be at the expense of the
Water Department. Tests performed by others shall be at the expense of the
consumer.
      (4)   Whenever backflow prevention devices required by this chapter are
found to be defective, they shall be repaired or replaced at the expense of the
consumer without delay.
      (5)   The water consumer must maintain a complete record of each backflow
prevention device that has test cocks from purchase to retirement. Records of
inspections, test, repairs and overhauls performed by others shall be submitted
to the Municipal Water Department annually.
      (6)   Backflow prevention devices shall not be by-passed, made
inoperative, removed or otherwise made ineffective without specific
authorization by the Municipal Water Department.
(Prior Code, § 3-133)
   (D)   Violations.
      (1)   The Municipal Water Department shall have the right to deny or
discontinue, after notice to the consumer thereof, the water service to any
premises wherein:
         (a)   Any backflow prevention device required by these regulations is
not installed or maintained in a manner acceptable to the Municipal Water
Department;
         (b)   It is found that the backflow prevention device has been removed
or by-passed;
         (c)   An unprotected cross-connection exists on the premises;
         (d)   A low pressure cut-off required by this section is not installed
and maintained in working order; and
         (e)   The Municipal Water Department is denied entry to determine
compliance with these regulations.
      (2)   The Municipal Water Department shall immediately deny or
discontinue, without notice to the consumer thereof, the water service to any
premises wherein a severe cross-connection exists which constitutes an
immediate threat to the safety of the public water system. The Municipal Water
Department shall notify the consumer within 24 hours of said denial or
discontinuation of service.
      (3)   Water service to such premises shall not be restored until the
consumer has corrected or eliminated such conditions or defects in conformance
with these regulations and to the satisfaction of the Municipal Water
Department.
(Prior Code, § 3-134)
   (E)   Liability claims. Employees of the Municipal Water Department shall be
relieved from personal liability when acting in good faith and without malice,
for any damage that may occur to any person or property as a result of any act
required or authorized by the regulations affecting Municipal Water Department
cross-connections and backflow prevention devices, or by any act or omission of
the Employee of the Municipal Water Department in the discharge of his or her
duties hereunder. Any suit brought carrying out the provisions of these
regulations shall be defended by the municipality, or by the municipality’s
insurance carrier, if any, through final determination of such proceedings.
(Prior Code, § 3-135)  (Ord. 2021-05, passed 4-14-2021)  Penalty, see §
10.99
WELLS
§ 52.60  WELL PERMIT.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to dig, drill or
construct a well within the corporate limits of the municipality without first
having obtained a permit therefor from the governing body. The applications for
private well permits shall be obtained from the Municipal Clerk and shall set
forth:
      (1)   Location of proposed well in conjunction with sewers. No well shall
be located within  25 feet of any sewer line, private or public. No well shall
be located within 50 feet of any septic tank or within 100 feet of any disposal
field or within 3,000 feet of existing municipal wells;
      (2)   Location of proposed well in conjunction with water lines. No well
shall be located within  25 feet of any water line public or private;
      (3)   Intended use of water. No water from the private well shall be used
for domestic purposes;
      (4)   Depth of proposed well;
      (5)   Size and type of casing to be installed;
      (6)   Pumping equipment to be used; and
      (7)   Name and address of well driller.
   (B)   Such application shall be accompanied with an application fee of $50,
which shall cover the inspections, no part of which is refunded if the
application is denied. Application shall be good until April 30 following
payment of such fee, after which such permit is renewable.
   (C)   Closed loop heating pump systems are not considered wells for the
purposes of this section; provided, holes are not drilled to the water table.
(Prior Code, § 3-136)
§ 52.61  TEMPORARY WELL PERMIT.
   The municipality may grant a temporary well permit when an emergency is
determined to exist for purposes other than lawn and garden irrigation. In
granting said permit, the municipality may establish conditions under which
said well is operated, including the purposes therefor, its location, the
period of time during which such well shall be operated, conditions for the
closing and capping of such well and such safety requirements as the governing
body may provide and such other conditions as may protect the health and
welfare of the municipality. The application for a temporary well permit shall
give the same information as required for a regular well permit and shall be
accompanied with an application fee of $50, no part of which shall be refunded
if the application is denied.
(Prior Code, § 3-137)
§ 52.62  ABANDONED WELLS.
   All abandoned wells shall be properly abandoned, closed up or destroyed in
accordance with the Minimum Standards for a Private Water Well in Nebraska.
Whenever the Utilities Superintendent shall find a well which has been
improperly abandoned and discontinued for use, it shall be his or her duty to
notify or inform the owner of the property on which such well is located, in
writing, that such well must be abandoned in accordance with this subchapter
within three days of the time of service of such notice. Upon failure of the
owner of the property upon which said well is located, to comply with such
order, the Utilities Superintendent shall fill up, destroy or abandon such
well, assessing the cost and expenses to the property and the property owner
upon which such well is located.
(Prior Code, § 3-138)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 52.63  CROSS-CONNECTION PROHIBITED.
   No cross-connections shall be allowed from a private well to or from the
municipal water system. The Utilities Superintendent shall inspect the owner’s
premises at least once each year to determine that no cross-connection exists.
It shall be the duty of the owner or occupant of the property to give the
Utilities Superintendent access to the property at reasonable times for the
purpose of making such inspection. If the Utilities Superintendent is denied
entry to make said inspection, a judicial order for entry into and onto the
property shall be obtained. If the Utilities Superintendent finds that a cross-
connection exists, then he or she shall order the use of the private well to be
permanently discontinued. The owner, tenant and lessee shall be liable
severally and jointly for all damages to the municipal water system and users
of the municipal water system caused by such cross-connection.
(Prior Code, § 3-139)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 52.64  REVIEW AND RENEWAL OF PERMITS.
   (A)   Permits for private wells shall be reviewed annually by the governing
body not later than April 30 of each year.
   (B)   The records of the Utilities Superintendent with respect to said wells
shall be reviewed before approval is given for renewal of the well permits. An
annual fee of $20 shall be paid for such renewal. This fee covers the cost of
permit records and the inspection for cross-connections. It shall be the duty
of the property owner, after receipt of renewal notice, to notify the Utilities
Superintendent of a date and time when an inspection of his or her well and a
check for cross-connections can be made. Inspections shall be made prior to
April 30 of that year.
   (C)   Failure to renew the well permit shall be considered as abandonment of
said well and abandoning procedures shall be followed.
(Prior Code, § 3-140)
§ 52.65  SPECIFICATIONS; DISCONTINUANCE.
   The municipality shall have the power and authority to refuse to issue well
drilling permits if it appears that the plan of drilling and construction is
not sound, or the proposed driller does not have proper equipment, or if it
appears that such well may endanger, impair or in any way interfere with the
public water system of the municipality.
(Prior Code, § 3-141)
 
§ 52.66  STATE MINIMUM STANDARDS ADOPTED.
   The Water Well Standards and Contractor’s Practicing Act and 178 NAC12 as
amended, are hereby adopted and such minimum standards, including all
subsequent editions, amendments, supplements or appendices thereto are made a
part of this subchapter as fully as if set forth at length herein. A copy of
said Minimum Standards shall be placed on file with the Municipal Clerk, and
any and all subsequent additions, amendments or supplements or appendices
thereto shall be placed on file with the Municipal Clerk.
(Prior Code, § 3-142)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 46-1201 et seq.
§ 52.67  SIGNS; DISCONTINUANCE OR CANCELLATION OF PERMIT; CONSENT.
   (A)   General. All spigots or other connections to or from a private well
shall have a sign thereon stating that the water is not safe for drinking, and
said sign shall be continually maintained visibly upon said private well.
(Prior Code, § 3-143)
   (B)   Discontinuance; cancellation of permit. The governing body may order
the discontinuance of the use of a private well or wells where it has reason
and cause to believe that the public health is endangered, and for that purpose
may revoke and cancel any well permit or renewal of such permit after notice
and hearing. Such permit or renewal thereof may be revoked and cancelled by the
municipality upon violation of any of the terms and provisions of this
subchapter by the permittee or his or her successor in the interest to the
property upon which such well is located or its occupants, in and to any
private well after notice and hearing.
(Prior Code, § 3-144)
   (C)   Consent by the permittee and the like. The granting of a well permit
or the renewal thereof to a permittee or its successors in interest shall
constitute consent and shall grant consent by the permittee or any tenant
thereon to and for the Utilities Superintendent of the municipality or his or
her agents or employees to enter upon the premises upon which the well is
located in order to take any action required by the Utilities Superintendent by
this subchapter and to determine whether or not there is any violation of the
ordinance by said well or the use thereof.
(Prior Code, § 3-145)
CHAPTER 53:  SEWERS
Section
General Provisions
   
53.001   Operation and funding
   
53.002   Definitions
   
53.003   Permit application
   
53.004   Sewer contract
   
53.005   Mandatory hook-up
   
53.006   Direct connections
   
53.007   Service contracts
   
53.008   Installation expense
   
53.009   Classification
   
53.010   Rate setting
   
53.011   Sewer rental bills
   
53.012   Repairs and replacement
   
53.013   Special equipment
   
53.014   Manholes
   
53.015   Inspections
   
53.016   Lien
   
53.017   Compliance
   
53.018   Violation
   
53.019   Municipal powers
   
53.020   Tampering with sewer facilities; capping sewer lines
Private Sewage Disposal
   
53.035   When applicable
   
53.036   Permit required; fee
   
53.037   Permit; when effective; inspections
   
53.038   Specifications
   
53.039   Maintenance
   
53.040   Additional requirements
Building Sewer Installation
   
53.055   Permit required
   
53.056   Classification; permit application; fee
   
53.057   Expense
   
53.058   Single premises
   
53.059   Use of existing sewers
   
53.060   Construction codes
   
53.061   Unlawful connection
   
53.062   Inspections
   
53.063   Excavations
Prohibited Discharges and Treatment
   
53.075   Storm, surface, ground, cooling and process waters
   
53.076   Flammable, toxic, corrosive and obstructive substances; preliminary
treatment
   
53.077   Specific prohibitions as determined by Superintendent
   
53.078   Rejection, pretreatment, control of discharge; rate or use fee
surcharge
   
53.079   Grease, oil and sand interceptors; when required
   
53.080   Preliminary treatment or flow equalizing facilities; owner maintenance
   
53.081   Control manholes and sampling stations
   
53.082   Sanitary supply system; destruction of property
   
53.083   Special exceptions permitted; use fee surcharge
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 53.001  OPERATION AND FUNDING.
   The municipality owns and operates the municipal sewer system through the
Utilities Superintendent. The governing body shall have the authority to adopt
rules and regulations for the sanitary and efficient management of the
Department.
(Prior Code, § 3-201)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-574, 17-925.01
§ 53.002  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND. The quantity of oxygen utilized in the
biochemical oxidation  of organic matter under standard laboratory procedure in
five days at 20°C, expressed in milligrams per liter.
   BUILDING OR HOUSE DRAIN. The part of the lowest horizontal piping of a
drainage system  which receives the discharge from soil, waste or other
drainage pipes inside  the walls of the building and conveys it to the building
sewer, beginning five feet (one and one-half meters) outside the inner face of
the building wall.
   BUILDING SEWER. The extension from the building drain to the public sewer or
other place of disposal.
   CHLORINE REQUIREMENT. The amount of chlorine in parts per million by weight
which must be added to sewage to produce a specified residual chlorine content
or to meet the requirements of some other objective in accordance with
procedures set forth in Standard  Methods.
   COMBINED SEWER. A sewer receiving both surface runoff and sewage.
   FLOATABLE OIL. Oil, fat or grease in a physical state such that it will
separate by gravity from wastewater by treatment in an approved pretreatment
facility. A wastewater shall be considered free of floatable fat if it is
properly pretreated and the wastewater does not interfere with the collection
system.
   GARBAGE. Solid wastes from the domestic and commercial preparation, cooking
and dispensing of food and from the handling, storage and sale of  produce.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTES. The liquid wastes from industrial manufacturing
processes, trade or business as distinct from sanitary sewage.
   NATURAL OUTLET. Any outlet into a watercourse, pond, ditch, lake or other
body of surface or ground water.
   PERSON. Any individual, firm, company, association, society, corporation or
group.
   pH. The logarithm of the reciprocal of the weight of hydrogen ions in grams
per liter of solution.
   PROPERLY SHREDDED GARBAGE. The wastes from the preparation, cooking and
dispensing of food that have been shredded to such a degree that all particles
will be carried freely under the flow conditions normally prevailing in public
sewers, with no particle greater than one-half inch (1.27 centimeters) in any
dimension.
   PUBLIC SEWER. A sewer in which all owners of abutting properties have equal
rights and is controlled by public authority.
   REPLACEMENT. Expenditures for obtaining and installing equipment,
accessories or appurtenances which are necessary during the service life of the
treatment works to maintain the capacity and performance for which such works
were designed and constructed.
   SANITARY SEWER. A sewer which carries sewage and to which storm surface and
ground waters are not intentionally admitted.
   SEWAGE. The spent water of a community. The preferred term is WASTEWATER.
   SEWAGE TREATMENT PLANT. Any arrangement of devices and structures used for
treating sewage.
   SEWAGE WORKS. All facilities for collecting, pumping, treating and disposing
of sewage.
   SEWER. The pipe or conduit for carrying sewage.
   SLUG. Any discharge of water, sewage or industrial waste which in
concentration of any given constituent or in quantity of flow, exceeds for any
period of duration longer than 15 minutes more than five times the average 24-
hour concentration or flows during normal operation.
   STANDARD METHODS. The examination and analytical procedures set forth in the
most recent editions of Standard Methods for the Examination of Water, Sewage
and Industrial Waste, published jointly by the American Public Health
Association, the American Water Works Association and the Water Pollution
Control Federation.
   STORM DRAIN. (Sometimes termed STORM SEWER.) A drain or sewer for conveying
water, ground water, subsurface water or unpolluted water from any source.
   SUPERINTENDENT. The Utilities Superintendent of the municipality, or his or
her authorized deputy, agent or representative.
   SURCHARGE. The assessment, in addition to the service charge, which is
levied on those persons whose wastes are greater in strength than the
concentration values established as representative of normal sewage.
   SUSPENDED SOLIDS. Total suspended matter that either floats on the surface
of or is in suspension in water, wastewater or other liquids and that is
removable by laboratory filtering as prescribed in Standard Methods for the
Examination of Water and Wastewater and referred to as nonfilterable residue.
   TRAP. A fitting or device so constructed as to prevent the passage of air or
gas through a pipe without materially affecting the flow of sewage or waste
through it.
   TRAP SEAL. The vertical distance between the crown weir and the dip of the
trap.
   UNPOLLUTED WATERS. Water of quality equal to or better than the effluent
criteria in effect or water that would not cause violation of receiving water
quality standards and would not be benefitted by discharge to the sanitary
sewers and wastewater treatment facilities provided.
   WATERCOURSE. A natural or artificial channel for the passage of water either
continuously or intermittently.
(Prior Code, § 3-202)
§ 53.003  PERMIT APPLICATION.
   Any person wishing to connect with the sewer system shall make an
application therefor to the Municipal Clerk. The Department shall not supply
sewer service to any person outside the corporate limits without special
permission from the governing body; provided that, the entire cost of pipe and
other installation charges shall be paid by such consumers. Nothing herein
shall be construed to obligate the municipality to provide sewer service to
non-residents.
(Prior Code, § 3-203)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-574
§ 53.004  SEWER CONTRACT.
   The municipality, through the Municipal Sewer Department, shall furnish
sewer services to persons within its corporate limits whose premises abut a
street or alley in which a commercial main is now or may hereafter be laid. The
municipality may also furnish sewer service to persons whose premises are
situated outside the corporate limits of the municipality as and when,
according to law, the governing body may see fit to do so. The rules,
regulations and sewer rental rates hereinafter named in this chapter shall be
considered a part of every application hereafter made for sewer service and
shall be considered a part of the contract between every customer now or
hereafter served. Without further formality, the making of the application on
the part of any applicant or the use of sewer service by present customers
thereof shall constitute a contract between the customer and the municipality
to which said contract both parties are bound.
(Prior Code, § 3-204)
§ 53.005  MANDATORY HOOK-UP.
   Upon written notice by the governing body, the property owner, occupant or
lessee of any premises that abuts a sewer main that is now or may hereafter be
laid shall without delay, cause the said building to be connected with the
sewer system and equipped with inside sewerage facilities; provided that, no
person shall be allowed to hook-up a heat exchanger, jet pump, cooling system
device or any other mechanical devise to discharge unpolluted cooling water
into the sanitary sewer. Every building hereafter erected shall be connected
with the sewer system at the time of its construction. In the event that any
property owner, occupant or lessee shall neglect, fail or refuse within a
period of ten days after notice has been given to him to do so by registered
mail or by publication in a newspaper in or of general circulation in the
municipality to make such connection, the governing body shall have the power
to cause the same to be done, to assess the cost thereof against the property
and to collect the assessment thus made in the manner provided for collection
of other special taxes and assessments.
(Prior Code, § 3-205)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-574, 17-575
§ 53.006  DIRECT CONNECTIONS.
   Each and every building, except buildings customarily incidental to the
primary building and trailers, must make a direct connection with the main
sewer line. Under no circumstances will two or more houses be allowed to make
such connections through one pipe.
(Prior Code, § 3-206)
§ 53.007  SERVICE CONTRACTS.
   (A)   Contracts for sewer service are not transferable. Any person wishing
to change from one location to another shall make a new application and sign a
new contract.
   (B)   If any customer shall move from the premises where service is
furnished or if the said premises is destroyed by fire or other casualty, he or
she shall at once inform the Municipal Clerk.
(Prior Code, § 3-207)
§ 53.008  INSTALLATION EXPENSE.
   (A)   The customer, upon approval of his or her application for sewer
service, shall be responsible for all expenses incurred in the tapping of the
sewer main and running the service lateral.
   (B)   The sewer service installation shall only be done by a licensed
plumber.
   (C)   The sewer tap fee, as established by the Board of Trustees, is in §
36.01 of this code of ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 3-208)
§ 53.009  CLASSIFICATION.
   The governing body may classify for the purpose of rental fees, the
customers of the Municipal Sewer Department; provided that, such
classifications are reasonable and do not discriminate unlawfully against any
consumer or group of consumers.
(Prior Code, § 3-209)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-925.01
§ 53.010  RATE SETTING.
   The governing body has the power and authority to fix the rates to be
charged for the usage of the municipal sewer line. The Municipal Clerk shall
bill the customers and collect all money received by the municipality on the
account of the Sewer Department. He or she shall fully account for and pay to
the Municipal Treasurer all revenue collected by him, taking as his or her
receipt therefor and duplicate, filing one with the Municipal Clerk and keeping
the other on file in the Sewer Department official’s records.
(Prior Code, § 3-210)
§ 53.011  SEWER RENTAL BILLS.
   Sewer rental bills shall be due and payable monthly at the office of the
Municipal Clerk. The Municipal Clerk shall charge and collect from each
customer the sewer rental bill which shall include all other charges, properly
itemized, due the Sewer Department. Bills shall be due on the first day of each
month and shall be payable by the fifteenth day of each month. Bills not paid
by the fifteenth day of each month shall be deemed to be delinquent. Upon being
deemed to be delinquent, as herein defined, the Municipal Clerk shall implement
procedural policies for utility disconnection. The Municipal Clerk may assess
an additional fee set by resolution of the governing body and on file at the
office of the Municipal Clerk in the event that water service is shut off for
the non-payment of any sewer rental bill to compensate the municipality for the
additional hook-up necessary to again provide water service to the delinquent
customer.
(Prior Code, § 3-211)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-925.01, 18-503, 70-1601 through 70-1615
§ 53.012  REPAIRS AND REPLACEMENT.
   (A)   The Municipal Sewer Department may require the owner of any property
which is within the municipality and connected to the public sewers or drains
to repair or replace any connection line which serves the owner’s property and
is broken, clogged or otherwise in need of repair or replacement. The property
owner’s duty to repair or replace such a connection line shall include those
portions upon the owner’s property and those portions upon public property or
easements up to and including the point of junction with the public main.
   (B)   The Municipal Clerk shall give the property owner notice by registered
letter or certified mail, directed to the last-known address of such owner or
the agent of such owner, directing the repair or replacement of such connection
line. If, within 30 days of mailing such notice, the property owner fails or
neglects to cause such repairs or replacements to be made, the Utilities
Superintendent may cause such work to be done and assess the cost upon the
property served by such connection.
(Prior Code, § 3-212)  (Updated)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 18-1748
§ 53.013  SPECIAL EQUIPMENT.
   In the event a customer of the Municipal Sewer Department discharges an
unusually large amount of waste daily, an unusually large amount of grease or
oil or waste with an unusually high biochemical oxygen demand, the governing
body may require the said customer to install interceptors or other preliminary
treatment equipment to reduce the objectionable characteristics of the waste to
within such maximum limits as he or she shall prescribe subject to the review
of the governing body. All preliminary treatment facilities shall be purchased
and maintained continuously in satisfactory and efficient operation at the
customer’s expense. Nothing herein shall be construed to prohibit a special
agreement or arrangement between the governing body and an industrial concern
whereby an industrial waste of unusual strength or character may be accepted by
the municipality for treatment subject to additional rental fees or other
charges.
(Prior Code, § 3-213)
§ 53.014  MANHOLES.
   Entrance into a manhole or opening for any purpose, except by authorized
persons, is hereby prohibited. It shall be unlawful to deposit or cause to be
deposited in any receptacle connected with the sewer system any substance which
is not the usual and natural waste carried by the sewer system.
(Prior Code, § 3-214)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 53.015  INSPECTIONS.
   The Utilities Superintendent or his or her authorized agents shall have free
access at any reasonable time to all parts of each premises and building which
is connected with the sewer system to ascertain whether there is any disrepair
or violations of this chapter therein.
(Prior Code, § 3-215)
§ 53.016  LIEN.
   In addition to all other remedies, if a customer shall for any reason remain
indebted to the municipality for sewer service furnished, such amount due
together with any rents and charges in arrears shall be considered a delinquent
sewer rent which is hereby declared to be a lien upon the real estate for which
the same was furnished. The Municipal Clerk shall notify in writing or cause to
be notified in writing all owners of premises or their agents whenever their
tenants or lessees are 60 days or more delinquent in the payment of sewer rent.
It shall be the duty of the Municipal Clerk on June 1 of each year to report to
the governing body a list of all unpaid accounts due for sewer service together
with a description of the premises served. The report shall be examined and if
approved by the governing body, shall be certified by the Municipal Clerk to
the County Clerk to be collected as a special tax in the manner provided by
law.
(Prior Code, § 3-216)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-925.01
§ 53.017  COMPLIANCE.
   (A)   The Superintendent and other duly authorized employees of the
municipality bearing proper credentials and identification shall be permitted
to enter all properties for the purposes of inspection, observation,
measurement, sampling and testing system in accordance with the provisions of
this chapter. The Superintendent or his or her representatives shall have no
authority to inquire into any processes including metallurgical, chemical, oil,
refining, ceramic, paper or other industries beyond that point having a direct
bearing on the kind and source of discharge to the sewers or waterways or
facilities for waste treatment.
(Prior Code, § 3-242)
   (B)   While performing the necessary work on private properties referred to
in division (A) above, the Superintendent or duly authorized employees of the
municipality shall observe all safety rules applicable to the premises
established by the company and the company shall be held harmless for injury or
death to the municipal employees and the municipality shall indemnify the
company against loss or damage to its property by municipal employees and
against liability claims and demands for personal injury or property damage
asserted against the company and growing out of the gauging and sampling
operation, except as such may be caused by negligence or failure of the company
to maintain safe conditions as required by municipality.
(Prior Code, § 3-243)
   (C)   The Superintendent and other duly authorized employees of the
municipality bearing proper credentials and identification shall be permitted
to enter all private properties through which the municipality holds a duly
negotiated easement for the purposes of, but not limited to, inspection,
observation, measurement, sampling, repair and maintenance of any portion of
the sewage works lying within said easement. All entry and subsequent work if
any, on said easement shall be done in full accordance with the terms of the
duly negotiated easement pertaining to the private property involved.
(Prior Code, § 3-244)
§ 53.018  VIOLATION.
   (A)   Any person found to be violating any provision of this chapter, except
§
53.081(A) of this chapter, shall be served by the municipality with written
notice stating the nature of the violation and providing a reasonable time
limit for the satisfactory correction thereof. The offender shall, within the
period of time stated in such notice, permanently cease all violations.
   (B)   Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall
become liable to the municipality for any expense, loss or damage occasioned
the municipality by reason of such violation.
(Prior Code, § 3-245)
§ 53.019  MUNICIPAL POWERS.
   The municipality has the legal authority to enforce its system of user
charges and sewer use regulations on all existing or future users of the system
whether located inside or outside the municipal limits.   
(Prior Code, § 3-246)
§ 53.020  TAMPERING WITH SEWER FACILITIES; CAPPING SEWER LINES.
   It is unlawful for any person or persons to maliciously, willfully or
negligently break, damage, destroy, uncover, deface or tamper with any
structure, appurtenance or equipment which is a part of the waste water system.
Any person or persons who demolish a structure having sewer access lines must
provide a suitable cap to the sewer access line to prevent the introduction of
any materials into the sewer access line.
(Prior Code, § 3-247)
PRIVATE SEWAGE DISPOSAL
§ 53.035  WHEN APPLICABLE.
   (A)   Where a public sanitary or combined sewer is not available under the
provisions of §
53.005 of this chapter, the building sewer shall be connected to a private
sewage disposal system complying with the provisions of this subchapter.
   (B)   At such time as a public sewer becomes available to a property served
by a private wastewater disposal system, as provided in §
53.005 of this chapter, a direct connection shall be made to the public sewer
within 60 days in compliance with this subchapter and any septic tanks,
cesspools and similar private wastewater disposal facilities shall be cleaned
of sludge and filled with clean bankrun gravel or dirt.
(Prior Code, § 3-217)
§ 53.036  PERMIT REQUIRED; FEE.
   Before commencement of construction of a private sewage disposal system, the
owner shall first obtain a written permit signed by the Superintendent. The
application for such permit shall be made on a form furnished by the
municipality which the applicant shall supplement by any plans, specifications
and other information as are deemed necessary by the Superintendent. A permit
and inspection fee shall be paid to the municipality at the time the
application is filed.
(Prior Code, § 3-218)
§ 53.037  PERMIT; WHEN EFFECTIVE; INSPECTIONS.
   A permit for a private sewage disposal system shall not become effective
until the installation is completed to the satisfaction of the Superintendent.
He or she shall be allowed to inspect the work at any stage of construction and
in any event, the applicant for the permit shall notify the Superintendent when
the work is ready for final inspection and before any underground portions are
covered. The inspection shall be made within 24 hours of the receipt of notice
by the Superintendent.
(Prior Code, § 3-219)
§ 53.038  SPECIFICATIONS.
   The type capacities, location and layout of a private sewage disposal system
shall comply with all recommendations of the Department of Public Health of the
state. No permit shall be issued for any private sewage disposal system
employing subsurface soil absorption facilities when the area of the lot is
less than 12,250 square feet. No septic tank or cesspool shall be permitted to
discharge to any natural outlet.
(Prior Code, § 3-220)
§ 53.039  MAINTENANCE.
   The owner shall operate and maintain the private sewage disposal facilities
in a sanitary manner at all times at no expense to the municipality.
(Prior Code, § 3-221)
§ 53.040  ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS.
   No statement contained in §§
53.035 through
53.039 of this chapter shall be construed to interfere with any additional
requirements that may be imposed by the health officer.
(Prior Code, § 3-222)
BUILDING SEWER INSTALLATION
§ 53.055  PERMIT REQUIRED.
   No unauthorized person shall uncover, make any connections with or opening
into, use, alter or disturb any public sewer or appurtenance thereof without
first obtaining a written permit from the Superintendent.
(Prior Code, § 3-223)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 53.056  CLASSIFICATION; PERMIT APPLICATION; FEE.
   (A)   There shall be two classes of building sewer permits:
      (1)   For residential and commercial service; and
      (2)   For service to establishments producing industrial wastes.
   (B)   In either case, the owner or his or her agent shall make application
on a special form furnished by the municipality. The permit application shall
be supplemented by any plans, specifications or other information considered
pertinent in the judgement of the Superintendent. A permit and inspection fee
for a residential or commercial building sewer permit and for an industrial
building sewer permit shall be paid to the municipality at the time the
application is filed.
(Prior Code, § 3-224)
§ 53.057  EXPENSE.
   The customer, upon approval of his or her application for sewer service,
shall pay to the Utilities Superintendent a tap fee as set by resolution of the
Board of Public Works for the expense of processing his or her application and
tapping the sewer main. The Utilities Superintendent, at his or her discretion,
may direct the customer to hire a licensed plumber to tap the main. The
customer shall then be required to pay the expense of procuring the materials
required as well as the services of a licensed plumber and shall pay all other
costs of installation.
(Prior Code, § 3-225)
§ 53.058  SINGLE PREMISES.
   A separate and independent building sewer shall be provided for every
building; except where one building stands at the rear of another on an
interior lot an no private sewer is available or can be constructed to the real
building through an adjoining alley, court, yard or driveway, the building
sewer from the front building may be extended to the rear building and the
whole considered as one building sewer.
(Prior Code, § 3-226)
§ 53.059  USE OF EXISTING SEWERS.
   Old building sewers may be used in connection with new buildings only when
they are found, on examination and test by the Superintendent, to meet all
requirements of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 3-227)
§ 53.060  CONSTRUCTION CODES.
   (A)   (1)   The size, slope, alignment, materials of construction of a
building sewer and the methods to be used in excavating, placing of the pipe,
jointing, testing and backfilling the trench shall all conform to the
requirements of the Building and Plumbing Code or other applicable rules and
regulations of the municipality.
      (2)   In the absence of code provisions or in amplification thereof, the
materials and procedures set forth in appropriate specifications of the
A.S.T.M. and W.P.C.F. Manual of Practice No. 9 shall apply.
   (B)   (1)   Whenever possible, the building sewer shall be brought to the
building at an elevation below the basement floor.
      (2)   In all buildings in which any building drain is too low to permit
gravity flow to the public sewer, sanitary sewage carried by such building
drain shall be lifted by an approved means and discharged to the building
sewer.
   (C)   The connection of the building sewer into the public sewer shall
conform to the requirements of the building and plumbing code or other
applicable rules and regulations of the municipality or the procedures set
forth in appropriate specifications of the A.S.T.M. and the W.P.C.F. Manual of
Practice No. 9. All such connections shall be made gas-tight and water-tight
and verified by proper testing. Any deviation from the prescribed procedures
and materials must be approved by the Superintendent before installation.
(Prior Code, § 3-228)
§ 53.061  UNLAWFUL CONNECTION.
   No person shall make connection of roof downspouts, interior and exterior
foundation drains, areaway drains or other sources of surface runoff or
groundwater to a building sewer or building drain which in turn is connected
directly or indirectly to a public sanitary sewer.
(Prior Code, § 3-229)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 53.062  INSPECTIONS.
   The applicant for the building sewer permit shall notify the Superintendent
when the building sewer is ready for inspection and connection to the public
sewer. The connection and testing shall be made under the supervision of the
Superintendent or his or her representative.
(Prior Code, § 3-230)
§ 53.063  EXCAVATIONS.
   All excavations for building sewer installation shall be adequately guarded
with barricades and lights so as to protect the public from hazard. Streets,
sidewalks, parkways and other public property disturbed in the course of the
work shall be restored in a manner satisfactory to the municipality.
(Prior Code, § 3-231)  Penalty, see §
10.99
PROHIBITED DISCHARGES AND TREATMENT
§ 53.075  STORM, SURFACE, GROUND, COOLING AND PROCESS WATERS.
   (A)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any storm water,
surface water, ground water, roof runoff, subsurface drainage, including
interior and exterior foundation drains, uncontaminated cooling water or
unpolluted industrial waters to any sanitary sewer.
   (B)   Storm water and all other unpolluted drainage shall be discharged to
such sewers as are specifically designated as combined sewers or storm sewers
or to a natural outlet approved by the Superintendent. Industrial cooling water
or unpolluted process water may be discharged on approval of the
Superintendent, to a storm sewer, combined sewer or natural outlet. The
contributor of any identifiable discharge of polluted water to the sanitary
sewer system shall be held responsible for reimbursing the municipality for
such costs. The costs shall be determined by the Superintendent with the
approval of the governing body.
(Prior Code, § 3-232)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 53.076  FLAMMABLE, TOXIC, CORROSIVE AND OBSTRUCTIVE SUBSTANCES; PRELIMINARY
TREATMENT.
   (A)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any of the
following described waters or wastes to any public sewers:
      (1)   Any gasoline, benzene, naphtha, fuel oil or other flammable or
explosive liquid, solid or gas;
      (2)   Any waters or wastes containing toxic or poisonous solids, liquids
or gases in sufficient quantity, either singly or by interaction with other
wastes, to injure or interfere with any waste treatment process, constitute a
hazard to humans or animals, create a public nuisance or create any hazard in
the receiving waters of the sewage treatment plant including but not limited to
cyanides in the excess of two mg/l as CN in the wastes as discharged to the
public sewer;
      (3)   Any waters or wastes having a pH lower that 5.5 or having any other
corrosive property capable of causing damage or hazard to structures, equipment
and personnel of the sewage works;
      (4)   Solid or viscous substances in quantities or of such size capable
of causing obstruction to the flow in sewers or other interference with the
proper operation of the sewage facilities such as but not limited to ashes,
cinders, sand, mud, straw, shavings, metal, glass, rags, feathers, tar,
plastics, wood, unground garbage, whole blood, paunch manure, hair and
fleshings, entrails and paper dishes, cups, milk containers and the like,
either whole or ground by garbage grinders; and
      (5)   Any waters or wastes having:
         (a)   A five-day BOD greater than 300 parts per million by weight;
         (b)   Containing more than 350 parts per million by weight of
suspended solids;
         (c)   Having an average daily flow greater than 2% of the average
sewage flow of the municipality; or
         (d)   A chlorine requirement greater than demanded by normal sewage as
evaluated by the municipality’s consulting engineer shall be subject to the
review of the Superintendent.
   (B)   Where necessary, in the opinion of the Superintendent, the owner shall
provide at his or her expense, such preliminary treatment as may be necessary
to:
      (1)   Reduce the biochemical oxygen demand to 300 parts per million by
weight;
      (2)   Reduce the suspended solids to 350 parts per million by weight;
      (3)   Control the quantities and rates of discharge of such waters or
wastes; or
      (4)   Reduce the chlorine requirement to conform with normal sewage.
Plans, specifications and other pertinent information relating to proposed
preliminary treatment facilities shall be submitted for the approval of the
Superintendent and no construction of such facilities shall be commenced until
said approvals are obtained in writing.
(Prior Code, § 3-233)
§ 53.077  SPECIFIC PROHIBITIONS AS DETERMINED BY SUPERINTENDENT.
   (A)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged the following
described substances, materials, waters or wastes if it appears likely in the
opinion of the Superintendent that such wastes can harm either the sewers,
sewage treatment process or equipment, have an adverse effect on the receiving
stream or can otherwise endanger life, limb, public property or constitute a
nuisance. In forming his or her opinion as to the acceptability of these
wastes, the Superintendent will give consideration to such factors as the
quantities of subject wastes in relation to flows and velocities in the sewers,
materials of construction of the sewers, nature of the sewage treatment
process, capacity of the sewage treatment plant and other pertinent factors.
   (B)   The substances prohibited are:
      (1)   Any liquid or vapor having a temperature higher than 150°F (65°C);
      (2)   Any water or waste containing fats, wax, grease or oils, whether
emulsified or not, in excess of 100 mg/l or containing substances which may
solidify or become viscous at temperatures between 32° and 150°F (0° and 65°C);
      (3)   Any garbage that has not been properly shredded. The installation
and operation of any garbage grinder equipped with a motor three-fourths
horsepower (0.76 Hp metric) or greater shall be subject to the review and
approval of the Superintendent;
      (4)   Any waters or wastes containing strong acid iron pickling wastes or
concentrated plating solutions whether neutralized or not;
      (5)   Any water or wastes containing iron, chromium, copper, zinc and
similar objectionable or toxic substances or wastes exerting an excessive
chlorine requirement to such degree that any such material received in the
composite sewage at the sewage treatment works exceeds the limits established
by the Superintendent for such materials;
      (6)   Any waters or wastes containing phenols or other taste or odor
producing substances in such concentrations exceeding limits which may be
established by the Superintendent as necessary, after treatment of the
composite sewage, to meet the requirements of state, federal or other public
agencies of jurisdiction for such discharge to the receiving waters;
      (7)   Any radioactive wastes or isotopes of such half-life or
concentration as may exceed limits established by the Foremen in compliance
with applicable state of federal regulations;
      (8)   Any waters of wastes having a pH in excess of 9.5;
      (9)   Materials which exert or cause:
         (a)   Unusual concentrations of inert suspended solids (such as, but
not limited to, Fuller’s earth, lime slurries and lime residues) or of
dissolved solids (such as, but not limited to, sodium chloride or sodium
sulfate);
         (b)   Excessive discoloration (such as but not limited to, dye wastes
and vegetable tanning solutions);
         (c)   Unusual BOD, chemical oxygen demand or chlorine requirements in
such quantities as to constitute a significant load on the sewage treatment
works; and
         (d)   Unusual volume of flow or concentration of wastes constituting
“slugs”, as defined herein.
      (10)   Waters or wastes containing substances which are not amenable to
treatment or reduction by the sewage treatment process employed or are amenable
to treatment only to such degree that the sewage treatment plant effluent
cannot meet the requirements of other agencies having jurisdiction over
discharge to the receiving waters.
(Prior Code, § 3-234)
§ 53.078  REJECTION, PRETREATMENT, CONTROL OF DISCHARGE; RATE OR USE FEE
SURCHARGE.
   (A)   If any waters or wastes are discharged or are proposed to be
discharged to the public sewers, which waters contain the substances or possess
the characteristics enumerated in §
53.076 of this chapter and which, in the judgment of the Superintendent, may
have a deleterious effect upon the sewage works, processes, equipment or
receiving waters, or which otherwise create a hazard to life to constitute a
public nuisance, the Superintendent may:
      (1)   Reject the wastes;
      (2)   Require pretreatment to an acceptable condition for discharge to
the public sewers;
      (3)   Require control over the quantities and rates of discharge; and/or
      (4)   Require payment to cover the added cost of handling and treating
the wastes not covered by existing taxes or sewer charges under the provisions
of §
53.082 of this chapter.
   (B)   If the Superintendent permits the pretreatment or equalization of
waste flows, the design and installation of the plants and equipment shall be
subject to the review and approval of the Superintendent and subject to the
requirements of all applicable codes, ordinances and laws.
(Prior Code, § 3-235)
§ 53.079  GREASE, OIL AND SAND INTERCEPTORS; WHEN REQUIRED.
   Grease, oil and sand interceptors shall be provided when in the opinion of
the Superintendent, they are necessary for the proper handling of liquid wastes
containing grease in excessive amounts or any flammable wastes, sand or other
harmful ingredients; except that, such interceptors shall not be required for
private living quarters or dwelling units. All interceptors shall be of a type
and capacity approved by the Superintendent and shall be located as to be
readily and easily accessible for cleaning and inspection.
(Prior Code, § 3-236)
§ 53.080  PRELIMINARY TREATMENT OR FLOW EQUALIZING FACILITIES; OWNER
MAINTENANCE.
   Where preliminary treatment or flow-equalizing facilities are provided for
any waters or wastes, they shall be maintained continuously in satisfactory and
effective operation by the owner at his or her expense.
(Prior Code, § 3-237)
§ 53.081  CONTROL MANHOLES AND SAMPLING STATIONS.
   (A)   When required by the Superintendent, the owner of any property
serviced by a building sewer carrying industrial wastes shall install a
suitable control manhole together with such necessary meters and other
appurtenances in the building sewer to facilitate observation, sampling and
measurement of the wastes. Such manhole, when required, shall be accessible and
safely located and shall be constructed in accordance with plans approved by
the Superintendent. The manhole shall be installed by the owner at his or her
expense and shall be maintained by him or her so as to be safe and accessible
at all times.
(Prior Code, § 3-238)
   (B)   All measurements, tests and analyses of the characteristics of waters
and wastes to which reference is made in this subchapter shall be determined in
accordance with the latest edition of Standard Methods for the Examination of
Water and Wastewater, published by the American Public Health Association and
shall be determined at the control manhole provided or upon suitable samples
taken at said control manhole. In the event no special manhole has been
required, the control manhole shall be considered to be the nearest downstream
manhole in the public sewer to the point at which the building sewer is
connected. Sampling shall be carried out by customarily accepted methods to
reflect the effect of constituents upon the sewage works and to determine the
existence of hazards to life, limb and property. (The particular analyses
involved will determine whether a 24-hour composite of all outfalls of a
premises is appropriate or whether a grab sample or samples should be taken.
Normally, but not always, BOD and suspended solids analyses are obtained from
24-hour composites of all outfalls whereas pHs are determined from periodic
grab samples.
(Prior Code, § 3-239)
§ 53.082  SANITARY SUPPLY SYSTEM; DESTRUCTION OF PROPERTY.
   No person or persons shall maliciously, willfully or negligently break,
damage, destroy, uncover, deface or tamper with any structure, appurtenance or
equipment which is part of the wastewater facilities. Any person or persons
violating this provision shall be subject to immediate arrest under charge of
disorderly conduct.
(Prior Code, § 3-240)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 53.083  SPECIAL EXCEPTIONS PERMITTED; USE FEE SURCHARGE.
   No statement contained in this subchapter shall be construed as preventing
any special agreement or arrangement between the municipality and any
industrial concern whereby an industrial waste of unusual strength or character
may be accepted by the municipality for treatment, subject to payment therefor,
by the industrial concern.
(Prior Code, § 3-241)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   VEHICLE OPERATION
      
71.   PARKING RULES
      
72.   RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
      
73.   RAILROADS
CHAPTER 70:  VEHICLE OPERATION
Section
Traffic Regulations
   
70.01   Definitions
   
70.02   Turning movements generally; U turns
   
70.03   Rights-of-way generally; emergency vehicles
   
70.04   Position of vehicle on highway
   
70.05   Crosswalks
   
70.06   Signs and signals
Prohibitions and Enforcement
   
70.20   Littering
   
70.21   Defacing or interfering with signs
   
70.22   Speed limits
   
70.23   Drunken driving
   
70.24   Reckless driving
   
70.25   Careless driving
   
70.26   Negligent driving
   
70.27   Backing
   
70.28   Unnecessary stopping
   
70.29   Intersections
   
70.30   Hindrance
   
70.31   Driving abreast
   
70.32   Following; distance; fire apparatus
   
70.33   Driving in sidewalk space
   
70.34   Mufflers
   
70.35   Emergencies
   
70.36   Enforcement officers
   
70.37   Crowding; front seat
   
70.38   Loads; projecting or spilling
   
70.39   Use of engine brake; affirmative defense
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 70.01  DEFINITIONS.
   The words and phrases used in this traffic code pertaining to motor vehicles
and traffic regulations shall be construed as defined in Neb. RS Ch. 60, as now
existing or hereafter amended. If not defined in the designated statute, the
word or phrase shall have its common meaning.
(Prior Code, § 5-101)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 60-601 through 60-6,383
§ 70.02  TURNING MOVEMENTS GENERALLY; U TURNS.
   (A)   No vehicle shall be turned so as to proceed in the opposite direction,
except at a street intersection. No vehicle shall be turned so as to proceed in
the opposite direction at any intersection where an automatic signal is in
operation or where a sign is posted indicating that U turns are prohibited.
(Prior Code, § 5-102)
   (B)   Vehicles turning to the right into an intersecting street shall
approach such intersection in the lane of traffic nearest to the right-hand
side of the highway and must turn the corner as near the right-hand curb as
possible to keep between the curb to the right and the center of the
intersection of the two streets. The driver of a vehicle intending to turn left
shall approach such centerline of the highway and, in turning, shall pass as
near as possible to the centerline of the intersection passing as closely as
practical to the right thereof before turning such vehicle to the left. For the
purposes of this division (B), the CENTER OF THE INTERSECTION shall mean the
meeting point of the medial lines of the highways intersecting one another.
(Prior Code, § 5-103)
Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 60-680, 60-6,159
§ 70.03  RIGHTS-OF WAY GENERALLY; EMERGENCY VEHICLES.
   (A)   When two vehicles approach or enter an intersection at approximately
the same time, the driver of the vehicle on the left shall yield the right-of-
way to the vehicle on the right when the paths of such vehicles intersect and
there is danger of a collision. The driver of a vehicle intending to turn to
the left within an intersection or into an alley, private road or driveway
shall yield the right-of-way to any vehicle approaching from the opposite
direction which is within the intersection or so close thereto as to constitute
an immediate hazard. The driver of a vehicle on any street shall yield the
right-of-way to a pedestrian crossing at the end of a block where the movement
of traffic is being regulated by traffic officers or traffic direction devices.
Every pedestrian crossing a street at any point other than a pedestrian
crossing, crosswalk or intersection shall yield the right-of-way to vehicles
upon the street. The driver of a vehicle entering a municipal street from a
private road or drive shall yield the right-of-way to authorized emergency
vehicles when the latter are operated upon official business and the drivers
thereof make proper use of visual or audible signals.
(Prior Code, § 5-104)
   (B)   (1)   Upon the approach of an authorized emergency vehicle, every
vehicle within one block of the route of such emergency vehicle shall
immediately stop, except at the time they are on or crossing a street
intersection and then stop.
      (2)   Every vehicle along the route of such emergency vehicle shall
immediately move to a position as near the right-hand curb as possible and
remain there until such authorized emergency vehicle or vehicles have passed;
provided, said vehicles are operated on official business and the drivers
thereof make use of proper visual or audible signals.
(Prior Code, § 5-105)
Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 60-6,146 through 60-6,154
§ 70.04  POSITION OF VEHICLE ON HIGHWAY.
   (A)   Upon all highways of sufficient width, one-way streets excepted, the
driver of a vehicle shall drive the same on the right half of the roadway.
   (B)   In passing or meeting other vehicles, drivers shall give each other at
least one-half of the main traveled portion of the roadway.
(Prior Code, § 5-106)  Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 60-6,131
§ 70.05  CROSSWALKS.
   The governing body may, by resolution, establish and maintain, by
appropriate devices, markers or lines upon the street, crosswalks at
intersections where there is particular danger to pedestrians crossing the
street and at such other places as it may deem necessary.
(Prior Code, § 5-107)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 60-680
§ 70.06  SIGNS AND SIGNALS.
   (A)   (1)   The governing body may, by resolution, provide for the placing
of stop signs or other signs, signals, standards or mechanical devices in any
street or alley under the municipality’s jurisdiction for the purpose of
regulating or prohibiting traffic thereon.
      (2)   Such resolution shall describe: the portion of the street or alley
wherein traffic is to be regulated or prohibited; the regulation or
prohibition; the location where such sign, signal, standard or mechanical
device shall be placed; and the hours when such regulation or prohibition shall
be effective.
      (3)   It shall be unlawful for any person to fail, neglect or refuse to
comply with such regulation or prohibition.
(Prior Code, § 5-108)
   (B)   (1)   Every person operating any vehicle shall, upon approaching any
stop sign erected in accordance with the resolution prescribed heretofore,
cause such vehicle to come to a complete stop before entering or crossing any
street, highway or railroad crossing.
      (2)   The vehicle operator shall stop at a marked stop line or, if there
is no stop line, before entering the crosswalk, but if neither is indicated,
then as near the right-of-way line of the intersection roadway as possible.
(Prior Code, § 5-109)
Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 60-680, 60-6,112 through 60-6,121
PROHIBITIONS AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 70.20  LITTERING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to drop or cause to be left upon any
municipal highway, street or alley, except at places designated by the
governing body, any rubbish, debris or waste and any person so doing shall be
guilty of littering.
(Prior Code, § 5-201)  Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 39-311
§ 70.21  DEFACING OR INTERFERING WITH SIGNS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to willfully deface, injure, remove,
obstruct or interfere with any official traffic sign or signal.
(Prior Code, § 5-202)  Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 60-6,129
§ 70.22  SPEED LIMITS.
   (A)   (1)   No person shall operate a motor vehicle on any street, alley or
other place at a rate of speed greater than 20 mph in all residential districts
and within the business district unless a different rate of speed is
specifically permitted by ordinance.
      (2)   In no instance shall a person drive a vehicle on  Highway 25 at a
speed greater than 45 mph within the corporate limits of the village, or at a
speed greater than is reasonable and prudent under the conditions.
      (3)   Where a different maximum speed is set by ordinance, appropriate
signs shall be posted.
(Prior Code, § 5-203)
   (B)   (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a motor vehicle
at a rate of speed greater than 20 mph on all streets within the village,
except those designated by the governing body as school zones.
      (2)   (a)   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a motor
vehicle at a rate of speed greater than 15 mph in a school zone.
         (b)   Such school zone shall consist of an area including four blocks
of Market Street beginning at Highway 30 and extending northward four blocks to
the northwest corner of the block in which the school is located, one block of
Popleton Street between Market Street and Main Street and one block of Main
Street directly north of Popleton Street.
(Prior Code, § 5-204)
Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 60-6,186, 60-6,190
§ 70.23  DRUNKEN DRIVING.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate or be in actual
physical control of any motor vehicle while under the influence of alcoholic
liquor or of any drug.
   (B)   Any person who shall operate or be in actual physical control of any
motor vehicle while under the influence of alcoholic liquor or any drug shall
be deemed guilty of a crime and, upon conviction thereof, such person shall be
punished as provided by state law.
   (C)   For purposes of this section, the determination of whether an
individual is under the influence of either alcohol or drugs shall be as
prescribed in the statutes of the state.
(Prior Code, § 5-205)  Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 60-6,196 through 60-6,203
§ 70.24  RECKLESS DRIVING.
   Any person who drives a motor vehicle in such a manner as to indicate an
indifferent or wanton disregard for the safety of persons or property shall be
guilty of reckless driving and as such shall be punished as provided by
statute.
(Prior Code, § 5-206)  Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 60-4,182, 60-6,215
§ 70.25  CARELESS DRIVING.
   Any person who operates a motor vehicle in a manner so as to endanger or be
likely to endanger a person or property shall be guilty of careless driving and
shall be punished as provided by statute.
(Prior Code, § 5-207)  Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 60-4,182, 60-6,212
§ 70.26  NEGLIGENT DRIVING.
   Any person who operates a motor vehicle in such a manner as to indicate a
want of ordinary care and caution that a person of ordinary prudence would use
under like circumstances shall be guilty of negligent driving.
(Prior Code, § 5-208)  Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 60-4,182
§ 70.27  BACKING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to back a motor vehicle on the municipal
streets, except to park in or to remove the vehicle from a permitted parking
position, to move the vehicle from a driveway or to back to the curb for
unloading where such unloading is permitted; provided, a vehicle shall be
backed only when such movement can be made in safety and in no case shall the
distance of the backing exceed one and one-half lengths of the vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 5-209)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 70.28  UNNECESSARY STOPPING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to stop any vehicle on any public street
or alley other than in permitted parking areas, except when such a stop is
necessary for emergency situations, to comply with traffic-control devices and
regulations or to yield the right-of-way to pedestrians or to other vehicles.
(Prior Code, § 5-210)  Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 60-6,164
§ 70.29  INTERSECTIONS.
   The driver of a vehicle shall not overtake and pass another vehicle
proceeding in the same direction while traversing a street intersection if such
passing requires such overtaking vehicle to drive to the left of the center of
the street.
(Prior Code, § 5-211)  Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 60-6,136
§ 70.30  HINDRANCE.
   The driver of a vehicle about to be overtaken and passed by another vehicle
shall not increase the speed of his or her vehicle until completely passed by
the overtaking vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 5-212)  Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 60-6,186
 
§ 70.31  DRIVING ABREAST.
   Two or more vehicles shall not be driven abreast, except when passing or
when traversing a multi-lane or one-way street; provided, motorcycles may be
driven no more than two abreast in a single lane.
(Prior Code, § 5-213)  Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 60-6,139, 60-6,308
§ 70.32  FOLLOWING; DISTANCE; FIRE APPARATUS.
   (A)   The operator of a vehicle shall not follow another vehicle more
closely than is reasonable and prudent having due regard for the speed of the
vehicles and the traffic and condition of the street.
(Prior Code, § 5-214)
   (B)   The driver of any vehicle shall not follow any fire apparatus
traveling in response to a fire alarm closer than 500 feet or drive into or
park such vehicle within the block where fire apparatus has stopped in answer
to a fire alarm.
(Prior Code, § 5-215)
Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 60-6,140
§ 70.33  DRIVING IN SIDEWALK SPACE.
   No motor vehicle shall be driven or ridden within any sidewalk space, except
a permanent or temporary driveway.
(Prior Code, § 5-216)  Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 60-6,178
§ 70.34  MUFFLERS.
   Every motor vehicle operated within the municipality shall be provided with
a muffler in good working order to prevent excessive or unusual noise or smoke.
No person shall modify or change the exhaust muffler, intake muffler or any
other noise abatement device of a motor vehicle in a manner such that the noise
emitted by the motor vehicle is increased above that emitted by the vehicle as
originally manufactured. It shall be unlawful to use a “muffler cut-out” on any
motor vehicle upon any streets; provided, the provisions of this section shall
not apply to authorized emergency vehicles.
(Prior Code, § 5-217)  Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 60-6,286, 60-6,371
§ 70.35  EMERGENCIES.
   The village’s law enforcement officer is hereby empowered to make and
enforce temporary traffic regulations to cover emergencies.
(Prior Code, § 5-218)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 81-2005
§ 70.36  ENFORCEMENT  OFFICERS.
   (A)   The village’s law enforcement officer is hereby authorized, empowered
and ordered to exercise all powers and duties with relation to the management
of street traffic and to direct, control, stop, restrict, regulate and when
necessary, temporarily divert or exclude in the interest of public safety,
health and convenience the movement of pedestrian, animal and vehicular traffic
of every kind in streets, parks and on bridges. The driver of any vehicle shall
stop upon the signal of any police officer.
(Prior Code, § 5-219)
   (B)   The governing body or the village’s law enforcement officer may at any
time detail officers, to be known as “traffic officers”, at street
intersections. All traffic officers shall be vested with the authority to
regulate and control traffic at the intersections to which they are assigned.
It shall be their duty to direct the movement of traffic and prevent congestion
and accidents. It shall be unlawful for any person to violate any order or
signal of any such traffic officer notwithstanding the directive of a stop sign
or signal device which may have been placed at any such intersection.
(Prior Code, § 5-221)
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person to refuse, or fail to comply with
any lawful order, signal or direction of a police officer.
(Prior Code, § 5-224)
Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 60-683, 60-6,222, 81-2008
§ 70.37  CROWDING; FRONT SEAT.
   No person shall drive a motor vehicle when it is so loaded or when there is
in the front seat such a number of persons exceeding three as to obstruct the
view of the driver to the front or sides of the vehicle or to interfere with
the driver’s control over the driving mechanism of such vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 5-220)  Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 60-6,179
§ 70.38  LOADS; PROJECTING OR SPILLING.
   (A)   When any vehicle shall be loaded in such a manner that any portion of
the loads extends more than four feet beyond the rear of the bed or the body of
such vehicle, a red flag of not less than 12 inches both in length and width
shall be carried by day and red light after sunset at the extreme rear end of
such load.
(Prior Code, § 5-222)
   (B)   All vehicles used for carrying coal, earth, cinders, sand, gravel,
rock, asphalt, tar or any similar substance shall be so constructed as to
prevent the sifting or spilling of any of the contents.
(Prior Code, § 5-223)
Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 60-6,243, 60-6,304
§ 70.39  USE OF ENGINE BRAKE; AFFIRMATIVE DEFENSE.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, ENGINE BRAKE is hereby defined as a
specific braking mechanism which utilizes the release of compressed air as part
of an engine retarder or engine brake on any motor vehicle as a means of
slowing or stopping the vehicle.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for anyone to operate a motor vehicle and use
engine brakes as a means of slowing or stopping the vehicle within the village
limits.
   (C)   The use of an engine brake in an emergency situation to avoid an
imminent accident which would otherwise result in damage or injury to person(s)
or property, or the fact that the motor vehicle is equipped with a proper
muffler system which eliminates noise emitted or caused by the use of an engine
brake system shall constitute affirmative defenses to the application of the
provisions of this section.
(Ord. 2020-02, passed 8-12-2020)  Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 71:  PARKING RULES
Section
General Provisions
   
71.01   Unattended vehicles
   
71.02   Designation
   
71.03   Areas
   
71.04   Obstructing alleys, intersections and traffic
   
71.05   Display or repair
   
71.06   Current license required
   
71.07   Time limit
   
71.08   Maintenance
   
71.09   Parking in alleys
   
71.10   Prohibited parking
   
71.11   Parking at curb
   
71.12   Removal of illegally parked vehicles
Handicapped Parking
   
71.25   Designation of on-street parking spaces; display of permit
   
71.26   Designation of off-street parking spaces
   
71.27   Definition
   
71.28   Permit issuance
   
71.29   Permit contents; duplicate permits
   
71.30   Permits; period valid; renewal; fee
   
71.31   Permits non-transferrable; violation; suspension
   
71.32   Removal of unauthorized vehicle
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 71.01  UNATTENDED VEHICLES.
   No person having control or charge of a motor vehicle shall allow such
vehicle to stand unattended without first effectively setting the brakes
thereon and, when standing upon any grade, without turning the front wheels of
such vehicle to the curb or side of the street. The driver of a motor vehicle,
when traveling upon a down grade upon any street, shall not coast with the
gears of the vehicle in neutral.
(Prior Code, § 5-301)  Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 60-6,168
§ 71.02  DESIGNATION.
   The governing body may, by resolution, designate any street or portion
thereof where vehicles shall be parked parallel with and adjacent to the curb
or at an angle, so as to have the right front wheel at the curb.
(Prior Code, § 5-302)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 60-680
§ 71.03  AREAS.
   (A)   The governing body may, by resolution, set aside any street, alley,
public way or portion thereof where the parking of a particular kind or class
of vehicle shall be prohibited or where the parking of any vehicle shall be
prohibited.
   (B)   No vehicle prohibited from parking thereon shall stand or be parked
adjacent to the curb of said street, alley, public way or portion thereof
longer than a period of time necessary to load and unload freight or
passengers.
(Prior Code, § 5-303)  Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 60-680
§ 71.04  OBSTRUCTING ALLEYS, INTERSECTIONS AND TRAFFIC.
   (A)   No vehicle, while parked, shall have any portion thereof projecting
into any alley entrance.
(Prior Code, § 5-304)
   (B)   Except to compliance with traffic-control devices, no vehicle shall be
parked or left standing for any purpose, except momentarily to load or
discharge passengers within 25 feet of the intersection of curb lines or, if
none, then within 15 feet of the intersection of property lines.
(Prior Code, § 5-305)
   (C)   No person shall, except in case of an accident or emergency, stop any
vehicle in any location where such stopping will obstruct any street,
intersection or entrance to an alley or public or private drive.
(Prior Code, § 5-306)
Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 60-680, 60-6,166
§ 71.05  DISPLAY OR REPAIR.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to park upon any street, alley or
public place within the municipality any vehicle displayed for sale.
   (B)   No person shall adjust or repair any automobile or motorcycle or race
the motor of same while standing on the public streets or alleys of the
municipality, excepting in case of breakdown or other emergency requiring same.
   (C)   No person or employee connected with a garage or repair shop shall use
sidewalks, streets or alleys in the vicinity of such garage or shop for the
purpose of working on automobiles or vehicles of any description.
(Prior Code, § 5-307)  Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 60-680
§ 71.06  CURRENT LICENSE REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful to park or place on the streets, alleys or other public
property any motor vehicle without first securing a current license as provided
by law.
(Prior Code, § 5-317)  Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 60-3,100
§ 71.07  TIME LIMIT.
   (A)   The governing body may, by resolution, entirely prohibit or fix a time
limit for the parking and stopping of vehicles on any street, streets or
district designated by such resolution and the parking or stopping of any
vehicle in any such street, streets or district for a period of time longer
than fixed in such resolution shall constitute a violation of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 5-318)
   (B)   The parking of a motor vehicle on a public street for over 48
consecutive hours is unlawful, except where a different maximum time limit is
posted.
(Prior Code, § 5-319)
Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 60-680
§ 71.08  MAINTENANCE.
   The Utilities Superintendent may order any street or alley or portion
thereof vacated for weather emergencies or street maintenance. Notice shall be
given by personally notifying the owner or operator of a vehicle parked on such
street or alley or by posting appropriate signs along such streets or alleys.
Such signs shall be posted not less than four hours prior to the time that the
vacation order is to be effective. Any person parking a vehicle in violation of
this section shall be subject to the penalties provided in this code and such
vehicle may be removed and parked under the supervision of the Utilities
Superintendent, to a suitable nearby location without further notice to the
owner or operator of such vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 5-320)  Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-557
§ 71.09  PARKING IN ALLEYS.
   No vehicle shall be parked in any alley, except for the purpose of loading
or unloading during the time necessary to load or unload which shall not exceed
the maximum limit of one-half hour. Every vehicle, while loading or unloading
in any alley, shall be parked in such manner as will cause the least
obstruction possible to traffic in such alley.
(Prior Code, § 5-321)  Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 60-680
§ 71.10  PROHIBITED PARKING.
   The governing body may, by ordinance, designate areas prohibiting parking.
(Prior Code, § 5-322)  (Ord. 2020-03, passed 12-9-2020)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 71.11  PARKING AT CURB.
   Where parallel parking is permitted, every vehicle parked shall be so parked
parallel to the curb or edge of the roadway in the direction of authorized
traffic movement, with its right-hand wheels within 12 inches of the right-hand
curb or edge of the roadway. Where angle parking is permitted, every vehicle
shall enter the parking space while traveling in the direction of authorized
traffic movement and shall park with the right front wheel at the curb or edge
of the roadway.
(Prior Code, § 5-324)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 71.12  REMOVAL OF ILLEGALLY PARKED VEHICLES.
   (A)   Whenever any police officer shall find a vehicle standing upon a
street or alley in violation of any of the provisions of this chapter, such
individual may remove or have such vehicle removed, or require the driver or
other person in charge of the vehicle to move such vehicle, to a position off
the roadway of such street or alley or from such street or alley.
   (B)   The owner or other person lawfully entitled to the possession of any
vehicle towed or stored shall be charged with the reasonable cost of towing and
storage fees. Any such towing or storage fee shall be a lien upon the vehicle
prior to all other claims. Any person towing or storing a vehicle shall be
entitled to retain possession of such vehicle until such charges are paid. The
lien provided for in this section shall not apply to the contents of any
vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 5-325)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 60-6,165, 60-6,166
HANDICAPPED PARKING
§ 71.25  DESIGNATION OF ON-STREET PARKING SPACES; DISPLAY OF PERMIT.
   (A)   The governing body may, by resolution, designate parking spaces for
the exclusive use of:
      (1)   Handicapped or disabled persons whose vehicles display the
distinguishing license plates issued pursuant to Neb. RS 60,3,113.04;
      (2)   Handicapped or disabled persons whose vehicles display the
distinguishing license plates issued to a handicapped or disabled person by
another state;
      (3)   Such other handicapped or disabled person as certified by the
governing body, whose vehicles display the identification specified in this
subchapter; and
      (4)   Such other motor vehicles, as certified by the governing body,
which display such identification.
   (B)   All such permits shall be displayed in the operator’s area in a
conspicuous location upon the vehicle’s dashboard or its equivalent so as to be
clearly visible through the front windshield.
   (C)   Whenever the governing body so designates a parking space or parking
spaces, it shall be indicated by a sign which is in conformance with the
nineteenth edition, and all subsequent editions, of the Manual on Uniform
Traffic-Control Devices for Streets and Highways issued by the Federal Highway
Administration. In addition to such sign, the space may also be indicated by
blue paint on the curb or edge of the paved portion of the street adjacent to
the space.
(Prior Code, § 5-308)
§ 71.26  DESIGNATION OF OFF-STREET PARKING SPACES.
   (A)   The governing body and any person in lawful possession of any off-
street parking facility may designate stalls or spaces in such facility for the
exclusive use of:
      (1)   Handicapped or disabled persons whose vehicles display the
distinguishing license plates issued pursuant to Neb. RS 60,3,113.04;
      (2)   Handicapped or disabled persons or temporarily handicapped or
disabled persons as certified by the governing body; and
      (3)   Such other motor vehicles, as certified by the governing body,
which display such identification.
   (B)   Such designation shall be made by posting immediately adjacent to and
visible from each stall or space a sign which is in conformance with the
nineteenth edition, and all subsequent editions, of the Manual on Uniform
Traffic-Control Devices for Streets and Highways issued by the Federal Highway
Administration.
(Prior Code, § 5-309)
§ 71.27  DEFINITION.
   For the purposes of this subchapter, a HANDICAPPED OR DISABLED PERSON shall
mean any individual with a severe visual or physical impairment which limits
personal mobility and results in an inability to travel unassisted more than
200 feet without the use of a wheelchair, crutch, walker or prosthetic,
orthotic or other assistance device, any individual whose personal mobility is
limited as a result of respiratory problems and any individual who has
permanently lost all or substantially all the use of one or more limbs.
TEMPORARILY HANDICAPPED OR DISABLED PERSON shall mean any handicapped or
disabled person whose personal mobility is expected to be limited in such a
manner for no longer than one year.
(Prior Code, § 5-310)
§ 71.28  PERMIT ISSUANCE.
   (A)   (1)   The Municipal Clerk shall take an application from handicapped
or disabled or temporarily handicapped or disabled persons or their parents,
legal guardians or foster parents for a permit which will entitle the holder
thereof or a person driving a motor vehicle for the purpose of transporting
such holder to park in those spaces provided for by this subchapter. Persons
applying for a permit shall complete such forms as are provided to the
Municipal Clerk by the Department of Motor Vehicles and shall demonstrate to
the satisfaction of the Municipal Clerk that he or she is handicapped or
disabled. The Municipal Clerk may require medical certificated and proof of a
handicap or disability.
      (2)   (a)   The Municipal Clerk shall issue a permit to approved
applicants and, before issuing such permit, shall enter all information
required pursuant to this subchapter.
         (b)   The Municipal Clerk shall submit to the Department of Motor
Vehicles the name, address and license number of all persons receiving a permit
pursuant to this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 5-311)
   (B)   (1)   The Municipal Clerk shall take an application from any person
for a motor vehicle permit which will entitle the holder thereof or a person
driving the motor vehicle for the purpose of transporting handicapped or
disabled persons to park in those spaces provided by this subchapter, if the
motor vehicle is used primarily for the transportation of handicapped or
disabled persons or temporarily handicapped or disabled persons.
      (2)   Persons applying for permits pursuant to this subchapter shall
apply for a permit for each motor vehicle used for the transportation of
handicapped or disabled persons or temporarily handicapped or disabled persons,
shall complete such forms as are provided by the Department of Motor Vehicles,
and shall demonstrate to the Municipal Clerk that each such motor vehicle is
used primarily for the transportation of handicapped or disabled persons or
temporarily handicapped or disabled persons.
      (3)   (a)   The Municipal Clerk shall issue a permit to approved
applicants and, before issuing such permit, shall enter all information
required pursuant to this subchapter.
         (b)   The Municipal Clerk shall submit to the Department of Motor
Vehicles the name, address and license number of all persons receiving a permit
pursuant to this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 5-312)
§ 71.29  PERMIT CONTENTS; DUPLICATE PERMITS.
   (A)   The permit to be issued by the Municipal Clerk shall be a card four
inches in size constructed so that it may be easily and conspicuously displayed
from a vehicle’s rearview mirror and on which is prominently displayed the date
of expiration, the internationally accepted wheelchair symbol, which symbol is
a representation of a person seated in a wheelchair surrounded by a border six
units wide by seven units high, and an identifying number on the front of the
card. The color of the permit issued to handicapped or disabled persons or for
the transportation of such persons shall be white on blue. The permit issued to
temporarily handicapped or disabled persons or for the transportation of such
persons shall be a special distinguishing color as determined by the Department
of Motor Vehicles. The name, address, phone number, date of birth and age of
the handicapped or disabled or temporarily handicapped or disabled person to
whom issued shall appear on the reverse side. The name, address and phone
number of the party to whom issued and the license plate number of the motor
vehicle for which the permit is issued shall appear on the reverse side of the
permit if such permit is issued for a motor vehicle used primarily for the
transportation of handicapped or disabled persons or temporarily handicapped or
disabled persons.
   (B)   No permit shall be issued to any person or for any motor vehicle if
any valid parking permit has been issued to such person or for such motor
vehicle if such permit has been suspended pursuant to this subchapter.
   (C)   A duplicate permit may be provided by the Municipal Clerk without cost
if the original permit is destroyed, lost or stolen. Such duplicate permit
shall be valid for the remainder of the period for which the original permit
was issued.
(Prior Code, § 5-313)
§ 71.30  PERMITS; PERIOD VALID; RENEWAL; FEE.
   (A)   (1)   All permits authorized under this subchapter for handicapped or
disabled parking shall be issued for a period ending January 1 of the fourth
year following the date of issuance. All temporarily handicapped or disabled
parking permits authorized under this subchapter shall be issued for a period
ending 90 days from the date of issuance, but may be renewed for up to three
additional 90-day periods.
      (2)   For each additional 90-day renewal period, there shall be submitted
an additional application with proof of a handicap or disability and the
required permit fee.
   (B)   A permit fee of $3 shall be charged for each permit, $2.50 of which
shall be retained by the Municipal Clerk and $0.50 shall be forwarded on a
quarterly basis to the Department of Motor Vehicles.
(Prior Code, § 5-314)
§ 71.31  PERMITS NON-TRANSFERRABLE; VIOLATION; SUSPENSION.
   Permits issued under this subchapter shall not be transferable, and shall be
used only by the party to whom issued or for the motor vehicle for which issued
and only for the purpose for which it is issued. Use by any other person, for
any other motor vehicle, or for any other purpose shall be cause for suspension
of such permit for a period of six months. At the expiration of such period, a
suspended permit may be renewed upon the payment of the permit fee.
(Prior Code, § 5-315)
§ 71.32  REMOVAL OF UNAUTHORIZED VEHICLE.
   (A)   The owner or person in lawful possession of an off-street parking
facility, after notifying the Police or Sheriff’s Department, and the
municipality providing on-street parking or owning, operating or providing and
off-street parking facility, may cause the removal, from a stall or space
designated exclusively for handicapped or disabled persons or temporarily
handicapped or disabled persons, of any vehicles not displaying proper
identification or the distinguishing license plates specified in this
subchapter if there is posted immediately adjacent to and visible from such
stall or space a sign which clearly and conspicuously state the area so
designated as a tow-in zone.
   (B)   Anyone parking in any on-street parking space which has been
designated exclusively for handicapped or disabled persons temporarily
handicapped or motor vehicles for the transportation of such persons, or in any
so exclusively designated parking space in any off-street parking facility,
without properly displaying the proper identification or when the handicapped
or disabled person to whom or for whom the license plate or permit is issued is
not being transported shall be guilty of a traffic infraction as defined in
Neb. RS 60-672 and shall be subject to the penalties and procedures set forth
in Neb. RS 60-689.
   (C)   In the case of a privately-owned off-street parking facility, the
owner or person in lawful possession of such facility shall inform the
municipality of a violation of this subchapter prior to taking any action
pursuant to this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 5-316)  Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 18-1736 through 18-1737 and 18-1741.01
through 18-1741.07
CHAPTER 72:  RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
Section
   
72.01   Bicycles
   
72.02   Motorcycles
   
72.03   Minibikes
   
72.04   Snowmobiles
   
72.05   Mopeds
   
72.06   All-terrain vehicles
§ 72.01  BICYCLES.
   (A)   Operation.
      (1)   No person shall ride or propel a bicycle on a street or other
public highway of the municipality with another person on the handlebars or in
any position in front of the operator.
      (2)   No bicycles shall be ridden faster than is reasonable and proper,
but every bicycle shall be operated with reasonable regard to the safety of the
operator and any other persons upon the streets and public highways.
      (3)   Persons riding bicycles shall observe all traffic signs and stop at
all stop signs.
      (4)   No bicycle shall be permitted on any street or other public highway
from one-half hour after sunset and one-half hour before sunrise without a
headlight visible under normal atmospheric conditions from the front thereof
for not less than 500 feet indicating the approach or presence of the bicycle,
firmly attached to such bicycle and properly lighted or without a yellow or red
light reflector attached to and visible 500 feet from the rear thereof. The
said headlight shall give a clear, white light.
      (5)   No person shall ride or propel a bicycle upon any street or other
public highway abreast of more than one other person riding or propelling a
bicycle.
      (6)   Any bicycle used on a highway shall be equipped with a brake or
brakes which will enable the operator to stop the bicycle within 25 feet of the
point of braking when moving at a speed of ten mph on dry, level, clean
pavement.
      (7)   Every person riding or propelling a bicycle upon any street or
other public highway shall observe all traffic rules and regulations applicable
thereto and shall turn only at intersections, signal for all turns, ride at the
right-hand side of the street or highway, pass to the left when passing
overtaken vehicles and individuals that are slower moving and shall pass
vehicles to the right when meeting.
(Prior Code, § 5-401)
   (B)   Clinging to motor vehicles. No person riding upon any bicycle or
roller skates shall attach the same or himself or herself to any moving vehicle
upon any roadway and it shall be unlawful for the driver of any vehicle to
suffer or permit any person traveling upon any bicycle or roller skates to
cling to or attach himself or herself or his or her bicycle or roller skates to
such vehicle so driven and operated by him or her.
(Prior Code, § 5-402)
   (C)   Rules of the road; applicability.
      (1)   Any person who operates a bicycle upon a highway shall have all of
the rights and shall be subject to all of the duties applicable to the driver
of a vehicle under the Nebraska Rules of the Road, except for special bicycle
regulations in the rules, except for those provisions of the rules which, by
their nature, can have no application; and, except that, bicycles may be
operated on paved shoulders of highways included in the state highway system
other than state segments of the National System of Interstate and Defense
Highways, as provided in Neb. RS 60-6,142.
      (2)   Regulations applicable to bicycles shall apply whenever a bicycle
is operated upon any highway or upon any path set aside by the Department of
Roads or a local authority for the exclusive use of bicycles.
(Prior Code, § 5-403)
Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 60-611, 60-6,138, 60-6,314, 60-6,315, 60-
6,316, 60-6,317
§ 72.02  MOTORCYCLES.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      MOTORCYCLE. Every motor vehicle having a seat or saddle for the use of
the rider and designed to travel on not more than three wheels in contact with
the ground, but excluding a tractor.
      MOTOR-DRIVEN CYCLE. Every motorcycle, including every motor scooter, with
a motor which produces not to exceed five brake horsepower as measured at the
drive shaft.
(Prior Code, § 5-501)
   (B)   Lights. No person shall ride a motorcycle upon the streets, alleys or
highways from one-half hour after sunset to one-half hour before sunrise unless
the same shall be equipped with at least one and not more than headlights
plainly visible from the front and with a taillight exhibiting a red light
visible from a distance of at least 500 feet to the rear of such motorcycle;
provided, said lamps shall comply with the requirements and limitations of the
statutes of the state.
(Prior Code, § 5-502)
   (C)   Protective helmets required. A person shall not operate or be a
passenger on a motorcycle on any highway in the state unless such person is
wearing a protective helmet of the type and design manufactured for use by
operators of such vehicles and unless such helmet is secured properly on his or
her head with a chin strap while the vehicle is in motion. All such protective
helmets shall be designed to reduce injuries to the user resulting from head
impacts and shall be designed to protect the use by remaining on the user’s
head, deflecting blows, resisting penetration and spreading the force of
impact. Each such helmet shall consist of lining, padding and chin strap and
shall meet or exceed the standards established in the United States Department
of Transportation’s Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standard No. 218, 49 C.F.R. §
571.218, for motorcycle helmets.
(Prior Code, § 5-503)
   (D)   Rules of the Road; applicability. Any person who operates a motorcycle
shall have all of the rights and shall be subject to all of the duties
applicable to the driver of any other vehicle under the Nebraska Rules of the
Road, except for special motorcycle regulations in the rules, except for those
provisions of the rules which, by their nature, can have no application.
(Prior Code, § 5-504)
Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 60-639, 60-640, 60-6,219, 60-6,278 through
60-6,282, 60-6,306
§ 72.03  MINIBIKES.
   (A)   Unlawful operation. It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a
minibike upon any street or highway within the corporate limits of the
municipality. For purposes of this section, MINIBIKE shall mean a two-wheeled
motor vehicle which has a total wheel and tire diameter of less than 14 inches
or an engine rated capacity of less than 45 cubic centimeters displacement or
any other two wheel motor vehicle primarily designed by the manufacturer for
off-road use only.
(Prior Code, § 5-601)
   (B)   Emergencies and parades. Minibikes shall be exempt from the provisions
of this section during any public emergency or while being used in parades by
regularly organized units of any recognized charitable, social, educational or
community service organization.
(Prior Code, § 5-602)
   (C)   Public lands. Minibikes shall be prohibited upon the public lands
owned by the municipality, except where allowed by resolution of the governing
body.
(Prior Code, § 5-603)
   (D)   Traffic laws inapplicable. The provisions of Neb. RS Ch. 60, Arts. 1,
3, 4 and 5 of the state statutes shall not be applicable to the owners and
operators of any minibike.
(Prior Code, § 5-604)
Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 60-636, 60-678, 60-6,347, 60-6,348, 60-
6,352, 60-6,353
§ 72.04  SNOWMOBILES.
   (A)   Equipment.
      (1)   Every snowmobile operated within the municipality shall be
registered with the state, as required by law. No snowmobile shall be operated
upon a public street or highway unless it is equipped with at least one head
lamp, one tail lamp, reflector material of a minimum area of 16 square inches
mounted on each side forward of the handlebars and with brakes as prescribed by
the Director of Motor Vehicles.
      (2)   All laws applying to the operation of other motor vehicles shall
apply to snowmobiles, except those relating to required equipment and those
which, by their nature, have no application.
(Prior Code, § 5-701)
   (B)   Unlawful acts. It shall be deemed a misdemeanor for any person to
allow a snowmobile either owned or operated by him or her to be operated:
      (1)   Within the congested area of the municipality unless weather
conditions are such that it provides the only practicable method of safe
vehicular travel or said snowmobile is engaged in responding to an emergency;
      (2)   At a rate of speed greater than reasonable or proper under the
surrounding circumstances;
      (3)   In a careless, reckless or negligent manner so as to endanger
persons or property;
      (4)   Without a lighted headlight and tail light when such would be
required by conditions;
      (5)   In any tree nursery or planting in a manner which damages or
destroys growing stock; and
      (6)   Upon any private lands without first having obtained permission of
the owner, lessee or operator of such lands.
(Prior Code, § 5-702)
   (C)   Public lands. Snowmobiles shall be prohibited from operation on the
public lands owned by the municipality, except where allowed by resolution of
the governing body.
(Prior Code, § 5-703)
   (D)   Regulations. A snowmobile may make a direct crossing of a street at
any hour of the day if:
      (1)   Crossing is made at an angle of approximately 90 degrees to the
direction of the street and at a place where no obstruction prevents a quick
and safe crossing;
      (2)   The snowmobile is brought to a complete stop before crossing the
main traveled way of the street;
      (3)   The driver yields the right-of-way to all on-coming traffic which
constitutes an immediate hazard; and
      (4)   If said crossing is made between the hours of one-half hour after
sunset and one-half hour before sunrise under the circumstances set forth in
division (E) below or during conditions of reduced visibility, said snowmobile
shall be equipped with at least one tail lamp and both front and rear lights
shall be on.
(Prior Code, § 5-704)
   (E)   Emergency operation. A snowmobile may be operated upon a public street
or highway other than as provided herein in an emergency during a period of
time when and at locations where snow upon the roadway renders travel by
automobile impractical.
(Prior Code, § 5-705)
Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 60-663, 60-6,335, 60-6,337, 60-6,338, 60-
6,344
§ 72.05  MOPEDS.
   (A)   Definition. For the purposes of this section, MOPED shall mean a
bicycle with fully operative pedals for propulsion by human power, an automatic
transmission and a motor with a cylinder capacity not exceeding 50 cubic
centimeters which produces no more than two brake horsepower and is capable of
propelling the bicycle at a maximum design speed of no more than 30 mph on
level ground. Mopeds, their owners and their operators shall be subject to Neb.
RS Ch. 60, Art. 6 and amendments thereto.
(Prior Code, § 5-801)
   (B)   Operator’s license required. No person shall operate a moped upon the
streets, alleys or public highways of the municipality unless such person has
a:
      (1)   Valid Class O operator’s license; or
      (2)   A valid school or learner’s permit.
(Prior Code, § 5-802)
   (C)   Rules of the Road; applicable.
      (1)   Any person who rides a moped upon a roadway shall have all the
rights and shall be subject to all of the duties applicable to the driver of a
motor vehicle under the Nebraska Rules of the Road, except for special moped
regulations in the rules and except for those provisions of the rules which, by
their nature, can have no application.
      (2)   Regulations applicable to mopeds shall apply whenever a moped shall
be operated upon any street, alley or public highway within the municipality or
upon any path set aside by the Department of Roads or local authority for the
use of mopeds.
(Prior Code, § 5-803)
   (D)   Operation.
      (1)   Any person who operates a moped shall ride only upon a permanent
and regular seat attached thereto and shall not carry any other person, nor
shall any other person ride on a moped unless such moped is designed by the
manufacturer to carry more than one person.
      (2)   A person shall ride upon a moped only while sitting astride the
seat, facing forward. Further, no person shall operate a moped while carrying
any package, bundle or other article which prevents him or her from keeping
both hands on the handlebars.
 
      (3)   No operator shall carry any person, nor shall any person ride, in a
position that interferes with the operation or control of the moped or the view
of the operator.
      (4)   Any moped which carries a passenger shall be equipped with
footrests for such passenger.
      (5)   No person who rides upon a moped shall attach himself or herself or
the moped to any vehicle on a roadway.
(Prior Code, § 5-804)
   (E)   Operating on roadways laned for traffic; prohibited acts.
      (1)   A moped shall be entitled to full use of a traffic lane of any
street or highway with an authorized speed limit of 45 mph or less and no
vehicle shall be operated in such a manner as to deprive any moped of the full
use of such lane; except that, mopeds and motorcycles may be operated two
abreast in a single lane.
      (2)   No person shall operate a moped between lanes of traffic or between
adjacent lines or rows of vehicles.
      (3)   Mopeds shall not be operated more than two abreast in a single
lane.
      (4)   Any person who operates a moped on a roadway with an authorized
speed limit of more than 45 mph shall ride as near to the right side of the
roadway as practicable and shall not ride more than single file.
      (5)   No person who rides on a moped shall attach himself, herself or the
moped to any other vehicle on the roadway.
      (6)   Mopeds shall not be operated on sidewalks.
      (7)   Notwithstanding the maximum speed limits in excess of 25 mph
established in Neb. RS 60-6,186, no person shall operate any moped at a speed
in excess of 30 mph.
(Prior Code, § 5-805)
   (F)   Protective helmets required. A person shall not operate or be a
passenger on a moped on any highway in the state unless such person is wearing
a protective helmet of the type and design manufactured for use by operators of
such vehicles and unless such helmet is secured properly on his or her head
with a chin strap while the vehicle is in motion. All such protective helmets
shall be designed to reduce injuries to the user resulting from head impacts
and shall be designed to protect the use by remaining on the user’s head,
deflecting blows, resisting penetration and spreading the force of impact. Each
such helmet shall consist of lining, padding and chin strap and shall meet or
exceed the standards established in the United States Department of
Transportation’s Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standard No. 218, 49 C.F.R. §
571.218, for moped helmets.
(Prior Code, § 5-806)
Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 60-637, 60-6,278 through 60-6,282, 60-6,310,
60-6,311, 60-6,312, 60-6,313
§ 72.06  ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLES.
   (A)   Definitions.
      (1)   As used in this section, unless the context otherwise requires,
ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLE shall mean any motorized off-highway vehicle which:
         (a)   Is 50 inches or less in width;
         (b)   Has a dry weight of 600 pounds or less;
         (c)   Travels on three or more low-pressure tires;
         (d)   Is designed for operator use only with no passengers;
         (e)   Has a seat or saddle designed to be straddled by the operator;
and
         (f)   Has handlebars or any other steering assembly for steering
control.
      (2)   All-terrain vehicles which have been modified to include additional
equipment not required by this section shall not be registered under Neb. RS
Ch. 60, Art. 3.
(Prior Code, § 5-901)
   (B)   Operation.
      (1)   An all-terrain vehicle shall not be operated on any controlled-
access highway with more than two marked traffic lanes, and the crossing of any
controlled-access highway with more than two marked traffic lanes shall not be
permitted. Divisions (B)(2), (B)(3) and (B)(5) below authorize and apply to
operation of an all-terrain vehicle only on a highway other than a controlled-
access highway with more than two marked traffic lanes.
      (2)   An all-terrain vehicle may be operated in accordance with the
operating requirements of division (B)(3) below within the corporate limits of
the village; provided that, such operation shall be allowed only on public
streets and alleys and shall not be allowed in parks or other areas owed or
operated by the village.
      (3)   An all-terrain vehicle may be operated as authorized in division
(B)(2) above when such operation occurs only between the hours of sunrise and
sunset. Any person operating an all-terrain vehicle as authorized in division
(B)(2) above shall have a valid Class O operator’s license or a farm permit, as
provided in Neb. RS 60-4,126, shall have liability insurance coverage for the
all-terrain vehicle while operating the all-terrain vehicle on highway, and
shall not operate such vehicle at a speed in excess of 30 mph. The person
operating the all-terrain vehicle shall provide proof of such insurance
coverage to any peace officer requesting such proof within five days of such a
request. When operating an all-terrain vehicle as authorized in division (B)(2)
above, the headlight and taillight of the vehicle shall be on and the vehicle
shall be equipped with a bicycle safety flag which extends not less then five
feet above ground attached to the rear of such vehicle. The bicycle safety flag
shall be triangular in shape with an area of not less than 30 square inches and
shall be a day-glow in color.
      (4)   All-terrain vehicles may be operated without complying with
division (B)(3) above on highways in parades which have been authorized by the
state or the village.
      (5)   Subject to division (B)(1) above, the crossing of a highway shall
be permitted by an all-terrain vehicle without complying to division (B)(3)
above only if:
         (a)   The crossing is made at an angle of approximately 90 degrees to
the direction of the highway and at a place where no obstruction prevents a
quick and safe crossing;    
         (b)   The vehicle is brought to a complete stop before crossing the
shoulder or roadway of the highway;   
         (c)   The operator yields the right-of-way to all on coming traffic
that constitutes an immediate potential hazard;   
         (d)   In crossing a divided highway, the crossing is made only at an
intersection of such highway with another highway; and   
         (e)   Both the headlight and taillight of the vehicle are on when the
crossing is made.
(Prior Code, § 5-902)
   (C)   Headlights. Every all-terrain vehicle shall display a lighted
headlight and taillight during the period of time from one-half hour after
sunset to one-half hour before sunrise and at any time when visibility is
reduced due to insufficient light or unfavorable atmospheric conditions.
(Prior Code, § 5-903)
   (D)   Equipment requirement. Every all-terrain vehicle shall be equipped
with:
      (1)   A brake system maintained in good operating condition;
      (2)   An adequate muffler system in good working condition; and
      (3)   A United States Forest Service qualified spark arrester.
(Prior Code, § 5-904)
   (E)   Prohibitions. No person shall:
      (1)   Equip the exhaust system of an all-terrain vehicle with a cutout,
bypass or similar device;
      (2)   Operate an all-terrain vehicle with an exhaust system so modified;
or
      (3)   Operate an all-terrain vehicle with the spark arrester removed or
modified, except for use in closed-course competition events.
(Prior Code, § 5-905)
   (F)   Competition. All-terrain vehicles participating in competitive events
may be exempted from Neb. RS 60-6,357 to 60-6,359 at the discretion of the
Director of Motor Vehicles.
(Prior Code, § 5-906)
   (G)   Accident report. If an accident results in the death of any person or
in the injury of any person which requires the treatment of the person by a
physician, the operator of each all-terrain vehicle involved in the accident
shall give notice of the accident in the same manner as provided in Neb. RS 60-
699.
(Prior Code, § 5-907)
   (H)   Penalty. Any violation of this section which is also a violation under
Neb. RS Ch. 60 may be punished under the penalty provisions of such chapter.
(Prior Code, § 5-908)
   (I)   Enforcement. Any peace officer of the state or of any political
subdivision, including conservation officers of the Game and Parks Commission,
shall be charged with the enforcement of the provisions of this section.
(Prior Code, § 5-909)
(Updated)  Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 60-678, 60-6,355, 60-6,357, 60-6,358, 60-
6,359, 60-6,360,
     60-6,361, 60-6,362
CHAPTER 73:  RAILROADS
Section
   
73.01   Safe crossings
   
73.02   Lighting
   
73.03   Obstructing traffic
   
73.04   Warning
   
73.05   Drainage
   
73.06   Obstructing view at crossings prohibited
§ 73.01  SAFE CROSSINGS.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of every railroad company doing business in or
traveling through the municipality to keep in a suitable and safe condition the
crossing and right-of-way in the municipality.
   (B)   If any such crossing shall at any time fall into disrepair and become
unsafe or inconvenient for public travel, the governing body may, by
resolution, call upon the said company to make whatever repairs that it may
deem necessary to correct the dangerous condition.
   (C)   Notice of the said resolution shall be served upon the local agent of
the said company.
   (D)   In the event that the railroad shall fail or neglect to repair and
correct the said condition as aforesaid within 30 days, neglect for each 24
hours thereafter shall be deemed and is hereby made a separate and distinct
offense against the provisions herein.
(Prior Code, § 10-604)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 73.02  LIGHTING.
   It shall be the duty of all railroad companies owning, operating and
maintaining a railroad through the municipality to sufficiently light all
crossings and to install as many signal systems as the governing body shall
deem necessary at the expense of the said company.
(Prior Code, § 10-605)  Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-561
§ 73.03  OBSTRUCTING TRAFFIC.
   It shall be unlawful for any railroad company, its employees, agents or
servants operating a railroad through the municipality to obstruct traffic on
any public street, except in the event of an emergency for a longer period at
one time than five minutes.
(Prior Code, § 10-606)  Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-552
§ 73.04  WARNING.
   It shall be the duty of every such railroad company, its agents or servants
to ring a bell continually or to sound a whistle while crossing the streets
within the corporate limits. When any such train shall be standing between
streets, it shall be unlawful for any such company or its servants in charge to
start or permit such train or engine to be started without first ringing a bell
or sounding a whistle for at least 15 seconds before starting.
(Prior Code, § 10-607)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 73.05  DRAINAGE.
   It shall be the duty of any railroad company owning, maintaining or
operating a railroad within or through the corporate limits to construct and
keep in repair all ditches, drains and culverts along and under its railroad
tracks at all places within the corporate limits where the same may be
necessary for the escape of water and the proper draining of the territory on
either side of the railroad right-of-way. If the railroad company should fail
or neglect to construct or repair the drain, ditch or culvert and to put the
same in a proper condition for the escape of water, the governing body shall,
by resolution, order the railroad to provide for the proper drainage of water
on the right-of-way. A copy of the resolution shall be served on the local
agent for the railroad and failure or neglect by the railroad to correct the
drainage within 14 days shall constitute a separate and distinct misdemeanor
for each 24-hour period thereafter.
(Prior Code, § 10-608)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 73.06  OBSTRUCTING VIEW AT CROSSINGS PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any railroad company to obstruct or obscure the
traveling public’s view by storing or parking any railroad car on a railroad
track within 40 feet of the crossing of any such railroad track and a public
road within the corporate limits of the municipality; provided, however, in no
instance shall any person who is authorized to control the movement of such
railroad car or cars within such distance be prevented from reasonably
conducting his or her business.
(Prior Code, § 10-609)  Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 74-1323
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   ANIMAL CONTROL
      
91.   FIRE PREVENTION AND PROTECTION
      
92.   HEALTH AND SANITATION; NUISANCES
      
93.   PARKS AND RECREATION
      
94.   LIBRARY
CHAPTER 90:  ANIMAL CONTROL
Section
General Provisions
   
90.01   Harboring animals
   
90.02   Running at large
   
90.03   Cruelty, killing and injuring
   
90.04   Enclosures
   
90.05   Running at large
   
90.06   Pitting animals
Dogs
   
90.20   Definitions
   
90.21   License required
   
90.22   License tags; removal
   
90.23   Wrongful licensing
   
90.24   Proclamation
   
90.25   Violation
   
90.26   Running at large
   
90.27   Impossible capture
   
90.28   Vicious dogs
   
90.29   Interference with police
   
90.30   Killing and poisoning
   
90.31   Noisy and offensive dogs and fowl
   
90.32   Dog fighting
   
90.33   Liability of owner
   
90.34   Rabies
   
90.35   Dyeing prohibited
   
90.36   Transient owner
   
90.37   Defecation
   
90.38   Abandonment, neglect and cruelty
   
90.39   Impoundment; euthanizing
   
90.40   Guide dogs and service dogs
 
   
90.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 90.01  HARBORING ANIMALS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to harbor any animal within the
municipality; except that, dogs, cats and other household domestic animals
shall be allowed.
(Prior Code, § 6-201)  Penalty, see §
90.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-547
§ 90.02  RUNNING AT LARGE.
   It shall be unlawful for the owner, keeper or harborer of any animal or any
person having the charge, custody or control thereof to permit a horse, mule,
cow, sheep, goat, swine or other domestic animal to be driven or run at large
on any of the public ways and property, or upon the property of another, or to
be tethered or staked out in such a manner so as to allow such animal to reach
or pass into any public way.
(Prior Code, § 6-202)  Penalty, see §
90.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-547
§ 90.03  CRUELTY, KILLING AND INJURING.
   (A)   No person shall cruelly or unnecessarily beat, overwork or
insufficiently shelter or feed any animal within the municipality.
(Prior Code, § 6-203)
   (B)   No person shall kill or injure any animal by the use of firearms,
stones, clubs, poisons or any other manner unless the animal is vicious or
dangerous and cannot be captured without danger to the persons attempting to
effect a capture of the said animal.
(Prior Code, § 6-204)
Penalty, see §
90.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 28-1009, 54-903
§ 90.04  ENCLOSURES.
   All pens, cages, sheds, yards or any other area or enclosure for the
confinement of animals and fowls not specifically barred within the corporate
limits shall be kept in a clean and orderly manner so as not to become a menace
or nuisance to the neighborhood in which the said enclosure is located.
(Prior Code, § 6-205)  Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.05  RUNNING AT LARGE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to allow poultry, chickens, turkeys,
geese or any other fowls to run at large within the corporate limits, except in
enclosed places on private property.
(Prior Code, § 6-206)  Penalty, see §
90.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-547
§ 90.06  PITTING ANIMALS.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      BEARBAITING. The pitting of any animal against a bear.
      COCKFIGHTING. The pitting of a fowl against another fowl.
      DOGFIGHTING. The pitting of a dog against another dog.
      PITTING. Bringing animals together in combat.
(Prior Code, § 6-207)
   (B)   Prohibited. No person shall knowingly promote, engage in or be
employed at dogfighting, cockfighting, bearbaiting or pitting an animal against
another, nor shall any person knowingly receive money for the admission of
another person to a place kept for such purpose, nor shall any person knowingly
own, use, train, sell or possess an animal for the purpose of animal pitting,
nor shall any person knowingly permit any acts as described in this section to
occur on any premises owned or controlled by him or her.
(Prior Code, § 6-208)
   (C)   Spectators prohibited. No person shall knowingly and willingly be
present at and witness as a spectator dogfighting, cockfighting, bearbaiting or
the pitting of an animal against another as prohibited in division (B) above.
(Prior Code, § 6-209)
Penalty, see §
90.99
DOGS
§ 90.20  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DOG. Both male and female dogs of the age of six months or more.
(Prior Code, § 6-101)
   OWNER. Any person who shall harbor or permit any dog to be for five days or
more in or about his or her house, store or enclosure or to remain to be fed
shall be deemed the OWNER and possessor of such dog and shall be deemed to be
liable for all penalties herein described.
(Prior Code, § 6-106)
   VACCINATION FOR RABIES. The inoculation of a dog with a rabies vaccine
licensed by the United States Department of Agriculture. Such VACCINATION must
be performed by a duly licensed veterinarian.
(Prior Code, § 6-102)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 54-606, 71-4401
§ 90.21  LICENSE REQUIRED.
   Any person who shall own, keep or harbor a dog over the age of three months
within the municipality shall, within ten days after acquisition of the said
dog, acquire a license for each such dog annually by or before January 1 of
each year. The said tax shall be delinquent from and after January 31;
provided, the possessor of any dog brought into or harbored within the
corporate limits subsequent to January 1 of any year shall be liable for the
payment of the dog tax levied herein and such tax shall be delinquent if not
paid within ten days thereafter. Licenses shall be issued by the Municipal
Clerk upon the payment of a license fee for each dog for the amount stated in §
36.01 of this code of ordinances. Said license shall not be transferable and no
refund will be allowed in case of death, sale or other disposition of the
licensed dog. The owner shall state at the time the application is made and,
upon printed forms provided for such purpose, his or her name and address and
the name, breed, color and sex of each dog owned and kept by him or her. A
certificate that the dog has had a rabies shot, effective for the ensuing year
of the license, shall be presented when the license is applied for and no
license or tag shall be issued until the certificate is shown.
(Prior Code, § 6-103)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-526, 54-603, 71-4412
§ 90.22  LICENSE TAGS; REMOVAL.
   (A)   (1)   Upon payment of the license fee, the Municipal Clerk shall issue
to the owner of a dog a license certificate and a metallic tag for each dog so
licensed. The metallic tags shall be properly attached to the collar or harness
of all dogs so licensed and shall entitle the owner to keep or harbor the said
dog until December 31 following such licensing. In the event that a license tag
is lost and upon satisfactory evidence that the original plate or tag was
issued in accordance with the provisions herein, the Municipal Clerk shall
issue a duplicate or new tag for the balance of the year for which the license
tax has been paid and shall charge and collect a fee of $1 for each duplicate
or new tag so issued. All license fees and collections shall be immediately
credited to the General Fund.
      (2)   It shall be the duty of the Municipal Clerk to issue tags of a
suitable design that are different in appearance each year.
(Prior Code, § 6-104)
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to remove or cause to be removed
the collar, harness or metallic tag from any licensed dog without the consent
of the owner, keeper or possessor thereof.
(Prior Code, § 6-117)
Penalty, see §
90.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-526
§ 90.23  WRONGFUL LICENSING.
   It shall be unlawful for the owner, keeper or harborer of any dog to permit
or allow such dog to wear any license, metallic tag or other municipal
identification than that issued by the Municipal Clerk for a specific dog.
(Prior Code, § 6-106)  Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.24  PROCLAMATION.
   It shall be the duty of the governing body whenever, in its opinion, the
danger to the public safety from rabid dogs is great or imminent, to issue a
proclamation ordering all persons owning, keeping or harboring any dog to
muzzle the same or confine it for a period of not less than 90 days from the
date of such proclamation or until such danger is passed. The dogs may be
harbored by any good and sufficient means in a house, garage or yard on the
premises wherein the said owner may reside. Upon issuing the proclamation, it
shall be the duty of all persons owning, keeping or harboring any dog to
confine the same, as herein provided.
(Prior Code, § 6-107)
§ 90.25  VIOLATION.
   It shall be unlawful for the owner of any dog to maintain or keep said dog
within the municipality, without a license tag affixed, as required by §§
90.21 and
90.22(A) of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 6-108)  Penalty, see §
90.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-526
§ 90.26  RUNNING AT LARGE.
   It shall be unlawful for the owner of any dog to allow such dog to run at
large at any time within the corporate limits of the municipality. It shall be
the duty of the municipal law enforcement to cause any dog found to be running
at large within the municipality to be taken up and impounded. The owner shall
be liable for all costs of confinement. RUNNING AT LARGE shall mean any dog
found off the premises of the owner and not under control of the owner or a
responsible person.
(Prior Code, § 6-109)  Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.27  IMPOSSIBLE CAPTURE.
   The municipal law enforcement shall have the authority to kill any dog
showing vicious tendencies or characteristics of rabies which make capture
impossible because of the danger involved.
(Prior Code, § 6-110)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-526
§ 90.28  VICIOUS DOGS.
   (A)   The term VICIOUS DOG, as used herein, shall include the following:
      (1)   Any dog with a propensity, tendency or disposition to attack, to
cause injury or damage or otherwise endanger the safety of human beings or
domestic dogs;
      (2)   Any dog which attacks a human being one time or attacks a domestic
dog on two or more occasions without provocation;
      (3)   Has been previously determined to be a potentially dangerous dog by
the dog control authority and the owner has received notice of such
determination and such dog again aggressively bites, attacks or endangers the
safety of humans or domestic dogs. Any dog shall not be defined as a dangerous
dog if the threat, any injury that is not a severe injury or the damage was
sustained by a person who, at the time, was committing a willful trespass as
defined in Neb. RS 20-203, 28-520 or 28-521 or any other tort upon the property
of the owner of the dog, who was tormenting, abusing or assaulting the dog, who
has, in the past, been observed or reported to have tormented, abused or
assaulted the dog, or who was committing or attempting to commit a crime.
   (B)   No person may own, harbor or care for a vicious dog, as defined,
within with the municipal limits.
   (C)   The keeping, maintaining, owning or harboring of a vicious dog within
the municipal limits is hereby declared a nuisance as being against the public
safety.
   (D)   Whenever a nuisance exists as defined in the foregoing section, the
municipality may proceed by a suit in a court of competent jurisdiction to
enjoin and abate the same in a manner provided by law. In any criminal
prosecution, the court, in addition to any penalty imposed, may enter an order
of abatement as part of the judgment in said case.
(Prior Code, § 6-111)  (Ord. 2020-01, passed 5-13-2020)  Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.29  INTERFERENCE WITH POLICE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to hinder, delay or interfere with any
municipal law enforcement who is performing any duty enjoined upon him or her
by the provisions of this subchapter or to break open or in any manner directly
or indirectly aid, counsel or advise the breaking open of the dog shelter any
ambulance wagon or other vehicle used for the collecting or conveying of dogs
to the shelter.
(Prior Code, § 6-112)  Penalty, see §
90.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 28-906
§ 90.30  KILLING AND POISONING.
   It shall be unlawful to kill or to administer or cause to be administered
poison of any sort to an dog or in any manner to injure, maim or destroy or in
any manner attempt to injure, maim or destroy any dog that is the property of
another person or to place any poison or poisoned food where the same is
accessible to an dog; provided that, this section shall not apply to municipal
law enforcement acting within its power and duty.
(Prior Code, § 6-113)  Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.31  NOISY AND OFFENSIVE DOGS AND FOWL.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to own, keep or harbor any dog, fowl or
any other creature which by loud, continued or frequent barking, howling,
yelping, crowing or utterance of any other sound shall annoy or disturb any
neighborhood or person or which habitually barks, howls, yelps, crows or utters
any such annoying sound or chases pedestrians, drivers or owners of horses or
vehicles while they are on any public sidewalks, streets or alleys in the
municipality. Upon the written complaint of an affected person filed with the
Municipal Clerk, that any dog owned by the person named in the complaint is an
annoyance or disturbance or otherwise violates the provisions of this section,
the municipal law enforcement shall investigate the complaint and, if, in its
opinion, the situation warrants, shall notify the owner to silence and restrain
such dog.
(Prior Code, § 6-114)  Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.32  DOG FIGHTING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, by agreement or otherwise, to set dogs
to fighting or by any gesture or word to encourage the same to fight.
(Prior Code, § 6-115)  Penalty, see §
90.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-526
§ 90.33  LIABILITY OF OWNER.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to allow any dog owned, kept or harbored
by him or her or under his or her charge or control to injure or destroy any
real or personal property of any description belonging to another person. The
owner or possessor of any such dog, in addition to the usual judgment upon
conviction, may be made to be liable to the persons so injured in an amount
equal to the value of the damage so sustained.
(Prior Code, § 6-116)  Penalty, see §
90.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 54-601, 54-602
§ 90.34  RABIES.
   (A)   Any dog suspected of being afflicted with rabies or any dog not
vaccinated in accordance with the provisions of this subchapter which has
bitten any person and caused an abrasion of the skin shall be seized and
impounded under the supervision of the Board of Health for a period of not less
than ten days. If, upon examination by a veterinarian, the dog has no clinical
signs of rabies at the end of such impoundment, it may be released to the owner
or, in the case of an unlicensed dog, it shall be disposed of in accordance
with the provisions herein. If the owner of the said dog has proof of
vaccination, it shall be confined by the owner or some other responsible person
for a period of at least ten days, at which time the dog shall be examined by a
licensed veterinarian. If no signs of rabies are observed, the dog may be
released from confinement.
(Prior Code, § 6-118)
   (B)   If the ownership of any dog which has bitten a person can be
established, the owner shall be liable for the cost of confining it for such
length of time as is necessary to establish whether the dog is rabid. If the
ownership of such dog cannot be determined, the cost of confining an dog who is
only suspected of having rabies shall be paid by the municipality.
(Prior Code, § 6-119)
Penalty, see §
90.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 71-4406
§ 90.35  DYEING PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to, within the municipality, dye or
artificially color any dog.
(Prior Code, § 6-120)  Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.36  TRANSIENT OWNER.
   The provisions of this subchapter shall not apply to any dog belonging to
any person on a sojourn or for bench or show purposes in the municipal or for
other purposes; provided, the dog remains near its owner or keeper, his or her
motor vehicle, other dogs or affects and complies with the requirements of this
subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 6-121)
§ 90.37  DEFECATION.
   It shall be unlawful for the owner or anyone having custody, control or
supervision of any dog to allow such dog to defecate in or on any property
owned by the municipality, except in designated areas.
(Prior Code, § 6-122)  Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.38  ABANDONMENT, NEGLECT AND CRUELTY.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      ABANDON. To leave an dog for any length of time without making effective
provisions for its food, water or other care as is reasonably necessary for the
dog’s health.
      CRUELLY MISTREAT. To knowingly and intentionally kill, maim, disfigure,
torture, beat, mutilate, burn, scald or otherwise set upon any dog.
      CRUELLY NEGLECT. To fail to provide any dog in one’s care, whether as
owner or custodian, with food, water or other care as is reasonably necessary
for the dog’s health.
      HUMANE KILLING. The destruction of an dog by a method which causes the
dog a minimum of pain and suffering.
      LAW ENFORCEMENT OFFICER. Any member of the State Patrol, any county or
deputy sheriff, any member of the police force of any municipality, or any
other public official authorized by a municipality to enforce state or local
dog control laws, rules, regulations or ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 6-123)
   (B)   Law enforcement officers; powers; immunity.
      (1)   Any law enforcement officer who has reason to believe that an dog
has been abandoned or is being cruelly neglected or cruelly mistreated may seek
a warrant authorizing entry upon private property to inspect, care for or
impound the dog.
      (2)   Any law enforcement officer who has reason to believe that an dog
has been abandoned or is being cruelly neglected or mistreated may issue a
citation to the owner as prescribed by law.
      (3)   Any law enforcement officer acting under this section shall not be
liable for damage to property if such damage is not the result of the officer’s
negligence.
(Prior Code, § 6-124)
   (C)   Penalty. A person commits cruelty to dogs if he or she abandons,
cruelly mistreats or cruelly neglects an dog.
(Prior Code, § 6-125)
Penalty, see §
90.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 28-1008, 28-1009, 28-1012
§ 90.39  IMPOUNDMENT; EUTHANIZING.
   It shall be the duty of the municipal law enforcement or other appointed
animal control officer to capture, secure and remove in a humane manner to the
designated animal shelter, any animal violating any provisions of this chapter.
The animals so impounded shall be treated in a humane manner and shall be
provided with a sufficient supply of food and fresh water each day. Each
impounded animal shall be kept and maintained at the designated animal shelter
for a period of not less than three days, unless reclaimed earlier by the
owner. Notice of impoundment of animals are known, shall be posted at the
animal shelter, as public notification of such impoundment and shall be given
to the owner. Any animal may be reclaimed by its owner during the period of
impoundment by payment of the impoundment fee as set by resolution by the Board
of Trustees and maintained on file in the office of the Municipal Clerk. The
initial fee is $25. The owner shall then be required to comply with the
licensing and rabies vaccination requirements within 72 hours after release. If
the animal is not claimed within at the end of the time specified herein, the
municipal law enforcement, or other appointed animal control officer, may
dispose of the animal in accordance with the applicable rules and regulations
pertaining to the same; provided that, if, in the judgment of the municipal law
enforcement, or other appointed animal control officer, a suitable home can be
found for any such animal within the municipality, said animal shall be turned
over to that person and the new owner shall then be required to pay all fees
and meet all licensing and vaccinating requirements. The municipality shall
acquire legal title to any unlicensed animal impounded in the animal shelter
after three days. All animals shall be disposed of or destroyed in a summary
and humane manner. The owner of any animal shall be responsible for all costs
and expenses and the municipality shall have the right to collect any unpaid
fees in any manner provided by law.
(Prior Code, § 6-126)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-526
§ 90.40  GUIDE DOGS AND SERVICE DOGS.
   Every dog guide for a blind or visually impaired person, hearing aid dog for
a deaf or hearing- impaired person, and service dog for a physically limited
person shall be licensed as required by the municipal code, but no license tax
shall be charged upon a showing by the owner that the dog is a graduate of a
recognized training school for dog guides, hearing aid dogs or service dogs.
Upon the retirement or discontinuance of the dog as a dog guide, hearing aid
dog or service dog, the owner of the dog shall be liable for the payment of the
required license tax.
(Prior Code, § 6-127)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 54-603
§ 90.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   (1)   Any person or owner, as defined herein, who shall violate any
provision of this chapter for which specific penalty is not provided shall,
upon conviction thereof, be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and shall pay a fine
of $15 for the first such offense and, if again convicted of a second offense
within any 12-month period, measured from the date of offense of the first
conviction, shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and shall pay a fine of
$25.
(Prior Code, § 6-128)  (Updated)
      (2)   Any owner who shall violate the provisions of this chapter more
than twice in any 12-month period, measured from the date of the first
violation shall, upon conviction, be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and shall
pay a fine of $50, if the offenses are in regard to the same animal, such
person shall, in addition, be deemed to be maintaining a nuisance and the court
may enter such orders, as in the discretion of the court, are appropriate to
abatement of such nuisance, and if the court finds that the nature of the
offense and the disposition of the animal so require, may order the destruction
of the animal at the owner’s expense by any humane means.
(Prior Code, § 6-129)  (Updated)
   (B)   Any person who shall violate or refuse to comply with the enforcement
of the provisions of §
90.28 of this chapter shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon
conviction thereof, shall be fined not more than $100 for each offense. A new
violation shall be deemed to have been committed every 24 hours of such failure
to comply.
(Prior Code, § 6-111)  (Ord. 2020-01, passed 5-13-2020) 
CHAPTER 91:  FIRE PREVENTION AND PROTECTION
Section
General Provisions
   
91.01   Removal of property
   
91.02   Disorderly spectator
   
91.03   Equipment
   
91.04   Interference
   
91.05   Obstruction
   
91.06   Assistance
   
91.07   Driving over hose
   
91.08   False alarm
Fire Prevention
   
91.20   Fire Prevention Code adopted; enforcement
   
91.21   Fire prohibited
   
91.22   Open burning ban
   
91.23   Fire limits; rebuilding and remodeling
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 91.01  REMOVAL OF PROPERTY.
   The Fire Chief or any officer in charge of the Fire Department shall have
the authority and power to cause the removal of property whenever it shall
become necessary for the preservation of more valuable property, the protection
of human life or to prevent the spreading of fire to adjoining property. The
Fire Chief may direct the municipal firefighters to remove any building,
structure or fence for the purpose of checking the progress of any fire. The
Fire Chief shall have the authority to blow up, or cause to be blown up, with
explosives any building or structure during the progress of the same.
(Prior Code, § 7-101)
§ 91.02  DISORDERLY SPECTATOR.
   It shall be unlawful for any person during the time of a fire and for a
period of 36 hours after its being extinguished to hinder, resist or refuse to
obey the Municipal Fire Chief, or to act in a noisy or disorderly manner. The
Fire Chief and Assistant Fire Chief shall have the power and authority during
such time to arrest or command any such person to assist them in the
performance of their official duties.
(Prior Code, § 7-102)  Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 28-908
§ 91.03  EQUIPMENT.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, except the Fire Chief and the members
of the Municipal Fire Department, to molest, destroy, handle or in any other
way to interfere with the use and storage of any of the fire trucks and other
apparatus belonging to the municipality.
(Prior Code, § 7-103)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 91.04  INTERFERENCE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to hinder or obstruct the Municipal Fire
Chief or the members of the Fire Department in the performance of their duty.
(Prior Code, § 7-104)  Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 28-908
§ 91.05  OBSTRUCTION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to obstruct the use of a fire hydrant or
have or place any material within 15 feet of the said hydrant. Any vehicle or
material found as an obstruction may be immediately removed by the Fire Chief
or any member of the Fire Department at the risk, cost and expense of the owner
or claimant.
(Prior Code, § 7-105)  Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 60-6,166
§ 91.06  ASSISTANCE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to refuse, after the command of the Fire
Chief or Assistant Fire Chief, to aid in extinguishing a fire or to assist in
the removal and protection of property.
(Prior Code, § 7-106)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 91.07  DRIVING OVER HOSE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, without the consent of the Fire Chief
or Assistant Fire Chief, to drive any vehicle over unprotected hose of the Fire
Department.
(Prior Code, § 7-107)  Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 60-6,184
§ 91.08  FALSE ALARM.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to intentionally and without good and
reasonable cause raise any false alarm of fire.
(Prior Code, § 7-108)  Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 28-907
FIRE PREVENTION
§ 91.20  FIRE PREVENTION CODE ADOPTED; ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   The rules and regulations promulgated by the office of the State Fire
Marshal relating to fire prevention are incorporated by reference into this
code and made a part of this subchapter as though printed in full herein
together with all subsequent amendments thereto. Three copies of the Fire
Prevention Code shall be on file with the Municipal Clerk and shall be
available for public inspection at any reasonable time.
(Prior Code, § 7-201)
   (B)   It shall be the duty of all municipal officials to enforce the
incorporated fire code provisions and all infractions shall be immediately
brought to the attention of the Fire Chief.
(Prior Code, § 7-202)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 18-132, 19-902, 81-502
§ 91.21  FIRE PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to set out a fire on the pavement or
near any curb now built or hereafter to be built within the municipality.
(Prior Code, § 7-203)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 91.22  OPEN BURNING BAN.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to build or set out any bonfires, outdoor rubbish
fires and fires for the purpose of clearing land. The Fire Chief of the Fire
Department or his or her designee may waive the open burning ban for an area
under his or her jurisdiction by issuing an open burning permit to a person
requesting permission to conduct open burning. The permit issued by the Fire
Chief to a person desiring to conduct open burning shall be in writing, signed
by the Fire Chief and on a form prescribed by the State Fire Marshal. The State
Fire Marshal shall provide local fire departments with the forms. The Fire
Chief or his or her designee may waive the open burning ban in his or her
district when conditions are acceptable to the Chief. Anyone burning in such
district when the open burning ban has been waived must notify the Fire
Department of his or her intention to burn. It shall be unlawful for any person
to set fire to, burn or cause to be burned any garbage, animal matter or
vegetable matter. Fires set while in possession of a burning permit or at a
time the open burning ban has been waived shall at all times be attended by the
person setting the fire and said fire shall be located at least 20 feet from
any building.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to burn rubbish of any kind
including paper, paper goods, cardboard or leaves anywhere in the municipality,
except in a stove, furnace or incinerator inside a building. It is further
unlawful to burn off any leaves or vegetation from any garden or areas in the
municipality. This section shall not prohibit backyard barbecuing or the wood
stoves or fireplaces.
(Prior Code, § 7-204)  Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 81-520.01
§ 91.23  FIRE LIMITS; REBUILDING AND REMODELING.
   (A)   The Municipal Clerk shall keep on file, and provide to those
requesting, the boundaries of the municipal fire limits, if any such fire limit
be created.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to build, rebuild or remodel, upon
any lot within the fire limits of the municipality, a building or buildings
except the same shall be constructed of fire-proof material (i.e., brick,
stone, cement, steel or a material approved by the State Fire Marshal).
   (C)   No building shall be erected within the fire limits of the
municipality until an application for a permit has been made to the Board of
Trustees and the permit granted.
   (D)   Wooden buildings shall not be repaired to the extent of a new roof,
foundation or undersills and no repairs of any kind shall be made on any such
building without the consent of the Board of Trustees.
   (E)   No wooden building shall be moved into the fire limits or moved from
one lot to another within the fire limits.
(Prior Code, § 7-205)  Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-550
CHAPTER 92:  HEALTH AND SANITATION; NUISANCES
Section
General Provisions
   
92.01   Regulation
   
92.02   Enforcement official
   
92.03   Tobacco product
Nuisances
   
92.15   General definition
   
92.16   Abatement services and notice procedure
   
92.17   Enforcement procedure
   
92.18   Expenses
   
92.19   Entering private property
 
   
92.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 92.01  REGULATION.
   For the purpose of promoting the health and safety of the residents of the
municipality, the Board of Health shall from time to time, adopt rules and
regulations relative thereto and shall make such inspections, prescribe such
penalties and make such reports as may be necessary toward that purpose.
(Prior Code, § 4-101)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-208
§ 92.02  ENFORCEMENT OFFICIAL.
   (A)   The municipal law enforcement officer, as the quarantine officer,
shall be the chief health officer of the municipality.
   (B)   It shall be his or her duty to notify the governing body and the Board
of Health of health nuisances within the municipality and its zoning
jurisdiction.
(Prior Code, § 4-102)
§ 92.03  TOBACCO PRODUCT.
   It shall be unlawful for anyone to smoke or use any tobacco products in the
village offices.
(Prior Code, § 4-103)  Penalty, see §
92.99
NUISANCES
§ 92.15  GENERAL DEFINITION.
   (A)   A nuisance consists of doing any unlawful act, omitting to perform a
duty or suffering or permitting any condition or thing to be or exist; which
act, omission, condition or thing:
      (1)   Injures or endangers the comfort, repose, health or safety of
others;
      (2)   Offends decency;
      (3)   Is offensive to the senses;
      (4)   Unlawfully interferes with, obstructs, tends to obstruct or renders
dangerous for passage any stream, public park, parkway, square, street or
highway in the municipality;
      (5)   In any way renders other persons insecure in life or the use of
property;
      (6)   Essentially interferes with comfortable enjoyment of life and
property; or
      (7)   Tends to depreciate the value of the property of others.
   (B)   Nuisance includes, but is not limited to, the maintaining, using,
placing, depositing, leaving or permitting of any of the following specific
acts, omissions, places, conditions and things of:
      (1)   Any odorous, putrid, unsound or unwholesome grain, meat, hides,
skins, feathers, vegetable matter or the whole or any part of any dead animal,
fish or fowl;
      (2)   The emissions of smoke, dust, fumes, gases, mists, odors or
polluted air from any source that is injurious or dangerous to human health and
safety;
      (3)   Privies, vaults, cesspools, dumps, pits or like places which are
not securely protected from  flies or rats or other insects and rodents, or
which are foul or malodorous;
      (4)   Filthy, littered or trash-covered cellars, house yards, barnyards,
stable yards, factory-yards, mill yards, vacant areas in rear of stores,
granaries, vacant lots, houses, buildings or premises;
      (5)   Dead animals or dead animals buried within the corporate limits;
      (6)   Animal manure in any quantity which is not securely protected from
flies and the elements or which is kept or handled in violation of any
ordinance of the municipality;
      (7)   Hauling any garbage or waste, or refuse matter through the streets,
alleys and public ways, except when the same is loaded and conveyed in such a
way when none of the contents shall be spilled;
      (8)   Liquid household waste, human excreta, garbage, butcher’s trimmings
and offal, parts of fish or any waste vegetable or animal matter in any
quantity. Nothing herein contained shall prevent the temporary retention of
waste in receptacles or the dumping of non-putrefying waste in a place and
manner approved by the municipality;
      (9)   Tin cans, bottles, glass, cans, ashes, small pieces of scrap iron,
wire metal articles, bric-a-brac, broken stone or cement, broken crockery,
broken glass, broken plaster and all trash or abandoned material, unless the
same be kept in covered bins or galvanized iron receptacles;
      (10)   Trash, litter, rags, accumulations of barrels, boxes, crates,
packing crates, mattresses, bedding, excelsior, packing hay, straw or other
packing material, lumber not neatly piled, scrap iron, tin or other metal not
neatly piled, old automobiles or parts thereof or any other waste material when
any of the articles or materials create a condition in which flies or rats or
other insects or rodents may breed or multiply, or which may be a fire danger
or which are so unsightly as to depreciate property values in the vicinity;
      (11)   Any unsafe building, unsightly building, billboard or other
structure or any old, abandoned or partially destroyed building or structure or
any building or structure commenced and left unfinished, which buildings,
billboards or other structures are a fire hazard, a menace to the public health
or safety or are so unsightly as to depreciate the value of property in the
vicinity;
      (12)   All places used or maintained as junk yards or dumping grounds, or
for the wrecking and dissembling of automobiles, trucks, tractors or machinery
of any kind, or for the storing or leaving of worn-out, wrecked or abandoned
automobiles, trucks, tractors or machinery of any kind, or of any of the parts
thereof or for the storing or leaving of any machinery or equipment used by
contractors or builders or by other persons, which places are kept or
maintained so as to essentially interfere with the comfortable enjoyment of
life or property by others, or which are so unsightly as to tend to depreciate
property values in the vicinity thereof;
      (13)   Stock yards, granaries, mills, pig pens, cattle pens, chicken pens
or any other place, building or enclosure, in which animals or fowls of any
kind are confined or on which are stored tankage or any other animal or
vegetable matter, or on which any animal or vegetable matter including grain is
being processed, when the  places in which the animals are confined, or the 
premises on which the  vegetable or animal matter is located are maintained and
kept in such a manner that fowl and noxious odors are permitted to emanate
therefrom to the annoyance of inhabitants of the municipality or are maintained
and kept in such a manner as to be injurious to the public health;
      (14)   Dead or diseased trees within the right-of-way of streets within
the corporate limits of the village or on private property within the one-mile
zoning jurisdiction beyond the corporate limits;
      (15)   Undrained lots which hold or may hold stagnant water or any other
nuisance;
      (16)   Any condition which allows the perpetuating of insects and
rodents;
      (17)   Storage, accumulation, keeping, placing or allowing to remain
trash, garbage, scrap and wreaked, worn-out, broken or inoperative, or
partially destroyed or disassembled personal or real property of any kind,
including any junk or abandoned motor vehicles, tractors, trailers, machinery
and equipment;
      (18)   Any vehicle which is not properly registered, or is inoperable,
wreaked, junked or partially dismantled and remaining longer than 30 days on
private property. This does not apply to a vehicle in an enclosed building, a
vehicle on the premises of a business enterprise operated in a lawful place and
manner, when necessary to the lawful operation of such business enterprise
(such as a licensed salvage dealer, motor vehicle dealer or farm implement
dealer), or a vehicle in an appropriate storage place or depository maintained
in a lawful place and manner, and so long as the premises which said vehicle is
located is not a nuisance and is maintained in a healthful and safe condition.
VEHICLE means the same as defined by Neb. RS 60-136: “motor vehicle, all
terrain vehicle, minibike, trailer or semitrailer”. “Properly registered” means
as required by state statutes;
      (19)   Lots, pieces of ground and the adjoining streets and alleys with
growth of weeds or noxious growth; and
      (20)   All other things specifically designated as nuisances elsewhere in
the village code.
(Prior Code, § 4-301)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-555, 18-1720
§ 92.16  ABATEMENT SERVICES AND NOTICE PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Nuisance officer. The village shall appoint an individual or
organization to identify and enforce abatement of nuisances within the village.
Said individual or organization shall be identified as the “nuisance officer”
and said appointment shall be identified by resolution of the village.
   (B)   Identifying nuisances.
      (1)   The village may identify suspected nuisances, in which case the
Village Clerk, shall upon direction of the Village Board, notify the nuisance
officer of the suspected location, person or persons in violation of any
provision of this chapter and provide the address of such alleged nuisance.
      (2)   The village may request that the nuisance officer audit the village
for nuisances in the village as defined by the village code. The nuisance
officer shall then view the property or area for any violations of the
nuisances of the village. The nuisance officer shall not go upon private
property for said audit unless granted permission by the resident/owner of
suspected property.
   (C)   Confirming, documenting and presenting nuisances. The nuisance officer
shall identify and confirm that, in his or her opinion, a nuisance exists as
defined by federal, state or village law.
      (1)   Upon confirming that a nuisance appears to exist the nuisance
officer shall document said nuisance with photographs and other evidence
pertinent to the situation. The nuisance officer will also obtain the legal
description of the property and identify the current owners and, if possible,
the occupants of the property upon which nuisance exists.
      (2)   The nuisance officer shall then present this information to the
village governing board at a regular or special meeting for its confirmation
that a nuisance exists as stated in this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 4-302)  Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.17  ENFORCEMENT PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Generally.
      (1)   The nuisance, health and/or sanitation violation is brought to the
governing body by the village nuisance officer or the Board of Health or upon
the governing body’s own action. The governing body then may declare by
resolution a nuisance, health and/or sanitation violation. The nuisance, health
and/or sanitation ordinances may be enforced by:
         (a)   Village administrative procedures;
         (b)   Penal prosecutions through the courts; and/or
         (c)   By civil procedures in the courts.
      (2)   Any of these procedures, or any combination of these procedures may
be used to enforce the nuisance, health and/or sanitation ordinances of the
village.
   (B)   Administrative procedure. The village may proceed with abatement of
the nuisance, sanitation and/or health violation with or without court
involvement after the following procedure is followed:
      (1)   After a nuisance is declared, the Village Clerk notifies the
nuisance officer to serve notice upon the violator(s);
      (2)   The nuisance officer shall prepare and serve notice which shall
describe the found nuisance and state the required date of abatement and
removal of the nuisance shall be accomplished. The notice shall also provide
information as to how the interested parties may request a hearing before the
governing body described in division (B)(4) below;
      (3)   The notice shall be given to each owner or owner’s duly authorized
agent and to the occupant, if any, by personal service or certified mail. If
the notice by personal service or certified mail is unsuccessful, said notice
shall be given by a single publication in a newspaper of general circulation in
the village or county of the village, and by conspicuously posting the notice
on the lot or ground upon which the nuisance is to be abated and removed. The
date of service is determined by the later certified mail receipt, personal
service or publication date;
      (4)   The accused violator (owner/agent/occupant) may request in writing
a hearing before the governing body of the village within five days after
notice of violation is served or published. For tree nuisance violations, the
period for requesting a hearing is extended to 30 days after the service;
      (5)   If no request for a hearing is received in the required time
period, the governing body may cause a hearing to be held. This option is at
the sole discretion of the governing body to be used in exceptional cases;
      (6)   If a hearing is requested, the Village Clerk shall fix date of said
hearing to be no later than 15 days from receipt of the request for hearing.
Notice of said hearing and with the date and time shall be served upon the
agent, owner and of the nuisance property by certified and regular mail;
      (7)   The hearing shall be a “show cause” hearing in which the agent,
owner, occupant of the nuisance property (objecting property) shall provide
evidence why the alleged condition should not be found to be a public nuisance
and remedied. This hearing shall be heard before a quorum of the governing
body. The presiding official of the governing body may conduct the hearing or
said presiding official may appoint another person as the hearing officer to
conduct the hearing (said hearing officer may be the Village Attorney or the
enforcement officer). At the hearing, the hearing officer shall mark and
receive evidence which was presented when the finding of a nuisance was made,
relevant evidence of the nuisance since that time and evidence that the notices
were properly given. The objecting party shall then provide its evidence. The
rules of evidence are not required at said hearing, but all evidence must be
relevant to the particular nuisance being heard. Testimony shall be under oath
as administered by the hearing officer or any person so designated by the
hearing officer, and the person providing the testimony is subject to the laws
of perjury. Evidence shall be admitted in written by affidavit;
      (8)   No later than 14 days after the hearing and consideration of the
evidence, the governing body may, by majority vote, rescind the resolution of
violation. If the resolution of violation is not rescinded, it shall stand.
Furthermore, if the objector or its designated agent fails to appear at the
hearing or does not provide evidence, the nuisance shall stand. If the
resolution is not rescinded, the governing board may, by resolution, extend the
date the owner, occupant, lessee or mortgagee shall abate and remedy the said
public nuisance, but in no case shall this time exceed 60 days. The findings of
the governing board shall be made no later than 14 days after the hearing and
notice of its findings shall be served upon the objecting party by regular U.S.
mail within five days of finding. The finding of this hearing is final;
provided that, an interesting party or parties may appeal such decision to the
appropriate court for adjudication;
      (9)   If the nuisance officer determines the nuisance is not remedied and
abated within the time period designated, the village shall cause the abatement
of the nuisance; and
      (10)   If an interested party properly appeals to an appropriate court
the findings and orders of the village, the village actions shall be stayed
during until such time that the legal proceedings are completed or dismissed.
In cases of appeal from an action of the village condemning real property as a
nuisance or as a dangerous under the police powers of the municipality, the
owners of the adjoining property may intervene in the action at any time before
trial.
   (C)   Penal court enforcement procedure.
      (1)   If the declared nuisance, health and/or sanitation are not abated
within 15 days that the notice is served upon the owner and/or occupant, and
the Village Clerk has not received a request for hearing, the nuisance officer
may cause issue of a citation for the code violation.
      (2)   The citation shall be prosecuted to the appropriate court by the
Village Attorney or other designated prosecutor of the village.
   (D)   Civil court procedure.
      (1)   The governing board may instruct, by resolution, the Village
Attorney to file a civil action for the abatement of the nuisance.
      (2)   Said civil suit may commence after 15 days’ notice has been served
as stated in §
92.16 of this chapter and may be filed and prosecuted at the same time any
other enforcement procedure has commenced, terminated or in progress.
(Prior Code, § 4-303)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 19-710
§ 92.18  EXPENSES.
   (A)   When the village has affected the abatement of the nuisance, health
and/or sanitation violation through either village employees or through
contract with a third party and had incurred expenses and costs thereof, the
actual cost thereof shall be charged to the owner, agent, occupant or person in
possession, charge or control of such property. The billing shall be calculated
at the actual cost of abating the nuisance, plus a $25 administrative fee.
   (B)   This billing shall be submitted to the last known address of the owner
of the nuisance property as found in the County Treasurer’s office of regular
U.S. mail.
   (C)   If said costs are not paid within two months after the work is done
and one month after the expenses and costs are submitted to the owner and/or
occupant, the village may levy and assess the expenses and costs upon the real
estate benefitted by the actions in the same manner as other special
assessments are levied and assessed and the village may collect said
assessments in the same procedure as other special assessments are collected.
The village may also recover said expenses and costs of abating the nuisance,
health and/or sanitation violation(s) in a civil action in the courts of the
appropriate county in the state.
(Prior Code, § 4-304)
§ 92.19  ENTERING PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to prevent any police officer or public
safety employee from entering upon private property for purposes of carrying
out his or her duties hereunder or to interfere with him or her in the lawful
performance of his or her duties under the provision of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 4-307)  (Updated)  Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person violating the provisions of §§
92.15 through
92.19 of this chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall, upon
conviction thereof, be fined in the sum of no less than $100 and no more than
$500 for a first offense. Fines for second and subsequent offenses shall be no
less than $200 and no more than $500 per offense.
(Prior Code, § 4-306)  (Updated)
   (C)   (1)   A person or persons found guilty of violating §
92.17 of this chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and fined up to $500 per
each offense.
      (2)   Each day that the nuisance, identified in the nuisance resolution
and notice, is not abated shall be a separate offense and subject to a separate
fine.
(Prior Code, § 4-303)
CHAPTER 93:  PARKS AND RECREATION
Section
   
93.01   Operation and funding
   
93.02   Regulations
   
93.03   Injury to property
§ 93.01  OPERATION AND FUNDING.
   (A)   The municipality owns and operates the municipal parks and other
recreational areas through the governing body.
   (B)   The governing body, for the purpose of defraying the cost of the care,
management and maintenance of the municipal park may each year levy a tax not
exceeding the maximum limit prescribed by state law on the actual valuation of
all real estate and personal property within the corporate limits that is
subject to taxation.
   (C)   The revenue from the said tax shall be known as the “Park Fund” and
shall remain in the custody of the Municipal Treasurer.
   (D)   The Board shall have the authority to adopt rules and regulations for
the efficient management of the municipal parks and other recreational areas of
the municipality.
(Prior Code, § 3-401)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-948 through 17-952
§ 93.02  REGULATIONS.
   The following regulations for park operation are hereby prescribed in order
to promote orderly and safe use of the municipal parks and to prevent needless
injury and destruction to park property:
   (A)   Picnic areas. Use of picnic areas and facilities is on a first come,
first serve basis; and
   (B)   Ballfields. Organized regulation games and practices must be cleared
through the Utilities Superintendent.
(Prior Code, § 3-402)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 93.03  INJURY TO PROPERTY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to maliciously or willfully cut down,
injure or destroy any sodded or planted area or injure or destroy any building,
structure, equipment, fence, bench, table or any other property of the
municipal parks and recreational areas. No person shall commit any waste on or
litter the municipal parks or other public grounds.
(Prior Code, § 3-403)  Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 94:  LIBRARY
Section
   
94.01   Operation and funding
   
94.02   Rules and regulations
   
94.03   Money collected
Cross-reference:
   Library Board, see §
32.04
§ 94.01  OPERATION AND FUNDING.
   (A)   The municipality owns and manages the municipal library through the
Library Board. The governing body for the purpose of defraying the cost of the
management, purchases, improvements and maintenance of the library may each
year levy a tax not exceeding the maximum limit prescribed by state law on the
actual valuation of all real estate and personal property within the
municipality that is subject to taxation. The revenue from the said tax shall
be known as the “Library Fund” and shall include all gifts, grants, deeds of
conveyance, bequests or other valuable income-producing personal property and
real estate from any source for the purpose of endowing the municipal library.
The Library Fund shall at all times be in the custody of the Municipal
Treasurer.
   (B)   (1)   The President of the Library Board shall draw warrants on the
Library Fund and when countersigned by the Secretary shall be honored by the
Municipal Treasurer. The Board shall have the power and authority to appoint
the librarian and to hire such other employees as they may deem necessary and
may pass such other rules and regulations for the operation of the library as
may be proper for its efficient operation.
      (2)   All actions by the Board shall be under the supervision and control
of the governing body.
(Prior Code, § 3-501)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 51-201, 51-202, 51-211
§ 94.02  RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   (A)   The Library Board shall establish rules and regulations for the
governing of the municipal library for the preservation and efficient
management thereof.
   (B)   It shall fix and impose by general rules, penalties and forfeitures
for injury to the library grounds, rooms, books or other property, of for
failure to return a book.
   (C)   All fees, penalties and forfeitures shall be collected in civil action
in the event of failure, neglect of refusal to pay the said assessments.
(Prior Code, § 3-502)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 51-205, 51-214
§ 94.03  MONEY COLLECTED.
   Any money collected by the library shall be turned over monthly by the
Library Board to the Municipal Treasurer along with a report of the sources of
the revenue.
(Prior Code, § 3-503)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 51-209
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   OCCUPATION TAXES
      
111.   AMUSEMENTS AND LEISURE
      
112.   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
      
113.   MOVING BUILDINGS
      
114.   TOBACCO
      
115.   SALES AND ADVERTISING
CHAPTER 110:  OCCUPATION TAXES
Section
   
110.01   Amounts
   
110.02   Due and payable
   
110.03   Certificates
   
110.04   Failure to pay
   
110.05   Pro rata payment
   
110.06   Fire insurance companies
   
110.07   Raising revenue; amounts
§ 110.01  AMOUNTS.
   (A)   The governing body shall have the power to raise revenue by levying
and collecting a license tax on any occupation or business within the limits of
the municipality and regulate the same.
   (B)   All such taxes shall be uniform in respect to the classes upon which
they are imposed; provided, all scientific and literary lectures and
entertainments shall be exempt from such taxation, as well as concerts and
other musical entertainments given exclusively by the citizens of the
municipality.
(Prior Code, § 10-801)
§ 110.02  DUE AND PAYABLE.
   (A)   (1)   All occupation taxes shall be due and payable on May 1 of each
year, except in the event that the said tax is levied daily, unless another
time is specifically provided and upon the payment thereof by any person or
persons to the Municipal Clerk, the said Clerk shall give a receipt properly
dated and specifying the person paying the aid tax and the amount paid.
      (2)   The revenue collected shall then be immediately deposited into the
General Fund by the Municipal Treasurer. The Municipal Treasurer shall keep an
accurate account of all revenue turned over to him or her.
   (B)   All forms and receipts herein mentioned shall be issued in duplicate.
One copy shall then be kept by each party in the transaction.
(Prior Code, § 10-802)
§ 110.03  CERTIFICATES.
   The receipt issued after the payment of the occupation tax shall be the
occupation tax certificate. The said certificate shall specify the amount of
the tax and the name of the person and business that paid the said tax. The
occupation tax certificate shall then be displayed in a prominent place or
carried in such a way as to be easily accessible while business is being
conducted.
(Prior Code, § 10-803)
§ 110.04  FAILURE TO PAY.
   If any person, company or corporation fails or neglects to pay the
occupation taxes as provided herein on the day it becomes due and payable, the
municipality shall then proceed by civil suit to collect the amount due. All
delinquent taxes shall bear interest at the rate of 1% per month until paid.
(Prior Code, § 10-804)
§ 110.05  PRO RATA PAYMENT.
   The amount of tax herein levied and imposed shall be for the period of one
year. No occupation tax in an amount less than the sum provided for a yearly
period shall be accepted regardless of the time within the taxing period when
such business is commenced.
(Prior Code, § 10-805)
§ 110.06  FIRE INSURANCE COMPANIES.
   For the use, support and maintenance of the Municipal Fire Department, all
revenue realized from the occupation tax on fire insurance companies shall be
transferred to the Fire Department Fund.
(Prior Code, § 10-806)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 35-106
§ 110.07  RAISING REVENUE; AMOUNTS.
   For the purpose of raising revenue, an occupation tax in hereby levied on
the following businesses:
 
Peddlers, hawkers and transient salespersons         Per person, per day: $10
                                                     Per person, per year: $100
Class A retailer of beer only for consumption on the Per year: $100
premises, regardless of alcoholic content
Class B retailer of beer only for consumption off    Per year: $100
the premises regardless of alcoholic content
Class C retailer of beer, wine and distilled spirits Per  year: $300
for consumption on or off the premises
Class D retailer of beer, wine and distilled sprits  Per year: $200
for consumption off the premises
Class I Retailer of beer, wine and distilled sprits  Per year: $250
for consumption on the premises
 
(Prior Code, § 10-807)
CHAPTER 111:  AMUSEMENTS AND LEISURE
Section
   
111.01   Fireworks
   
111.02   Lotteries
§ 111.01  FIREWORKS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to sell fireworks of any
description whatsoever, except permissible fireworks annually listed and
promulgated by the State Fire Marshal may be sold at retail at all times;
provided that, all other fireworks named may be sold only between June 25 and
July 5; provided that, fireworks of any description are permissible for
purposes of public exhibitions or displays as authorized by the governing body;
and, further provided that, said vendor shall secure a license prior to such
sales. Application shall be filed with the Village Clerk upon forms supplied by
the municipality and requesting such information and documents as the governing
body may deem necessary as to whether or not to grant said license. Any license
so issued may be revoked at any time by the governing body upon proper notice
and hearing if one is requested by the licensee.
(Prior Code, § 10-603)  (Ord. 2020-03, passed 12-9-2020)  Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-137, 28-1241 through 28-1252
§ 111.02  LOTTERIES.
   (A)   No person under 19 years of age shall play or participate in any way
in the lottery established and conducted by the municipality.
   (B)   No owner or officer of a lottery operator with whom the municipality
contracts to conduct its lottery shall play the lottery conducted by the
municipality. No owner or officer of an authorized sales outlet location for
the municipality shall play in the lottery conducted by the municipality. No
employee or agent of the municipality, lottery operator or authorized sales
outlet location shall play the lottery of the municipality for which he or she
performs work during such time as he or she is actually working at such lottery
or while on duty.
   (C)   Nothing shall prohibit any member of the governing body, a municipal
official or the immediate family of such member or official from playing the
lottery conducted by the municipality as long as such person is 19 years of age
or older.
   (D)   No person, or employee or agent of any person or the municipality,
shall knowingly permit an individual under 19 years of age to play or
participate in any way in the lottery conducted by the municipality.
   (E)   For purposes of this section, IMMEDIATE FAMILY OF A MEMBER OF THE
GOVERNING BODY OR A MUNICIPAL OFFICIAL shall mean:
      (1)   A person who is related to the member or official by blood,
marriage or adoption and resides in the same household; or
      (2)   A person who is claimed by the member or official, or the spouse of
the member or official, as a dependent for federal income tax purposes.
(Prior Code, § 10-1001)  Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 9-646
CHAPTER 112:  ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
Section
General Provisions
   
112.01   Definitions
   
112.02   Municipal powers and duties
   
112.03   Hours of sale
   
112.04   Location requirements
   
112.05   Dwellings
   
112.06   Licensee requirements; owner of premises; employer
   
112.07   Minors; hiring
   
112.08   Credit sales
   
112.09   Spiking beer
   
112.10   Original packages
   
112.11   Sanitary conditions
   
112.12   Unlawful consumption
   
112.13   Acquisition of alcoholic beverages
   
112.14   Consumption in public places
   
112.15   Intoxicated persons; removal from public property
   
112.16   Licensed premises; inspections
Licenses
   
112.30   License required
   
112.31   License application; notice; procedure
   
112.32   Retail licensing standards
   
112.33   Municipal examination
   
112.34   Catering licenses
   
112.35   License renewal
   
112.36   License displayed
   
112.37   Licensee requirements
   
112.38   Licenses; village powers and duties
Cross-reference:
   Fee schedule, see §
36.01
   Occupation Taxes, see
Ch. 110
   Raising revenue; amounts, see §
110.07
   Tobacco, see
Ch. 114
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 112.01  DEFINITIONS.
   All words and phrases herein used are to have the definitions applied
thereto as defined in the Liquor Control Act of the state, being Neb. RS 53-101
to 53-1,122.
(Prior Code, § 10-101)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 53-103
§ 112.02  MUNICIPAL POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The governing body shall have the following powers, functions and duties
with respect to retail licenses:
   (A)   To cancel, revoke or suspend for cause retail licenses to sell or
dispense alcoholic liquor issued to persons for premises within it
jurisdiction, subject to review as provided in Neb. RS 53-1,116;
   (B)   To enter or to authorize any law enforcement officer to enter at any
time upon any premises licensed hereunder to determine whether any rules or
regulations are being violated and at such time to examine the premises of such
licensee;
   (C)   To receive a signed complaint from any citizen within its jurisdiction
that any rules and regulations adopted by the governing body have been or are
being violated and to act upon such complaints in the manner hereinafter
provided;
   (D)   To receive retail license fees and pay the same forthwith after the
applicant has been delivered his or her retail license to the village;
   (E)   To examine or cause to be examined any applicant or any retail
licensee upon notice of cancellation or if notification has been served in the
manner hereinafter provided and to examine, or cause to be examined, the books
and records of any such applicant or licensee, to hear testimony and take proof
for its information in the performance of its duties. For the purpose of
obtaining any of the information desired, the local governing body may
authorize its agent or the Village Attorney to act on its behalf; and
   (F)   To cancel or revoke on its own motion a license if it determines that
the licensee has violated any of the provisions of this chapter or any valid
and subsisting ordinance regulations duly acted relating to alcoholic liquors.
Such order of cancellation or revocation shall be subject to appeal to the
state’s Liquor Control Commission as other orders or actions of the governing
body.
(Prior Code, § 10-108)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 53-134
§ 112.03  HOURS OF SALE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any licensed person or persons or his, her or
their agents to sell any alcoholic beverages within the municipality, except
during the hours provided herein:
 
Monday through Saturday
   Off sa7:00 a.m. to 1:00 a.m.
   On sal7:00 a.m. to 1:00 a.m.
Sunday
   Off sa7:00 a.m. to midnight
   On sal7:00 a.m. to midnight
 
   (B)   (1)   No minor shall be allowed upon the premises of any such licensed
establishment, unless accompanied by a parent or guardian, except during the
hours hereinafter specified:
 
Monday through Thursday 7:00 a.m. to 10:00 p.m.
Friday and Saturday     7:00 a.m. to 11:00 p.m.
Sunday                  7:00 a.m. to 8:00 p.m.
 
      (2)   Provided that, such limitations shall not apply after 12:00 p.m. on
Sunday to a licensee which is a non-profit corporation; but such licensee shall
not sell or dispense beverages on more than six days a week.
   (C)   No person or persons shall consume any alcoholic beverages on licensed
premises for a period of time longer than 15 minutes after the time fixed
herein for stopping the sale of alcoholic beverages on the said premises. For
the purposes of this section, ON SALE shall be defined as alcoholic beverages
sold by the drink for consumption on the premises of the licensed
establishment; OFF SALE shall be defined as alcoholic beverages sold at retail
in the original container for consumption off the premises of the licensed
establishment.
   (D)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to prohibit licensed
premises from being open for other business on days and hours during which the
sale or dispensing of alcoholic beverages is prohibited by this section.
   (E)   A retail licensee may apply for a special permit to allow such
licensee to sell or dispense alcoholic liquor, including beer, on the licensed
premises until the hour of 2:00 a.m. on a specific date designated on the
application for the special permit.
      (1)   Approval of special permit shall require a two-thirds majority vote
of the members of the Village Board.   
      (2)   Each special permit shall be valid for one day only unless the
request specifically asks for a longer period which may not exceed a maximum of
two consecutive days.   
      (3)   Applicants for such special permit shall pay a fee set by
resolution of the Village Board prior to the issuance of the permit.   
(Prior Code, § 10-109)  Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 53-179
§ 112.04  LOCATION REQUIREMENTS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to own, maintain, manage or
hold open to the public any establishment for the purpose of selling at retail
any alcoholic liquor within 150 feet of any church, school, hospital or home
for aged or indigent persons or veterans, their wives or children; provided,
this prohibition shall not apply to any location within such distance when the
said establishment has been licensed by the state’s Liquor Control Commission
at least two years and to hotels offering restaurant service, regularly
organized clubs or to restaurants where the selling of alcoholic liquors is not
the principal business carried on if the said hotel, club or restaurant were
licensed and in operation prior to 5-24-1935. No alcoholic liquor, other than
beer, shall be sold for consumption on the premises within 300 feet from the
campus of any college within the municipality.
(Prior Code, § 10-110)  Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 53-177
§ 112.05  DWELLINGS.
   Except in the case of hotels and clubs, no alcoholic liquor shall be sold at
retail upon any premises which has any access which leads from such premises to
any other portion of the same building used for dwelling or lodging purposes
and which is permitted to be used by the public. Nothing herein shall prevent
any connection with such premises and such other portion of the building which
is used only by the licensee, his or her family or personal guests.
(Prior Code, § 10-111)  Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 53-178
§ 112.06  LICENSEE REQUIREMENTS; OWNER OF PREMISES; EMPLOYER.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to own an establishment
that sells at retail any alcoholic beverages unless said person is a resident
of the county in which the premises is located; a person of good character and
reputation; a citizen of the United States; a person who has never been
convicted of a felony or any Class I misdemeanor pursuant to Neb. RS Ch. 28,
Art. 3, 4, 7, 8, 11 or 12 or any similar offense under a prior criminal statute
or in another state; a person who has never had a liquor license revoked for
cause; a person whose premises for which a license is sought meets standards
for fire safety as established by the state’s Fire Marshal; or a person who has
not acquired a beneficial interest in more than two alcoholic beverage retail
establishments since 3-4-1963; provided, the beneficial interest requirement in
this section shall not apply to the person applying for an additional license
for use in connection with the operation of a hotel containing at least 25
sleeping rooms or when the request is limited to on premises sale of beer only
in a restaurant.
(Prior Code, § 10-113)
   (B)   The owner of any premises used for the sale at retail of alcoholic
beverages shall be deemed guilty of a violation of these laws to the same
extent as the said licensee if the owner shall knowingly permit the licensee to
use the said licensed premises in violation of any municipal code section or
state statute.
(Prior Code, § 10-114)
   (C)   The employer of any officer, director, manager or employees working in
a retail liquor establishment shall be held to be liable and guilty of any act
of omission or violation of any law or ordinance and each such act or omission
shall be deemed and held to be the act of the employer and will be punishable
in the same manner as if the said act or omission has been committed by him or
her personally.
(Prior Code, § 10-115)
Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 53-125, 53-1,101, 53-1,102
§ 112.07  MINORS; HIRING.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to sell or make a gift
of any alcoholic liquors or to procure any such alcoholic liquors for any minor
or other person who is mentally, physically or otherwise incompetent whether
due to natural disabilities or the prior consumption of alcoholic beverages.
(Prior Code, § 10-116)
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to hire a minor regardless of sex
under the age of 19 years to serve or dispense alcoholic liquors, including
beer, to said licensee’s customers.
(Prior Code, § 10-125)
Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 53-168.06(9), 53-180
§ 112.08  CREDIT SALES.
   No person shall sell or furnish alcoholic liquor at retail to any person or
persons for credit of any kind, barter or services rendered; provided, nothing
herein contained shall be construed to prevent any bona fide club from
permitting checks or statements for alcoholic liquor to be signed by members or
guests of members and charged to the accounts of the said members or guests in
accordance with the bylaws of any such club; and, provided further, nothing
herein shall be construed to prevent any hotel from permitting checks or
statement for liquor to be signed by bona fide guests residing in the said
hotel and charged to the accounts of such guests.
(Prior Code, § 10-117)  Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 53-183
§ 112.09  SPIKING BEER.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons who own, manage or lease any
premises in which the sale of alcoholic beverages is licensed to serve or offer
for sale any beer to which there has been added any alcohol or permit any
person or persons to add alcohol to any beer on the licensed premises of such
licensee.
(Prior Code, § 10-118)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 112.10  ORIGINAL PACKAGES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons who own, manage or lease any
premises in which the sale of alcoholic beverages is licensed to have in his,
her or their possession for sale at retail any alcoholic liquors contained in
bottles, casks or other containers, except in the original package.
(Prior Code, § 10-119)  Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 53-184
§ 112.11  SANITARY CONDITIONS.
   It shall be unlawful to open for public use any retail liquor establishment
that is not in a clean and sanitary condition. Toilet facilities shall be
adequate and convenient for customers and patrons and said licensed premises
shall be subject to any health inspections the governing body or the municipal
police may make or cause to be made. All applications for liquor licenses shall
be viewed in part from the standpoint of the sanitary conditions and a report
concerning the said sanitary conditions shall be made at all hearings
concerning the application for or renewal of a liquor license.
(Prior Code, § 10-120)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 112.12  UNLAWFUL CONSUMPTION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to consume alcoholic beverages upon the
public ways and property or within businesses or buildings open to the public
which are not licensed for the sale and consumption of alcoholic beverages.
(Prior Code, § 10-121)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 112.13  ACQUISITION OF ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to have possession of any alcoholic
liquors which shall have been acquired otherwise than from a licensee duly
licensed to sell same to such person under the provisions of the state’s Liquor
Control Act, being Neb. RS 53-101 to 53-1,122; providing, nothing herein shall
prevent the possession of alcoholic liquor for the personal use of the
possessor, his or her family and guests, nor prevent the making of wine, cider
or other alcoholic liquor by a person from fruits, vegetables or grains or the
produce thereof by simple fermentation and without distillation if it is made
solely for the use of the maker, his or her family and his or her guests;
provided further that, nothing herein shall prevent any duly licensed
practicing physician or dentist from possessing or using alcoholic liquor in
the strict practice of his or her profession or any hospital or institution
caring for the sick and diseased persons from possessing any alcoholic liquor
for the treatment of bona fide patients of such hospital or other institution;
provided further that, any drug store employing a licensed pharmacist may
possess and use alcoholic liquors in the compounding of prescriptions of duly
licensed physicians; and, provided further that, the possession and
dispensation of wine by an authorized representative of any church for the
purpose of conducting any bona fide rite or religious ceremony conducted by
such church shall not be prohibited by this section.
(Prior Code, § 10-122)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 112.14  CONSUMPTION IN PUBLIC PLACES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to consume alcoholic beverages within
the corporate limits upon the public ways and property including inside
vehicles while upon the public ways and property. It shall further be unlawful
for any person to consume alcoholic beverages within any other public business
that is not a licensed liquor establishment.
(Prior Code, § 10-123)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 112.15  INTOXICATED PERSONS; REMOVAL FROM PUBLIC PROPERTY.
   Any law enforcement officer with the power to arrest for traffic violations
may take a person who is intoxicated and, in the judgment of the officer,
dangerous to himself or herself or others or who is otherwise incapacitated
from any public property. An officer removing an intoxicated person from public
property shall make a reasonable effort to take such intoxicated person to his
or her home or to any hospital, clinic, alcoholism center or medical doctor as
may be necessary to preserve life or to prevent injury. If these measures are
unsuccessful or are not feasible, the officer may then place such intoxicated
person in civil protective custody; except that, civil protective custody shall
be used only as long as it necessary to preserve life or to prevent injury and
under no circumstances longer than 12 hours. The placement of such person in
civil protective custody shall be recorded at the facility or jail at which he
or she is delivered and communicated to his or her family or next of kin if he,
she or they can be located or to such person designated by the person taken
into civil protective custody. The law enforcement officer who acts in
compliance with this section shall be deemed to be acting in the course of his
or her official duty and shall not be criminally or civilly liable for such
actions. The taking of an individual into civil protective custody under this
section shall not be considered an arrest. No entry or other record shall be
made to indicate that the person has been arrested or charged with a crime. For
purposes of this section, PUBLIC PROPERTY shall mean any public right-of-way,
street, highway, alley, park or other state, county or municipally-owned
property.
(Prior Code, § 10-124)  Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 53-1,121
§ 112.16  LICENSED PREMISES; INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   The Board of Trustees shall cause frequent inspection to be made on
the premises of all retail licensees and bottle club licensees. If it is found
that any such licensee is violating any provision of this chapter, the Nebraska
Liquor Control Act, or the rules and regulations of the Nebraska Liquor Control
Commission, or is failing to observe in good faith the purposes of this chapter
or the Act, the license may be suspended, canceled, or revoked after the
licensee is given an opportunity to be heard in his or her defense.
   (B)   The Board of Trustees may inspect a charter bus providing service
under a certificate of public convenience and necessity granted by the Public
Service Commission when the owner or operator of the charter allows the
consumption of alcoholic liquor in the charter bus by an individual who is 21
years of age or older so long as the inspection is performed when the bus has
stopped for the purpose of allowing passengers to embark or disembark.
(Ord. 2021-01, passed 3-10-2021)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 53-116.01
LICENSES
§ 112.30  LICENSE REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to manufacture for sale, sell, keep for
sale or to barter any alcoholic liquors within the municipality unless said
person shall have in full force and effect a license as provided by the state’s
Liquor Control Act, being Neb. RS 53-101 to 53-1,122.
(Prior Code, § 10-102)  Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 53-168.06
§ 112.31  LICENSE APPLICATION; NOTICE; PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Notice. Notice of a hearing held pursuant to Neb. RS 53-134 shall be
given to the applicant by the Municipal Clerk and shall contain the date, time
and location of the hearing. Two or more proceedings which are legally or
factually related may be heard and considered together unless any party thereto
makes a showing sufficient to satisfy the governing body that prejudice would
result therefrom.
   (B)   Procedure.
      (1)   Hearings will be informal and conducted by the Municipal Attorney.
The intent is an inquiry into the facts, not an adversarial action. Each
witness may present his or her testimony in narrative fashion or by question
and answer. The governing body may order the hearing to be recorded by the
Clerk, at the expense of the applicant(s).
      (2)   The governing body may admit and give probative effect to evidence
which possesses probative value commonly accepted by reasonably prudent
individuals. The Municipal Attorney may limit testimony where it appears
incompetent, irrelevant or unduly repetitious. If there is opposition to the
application and such opposition desires the opportunity to present arguments
and to cross-examine the applicant and any witness in favor of such
application, he, she or they shall choose a spokesperson to perform such
function who shall notify the Municipal Attorney of his or her representation
prior to the start of the hearing.
      (3)   The order of the proceedings is as follows:
         (a)   Exhibits will be marked in advance by the Clerk and presented to
the Municipal Attorney during the presentation;
         (b)   Presentation of evidence, witnesses and arguments by the
applicant;
         (c)   Testimony of any other citizens in favor of such proposed
license;
         (d)   Examination of applicant, witnesses or citizens by the Municipal
Attorney, governing body or duly appointed agent;
         (e)   Examination of applicant, witnesses or citizens by the
spokesperson for opposition, if any;
         (f)   Presentation of evidence and witnesses by the opposition;
         (g)   Testimony of any other citizens in opposition to such proposed
license;
         (h)   Presentation of evidence by the municipality and law enforcement
personnel;
         (i)   Cross-examination by the applicant;
         (j)   Rebuttal evidence by both parties and by the municipal
administration and agent; and
         (k)   Summation by the applicant and the opposition spokesperson, if
any.
      (4)   In all cases, the burden of proof and persuasion shall be on the
party filing the application.
      (5)   Any member of the governing body and the Municipal Attorney may
question any witness, call witnesses or request information.
      (6)   All witnesses shall be sworn.
      (7)   The governing body may make further inquiry and investigation
following the hearing.
      (8)   The governing body or the applicant may order the hearing to be
recorded by the Clerk, at the expense of the applicant(s).
(Prior Code, § 10-103)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 53-134
§ 112.32  RETAIL LICENSING STANDARDS.
   (A)   Local governing bodies shall only have authority to approve
applications and deny licenses pursuant to the state’s Liquor Control Act,
being Neb. RS 53-101 to 53-1,122.
   (B)   The governing body shall only consider the following licensing
standards and criteria at the hearing and an evaluation of any applicant for a
retail alcoholic liquor license, for the upgrading of a license to sell
alcoholic liquor or for the expansion or change in location of the premises,
and for the purpose of formulating a recommendation from the governing body to
the state’s Liquor Control Commission in accordance with the state’s Liquor
Control Act, being Neb. RS 53-101 to 53-1,122:
      (1)   The adequacy of existing law enforcement resources and services in
the area;
      (2)   The recommendation of any law enforcement agency in the area;
      (3)   Existing motor vehicle and pedestrian traffic flow in the vicinity
of the proposed licensed premises, potential traffic and parking problems and
the proximity and availability of on-street and off-street parking;
      (4)   Zoning restrictions and the local governing body’s zoning and land
use policies;
      (5)   Sanitation or sanitary conditions on or about the proposed licensed
premises;
      (6)   The existence of a citizen’s protest and similar evidence in
support of or in opposition to the application;
      (7)   The existing population and projected growth within the
jurisdiction of the local governing body and within the area to be served;
      (8)   The existing liquor licenses, the class of such license and the
distance and times of travel between establishments that issued such licenses;
      (9)   Whether the proposed license would be compatible with the
neighborhood or community where the proposed premises are located;
      (10)   Whether the type of business or activity proposed to be operated
or presently operated in conjunction with the proposed license is and will be
consistent with the public interest as declared in Neb. RS 53-101.1;
      (11)   Whether the applicant can ensure that all alcoholic beverages,
including beer and wine, will be handled in accordance with Neb. RS 53-168.06;
      (12)   Whether the applicant has taken every precaution to protect
against the possibility of shoplifting of alcoholic liquor, which alcoholic
liquor shall be displayed and kept in and sold from an area which is reasonably
secured;
      (13)   Whether the applicant is fit, willing and able to properly provide
the service proposed in conformance with all the provisions and requirements of
rules and regulations adopted and promulgated pursuant to the Act;
      (14)   Whether the applicant has demonstrated that the type of management
and control exercised over the licensed premises will be sufficient to ensure
that the licensee can conform to all the provisions and requirements of and
rules and regulations adopted and promulgated pursuant to the Act;
      (15)   The background information of the applicant established by
information contained in the public records of the Commission and
investigations conducted by law enforcement agencies;
      (16)   Past evidence of discrimination involving the applicant as
evidenced by findings of fact before any administrative board or agency of the
local governing body, any other governmental board or agency of the local
governing body, any other governmental unit or any court of law;
      (17)   Whether the applicant or the applicants representatives suppressed
any fact or provided any inaccurate information to the Commission or local
governing body or the employees of the Commission or the local governing board
in regard the license application or liquor investigations. The applicant shall
be required to cooperate in providing a full disclosure to the investigating
agents of the local governing body;
      (18)   Proximity of and impact on schools, hospitals, libraries, parks
and other public institutions;
      (19)   Whether activities proposed to be conducted on the licensed
premises or in adjacent relate outdoor areas will create unreasonable noise or
disturbance; and
      (20)   Compliance with state law, liquor rules and regulations and
municipal ordinances and regulations and whether or not the applicant has ever
forfeited bond to appear in court to answer charges of having committed a
felony or charges of having violated any law or ordinance enacted in the
interest of good morals and decency or has been convicted of violating or has
forfeited bond to appear in court and answer charges for violating any law or
ordinance relating to alcoholic liquor.
   (C)   It shall be the applicant’s duty to produce evidence pertaining to the
designated criteria prescribed in this section. The burden of proof and
persuasion shall be on the party filing the application. When applicable for
the purposes of this section, the term “applicants”, as used herein, is
synonymous with “license”.
(Prior Code, § 10-104)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 53-134
§ 112.33  MUNICIPAL EXAMINATION.
   (A)   Any person or persons desiring to obtain a license to sell alcoholic
liquors at retail shall file an application with the Liquor Control Commission.
The Commission shall then notify the Municipal Clerk by registered or certified
mail. The governing body shall then meet and determine the desirability of the
application and report its recommendation for approval or denial of the
application in writing to the state’s Liquor Control Commission within 45 days
of receipt from the state’s Liquor Control Commission. The governing body may
examine or cause to be examined under oath any applicant; examine or cause to
be examined the books and records of any such applicant; to hear testimony and
to take proof for its information in the performance of its duties. For the
purpose of obtaining any of the information desired, the governing body may
authorize its agent, Municipal Clerk or the Municipal Attorney to act on its
behalf. The governing body may conduct the examination and hold the hearing
upon the receipt from the Commission of the notice and copy of the application.
The governing body shall fix a time and place at which a hearing will be held,
and at which time the governing body shall receive evidence, under oath, either
orally or by affidavit, from the applicant and any other person concerning the
propriety of the issuance of such license. Notice of the time and place of such
hearing shall be published in a legal newspaper in or of general circulation in
the municipality one time not less than seven, nor more than 14, days before
the time of the hearing. Such notice shall include, but not be limited to, a
statement that all persons desiring the given evidence before the local
governing body in support of or in protest against the issuance of such license
may do so at the time of the hearing. Such hearing shall be held not more than
45 days after the receipt of notice from the Commission.
   (B)   After such hearing, the governing body shall cause to be spread at
large in the minute record of its proceedings a resolution recommending either
issuance or refusal of such license.
   (C)   The Municipal Clerk shall thereupon mail or deliver to the Commission
a copy of the resolution.
(Prior Code, § 10-105)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 53-131, 53-132, 53-134
§ 112.34  CATERING LICENSES.
   (A)   The holder of a Class C, Class D or Class I license issued under Neb.
RS 53-124(5) may obtain an annual catering license as prescribed in this
section. Any such licensee desiring to obtain a catering license shall file an
application with the Liquor Control Commission.
   (B)   Upon receipt from the Commission of the notice and copy of the
application as provided in Neb. RS 53-124.12, the governing body shall fix a
time and place at which a hearing will be held, and at which time the governing
body shall receive evidence, under oath, either orally, or in writing, from the
applicant and any other person concerning the propriety of the issuance of such
license. Such hearing shall be held not more than 45 days after the receipt of
notice from the Commission. The governing body may examine or cause to be
examined under oath any applicant; examine or cause to be examined the books
and records of any such applicant; to hear testimony and to take proof for its
information in the performance of its duties. For the purpose of obtaining any
of the information desired, the governing body may authorize its agent,
Municipal Clerk or the Municipal Attorney to act on its behalf.
   (C)   Notice of the time and place of such hearing shall be published in a
legal newspaper in or of general circulation in the municipality one time not
less than seven, nor more than 14, days before the time of the hearing. Such
notice shall include, but not be limited to, a statement that all persons
desiring the given evidence before the local governing body in support of or in
protest against the issuance of such license may do so at the time of the
hearing.
   (D)   The governing body shall, after the hearing, approve or deny the
application within 45 days of receipt of such application from the Commission,
and shall cause to be spread at large in the minute record of its proceedings a
resolution approving or denying such application. The Municipal Clerk shall
thereupon mail or deliver to the Commission a copy of the resolution within ten
days of the decision to approve or deny the application.
   (E)   (1)   Any resolution denying an application rendered by the governing
body shall be in writing or stated in the record and shall be accompanied by
findings.
      (2)   The findings shall consist of concise statements of the conclusions
upon each contested issue.
      (3)   The applicant shall be notified of the decision in person or by
mail.
   (F)   The governing body with respect to catering licenses within its
corporate limits may cancel a catering license for cause for the remainder of
the period for which such license is issued. Any person whose catering license
is cancelled may appeal to the District Court.
(Prior Code, § 10-106)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 53-124.12, 53-132, 53-134
§ 112.35  LICENSE RENEWAL.
   Retail or bottle club licenses issued by the Commission and outstanding may
be automatically renewed in the absence of a request by the governing body to
require the said licensee to issue an application for renewal. Any licensed
retail or bottle club establishment located in an area which is annexed to the
municipality shall file a formal application for a license and, while such
application is pending, the licensee shall be authorized to continue all
license privileges pursuant to this chapter until the original license expires,
is canceled or revoked. If such license expires within 60 days following the
annexation date of such area, the license may be renewed by order of the
Commission for not more than one year. The Municipal Clerk, upon notice from
the Commission, between January 10 and January 30 of each year, shall cause to
be published in a legal newspaper in or of general circulation in the
municipality one time a notice in the form prescribed by law of the right of
automatic renewal of each retail liquor and beer license within the
municipality; provided, Class C license renewal notices shall be published
between the dates of July 10 and July 30 of each year. The Municipal Clerk
shall then file with the Commission proof of publication of said notice on or
before February 10 of each year or August 10 of each year for Class C licenses.
Upon the conclusion of any hearing required by this section, the governing body
may request a licensee to submit an application.
(Prior Code, § 10-107)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 53-135, 53-135.01
§ 112.36  LICENSE DISPLAYED.
   Every licensee under the state’s Liquor Control Act, being Neb. RS 53-101 to
53-1,122 shall cause his license to be framed and hung in plain public view in
a conspicuous place on the licensed premises.
(Prior Code, § 10-112)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 53-148
§ 112.37  LICENSEE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   No license shall be issued to:
      (1)   A person who is not a resident of this state, except in case of
railroad, airline, boat, or special party bus licenses;
      (2)   A person who is not of good character and reputation in the
community in which he or she resides;
      (3)   A person who is not a resident of this state and legally able to
work in this state;
      (4)   A person who has been convicted of or has pleaded guilty to a
felony under the laws of this state, any other state, or the United States;
      (5)   A person who has been convicted of or has pleaded guilty to any
Class I misdemeanor pursuant to Neb. RS Chapter 28, Art. 3, 4, 7, 8, 10, 11, or
12, or any similar offense under a prior criminal statute or in another state,
except that any additional requirements imposed by this division on May 18,
1983 shall not prevent any person holding a license on that date from retaining
or renewing that license if the conviction or plea occurred prior to May 18,
1983;
      (6)   A person whose license issued under the Nebraska Liquor Control Act
has been revoked for cause;
      (7)   A person who at the time of application for renewal of any license
issued under the Act would not be eligible for that license upon initial
application;
      (8)   A partnership, unless one of the partners is a resident of this
state and unless all the members of that partnership are otherwise qualified to
obtain a license;
      (9)   A limited liability company, unless one of the members is a
resident of this state and unless all the members of that company are otherwise
qualified to obtain a license;
      (10)   A corporation, if any officer or director of the corporation or
any stockholder owning in the aggregate more than 25% of the stock of that
corporation would be ineligible to receive a license under this section for any
reason other than the reasons stated in divisions (A)(1) and (A)(3) of this
section, or if a manager of a corporate licensee would be ineligible to receive
a license under this section for any reason. This division shall not apply to
railroad licenses;
      (11)   A person whose place of business is conducted by a manager or
agent, unless that manager or agent possesses the same qualifications required
of the licensee;
      (12)   A person who does not own the premises for which a license is
sought or does not have a lease or combination of leases on the premises for
the full period for which the license is to be issued;
      (13)   Except as provided in this division, an applicant whose spouse is
ineligible under this section to receive and hold a liquor license. Such an
applicant shall become eligible for a liquor license only if the Nebraska
Liquor Control Commission finds from the evidence that the public interest will
not be infringed upon if the license is granted. It shall be prima facie
evidence that when a spouse is ineligible to receive a liquor license, the
applicant is also ineligible to receive a liquor license. This prima facie
evidence shall be overcome if it is shown to the satisfaction of the Commission
that:
         (a)   The licensed business will be the sole property of the
applicant; and
         (b)   The licensed premises will be properly operated.
      (14)   A person seeking a license for premises which do not meet
standards for fire safety as established by the State Fire Marshal;
      (15)   A law enforcement officer, except that this division shall not
prohibit a law enforcement officer from holding membership in any nonprofit
organization holding a liquor license or from participating in any manner in
the management or administration of a nonprofit organization; or
      (16)   A person less than 21 years of age.
   (B)   When a trustee is the licensee, the beneficiary or beneficiaries of
the trust shall comply with the requirements of this section, but nothing in
this section shall prohibit any such beneficiary from being a minor or person
who is mentally incompetent.
(Ord. 2021-01, passed 3-10-2021)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 53-125
§ 112.38  LICENSES; VILLAGE POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   The Board of Trustees is authorized to regulate by ordinance, not
inconsistent with the Nebraska Liquor Control Act, the business of all retail,
bottle club, craft brewery, and microdistillery licensees carried on within the
corporate limits of the village.
   (B)   During the period of 45 days after the date of receipt by mail or
electronic delivery from the Nebraska Liquor Control Commission notice and a
copy of an application for a new license to sell alcoholic liquor at retail, a
craft brewery license, or a microdistillery license, the Board of Trustees may
make and submit to the Commission recommendations relative to the granting or
refusal to grant the license to the applicant.
   (C)   The Board of Trustees, with respect to licenses within the corporate
limits of the village, has the following powers, functions, and duties with
respect to retail, bottle club, craft brewery, and microdistillery licenses:
      (1)   To cancel or revoke for cause retail, craft brewery, or
microdistillery licenses to sell or dispense alcoholic liquor or bottle club
licenses issued to persons for premises within its jurisdiction, subject to the
right of appeal to the Nebraska Liquor Control Commission;
      (2)   To enter or to authorize any law enforcement officer to enter at
any time upon any premises licensed under the Nebraska Liquor Control Act to
determine whether any provision of the Act, any rule or regulation adopted and
promulgated pursuant to the Act, or any ordinance, resolution, rule, or
regulation adopted by the Board of Trustees has been or is being violated, and
at that time examine the premises of the licensee in connection with such
determination. Any law enforcement officer who determines that any provision of
the Act, any rule or regulation adopted and promulgated pursuant to the Act, or
any ordinance, resolution, rule, or regulation adopted by the local governing
body has been or is being violated shall report such violation in writing to
the Executive Director of the Commission:
         (a)   Within 30 days after determining that such violation has
occurred;
         (b)   Within 30 days after the conclusion of an ongoing police
investigation; or
         (c)   Within 30 days after the verdict in a prosecution related to
such an ongoing police investigation if the prosecuting attorney determines
that reporting such violation prior to the verdict would jeopardize such
prosecution, whichever is later;
      (3)   To receive a signed complaint from any citizen within its
jurisdiction that any provision of the Act, any rule or regulation adopted and
promulgated pursuant to the Act, or any ordinance, resolution, rule, or
regulation relating to alcoholic liquor has been or is being violated and to
act upon these complaints in the manner provided in the Act;
      (4)   To receive retail, bottle club, craft brewery, and microdistillery
license fees as provided in Neb. RS 53-124 and 53-124.01 and pay the same,
after the license has been delivered to the applicant, to the Village
Treasurer;
      (5)   To examine or cause to be examined any applicant or any retail,
bottle club, craft brewery, or microdistillery licensee upon whom notice of
cancellation or revocation has been served as provided in the Act, to examine
or cause to be examined the books and records of any applicant or licensee,
except as otherwise provided for bottle club licensees under state law, and to
hear testimony and to take proof for its information in the performance of its
duties. For purposes of obtaining any of the information desired, the Board of
Trustees may authorize its agent or attorney to act on its behalf;
      (6)   To cancel or revoke on its own motion any license if, upon the same
notice and hearing as provided in § 112.31, it determines that the licensee has
violated any of the provisions of the Nebraska Liquor Control Act or any valid
and subsisting ordinance, resolution, rule, or regulation duly enacted,
adopted, and promulgated relating to alcoholic liquor. The order of
cancellation or revocation may be appealed to the Commission within 30 days
after the date of the order by filing a notice of appeal with the Commission.
The Commission shall handle the appeal in the manner provided for hearing on an
application in Neb. RS 53-133;
      (7)   Upon receipt from the Commission of the notice and copy of
application as provided in Neb. RS 53-131, to fix a time and place for a
hearing at which the Board of Trustees shall receive evidence, either orally or
by affidavit from the applicant and any other person, bearing upon the
propriety of the issuance of a license. Notice of the time and place of the
hearing shall be published in a legal newspaper in or of general circulation in
the village, one time not less than seven and not more than 14 days before the
time of the hearing. The notice shall include, but not be limited to, a
statement that all persons desiring to give evidence before the Board of
Trustees in support of or in protest against the issuance of the license may do
so at the time of the hearing. The hearing shall be held not more than 45 days
after the date of receipt of the notice from the Commission, and after the
hearing the Board of Trustees shall cause to be recorded in the minute record
of its proceedings a resolution recommending either issuance or refusal of the
license. The Board of Trustees shall mail to the Commission by first class
mail, postage prepaid, a copy of the resolution which shall state the cost of
the published notice, except that failure to comply with this provision shall
not void any license issued by the Commission. If the Commission refuses to
issue such a license, the cost of publication of notice shall be paid by the
Commission from the security for costs; and
      (8)   To review and authorize an application by a retail, bottle club,
craft brewery, farm winery, or microdistillery licensee for a temporary
expansion of its licensed premises within the jurisdiction of the local
governing body to an immediately adjacent area owned or leased by the licensee
or to an immediately adjacent street, parking lot, or alley, not to exceed 50
days for calendar year 2020 and, for each calendar year thereafter, not to
exceed 15 days per calendar year, as provided in Neb. RS 53-123.12 and Neb. RS
53-129.
   (D)   (1)   When the Nebraska Liquor Control Commission mails or delivers to
the Village Clerk a retail, craft brewery, or microdistillery license issued or
renewed by the Commission, the Clerk shall deliver the license to the licensee
upon receipt from the licensee of proof of payment of:
         (a)   The license fee, if by the terms of Neb. RS 53-124 the fee is
payable to the Village Treasurer;
         (b)   Any fee for publication of notice of hearing before the Board of
Trustees upon the application for the license;
         (c)   The fee for publication of notice of renewal, if applicable, as
provided in Neb. RS 53-135.01; and
         (d)   Occupation taxes, if any, imposed by the village, except that
Class J retail licensees shall not be subject to occupation taxes.
      (2)   Notwithstanding any ordinance or charter power to the contrary, the
village shall not impose an occupation tax on the business of any person, firm,
or corporation licensed under the Nebraska Liquor Control Act and doing
business within the corporate limits of the village in any sum which exceeds
two times the amount of the license fee required to be paid under the Act to
obtain that license.
(Ord. 2021-04, passed 4-14-2021)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 53-131, 53-132, 53-134, 53-134.03
CHAPTER 113:  MOVING BUILDINGS
Section
   
113.01   Permit required
   
113.02   Deposit
§ 113.01  PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to move
or dismantle any building or structure within the municipality without a
written permit to do so. Application may be made to the Municipal Clerk and
shall include the location of the building to be moved, the proposed route, the
equipment to be used and such other information as the governing body may
require. The application shall be accompanied by a certificate issued by the
County Treasurer to the effect that all the provisions regulating the moving of
buildings have been complied with on the part of the owner of the real estate
upon which the said building is presently located. The Municipal Clerk shall
refer the said application to the governing body for approval of the proposed
route over which the said building is to be moved.
      (2)   Upon approval of the governing body, the Municipal Clerk shall then
issue the said permit; provided that, a good and sufficient corporate surety
bond, check or cash in an amount set by motion of the governing body and
conditioned upon moving said building without doing damage to any private or
municipal property is filed with the Municipal Clerk prior to the granting of
any permit. In the event it will be necessary for any licensed building mover
to interfere with the telephone or telegraph poles and wires or a gas line, the
company or companies owning, using or operating the said poles, wires or line
shall, upon proper notice of at least 24 hours, be present and assist by
disconnecting the said poles, wires or line relative to the building moving
operation. All expense of the said disconnection, removal or related work shall
be paid in advance by the licensee unless such disconnection or work is
furnished on different terms as provided in the said company’s franchise.
   (B)   Whenever the moving of any building necessitates interference with a
water main, sewer main, pipes or wire belonging to the municipality, notice in
writing of the time and route of the said building moving operation shall be
given to the various municipal officials in charge of the Municipal Utility
Departments who shall proceed in behalf of the municipality and at the expense
of the mover to make such disconnections and do such work as is necessary.
(Prior Code, § 10-501)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 113.02  DEPOSIT.
   At such time as the building moving has been completed, the municipal law
enforcement officer shall inspect the premises and report to the Municipal
Clerk as to the extent of damages, if any, resulting from the said relocation
and whether any municipal ordinances have been violated during the said
operation. Upon a satisfactory report from the municipal law enforcement
officer, the Municipal Clerk shall return the corporate surety bond, cash or
check deposited by the applicant. In the event the basement, foundation or
portion thereof is not properly filled, covered or in a clean and sanitary
condition, the governing body may apply the money deposited for the purpose of
defraying the expense of correcting the said conditions. If the expense of
correcting the hazardous condition is greater than the amount of the deposit
set by resolution of the governing body, as required herein, the governing body
may recover such excess expense by civil suit or otherwise as prescribed by
law.
(Prior Code, § 10-502)
CHAPTER 114:  TOBACCO
Section
   
114.01   License to sell; issuance
   
114.02   For sale; application; contents; fee
   
114.03   Rights of licensee
§ 114.01  LICENSE TO SELL; ISSUANCE.
   Licenses for the sale of cigars, tobacco, electronic nicotine delivery
systems, cigarettes, and cigarette material to persons 21 years of age or over
shall be issued to individuals, partnerships, limited liability companies, and
corporations by the Village Clerk upon application duly made as provided in §
114.02.
(Prior Code, § 10-301)  (Ord. 2021-01, passed 3-10-2021)  Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Licenses required, see Neb. RS 28-1420
   Prohibited sales, see Neb. RS 28-1421
§ 114.02  FOR SALE; APPLICATION; CONTENTS; FEE.
   Every person, partnership, limited liability company or corporation desiring
a license to sell tobacco at retail shall file with the Village Clerk a written
application, on forms provided by the municipality, stating the name of the
person, partnership, limited liability company or corporation for whom the
license is desired and the exact location of the place of business and shall
deposit with the application a license fee in the amount of $10. If the
applicant is an individual, the application shall include the applicant’s
Social Security number.
(Prior Code, § 10-302)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 28-1422, 28-1423
§ 114.03  RIGHTS OF LICENSEE.
   (A)   The license provided for in §§
114.01 and
114.02 shall, when issued, authorize the sale of cigars, tobacco, electronic
nicotine delivery systems, cigarettes, and cigarette material by the licensee
and employees to persons 21 years of age or over at the place of business
described in the license for the term therein authorized, unless the license is
forfeited as a result of court action as provided in Neb. RS 28-1425.
   (B)   If the license is revoked and forfeited pursuant to Neb. RS 28-1425,
all rights under the license shall at once cease and terminate.
(Ord. 2021-01, passed 3-10-2021)
Statutory reference:
   Sale to person under 21 prohibited; penalties, see Neb. 28-1424, 28-1425
CHAPTER 115:  SALES AND ADVERTISING
Section
   
115.01   Peddlers and hawkers
§ 115.01  PEDDLERS AND HAWKERS.
   To prevent the sale of fraudulent, dangerous and unhealthful goods and
services, to protect the public by maintaining records of the products sold and
the persons and companies responsible for such sales and for the purpose of
raising revenue, all peddlers and hawkers shall, before doing business within
the municipality, make application for and be issued a license. Application for
a license shall be made to the Municipal Clerk upon forms supplied by the
municipality and shall contain all the necessary information and documents
required for the protection of the residents of the municipality. Any person or
persons granted a peddler and hawker license shall be subject to any fees,
occupation taxes and other rules and regulations which the governing body deems
appropriate for the purposes stated herein. Any license so granted shall be
subject to the revocation for good and sufficient cause by the municipal law
enforcement.
(Prior Code, § 10-401)  Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-134, 17-525
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   GENERAL OFFENSES
      
131.   SEX OFFENDERS
CHAPTER 130:  GENERAL OFFENSES
Section
General Provisions
   
130.01   Trespassing
   
130.02   Larceny
   
130.03   Injury to trees
   
130.04   Trash or garbage
   
130.05   Drinking in public
   
130.06   Alcoholic beverages; minors
   
130.07   Posted advertisements
   
130.08   False reporting
   
130.09   Use of tobacco by persons under the age of 21
   
130.10   Misrepresentation by person under the age of 21 to obtain tobacco
   
130.11   Sale of tobacco to persons under the age of 21
   
130.12   Abatement of nuisance
Weapons and Explosives
   
130.25   Firearms; discharge
   
130.26   Concealed weapons
   
130.27   Slingshots, air guns, BB guns and the like
   
130.28   Firecrackers
   
130.29   Second Amendment sanctuary ordinance
Offenses Against Public Peace and Safety
   
130.40   Assaults
   
130.41   Disturbing the peace
   
130.42   Disorderly conduct
   
130.43   Littering
   
130.44   Fences
   
130.45   Appliances in yard
   
130.46   Obstructions
   
130.47   Dirt and weed removal
   
130.48   Radio interference
Abandoned and Inoperable Vehicles
   
130.60   Abandoned automobiles
   
130.61   Unlicensed or inoperable vehicles
   
130.62   Unlicensed motor vehicles and/or vehicle parts
 
   
130.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 130.01  TRESPASSING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to trespass upon any private grounds
within the municipality or to break, cut or injure any tree, shrub, plant,
flower or grass growing thereon or without the consent of the owner or occupant
to enter upon an improved lot or grounds occupied for residence purposes and to
loiter about the same.
(Prior Code, § 6-301)  Penalty, see §
130.99
Statutory reference:
   Criminal trespass, second degree; penalty, see Neb. RS 28-521
§ 130.02  LARCENY.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person within the corporate limits to
steal any money, goods, chattels of any kind whatever.
   (B)   Any person who shall steal property of any kind, whether the same be
entirely in money or entirely property of the value of less than $300 shall,
upon conviction thereof, be guilty of a misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 6-302)  Penalty, see §
130.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 28-510, 28-511
§ 130.03  INJURY TO TREES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to purposely or carelessly and
without lawful authority cut down, carry away, injure, break down or destroy
any fruit, ornamental, shade or other tree or trees standing or growing on any
land belonging to another person or persons or on any public land in the
corporate limits.
   (B)   Any public service company desiring to trim or cut down any tree,
except on property owned and controlled by it, shall make an application to the
governing body and then proceed in accordance with its decision to allow such
an action.
(Prior Code, § 6-303)  Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.04  TRASH OR GARBAGE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to willfully, maliciously or negligently
place or throw upon the premise of another any filth, garbage, leaves, papers
or other matter to the annoyance of the owner or occupant thereon. It shall be
unlawful for any person who is not a resident of the municipality to deposit or
place trash, garbage, filth leaves or other matters in trash receptacles
located within the municipality with the result being that such trash, garbage
or other items are ultimately removed and trucked or taken to a landfill site
by municipal employees or agents to the municipality; it shall also be unlawful
for any person residing within the municipality to allow non-residents of the
municipality to deposit or place trash, garbage, filth, leaves, papers or other
matters in trash receptacles located within the municipality, belonging to the
municipality, or agents of the municipality, or to the municipal residents,
with the ultimate result being that such trash, garbage or other items are
removed and trucked or taken to a landfill site by municipal employees or
agents of the municipality.
(Prior Code, § 6-304)  Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.05  DRINKING IN PUBLIC.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to consume alcoholic beverages in the
public streets, alleys, roads, highways or upon any property owned by the
municipality or other governmental subdivision thereof or inside vehicles while
upon the public streets, alleys, roads or highways, in theaters, dance halls or
any other place open to the public; provided, the provisions of this section
shall not apply to liquor establishments licensed by the state.
(Prior Code, § 6-305)  Penalty, see §
130.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 53-186
§ 130.06  ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES; MINORS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person under 21 years of age to transport,
knowingly possess or have under his or her control in any motor vehicle beer or
other alcoholic liquor on any public street, alley, roadway or property owned
by the state or any subdivision thereof or any other place within the municipal
limits.
(Prior Code, § 6-306)  Penalty, see §
130.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 53-180.02
§ 130.07  POSTED ADVERTISEMENTS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to wrongfully and maliciously
tear, deface, remove or cover up the posted advertisement or bill of any
person, firm or corporation when said bill or advertisement is rightfully
posted and the same remains of value.
(Prior Code, § 6-307)
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to post, paste or paint any sign,
advertisement or other writing of any nature upon a fence, pole, building or
other property without the written permission of the owner of the said
property.
(Prior Code, § 6-308)
Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.08  FALSE REPORTING.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to:
      (1)   Furnish material information he or she knows to be false to any
peace officer or other official with the intent to instigate an investigation
of an alleged criminal matter or impede the investigation of an actual criminal
matter;
      (2)   Furnish information he or she knows to be false alleging the
existence of the need for the assistance of an emergency medical service or
out-of-hospital emergency care provided or an emergency in which human life or
property are in jeopardy to any hospital, emergency medical service or other
person or governmental agency;
      (3)   Furnish any information, or cause such information to be furnished
or conveyed by electric, electronic, telephonic or mechanical means, knowing
the same to be false concerning the need for assistance of a fire department or
any personnel or equipment of such department;
      (4)   Furnish any information he or she knows to be false concerning the
location of any explosive in any building or other property to any person; and/
or
      (5)   Furnish material information he or she knows to be false to any
governmental department or agency with the intent to instigate an investigation
or to impede an ongoing investigation and which actually results in causing or
impeding such investigation.
   (B)   A person who violates this section commits the offense of false
reporting.
(Prior Code, § 6-327)  Penalty, see §
130.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 28-907
§ 130.09  USE OF TOBACCO BY PERSONS UNDER THE AGE OF 21.
   Whoever, being a person under the age of 21 years, shall smoke cigarettes or
cigars, use electronic nicotine delivery systems or alternative nicotine
products, or use tobacco in any form whatever in this village shall be guilty
of an offense. Any person charged with a violation of this section may be free
from prosecution if he or she furnishes evidence for the conviction of the
person or persons selling or giving him or her the cigarettes, cigars,
electronic nicotine delivery systems, alternative nicotine products, or
tobacco.
(Prior Code, § 6-328)  (Ord. 2021-01, passed 3-10-2021)  Penalty, see § 130.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 28-1418
§ 130.10  MISREPRESENTATION BY PERSON UNDER THE AGE OF 21 TO OBTAIN TOBACCO.
   Except as provided in § 130.11(B), any person under the age of 21 years who
obtains cigars, tobacco, cigarettes or cigarette material, electronic nicotine
delivery systems, or alternative nicotine products from a licensee hereunder by
representing that he or she is of the age of 21 years or over is guilty of an
offense.
(Ord. 2021-01, passed 3-10-2021)  Penalty, see § 130.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 28-1427
§ 130.11  SALE OF TOBACCO TO PERSONS UNDER THE AGE OF 21.
   (A)   Whoever shall sell, give, or furnish in any way any tobacco in any
form whatsoever, or any cigars, cigarettes or cigarette paper, electronic
nicotine delivery systems, or alternative nicotine products to any person under
21 years of age is guilty of an offense.
   (B)   (1)   In order to further the public policy of deterring licensees or
other persons from violating division (A) of this section, a person who is at
least 15 years of age but under 21 years of age may assist a peace officer in
determining compliance with such division if:
         (a)   The parent or legal guardian of the person has given written
consent for the person to participate in such compliance check if such person
is under 19 years of age;
         (b)   The person is an employee, a volunteer, or an intern with a
state or local law enforcement agency;
         (c)   The person is acting within the scope of his or her assigned
duties as part of a law enforcement investigation;
         (d)   The person does not use or consume a tobacco product as part of
such duties; and
         (e)   The person is not actively assigned to a diversion program, is
not a party to a pending criminal proceeding or a proceeding pending under the
Nebraska Juvenile Code, and is not on probation.
      (2)   Any person under the age of 21 years acting in accordance with and
under the authority of this division shall not be in violation of Neb. RS 28-
1427.
(Ord. 2021-01, passed 3-10-2021)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 28-1419
§ 130.12  ABATEMENT OF NUISANCE.
   (A)   Whenever a nuisance exists, as defined herein, the municipality may
proceed by a suit in equity to enjoin and abate the same in the manner provided
by law.
   (B)   Whenever in any action it is established that a nuisance exists, the
court may together with the fine or penalty imposed enter an order of abatement
as a part of the judgment in the case.
(Prior Code, § 6-329)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 18-1720
WEAPONS AND EXPLOSIVES
§ 130.25  FIREARMS; DISCHARGE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, except an officer of the law in the
discharge of his or her official duty, to fire or discharge any gun, pistol or
other fowling piece within the municipality; provided, nothing herein shall be
construed to apply to officially sanctioned public celebrations if the persons
so discharging firearms have written permission from the governing body.
(Prior Code, § 6-309)  Penalty, see §
130.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-556
§ 130.26  CONCEALED WEAPONS.
   (A)   (1)   Any person who carries a weapon or weapons concealed on or about
his or her person, such as a handgun, a knife, brass or iron knuckles, or any
other deadly weapon, commits the offense of carrying a concealed weapon.
      (2)   It is an affirmative defense that the defendant was engaged in any
lawful business, calling, or employment at the time he or she was carrying any
weapon or weapons and the circumstances in which such person was placed at the
time were such as to justify a prudent person in carrying the weapon or weapons
for the defense of his or her person, property, or family.
   (B)   This section does not apply to a person who is the holder of a valid
permit issued under the Concealed Handgun Permit Act if the concealed weapon
the defendant is carrying is a handgun.
   (C)   Carrying a concealed weapon is a Class I misdemeanor.
   (D)   In the case of a second or subsequent conviction under this section,
carrying a concealed weapon is a Class IV felony.
(Prior Code, § 6-310)  Penalty, see §
130.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-556, 28-1202
§ 130.27  SLINGSHOTS, AIR GUNS, BB GUNS AND THE LIKE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to discharge a slingshot, air gun, BB
gun or the like loaded with rock or other dangerous missiles at any time or
under any circumstances within the municipality.
(Prior Code, § 6-311)  Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.28  FIRECRACKERS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to ignite or cause to be exploded
fireworks or firecrackers of any description whatsoever within the
municipality, except permissible fireworks annually listed and promulgated by
the State Fire Marshal. Fireworks may lawfully be shot off beginning June 25
and ending July 3 of each year from 10:00 a.m. to 10:00 p.m. each day and on
July 4 of each year from 10:00 a.m. to 11:59 p.m.
(Prior Code, § 6-312)  (Ord. 2020-03, passed 12-9-2020)  Penalty, see §
130.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 28-1241
§ 130.29  SECOND AMENDMENT SANCTUARY ORDINANCE.
   (A)   Title. The title of this section shall be known as the "Second
Amendment Sanctuary Ordinance," or "SASO."
   (B)   Findings. The people of Brady, Nebraska find and declare:
      (1)   Acting through the United States Constitution, the people created
government to be their agent in the exercise of a few defined powers, while
reserving to the citizens the right to decide on matters which concern their
lives, liberty, and property in the ordinary course of affairs;
      (2)   The Second Amendment to the Constitution of the United States of
America states, "A well-regulated Militia being necessary to the security of a
free State, the right of the People to keep and bear arms, shall not be
infringed";
      (3)   The right of the people to keep and bear arms is further protected
from infringement by state and local governments under the Ninth, Tenth, and
Fourteenth Amendments to the Constitution of the United States of America;
      (4)   The Supreme Court of the United States of America in District of
Columbia v. Heller recognized the individual's right to keep and bear arms, as
protected by the Second Amendment of the Constitution of the United States of
America. Justice Antonin Scalia's prevailing opinion in that case stated that
the Second Amendment protects an individual's right to possess a firearm
unconnected with service in a militia, and the right to use that firearm for
traditionally lawful purposes, such as self-defense within the home;
      (5)   Section 1 of the Fourteenth Amendment to the Constitution of the
United States of America states, "No State shall make or enforce any law which
shall abridge the privileges or immunities of citizens of the United States;
nor shall any State deprive any person of life, liberty, or property, without
due process of law; nor deny to any person within its jurisdiction the equal
protection of the laws";
      (6)   The Supreme Court of the United States recognized in McDonald v.
City of Chicago that the Second Amendment to the Constitution was incorporated
by the Fourteenth Amendment and thereby made applicable to the states;
      (7)   Justice Thomas M. Cooley in the People v. Hurlbut (24 Mich. 44,
page 108 (1871)), states: "The State may mould local institutions according to
its views of policy or expediency: but local government is a matter of absolute
right; and the state cannot take it away";
      (8)   The right to be free from the commandeering hand of government has
been recognized by the United States Supreme Court in Printz v. United States.
The Court held: "The Federal Government may neither issue directives requiring
the States to address particular problems, nor command the States' officers, or
those of their political subdivisions, to administer or enforce a federal
regulatory program." The anti-commandeering principles recognized by the U.S.
Supreme Court in Printz v. United States are predicated upon the advice of
James Madison, who in Federalist 46 advised "a refusal to cooperate with
officers of the Union" in response to either unconstitutional federal measures
or constitutional but unpopular federal measures;
      (9)   Therefore, the right to keep and bear arms is a fundamental
individual right that shall not be infringed; and all local, state, and federal
acts, laws, orders, rules or regulations regarding firearms, firearms
accessories, and ammunition are a violation of the Second Amendment;
      (10)   Local governments have the legal authority to refuse to cooperate
with state and federal firearm laws that violate those rights and to proclaim a
Second Amendment sanctuary for law-abiding citizens in their cities and
counties;
      (11)   Therefore, through the enactment of this document, Village of
Brady, Nebraska, is hereby a Second Amendment sanctuary village.
   (C)   Prohibitions. Notwithstanding any other law, regulation, rule or order
to the contrary, no agent, department, employee or official of the Village of
Brady, a political subdivision of the State of Nebraska, while acting in their
official capacity, shall:
      (1)   Knowingly and willingly, participate in any way in the enforcement
of any unlawful act, as defined herein, regarding personal firearms, firearm
accessories, or ammunition; or
      (2)   Utilize any assets, village funds, or funds allocated by any entity
to the village, in whole or in part, to engage in any activity that aids in the
enforcement or investigation relating to an unlawful act in connection with
personal firearms, firearm accessories, or ammunition.
   (D)   Penalties.
      (1)   An "unlawful act" shall consist of any federal or state act, law,
order, rule, or regulation, which restricts an individual's constitutional
right to keep and bear arms, including any federal or state act, law, order,
rule, or regulation which bans or effectively bans, registers or effectively
registers, or limits the lawful use of firearms, firearm accessories or
ammunition (other than a fully automatic firearm which is made unlawful by
federal law). Any such "unlawful act" is invalid in the village and shall not
be recognized by the Village of Brady, is specifically rejected by the voters
of the village, and shall be considered null, void and of no effect in the
Village of Brady, Nebraska, and this includes, but shall not be limited to the
following:
         (a)   Any tax, levy, fee, or stamp imposed on firearms, firearm
accessories, or ammunition not common to all other goods and services on the
purchase or ownership of those items by citizens;
         (b)   Any registration or tracking of firearms, firearm accessories,
or ammunition;
         (c)   Any registration or tracking of the owners of firearms, firearm
accessories, or ammunition;
         (d)   Any act forbidding the possession, ownership, or use or transfer
of any type of firearm, firearm accessory, or ammunition by citizens of the
legal age of 18 and over, other than pursuant to federal law background check
requirements for transfers or purchases through FFL dealers;
         (e)   Any act ordering the confiscation of firearms, firearm
accessories, or ammunition from citizens;
         (f)   Any prohibition, regulation, and/or use restriction related to
ownership or the constitutionally guaranteed lawful use or carry of non-fully
automatic firearms; and
         (g)   Any prohibition, regulation, and/or use restriction limiting
hand grips, stocks, flash suppressors, bayonet mounts, magazine capacity, clip
capacity, internal capacity, bump stocks, suppressors, or types of ammunition
available for sale, possession or use by citizens.
      (2)   Anyone within the jurisdiction of the Village of Brady, Nebraska,
accused to be in violation of this section may be sued in the District Court of
the State of Nebraska for declaratory and injunctive relief, damages, and
attorneys' fees. Neither sovereign nor official or qualified immunity shall be
an affirmative defense in cases pursuant to this section.
      (3)   Any peace officer may enforce this section.
      (4)   A civil offense against this section is an infraction with a
maximum fine of $2,000 for an individual and $4,000 for a corporation.
   (E)   Exceptions.
      (1)   The protections provided to citizens by this section do not apply
to persons who have been convicted of felony crimes or who are prohibited from
possessing firearms under federal law.
      (2)   This section is not intended to prohibit or affect in any way the
prosecution of any crime for which the use of, or possession of, a firearm is
an aggregating factor or enhancement to an otherwise independent crime.
      (3)   This section does not permit or otherwise allow the possession of
firearms in federal buildings.
      (4)   This section does not prohibit individuals in the Village of Brady
from voluntarily participating in assisting in permitting, licensing,
registration or other processing of applications for concealed carry permits,
or other firearm, firearm accessory, or ammunition licensing or registration
processes that may be required by law.
(Ord. 2021-06, passed 4-14-2021)
OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC PEACE AND SAFETY
§ 130.40  ASSAULTS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to assault or threaten any other person.
(Prior Code, § 6-313)  Penalty, see §
130.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 28-308, 28-309, 28-310
§ 130.41  DISTURBING THE PEACE.
   Any person who shall intentionally disturb the peace and quiet of any
person, family or neighborhood commits the offense of disturbing the peace.
(Prior Code, § 6-314)  Penalty, see §
130.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 28-1322
§ 130.42  DISORDERLY CONDUCT.
   Any person who shall knowingly conduct a fight, commit assault or battery,
make unnecessary noise or otherwise conduct himself or herself in such a way as
to breach the peace shall be deemed to be guilty of a misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 6-315)  Penalty, see §
130.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-556
§ 130.43  LITTERING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to throw, cast, lay or drop on any
public way or property any paper, scrap material or other waste whatsoever.
(Prior Code, § 6-316)  Penalty, see §
130.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 28-523
§ 130.44  FENCES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to erect, or cause to be erected, and
maintain any barbed wire or electric fence within the corporate limits where
such fence abuts a public sidewalk, street or alley.
(Prior Code, § 6-317)  Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.45  APPLIANCES IN YARD.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to permit a refrigerator, icebox,
freezer or any other dangerous appliance to be in the open and accessible to
children whether on private or public property unless he or she shall first
remove all doors and make the same reasonably safe.
(Prior Code, § 6-318)  Penalty, see §
130.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 18-1720
§ 130.46  OBSTRUCTIONS.
   (A)   Public ways. It shall be unlawful for any person to erect, maintain or
suffer to remain on any street or public sidewalk a stand, wagon, display or
other obstruction inconvenient to or inconsistent with the public use of the
same.
(Prior Code, § 6-319)
   (B)   Water flow. It shall be unlawful for any person to stop or obstruct
the passage of water in a street gutter, culvert, water pipe or hydrant.
(Prior Code, § 6-320)
Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.47  DIRT AND WEED REMOVAL.
   (A)   Removing dirt. It is hereby declared unlawful for any person to
remove, disturb or take away from any street, alley or public grounds any dirt,
earth, stones or other material forming a part of such street, alley or public
grounds without first having obtained written permission to do so from the
governing body.
(Prior Code, § 6-321)
   (B)   Weed removal. It shall be the duty of every owner of real estate in
the municipality to cut and clear such real estate together with one-half of
the streets and alleys abutting thereon, of all weeds and worthless vegetation
that extend ten inches above the ground that are noxious, obstruct travel on
public ways or create a fire hazard. Subsequent to the cutting of the said
weeds, all loose vegetation shall be immediately removed. Upon the failure of
the owner, lessee or occupant having control of any such real estate to cut and
clear the said weeds and worthless vegetation, the village’s law enforcement
officer or Municipal Clerk shall serve notice on the said owner, lessee or
occupant to do so. In the event that the weeds and vegetation have not been
removed after a period of 14 days, the governing body may order the same to be
done under the direction of the Utilities Superintendent and the cost thereof
shall be chargeable to the property owner. If the owner fails to reimburse the
municipality after being properly billed, the cost may be assessed against the
real estate and the governing body shall have the assessment certified to the
County Treasurer and the same shall be collected in the manner provided by law.
In the event the property owner is a non-resident of the county in which the
property lies, the municipality shall, before levying any special assessment
against that property, send a copy of any notice required by law to be
published by means of certified mail, return receipt requested to the last
known address of the non-resident owner. The last known address shall be that
address listed on the current tax rolls at the time such required notice was
first published.
(Prior Code, § 6-322)
Penalty, see §
130.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 18-1719
§ 130.48  RADIO INTERFERENCE.
   Any person operating or causing to be operated any motor, sign or other
electrical apparatus that is connected with the light and power system shall
equip the apparatus with proper filtering attachments to eliminate
interference; provided that, the provisions herein shall not apply to the use
of necessary medical equipment or apparatus where electrical interference
cannot be reasonably and safely eliminated.
(Prior Code, § 6-323)  Penalty, see §
130.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 18-1720
ABANDONED AND INOPERABLE VEHICLES
§ 130.60  ABANDONED AUTOMOBILES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to abandon any automobile on the municipal
streets, highways, alleys, parks or other property.
   (B)   An automobile shall be deemed to be ABANDONED if left unattended:
      (1)   With no number plates affixed thereto for more than six hours on
any public property;
      (2)   For more than 24 hours on any public property, except a portion
thereof on which parking is legally permitted;
      (3)   For more than 48 hours after the parking of such vehicle shall have
become illegal, if left on a portion of a public property on which parking is
legally permitted; or
      (4)   For more than seven days on private property if left initially
without permission of the owner or after permission of the owner shall be
terminated.
   (C)   Any vehicle so abandoned may be towed away at the owner’s expense for
towing and storage, upon order from the village’s law enforcement officer.
   (D)   The title to any automobile so abandoned which at the time of such
abandonment, has no number plates of the current year affixed and is of
wholesale value, taking into consideration the condition of such vehicle, of
$100 or less, shall immediately vest in the municipality.
   (E)   In the event the automobile is licensed for the current year or is of
a wholesale value of over $100, the village’s law enforcement officer shall
make a reasonable effort to contact the owner of the said automobile by sending
a notice to the registered owner, if known, by sending an inquiry to the county
it is registered in, if the owner is unknown, or by contacting the Director of
Motor Vehicles. If notified by the Director of Motor Vehicles that a lien or
mortgage exists on said vehicle, notice shall also be sent to the lienholder or
mortgagee. Any person claiming such vehicle shall be required to pay the cost
of removal and storage of such vehicle. If the owner, lienholder or mortgagee
is known and does not claim the automobile within five days after date when the
notice was mailed or upon receiving word from the Director of Motor Vehicles
that the owner is known, title will immediately vest in the municipality and
the automobile may be sold. Any proceeds from the sale of the automobile less
any expenses incurred by the municipality in such sale shall be held without
interest for the benefit of the owner of such vehicle for a period of two
years. If not claimed within such period of time, the proceeds shall then be
paid into the General Fund.
   (F)   For purposes of this section, PUBLIC PROPERTY shall mean any public
right-of-way, street, highway, alley, park or other state, county of
municipally-owned property which is not included within the definition of
public property.
(Prior Code, § 6-324)  Penalty, see §
130.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 60-1901 through 60-1911, 60-1904, 60-1906,
60-1907, 60-1909
§ 130.61  UNLICENSED OR INOPERABLE VEHICLES.
   No person in charge or control of any property within the municipality,
other than municipal property, whether as owner, tenant, occupant, lessee or
otherwise, shall allow any partially dismantled, inoperable, wrecked, junked or
discarded vehicle to remain on such property longer than 30 days. No unlicensed
vehicle shall be permitted to remain on any private or public property for any
length of time; provided, this section shall not apply: to a vehicle in an
enclosed building; to a vehicle on the premises of a business enterprise,
operated in a lawful place and manner when such vehicle is necessary to the
lawful operation of the business; or to a vehicle in a lawful place and manner
by the municipality.
(Prior Code, § 6-325)  Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.62  UNLICENSED MOTOR VEHICLES AND/OR VEHICLE PARTS.
   (A)   It is hereby expressly found and determined that the practice of
permitting unlicensed motor vehicles, motor vehicle bodies and motor vehicle
chassis or parts therefrom to be stored or accumulated on private premises is
unsightly and unhealthy and constitutes a nuisance to the citizens and
residents of the municipality; provided, the storage or accumulation of such
motor vehicles, motor vehicle bodies and motor vehicle chassis or parts
therefrom in completely enclosed buildings shall not be considered a nuisance.
   (B)   No person in charge or control of any property within the
municipality, other than municipal property, whether as owner, tenant,
occupant, lessee or otherwise, shall store, retain or keep on, or permit to be
stored, retained or kept on, any private premises any motor vehicle that has
been unlicensed for a period in excess of four months under the laws of the
state or allow any partially dismantled, inoperable, wrecked, junked or
discarded vehicle to remain on such property; provided, this subchapter shall
not apply to such motor vehicle, motor vehicle body or motor vehicle chassis or
parts therefrom that is kept in a completely enclosed building, or any complete
motor vehicle that is covered completely with a fitted cover. Such fitted cover
shall be constructed of a non-opaque and non-transparent material and shall
completely cover such motor vehicle. A FITTED COVERING shall be defined as a
covering made specifically to cover a motor vehicle and not made for any other
purposes. Said covering shall be attached in such a manner to prevent it from
being removed by adverse weather conditions. If such covering are removed for
any reason or by adverse weather, it shall be restored immediately.
   (C)   Any vehicle or parts thereof allowed to remain on such property in
violation of this section shall constitute a nuisance and shall be abated. The
Municipal Clerk or his or her duly designated officer of the municipality shall
give written notice to the owner or occupant of the real property upon which
such nuisance exists to abate the nuisance within ten days. The notice to abate
shall be served either in person, by mailing notice by certified mail or
registered mail or by publication or by affixing notice on such vehicle. Any
publication notice shall be in a newspaper of general circulation of the
municipality which is published at least weekly; such notice shall be published
once and the time period shall run from the date of publication. Upon failure
to abate the nuisance within the time provided, the municipality may remove
such vehicle or parts of any vehicle and sell the same at public sale. Notice
of the sale shall be given in the same manner as notice to abate. Any proceeds
from such sale shall be first applied to any expenses incurred by the
municipality in removing, storing and selling the vehicle or vehicle parts and
the balance shall be held without interest  for the benefit of the owner of
such vehicle or vehicle parts for a period of two years. If not claimed within
such period of time, the proceeds shall then be paid to the General Fund of the
municipality.
   (D)   This section shall not apply to the premises for which permit has been
granted to a junk dealer; nor shall it apply to the premises where a licensed
motor vehicle dealer, farm implement dealer or an automotive repair or
restoration business conducts a business, if such business is the primary
business conducted on such premises.
(Prior Code, § 6-326)  Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Unless otherwise specified in the particular section for which the
person stands convicted of violating, the penalty for violating any provision
of this chapter declaring such act to be a misdemeanor, infraction, nuisance or
otherwise unlawful shall be fined in an amount not more than $100, plus the
costs of the acts.
(Prior Code, § 6-330)
   (B)   Persons convicted of violating the provisions of §
130.09 of this chapter shall be punished by a monetary fine of not less than
$35 and not more than $100.
(Prior Code, § 6-328)
   (C)   Any person who assaults another person, as per §
130.40 of this chapter, shall be deemed to be guilty of a misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 6-313)
   (D)   Any person who so operates or causes to be operated any such
electrical apparatus that interferes habitually with radio and television
reception, as per §
130.48 of this chapter, shall be deemed to be guilty of a misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 6-323)
   (E)   (1)   Any person violating the provisions of §§
130.60, 130.61 or 130.62 of this chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and
shall, upon conviction thereof, be fined in the sum of no less than $100 and no
more than $500 for a first offense. Fines for second and subsequent offenses
shall be no less than $200 and no more than $500 per offense.
(Prior Code, § 6-331)
      (2)   Any person who abandons an automobile, as defined §
130.60 of this chapter, shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 6-324)
      (3)   Any vehicle allowed to remain on property in violation of §
130.61 of this chapter shall constitute a nuisance and shall be abated and any
person violating §
130.61 of this chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 6-325)
CHAPTER 131:  SEX OFFENDERS
Section
   
131.01   Findings and intent
   
131.02   Definitions
   
131.03   Sexual predator residency restrictions; exceptions
§ 131.01  FINDINGS AND INTENT.
   (A)   The state legislature has found that certain sex offenders present a
high risk to commit repeat offenses and has enabled municipalities to restrict
such person’s place of residency as provided in the Sexual Predators Residency
Restriction Act, being Neb. RS 29-4015 to 29-4017.
   (B)   Sex offenders who prey on children and who are high risks to repeat
such acts present an extreme threat to public safety. The cost of sex offender
victimization to these children and to society at large, while incalculable, is
exorbitant.
   (C)   Is the intent of this chapter to serve the village’s compelling
interest to promote, protect and improve the health, safety and welfare of the
citizens of the village by creating certain areas around locations where
children regularly congregate in concentrated numbers where certain sexual
predators cannot reside.
(Prior Code, § 6-400)
§ 131.02  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CHILD CARE FACILITY. Facility licensed pursuant to the Child Care Licensing
Act, being Neb. RS 71-1908 to 71-1923.
   RESIDE. To sleep, live or dwell at a place which may include more than one
location, and may be mobile or transitory.
   RESIDENCE. A place where an individual sleeps, lives or dwells, which may
include more than one location and may be mobile or transitory.
   SCHOOL. A public, private, denominational or parochial school which meets
the requirements for state accreditations or approval.
   SEX OFFENDER. An individual who has been convicted of a crime listed in Neb.
RS 29-4003 and who is required to register as a sex offender pursuant to the
Sex Offender Registration Act, being Neb. RS 29-4001 to 29-4014.
   SEXUAL PREDATOR. An individual who is required to register under the Sex
Offender Registration Act, who has been classified as Level 3 because of a high
risk of recidivism as determined by the State Patrol under Neb. RS 29-4013, and
who has victimized a person 18 years of age or younger.
(Prior Code, § 6-401)
§ 131.03  SEXUAL PREDATOR RESIDENCY RESTRICTIONS; EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   Prohibited location of residence. It is unlawful for any sexual
predator to reside within 500 feet from a school or child care facility.
   (B)   Measure of distance. For purposes of determining the minimum distance
separation, the distance shall be measured by following a straight line from
the outer property line of the residence to the nearest outer boundary line of
the school or child care facility.
   (C)   Penalties. A person who violates this section shall be punished as
provided generally in the code.
   (D)   Exceptions. This chapter shall not apply to a sexual predator who:
      (1)   Resides within a prison or correctional or treatment facility
operated by the state or a political subdivision;
      (2)   Established a residence before 7-1-2006, and has not moved from the
residence; or
      (3)   Established a residence after 7-1-2006, and the school or child
care facility triggering the restriction was established after the initial date
of the sexual predator’s residence at that location.
(Prior Code, § 6-402)  Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 29-4003 and 29-4013
   Sexual Predator Residency Restriction Act, see Neb. RS 29-4017
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   BUILDING REGULATIONS; CONSTRUCTION
      
151.   STREETS, SIDEWALKS AND PUBLIC WAYS
      
152.   MOBILE HOME AND TRAILER COURTS
      
153.   SUBDIVISIONS
      
154.   ZONING CODE
CHAPTER 150:  BUILDING REGULATIONS; CONSTRUCTION
Section
General Provisions
   
150.01   Barricades and lights
   
150.02   Building permits
Codes Adopted
   
150.15   Building Code
   
150.16   Housing Code
   
150.17   Plumbing Code
   
150.18   Electrical Code
Building Inspector
   
150.30   Power and authority
   
150.31   Right of entry
   
150.32   Appeal from decision
   
150.33   Building permits; authority
   
150.34   Plans, specifications, plats and reports; officials; duties
Unsafe Buildings
   
150.45   Definition
   
150.46   Prohibition
   
150.47   Determination and notice
   
150.48   Hearing and appeal
   
150.49   Emergencies
   
150.50   Special assessments
Cross-reference:
   Fee schedule, see §
36.01
   Health and Sanitation; Nuisances, see
Ch. 92
   Utilities, see Title V
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 150.01  BARRICADES AND LIGHTS.
   It shall be the duty of the owner, tenant or lessee causing the
construction, demolition or moving of any building or improvement within the
municipality to have during such work all excavations, open basements, building
materials and debris protected by suitable guards or barricades by day and by
warning lights at night. The failure, neglect or refusal of said persons to
erect such guards shall constitute a violation of this section and the
Utilities Superintendent shall stop all work until guards are erected and
maintained, as required.
(Prior Code, § 9-601)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 150.02  BUILDING PERMITS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to construct or alter any building or structure
within the village corporate limits, including fences, when the cost of such
construction exceeds $100, or where the effect of such construction or
alteration is to enlarge the capacity or effect the bearing walls of any
building or the roof thereof, without having first secured a permit therefor,
from the Village Clerk. Building permits are required to be reviewed by the
Village Board of Trustees for final action.
   (B)   Building permits are available, for a fee to be set by resolution of
the Village Board, from the office of the Village Clerk.
(Prior Code, § 9-801)  Penalty, see §
10.99
Cross-reference:
   Authority to issue building permits, see §
150.33
CODES ADOPTED
§ 150.15  BUILDING CODE.
   To provide certain minimum standards, provisions and requirements for safe
and stable design, methods of construction and uses of materials in buildings
hereafter erected, constructed, enlarged, altered, repaired, relocated and
converted, the BOCA Basic Building Code, recommended by the Building Officials
Conference of America and printed in book or pamphlet form, is hereby
incorporated by reference, in addition to all amended editions as though
printed in full herein. One copy of the Building Code shall be on file at the
office of the Municipal Clerk and shall be available for public inspection at
any reasonable time. The provisions of the Building Code shall be controlling
throughout the municipality and throughout its zoning jurisdiction.
(Prior Code, § 9-201)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 18-132
§ 150.16  HOUSING CODE.
   To provide certain minimum standards, provisions and requirements for safe
and stable design, methods of construction and uses of materials in houses
hereafter erected, constructed, enlarged, altered, repaired, relocated and
converted, the Basic Housing Code, as published by the Building Officials
Conference of America, Inc. and printed in book or pamphlet form, is hereby
incorporated by reference, in addition to all amended editions as though
printed in full herein. One copy of the Housing Code shall be on file at the
office of the Municipal Clerk and shall be available for public inspection at
any reasonable time. The provisions of the Housing Code shall be controlling
throughout the municipality and throughout its zoning jurisdiction.
(Prior Code, § 9-301)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 18-132, 18-2146
§ 150.17  PLUMBING CODE.
   To provide certain minimum standards, provisions and requirements for safe
and stable installation, methods of connection and uses of materials in the
installation of plumbing and heating, the Uniform Plumbing Code, published by
the American Society of Mechanical Engineers and printed in book or pamphlet
form, is hereby incorporated by reference, in addition to all amended editions
as though printed in full herein insofar as said code does not conflict with
the statutes of the state. One copy of the Plumbing Code shall be on file at
the office of the Municipal Clerk and shall be available for public inspection
at any reasonable time. The provisions of the Plumbing Code shall be
controlling throughout the municipality and throughout its zoning jurisdiction.
(Prior Code, § 9-401)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-1001, 18-132
§ 150.18  ELECTRICAL CODE.
   The National Electric Code, as recommended by the National Board of Fire
Underwriters, printed in book or pamphlet form, in addition to all amended
editions as though printed in full herein, is adopted to provide certain
minimum standards, provisions and requirements for safe and fire-proof
installation, methods of construction and uses of materials in the installation
of electrical wiring and appliances. One copy of the Electrical Code shall be
on file at the office of the Municipal Clerk and shall be available for public
inspection at any reasonable time.
(Prior Code, § 9-501)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 18-132
BUILDING INSPECTOR
§ 150.30  POWER AND AUTHORITY.
   The Building Inspector shall be the municipal official who shall have the
duty of enforcing all building and housing regulations, as herein prescribed.
He or she shall inspect all buildings repaired, altered, built or moved in the
municipality as often as necessary to ensure compliance with all municipal
ordinances. He or she shall have the power and authority to order all work
stopped on any construction, alteration or relocation which violates any
provisions prescribed herein. He or she shall issue permission to continue any
construction, alteration or relocation when he or she is satisfied that no
provision will be violated. If the stop order is an oral one, it shall be
followed by a written stop order within one hour. Such written order may be
served by the Building Inspector or any law enforcement with jurisdiction
within the municipality. In the event that the governing body fails to appoint
a Building Inspector, the Utilities Superintendent shall be the Building
Inspector ex officio.
(Prior Code, § 9-101)
§ 150.31  RIGHT OF ENTRY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to refuse to allow the Building
Inspector entry into any building or structure where the work of construction,
alteration, repair or relocation is taking place for the purpose of making
official inspections at any reasonable hour.
(Prior Code, § 9-102)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 150.32  APPEAL FROM DECISION.
   In the event it is claimed that the true intent and meaning of this
subchapter has been wrongly interpreted by the Building Inspector; that the
time allowed for compliance with any order of the Building Inspector is too
short; or that conditions peculiar to a particular building make it
unreasonably difficult to meet the literal requirements prescribed by this
subchapter and the Building Inspector, the owner, his or her agent or the
occupant may file a notice of appeal within ten days after the decision or
order of the Building Inspector has been made. The governing body shall sit and
act as the Municipal Board of Appeals and shall have the power and authority,
when appealed to, to modify the decision or order of the Building Inspector.
Such a decision shall be final, subject only to remedy which the aggrieved
person may have at law or equity. Applications for review shall be in writing
and shall state the reasons why the variance shall be granted. A variance shall
be granted only where it is evident that reasonable safety and sanitation is
assured and may include conditions not generally specified by this code to
achieve that end. A copy of any variance so granted shall be sent to both the
Building Inspector and the applicant.
(Prior Code, § 9-103)
§ 150.33  BUILDING PERMITS; AUTHORITY.
   Any person desiring a building permit to commence or proceed to erect,
construct, perform any structural repair or relocate any building or dwelling
or cause the same to be done shall file with the Planning Commission an
application therefor in writing on a form to be furnished by the Commission for
that purpose.
(Prior Code, § 9-104)
Cross-reference:
   Building permits generally, see §
150.02
§ 150.34  PLANS, SPECIFICATIONS, PLATS AND REPORTS; OFFICIALS; DUTIES.
   A municipal official charged with the duty or responsibility of accepting or
approving plans, specifications, plats and reports shall not accept or approve
plans, specifications, plats or reports which have not been prepared in
accordance with the Engineers and Architects Regulation Act, being Neb. RS 81-
3401 to 81-3455.
(Prior Code, § 9-105)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 81-3401 et seq.
UNSAFE BUILDINGS
§ 150.45  DEFINITION.
   The term UNSAFE BUILDING, as used in this subchapter, is hereby defined to
mean and include any building, shed, fence or other human-made structure: which
is dangerous to the public health because of its condition and which may cause
or aid in the spread of disease or injury to the health of the occupants of it
or neighboring structures; which because of faulty construction, age, lack of
proper repair or any other cause is especially liable to fire and constitutes
or creates a fire hazard; which by reason of faulty construction or any other
cause is liable to cause injury or damage by the collapse or fall of all or any
part of such structure. Any such unsafe building in the municipality is hereby
declared to be a nuisance.
(Prior Code, § 9-701)
§ 150.46  PROHIBITION.
   It shall be unlawful to maintain or permit the existence of any unsafe
building in the municipality and it shall be unlawful for the owner, occupant
or person in custody of any dangerous building to permit the same to remain in
an unsafe condition or to occupy such building or permit it to be occupied
while it is in an unsafe condition.
(Prior Code, § 9-702)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 150.47  DETERMINATION AND NOTICE.
   (A)   (1)   Whenever the Utilities Superintendent, the Fire Official or the
Health Official shall be of the opinion that any building or structure in the
municipality is an unsafe building, he or she shall file a written statement to
this effect with the Municipal Clerk. The Clerk shall thereupon cause the
property to be posted accordingly and shall file a copy of such determination
in the office of the county’s Register of Deeds and shall serve written notice
upon the owner thereof and upon the occupant thereof, if any, by certified mail
or by personal service. Such notice shall state that the building has been
declared to be in an unsafe condition and that such dangerous condition must be
removed or remedied by repairing or altering the building or by demolishing it
and that the condition must be remedied within 60 days from the date of
receipt.
      (2)   Such notice may be in the following terms:
 
   To                   (owner-occupant of premises)                   of the premises known and described as         
                                                                                              . You are hereby notified
that                           (describe building)                           on the premises above mentioned has been
determined to be an unsafe building and a nuisance after inspection by                                                 
                                                                       . The causes for this decision are          
(here insert the facts as to the dangerous condition)           .
   You must remedy this condition or demolish the building within 60 days from the date of receipt of this notice or
the municipality will proceed to do so. Appeal of this determination may be made to the governing body, acting as the
Board of Appeals, by filing with the Municipal Clerk within ten days from the date of receipt of this notice a request
for a hearing.
 
 
   (B)   If the person receiving the notice has not complied therewith or taken
an appeal from the determination of the officer or employee finding that a
dangerous building exists within ten days from the time when this notice is
served upon such person by personal service or certified mail, the Utilities
Superintendent may, upon orders of the governing body, proceed to remedy the
condition or demolish the unsafe building.
(Prior Code, § 9-703)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 18-1722
§ 150.48  HEARING AND APPEAL.
   Upon receiving the notice to repair or demolish the building, the owner of
the building within the time stipulated may in writing to the Municipal Clerk
request a hearing before the governing body, sitting as the Board of Appeals,
to present reasons why the building should not be repaired or demolished. The
governing body shall grant such hearing at the next regularly scheduled Board
meeting, but in no case sooner than ten days from the date of receiving the
request. A written notice of the governing body’s decision following the
hearing shall be sent to the property owner by certified mail. If the governing
body rejects the appeal, the owner shall have five days from the sending of the
decision to begin repair or demolition and removal. If, after the five-day
period, the owner has not begun work, the governing body shall proceed to cause
such work to be done; provided, the property owner may appeal such decision to
the appropriate court for adjudication during which proceedings the decision of
the governing body shall be stayed. Where the municipality has not adopted a
building code, the statutes of the state relating to bonded indebtedness and
collection of delinquent taxes shall apply.
(Prior Code, § 9-704)
§ 150.49  EMERGENCIES.
   Where any unsafe building or structure poses an immediate danger to the
health, safety or general welfare of any person or persons and the owner fails
to remedy the situation in a reasonable time after notice by the Utilities
Superintendent to do so, the municipality may summarily repair or demolish and
remove such building or structure.
(Prior Code, § 9-705)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 18-1722
§ 150.50  SPECIAL ASSESSMENTS.
   In case the owner of any building or structure shall fail, neglect or refuse
to comply with notice by or on behalf of the municipality to repair,
rehabilitate or demolish and remove a building or structure which is unsafe and
a public nuisance, the municipality may proceed with the work specified in the
notice to the property owner. A statement of the cost of such work shall be
transmitted to the governing body, which is authorized to levy the cost as a
special assessment against the land. Such special assessment shall be a lien on
the real estate and shall be collected in the manner provided for special
assessments.
(Prior Code, § 9-706)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 18-1720, 18-1722
CHAPTER 151:  STREETS, SIDEWALKS AND PUBLIC WAYS
Section
General Provisions
   
151.01   Curbs and gutters
Public Ways and Property
   
151.15   Definition
   
151.16   Maintenance and control
   
151.17   Sale and conveyance
   
151.18   Obstructions
   
151.19   Weeds
   
151.20   Public works involving architecture or engineering
Sidewalks
   
151.35   Overhanging branches
   
151.36   Keeping clean
   
151.37   Placement of snow
   
151.38   Maintenance
   
151.39   Repair
   
151.40   Construction by owner
Streets
   
151.55   Names and numbers
   
151.56   Widening or opening
   
151.57   Excavation
   
151.58   Driving stakes
   
151.59   Mixing concrete
   
151.60   Harmful liquids
   
151.61   Construction notice
   
151.62   Graveling
   
151.63   Culverts in street right-of-way
   
151.64   Eave and gutter spouts
   
151.65   Heavy equipment
   
151.66   Pipelines and wires
   
151.67   Construction assessments
   
151.68   Improvements; petitions; special assessments
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 151.01  CURBS AND GUTTERS.
   (A)   (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to cut into any paving, curb
or sidewalk for the purpose of constructing a driveway or any other purpose
whatsoever without first having obtained a written permit from the governing
body therefor.
      (2)   Before any person shall obtain a permit, he or she shall inform the
Municipal Clerk of the place where such cutting is to be done and it shall be
the Utilities Superintendent’s duty to inspect the place of entry into the
paving, sidewalk or curb before the same is cut.
      (3)   When cutting into any paving, it shall be the duty of the party to
cut the paving under such rules and regulations as may be prescribed by the
governing body or the Utilities Superintendent who shall supervise and inspect
the materials used and the work done in closing the opening.
      (4)   It shall be discretionary with the governing body to order the
Utilities Superintendent to do the work of cutting and closing the paving and
charge the costs thereof to the party who obtained such permit.
      (5)   The governing body may consent to the work of cutting and closing
the paving to be done by the party holding such permit.
   (B)   (1)   Before any permit is issued by the governing body, the applicant
for such permit shall deposit with the Municipal Treasurer a sum set by
resolution of the governing body for all paving, curb or sidewalk to be cut.
Such sum shall be set on a per square foot cost of construction basis. The
deposit shall be retained by the municipality for the purpose of replacing the
paving, curb or sidewalk in the event the work is done by the municipality.
      (2)   In the event the municipality elects to require the applicant to
replace the paving, curb or sidewalk, the deposit shall be retained by the
municipality until the work is completed to the satisfaction of the Utilities
Superintendent.
      (3)   In addition to making the deposit above set forth, the applicant
shall, before any permit is issued, execute a bond to the municipality with a
good and sufficient surety or sureties to be approved by the governing body in
a sum set by resolution of the governing body.
(Prior Code, § 8-401)  Penalty, see §
10.99
PUBLIC WAYS AND PROPERTY
§ 151.15  DEFINITION.
   SIDEWALK SPACE, as used herein, shall mean that portion of a street between
curb lines and adjacent property lines.
(Prior Code, § 8-101)
§ 151.16  MAINTENANCE AND CONTROL.
   The governing body shall have the care, supervision and control of all
public highways, bridges, streets, alleys, public squares and commons within
the municipality and shall cause the same to be kept open and in repair and
free from nuisances.
(Prior Code, § 8-102)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-567
§ 151.17  SALE AND CONVEYANCE.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (I) below, the power of the
municipality to convey any real and personal property owned by it, including
land used for park purposes and public squares, except real property used in
the operation of public utilities, shall be exercised by resolution, directing
the sale of public auction or by sealed bid of such real and personal property
and the manner and terms thereof; except that, such real and personal property
shall not be sold at public auction or by sealed bid when:
      (1)   Such property is being sold in compliance with the requirements of
federal or state grants or programs;
      (2)   Such property is being conveyed to another public agency; or
      (3)   Such property consists of streets and alleys.
   (B)   The governing body may establish a minimum price for such real and
personal property at which bidding shall begin or shall serve as a minimum for
a sealed bid.
   (C)   After the passage of the resolution directing the sale, notice of all
proposed sales of real and personal property described in division (A) above
and the terms thereof shall be published once each week for three consecutive
weeks in a legal newspaper published in or of general circulation in the
municipality.
   (D)   If, within 30 days after the third publication of the notice, a
remonstrance against such sale is signed by registered voters of the
municipality equal in number to 30% of the registered voters of the
municipality voting at the last regular municipal election held therein and is
filed with the governing body, such property shall not then, nor within one
year thereafter, be sold. If the date for filing the remonstrance falls upon a
Saturday, Sunday or legal holiday, the signatures shall be collected within the
30-day period, but the filing shall be considered timely if filed or postmarked
on or before the next business day.
   (E)   Upon the receipt of the remonstrance, the governing body, with the aid
and assistance of the Election Commissioner or County Clerk, shall determine
the validity and sufficiency of signatures on the remonstrance. The governing
body shall deliver the remonstrance to the Election Commissioner or County
Clerk by hand carrier, by use of lay enforcement officials or by certified
mail, return receipt requested. Upon receipt of the remonstrance, the Election
Commissioner or County Clerk shall issue to the governing body a written
receipt that the remonstrance is in the custody of the Election Commissioner or
County Clerk. The Election Commissioner or County Clerk shall compare the
signature of each person signing the remonstrance with the voter registration
records to determine if each signer was a registered voter on or before the
date on which the remonstrance was filed with the governing body. The Election
Commissioner or County Clerk shall also compare the signer’s printed name,
street and number or voting precinct and municipal or post office address with
the voter registration records to determine whether the signer was a registered
voter. The signature and address shall be presumed to be valid only if the
Election Commissioner or County Clerk determines that the printed name, street
and number or voting precinct and municipal or post office address matches the
registration records and that the registration was received on or before the
date on which the remonstrance was filed with the governing body. The
determinations of the Election Commissioner or County Clerk may be rebutted by
any credible evidence which the governing body finds sufficient. The express
purpose of the comparison of names and addresses with the voter registration
records, in addition to helping to determine the validity of the remonstrance,
the sufficiency of the remonstrance and the qualifications of the signer, shall
be to prevent fraud, deception and misrepresentation in the remonstrance
process. Upon completion of the comparison of names and addresses with the
voter registration records, the Election Commissioner or County Clerk shall
prepare in writing a certification under seal setting forth the name and
address of each signed found not to be a registered voter and the signature
page number and line number where the name is found and, if the reason for the
invalidity of the signature or address is other than the non-registration of
the signer, the Election Commissioner or County Clerk shall set forth the
reason for the invalidity of the signature. If the Election Commissioner or
County Clerk determines that a signer has affixed his or her signature more
than once to the remonstrance and that only one person is registered by that
name, the Election Commissioner or County Clerk shall prepare in writing a
certification under seal setting forth the name of the duplicate signature and
shall count only the earliest dated signature. The Election Commissioner or
County Clerk shall certify to the governing body the number of valid signatures
necessary to constitute a valid remonstrance. The Election Commissioner or
County Clerk shall deliver the remonstrance and the certifications to the
governing body within 40 days after the receipt of the remonstrance from the
governing body. The delivery shall be by hand carrier, by use of law
enforcement officials or by certified mail, return receipt requested. Not more
than 20 signatures on one signature page shall be counted.
   (F)   The governing body shall, within 30 days after the receipt of the
remonstrance and certifications from the Election Commissioner or County Clerk,
hold a public hearing to review the remonstrance and certifications and receive
testimony regarding them. The governing body shall, following the hearing, vote
on whether or not the remonstrance is valid and shall uphold the remonstrance
if sufficient valid signatures have been received.
   (G)   Real estate now owned or hereafter owned by the municipality may be
conveyed without consideration to the state for state armory sites or, if
acquired for state armory sites, such property shall be conveyed strictly in
accordance with the conditions of Neb. RS 18-1001 to 18-1006.
   (H)   Following passage of the resolution directing a sale, publishing of
the notice of the proposed sale and passing of the 30-day right-of-remonstrance
period, the property shall then be sold. Such sale shall be confirmed by
passage of an ordinance stating the name of the purchaser and the terms of the
sale. The Municipal Clerk shall upon passage of such ordinance, certify the
name of the purchaser to the Register of Deeds of the county in which the
property is located.
   (I)   Divisions (A) to (H) above shall not apply to the sale of real and
personal property if the authorizing resolution directs the sale of an item or
items of real and personal property, the total fair market value of which is
less than $5,000. Following passage of the resolution directing the sale of the
property, notice of the sale shall be posted in three prominent places within
the municipality for a period of not less than seven days prior to the sale of
the property. The notice shall give a general description of the property
offered for sale and state the terms and conditions of sale. Confirmation of
the sale by passage of an ordinance may be required.
(Prior Code, § 8-103)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-503, 17-503.01
§ 151.18  OBSTRUCTIONS.
   (A)   Trees and shrubs growing upon or near the lot line or upon public
ground and interfering with the use or construction of any public improvements
shall be deemed as obstruction under this subchapter. Said trees, shrubs and
their roots may be removed by the municipality at the expense of the owner of
the property upon which the tree or shrub is located should the owner fail or
neglect after notice to do so. It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or
corporation to obstruct or encumber by fences, gates, buildings, structures or
otherwise any of the streets, alleys or sidewalks.
(Prior Code, § 8-104)
   (B)   Persons engaged in the erection, construction, reconstruction,
wrecking or repairing of any building or the construction or repair of a
sidewalk along any street may occupy the public street space with such building
material and equipment as long as is necessary if such persons shall make
application to and receive a permit in writing from the Utilities
Superintendent to do so; provided, no permit for the occupancy of the sidewalk
space and more than one-third of the roadway of the public space adjacent to
the real estate on which said building is to be constructed, erected,
reconstructed, wrecked or repaired shall be granted; and, provided further, a
suitable passageway for pedestrians shall be maintained within the public space
included in the permit which shall be protected and lighted in the manner
required by the Utilities Superintendent.
(Prior Code, § 8-105)
Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-557.01
§ 151.19  WEEDS.
   (A)   It is hereby the duty of the Utilities Superintendent or his or her
duly authorized agent to view and inspect the sidewalk space within the
corporate limits for growing weeds during the growing season and, if rank and
noxious weeds are found growing thereon, he or she shall notify the owner of
occupant thereof to cut down such weeds as close to the ground as can be
practicably done and keep the weeds cut thereon in like manner during the
growing season for weeds.
   (B)   In the event that the owner of any lot or parcel of land within the
municipality is a non- resident of the municipality or cannot be found therein,
the notice may be given to any person having the care, custody or control of
such lot or parcel of land.
   (C)   In the event that there can be found no one within the municipality to
whom notice can be given, it shall be the duty of the Utilities Superintendent
or his or her agent to post a copy of the notice on the premises and then to
cut or cause the weeds thereon to be cut as therein provided and report the
cost thereof in writing to the governing body.
   (D)   The cost shall then be audited and paid by the municipality and the
amount thereof shall be assessed against the lot or parcel of land as a special
tax thereon and shall be collected as are other taxes of the municipality or
may be recovered by civil suit brought by the municipality against the owner of
the parcel of land.
   (E)   (1)   In the event the property owner is a non-resident of the county
in which the property lies, the municipality shall, before levying any special
assessment against that property, send a copy of any notice required by law to
be published by means of certified mail, return receipt requested, to the last
known address of the non-resident property owner.
      (2)   The last known address shall be that address listed on the current
tax tolls at the time such required notice was first published.
(Prior Code, § 8-106)
§ 151.20  PUBLIC WORKS INVOLVING ARCHITECTURE OR ENGINEERING.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (B) below, the municipality shall not
engage in the construction of any public works involving architecture or
engineering unless the plans, specifications and estimates have been prepared
and the construction has been observed by an architect, a professional engineer
or a person under the direct supervision of an architect, professional engineer
or those under the direct supervision of an architect or professional engineer.
   (B)   Division (A) above shall not apply to the following activities:
      (1)   Any public works project with contemplated expenditures for the
completed project that do not exceed $40,000;
      (2)   Any alteration, renovation or remodeling of a building if the
alteration, renovation or remodeling does not affect architectural or
engineering safety features of the building;
      (3)   Performance of professional services for itself if the municipality
appoints a municipal engineer or employs a full-time person licensed under the
Engineers and Architects Regulation Act, being Neb. RS 81-3401 to 81-3445 who
is in responsible charge of architectural or engineering work;
      (4)   The practice of any other certified trade or legally recognized
profession;
      (5)   Earthmoving and related work associated with soil and water
conservation practices performed on any land owned by the municipality that is
not subject to a permit from the Department of Water Resources;
      (6)   The work of employees and agents of the municipality performing, in
accordance with other requirements of law, their customary duties in the
administration and enforcement of codes, permit programs and land use
regulations and their customary duties in utility and public works
construction, operation and maintenance;
      (7)   Those services ordinarily performed by subordinates under direct
supervision of a professional engineer or those commonly designated as
locomotive, stationary, marine operating engineers, power plant operating
engineers or manufacturers who supervise the operation of or operate machinery
or equipment or who supervise construction within their own plant;
      (8)   The construction of municipal water wells, as defined in Neb. RS
46-1212, the installation of pumps and pumping equipment into municipal water
wells, and the decommissioning of municipal water wells, unless such
construction, installation or decommissioning is required by the municipality
to be designed or supervised by an engineer or unless legal requirements are
imposed upon the municipality as a part of a public water supply; and/or
      (9)   Any other activities described in Neb. RS 81-3449 to 81-3453.
(Prior Code, § 8-107)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 81-3423, 81-3445, 81-3449 through 81-3453
SIDEWALKS
§ 151.35  OVERHANGING BRANCHES.
   The owner or occupant of any lot, piece or parcel of ground abutting or
adjacent to any sidewalk or street over which there extends the branches of
trees shall at all times keep the branches or limbs thereof trimmed to the
height of at least eight feet above the surface of said walk and at least 12
feet above the surface of the street. Whenever the limbs or branches of any
tree or trees extend over sidewalks or streets contrary to the provisions
herein so as to interfere with the lighting of the street from street lights or
with the convenience of the public using said sidewalk or street, the governing
body, at any regular or special meeting, may pass a resolution ordering the
owner or occupant to cut or remove said obstructions within five days after
having received a copy thereof from the Utilities Superintendent stating that
the municipality will remove said branches and charge the costs thereof to the
owner or occupant as a special assessment for improvements, as herein provided,
if said resolution is not complied with. In the event the property owner is a
nonresident of the county in which the property lies, the municipality shall,
before levying any special assessments against the property, send a copy of any
notice required by law to be published by means of certified mail, return
receipt requested, to the last known address of the non-resident property
owner. The last known address shall be that address listed on the current tax
rolls at the time such required notice was first published.
(Prior Code, § 8-201)  Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-557.01
§ 151.36  KEEPING CLEAN.
   It shall be unlawful for the occupant of any lot or lots or the owner of any
vacant lot or lots within the corporate limits to allow snow, sleet, mud, ice
or other substance to accumulate on the sidewalks or to permit any snow, sleet,
ice, mud or other substances to remain upon said sidewalk. In the event that
the owner or owners of any lot, lots or lands abutting on any street, avenue or
part thereof shall fail to remove any snow, sleet, mud, ice or other substance
in front of his, her or their lot, lots or lands, within the time and in the
manner as directed and required herein after having received due notice to do
so, they shall be liable for all damages or injury occasioned by reason of
accumulation of snow, sleet, mud, ice or other substance and the governing body
shall have power to cause any such sidewalks to be cleared and assess the costs
thereof against such property. In the event the property owner is a non-
resident of the county in which the property lies, the municipality shall,
before levying any special assessment against that property, send a copy of any
notice required by law to be published by means of certified mail, return
receipt requested, to the last known address of the non-resident property
owner. The last known address shall be that address listed on the current tax
rolls at the time such required notice was first published.
(Prior Code, § 8-202)  Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-557.01
§ 151.37  PLACEMENT OF SNOW.
   Residents of the municipality removing snow from their own property shall be
required to place said snow in such a manner as not to block the roadway or
sidewalks or to impair to any extent the visibility of pedestrian or vehicular
traffic. In no event shall any resident deposit snow in road ditches in such a
manner as to block any culvert to the extent that drainage water through said
culvert is diverted or impeded. The depositing of snow within five feet of the
opening of a culvert shall be considered a violation of this section without
further proof that said culvert has been blocked to an extent whereby water is
diverted or impeded.
(Prior Code, § 8-203)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 151.38  MAINTENANCE.
   Every owner of any lot, lots or piece of land within the corporate limits
shall at all times keep and maintain the sidewalk along and contiguous to said
lot, lots or pieces of land, as they may be, in good and proper repair and in a
condition reasonably safe for travel for all travelers thereon. In the event
that the owner or owners of any lot, lots or lands abutting on any street,
avenue or part thereof shall fail to construct or repair any sidewalk in front
of his, her or their lot, lots or lands, within the time and in the manner as
directed and required herein after having received due notice to do so, he, she
or they shall be liable for all damages or injury occasioned by reason of the
defective or dangerous condition of any sidewalk and the governing body shall
have power to cause any such sidewalks to be constructed or repaired and assess
the costs thereof against such property. In the event the property owner is a
non- resident of the county in which the property lies, the municipality shall,
before levying any special assessment against that property, send a copy of any
notice required by law to be published by means of certified mail, return
receipt requested, to the last known address of the non-resident property
owner. The last known address shall be that address listed on the current tax
rolls at the time such required notice was first published.
(Prior Code, § 8-204)  Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-557.01
§ 151.39  REPAIR.
   The Utilities Superintendent may require sidewalks of the municipality to be
repaired. Notice to the owners of property upon which such sidewalks in
disrepair are located shall require within 48 hours from issuance of notice
said owners to make arrangements to have the sidewalk repaired. Said repairs
shall be completed within 21 days after issuance of said notice. No special
assessment shall be levied against the property unless said owner shall neglect
or refuse to repair within the time prescribed and, in the event that such
owner fails to repair, the municipality shall cause the repairs to be made and
assess the property owner the expense of such repairs. In the event the
property owner is a non-resident of the county in which the property lies, the
municipality shall, before levying any special assessment against that
property, send a copy of any notice required by law to be published by means of
certified mail, return receipt requested, to the last known address of the non-
resident property owner. The last known address shall be that address listed on
the current tax rolls at the time such required notice was first published.
(Prior Code, § 8-205)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-522
§ 151.40  CONSTRUCTION BY OWNER.
   (A)   Any person desiring to construct or cause to be constructed, any
sidewalk shall do so only as herein provided. It shall be unlawful for any
person to construct any sidewalk without first having obtained a permit.
   (B)   Said owner shall make application in writing for a permit and file
such application in the office of the Municipal Clerk. The permit shall give a
description of the lot or piece of land along which the sidewalk is to be
constructed. The Utilities Superintendent shall issue the desired permit unless
good cause shall appear why said permit should be denied; provided, if it is
desired to construct the sidewalk at any other than the regularly prescribed
location, grade or elevation, the Utilities Superintendent shall submit the
application to the governing body who shall determine whether the permit should
be granted or denied. It shall be unlawful for any person to construct or cause
to be constructed said sidewalk at any other location, grade or elevation than
so designated by the municipality. All sidewalks shall be built and constructed
on the established grade or elevation and, if there is not established grade,
then on the grade or elevation indicated by the Utilities Superintendent.
(Prior Code, § 8-206)  Penalty, see §
10.99
STREETS
§ 151.55  NAMES AND NUMBERS.
   The governing body may at any time, by ordinance, rename any street or
provide a name for any new street. Buildings used for residence or business
purposes and located along such streets shall retain such numbers as the
governing body may require. It shall be the duty of the Utilities
Superintendent, upon the erection of any new building or buildings, to assign
the proper numbers to said building or buildings and give notice to the owner
or owners and occupant or occupants of the same.
(Prior Code, § 8-301)
§ 151.56  WIDENING OR OPENING.
   (A)   The governing body shall have the power to open or widen any street,
alley or lane within the limits of the municipality to create, open and improve
any new street, alley or lane; provided, all damages sustained shall be
ascertained in such manner as shall be provided by ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 8-302)
   (B)   The governing body shall have the power to open or widen any street,
alley or lane within the limits of the municipality or to create, open and
improve any new street, alley or lane; provided, all damages sustained shall be
ascertained in such manner as shall be provided by ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 8-312)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-558, 17-559, 76-704 through 76-724
§ 151.57  EXCAVATION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to make an excavation in any hard
surface street or streets for any purpose whatsoever unless a written permit is
issued by the Utilities Superintendent authorizing such excavations.
(Prior Code, § 8-303)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 151.58  DRIVING STAKES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to drive any peg or stake of any kind
into the pavement in any street or alley without first procuring the written
consent of the Utilities Superintendent.
(Prior Code, § 8-304)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 151.59  MIXING CONCRETE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to mix concrete or plastering material
directly on the street pavement for any reason whatsoever.
(Prior Code, § 8-305)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 151.60  HARMFUL LIQUIDS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to place or permit to leak in the gutter
or main thoroughfare of any street or alley any liquid or liquescent material,
including, but not limited to, waste gasoline, kerosene or lubrication oils
which damage or act as a solvent upon said streets.
(Prior Code, § 8-306)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 151.61  CONSTRUCTION NOTICE.
   The Utilities Superintendent shall notify the owners in fee simple of real
estate abutting a street, alley or part thereof which is to be put under
contract for paving or repaving. Notice shall also be given to all gas,
electric service and telephone companies. Notice shall also be given to all
consumers of gas, water and sewer services which will be discontinued during
such construction. Said notice shall be published one time in a legal newspaper
at least 20 days prior to the beginning of such construction by the party
undertaking such construction and said notice shall state at what date
connections must be made and excavation completed. All gas, water, sewer and
underground connections must be made prior to the paving or repaving of the
street under condition after expiration of such time, permits for excavation
will not be issued, nor will excavation be allowed until after the completion
of the pavement in said street or alley and the formal final acceptance thereof
by the proper officials of the municipality.
(Prior Code, § 8-307)
§ 151.62  GRAVELING.
   It shall be the duty of the municipality, through the Utilities
Superintendent, to keep all streets properly maintained and supplied with
adequate gravel or other material in such a manner as to allow for free flowing
of traffic throughout the municipality. It shall be unlawful for any person
other than officials of the municipality to spread gravel or other material on
the municipal streets or to alter the condition of the roadways in any manner
other than what would occur during the normal use of said streets and roads.
(Prior Code, § 8-308)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 151.63  CULVERTS IN STREET RIGHT-OF-WAY.
   The municipality may, by resolution, require any property owner to place a
culvert in the ditch beneath any driveway or access road unto a resident’s
property. Said culvert shall be located and constructed in a manner specified
by the Utilities Superintendent. Any person desiring to place a culvert in the
road ditch adjacent to his or her property shall first request permission to do
so and shall agree to construct said culvert in the manner designated by the
Utilities Superintendent.
(Prior Code, § 8-309)
§ 151.64  EAVE AND GUTTER SPOUTS.
   It is hereby declared unlawful for any person to erect or maintain any
dwelling house or business building within the limits of the municipality where
the said dwelling or building abuts on any sidewalk or street without providing
proper guttering and eave spouts to receive the waste waters that collect on
the said sidewalks and streets. All eave spouts erected on any dwelling house
or business building shall be constructed to drain into the alleys or shall be
buried beneath the sidewalks and drain into the streets where it is found to be
impossible to drain said eave spouts into the alley.
(Prior Code, § 8-310)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 151.65  HEAVY EQUIPMENT.
   It shall hereafter be unlawful for any person or persons to move or operate
heavy equipment across any curb, gutter, bridge, culvert, sidewalk, crosswalk
or crossing on any unpaved street without first having protected such curb,
gutter, bridge, culvert, sidewalk, crosswalk or crossing with heavy plank
sufficient in strength to warrant against the breaking or damaging of such
curb, gutter, bridge, culvert, sidewalk, crosswalk or crossing. Hereafter, it
shall be unlawful to run, drive, move, operate or convey over or across any
paved or unpaved street a vehicle, machine or implement with sharp discs or
sharp wheels that bear upon said pavement or unimproved street; with wheels
having cutting edges; with wheels having lugs or any protruding parts or bolts
thereon that extend beyond a plain tire so as to cut, mark, mar, indent or
otherwise injure or damage any pavement, gutter or curb; provided, where heavy
vehicles, structures and machines move along paved or unpaved streets the
members of the governing body are hereby authorized and empowered to choose the
route over which the moving of such vehicles, structures or machines will be
permitted and allowed. Nothing in this section shall be construed to apply to
pneumatic tires with metal or metal-type studs not exceeding five-sixteenths of
an inch in diameter inclusive of the stud-casting with an average protrusion
beyond the tread surface of not more than seven sixty-fourths of an inch
between November 1 and April 1; provided that, school buses and emergency
vehicles shall be permitted to use metal or metal-type studs all year; it shall
be permissible to use farm machinery with tires having protuberances which will
not injure the streets; and it shall be permissible to use tire chains of
reasonable proportions upon any vehicle when required for safety because of
snow, ice or other conditions tending to cause a vehicle to slide or skid.
(Prior Code, § 8-311)  Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 60-6,250
§ 151.66  PIPELINES AND WIRES.
   Poles, wires, gas mains, pipe lines and other appurtenances of public
service companies shall be located or erected over, upon or under the streets,
alleys and common grounds of the municipality. Application for location of the
above shall be made to the governing body in writing. Approval by that body
shall be issued in writing. Any public service company granted a right-of-way
for the erection and maintenance of poles, conduits, gas mains, pipe lines and
wires shall at all times erect and locate their poles, wires, gas mains, pipe
lines and other appurtenances at such places and in such manner as shall be
designated by the governing body. Such poles, wires, gas mains, pipe lines and
other appurtenances shall be removed or relocated by said companies, at their
own expense, when requested to do so by the governing body. Any such relocation
shall be ordered by resolution of the governing body and the Municipal Clerk
shall notify any and all companies affected. Said companies shall within 24
hours after receiving notice, at their own expense, cause the poles, wires, gas
mains, pipe lines or other appurtenances to be removed. The governing body
shall designate another location as closely as possible where said poles,
wires, gas mains, pipe lines or other appurtenances may be reset or placed. All
poles, wires, gas mains, pipe lines or other appurtenances shall be reset,
placed or erected in such a manner that they will not interfere with the water
system, sewerage system, poles, wires and mains of any public utility, adjacent
buildings or with travel on the public ways and property. Whenever possible,
all pole lines, wires, gas mains, pipe lines or appurtenances shall be confined
to the alleys of the municipality.
(Prior Code, § 8-313)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 151.67  CONSTRUCTION ASSESSMENTS.
   To defray the costs and expenses of street improvements as may be authorized
by law, the governing body shall have power and authority to levy and collect
special taxes and assessments upon the lots and pieces of ground adjacent to,
abutting upon or especially benefiting from the street, avenue, alley or
sidewalk in whole or in part opened, widened, curbed, curbed and guttered,
graded, paved, repaired, graveled, macadamized, parked, extended, constructed
or otherwise improved or repaired. The governing body sitting as the Board of
Equalization shall review all such improvements in accordance with the
procedure provided by law. All special assessments shall be made by the
governing body at a regular or special meeting by resolution taking into
account the benefits derived or injuries sustained in consequence of such
improvements and the amount charged against same. The vote shall be recorded in
the minutes. Notice of the time of holding such meeting and the purpose for
which it is to be held shall be published in some legal newspaper published or
of general circulation in the municipality at least four weeks before the same
shall be held. In lieu of such aforementioned notice, personal service may be
had upon the persons owning or occupying the property to be assessed. Such
assessments shall be known as special assessments for improvements and with the
cost of notice shall be levied and collected as a special tax in addition to
the taxes for general revenue purposes, subject to the same penalties and
collected in like manner as either municipal taxes and shall be certified to
the County Clerk by the Municipal Clerk forthwith after the date of levy for
collection by the Treasurer of said county unless otherwise specified. The said
assessment shall draw interest at 9% per annum.
(Prior Code, § 8-314)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-511, 17-524
§ 151.68  IMPROVEMENTS; PETITIONS; SPECIAL ASSESSMENTS.
   (A)   Improvement of streets on corporate limits. The governing body shall
have the power to improve any street or part thereof which divides the
municipal corporate area and the area adjoining the municipality. When creating
an improvement district including land adjacent to the municipality, the
governing body shall have the power to assess to the extent of special
benefits, the costs of such improvements upon the properties found especially
benefited thereby.
(Prior Code, § 8-315)
   (B)   Petition for improvements.
      (1)   Whenever a petition signed by the owners of record title
representing more than 60% of the front footage of the property directly
abutting upon the street, streets, alley, alleys, public way or the public
grounds proposed to be improved, shall be presented and filed with the
Municipal Clerk, petitioning therefor, the governing body shall by ordinance
create a paving, graveling or other improvement district or districts and shall
cause such work to be done or such improvement to be made and shall contract
therefor and shall levy assessments on the lots and parcels of land abutting on
or adjacent to such street, streets, alley or alleys especially benefited
thereby in such district in proportion to such benefits, to pay the cost of
such improvement.
      (2)   The governing body shall have the discretion to deny the formation
of the proposed district when the area has not previously been improved with a
water system, sewer system and grading of streets. If the governing body should
deny a requested improvement district formation, it shall state the grounds for
such denial in a written letter to interested parties.
(Prior Code, § 8-316)
   (C)   Deferral from special assessments.
      (1)   Whenever the governing body of a municipality creates a paving
district which includes land adjacent to the municipality which is within an
agricultural use zone and is used exclusively for agricultural use, the owners
of record title of such adjacent land may apply for a deferral from special
assessments. For purposes of this division (C), the terms AGRICULTURAL or
HORTICULTURAL LAND shall have the meaning specified in Neb. RS 77-1343.
      (2)   Any owner of record title eligible for the deferral granted by this
division (C) shall to secure such assessment, make application to the governing
body of the municipality within 90 days after creation of the paving district.
Any owner of record title who makes application for the deferral provided by
this section shall notify the county’s Register of Deeds of such application in
writing prior to approval by the governing body. The governing body shall
approve the application of any owner of record title upon determination that:
         (a)   The property is within an agricultural use zone and is used
exclusively for agricultural use; and
         (b)   The owner has met the requirements of this division (C).
      (3)   The deferral provided for in this division (C) shall be terminated
upon any of the following events:
         (a)   Notification by the owner of record title to the governing body
to remove such deferral;
         (b)   Sale or transfer to a new owner who does not make a new
application within 60 days of the sale or transfer, except as provided in
division (C)(3)(c) below;
         (c)   Transfer by reason of death of a former owner to a new owner who
does not make application within 125 days of the transfer;
         (d)   The land is no longer being used as agricultural land; or
         (e)   Change of zoning to other than an agricultural zone.
      (4)   Whenever property which has received a deferral pursuant to this
division (C) becomes disqualified for such deferral, the owner of record title
of such property shall pay to the municipality an amount equal to:
         (a)   The total amount of special assessments, which would have been
assessed against such property to the extent of special benefits, had such
deferral not been granted; and
         (b)   Interest upon the special assessments not paid each year at the
rate allowable by law from the dates at which such assessments would have been
payable if no deferral had been granted.
      (5)   In cases where the deferral provided by this division (C) is
terminated as a result of a sale or transfer described in divisions (C)(2) or
(C)(3) above, the lien for assessments and interest shall attach as of the day
preceding such sale or transfer.
(Prior Code, § 8-317)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-510, 19-2427
CHAPTER 152:  MOBILE HOME AND TRAILER COURTS
Section
   
152.01   Standards; adopted by reference
   
152.02   Permit required
   
152.03   Certification of compliance
   
152.04   Register required
   
152.05   Site requirements
   
152.06   Refuse disposal and storage
   
152.07   Supervision
§ 152.01  STANDARDS; ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   To provide certain minimum standards, provisions and requirements to
establish, operate and maintain a mobile home park in the municipality, the
Uniform Standard Code for Mobile Home Parks, published by the state’s
Department of Health and printed in pamphlet form, is hereby incorporated by
reference in addition to all amended editions as though printed in full herein.
The provisions of the Uniform Standard Code for Mobile Home Parks and the
requirements of this chapter shall be controlling throughout the municipality
and throughout its zoning jurisdiction. One copy of the Uniform Standard Code
for Mobile Home Parks is on file at the office of the Municipal Clerk and is
available for public inspection at any reasonable time.
(Prior Code, § 10-201)
§ 152.02  PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to construct, maintain or
operate any trailer court or mobile home court within the limits of the
municipality unless he or she holds a valid permit issued by the Municipal
Clerk in the name of such person for the specific trailer court or mobile home
court. Applications for permits shall be made to the Municipal Clerk who shall
issue a permit upon compliance by the applicant with provisions of this
chapter, as evidenced by a certificate of compliance, which certificate shall
show compliance with applicable legal requirements.
      (2)   No permit shall be transferable. Every person holding a trailer
court or mobile home court permit shall give notice in writing to the Municipal
Clerk within 72 hours after having sold, transferred, given away or otherwise
disposed of any interest in or control of any trailer court or mobile home
court.
      (3)   Such notice shall include the name and address of the person
succeeding to the ownership or control of the trailer court or mobile home
court.
   (B)   Presently operating trailer courts and mobile home courts as of the
effective date of this chapter may continue their operation; provided, they
meet the court development standards herein provided and further that they
fully comply with the mobile home or trailer stand requirements of this
chapter.
(Prior Code, § 10-202)
§ 152.03  CERTIFICATION OF COMPLIANCE.
   A certification of compliance with all resolutions, ordinances and
regulations regarding mobile home park licensing and zoning, health, plumbing,
electrical, building, fire prevention and all other applicable ordinances and
regulations shall be a prior requirement for granting a certificate of
occupancy to the owner of the park.
(Prior Code, § 10-203)
§ 152.04  REGISTER REQUIRED.
   A mobile home park operator shall keep a register containing the following
information for each occupied mobile home:
   (A)   Full name of mobile home owner and principal occupant;
   (B)   Make, model, year and size of mobile home;
   (C)   State and number of vehicle registration;
   (D)   Number and date of lot rental and/or vacancy; and
   (E)   Whether or not the owner is in the military service.
(Prior Code, § 10-204)
§ 152.05  SITE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   A mobile home park shall have an area of not less than two acres, nor
more than ten acres.
   (B)   Mobile home density shall not exceed six units per acre.
   (C)   The park site shall be graded to ensure drainage of surface and
subsurface water and sewage and freedom from stagnant pools, erosion or
flooding.
   (D)   Each mobile home lot shall contain a minimum of 5,000 square feet.
Each lot shall be defined by permanent corner stakes and identified with a
permanent marker showing the lot number corresponding to the approved plot
plan. No lot shall have less than 50 feet frontage on a roadway.
   (E)   Mobile homes shall be located at least ten feet from all public
walkways and roadways within the park. There shall be a minimum clearance of 40
feet between mobile homes. A setback of at least 50 feet shall be maintained
from any public roadway and 40 feet from any adjoining property line.
   (F)   Screening shall be provided and maintained between the park and
adjacent properties and roadways in the form of shrubbery or fencing as the
governing body requires.
   (G)   There shall be two off-street parking spaces per unit.
   (H)   (1)   No parking on street: 25 feet minimum improved width.
      (2)   Parking on side only: 30 feet minimum improved width.
      (3)   Parking both sides: 36 feet minimum improved width.
   (I)   All mobile home drives will be maintained by the owner in a
satisfactory and safe condition with access to dedicated streets provided.
Parks of over 50 units may be required to provide additional access points for
emergency access safety.
   (J)   Trash collection receptacle shall be provided for each unit and
properly screened from view.
   (K)   Walkways shall be provided adjacent to streets on an interior system.
   (L)   Lighting shall be provided with a minimum of 0.3 foot candles on all
driveways and walks.
   (M)   The mobile home or trailer stand shall be provided with anchors and
tie-downs such as cast-in-place concrete “dead men”, eyelets imbedded in
concrete foundations or runways, screw augers, arrowhead anchors or other
devices securing the stability of the mobile home or trailer. The tie-down
devices shall be compatible with the foundation system provided for the mobile
home or trailer such that the tie-downs are designed to resist the action of
frost in the same manner as the foundation system.
   (N)   The skirting of all mobile homes and trailers is required. Such
skirting shall not attach a mobile home or trailer permanently to the ground,
but shall be sufficient to withstand wind load requirements and shall not
provide a harborage for junk or rodents, nor create a fire hazard. Such
skirting shall be provided with removable access panels sufficient to provide
easy access to all utility connection points of the mobile home or trailer and
its subsequent connection to the utility risers if they are located within the
skirted area.
(Prior Code, § 10-205)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 152.06  REFUSE DISPOSAL AND STORAGE.
   (A)   Storage, collection and disposal of refuse in a trailer or mobile home
court shall be managed so as not to create health hazards, rodent harborage,
insect breeding areas, accident or fire hazards or air pollution.
(Prior Code, § 10-206)
   (B)   Refuse shall be stored in fly-tight, water-tight, rodent-proof
containers which shall be located not more than 150 feet from any trailer or
mobile home. Containers shall be provided in sufficient number and capacity to
store properly all refuse and otherwise in conformity with the garbage and
refuse ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 10-207)
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 152.07  SUPERVISION.
   The person to whom a permit for a trailer court or mobile home court is
issued shall provide adequate personnel to maintain the court, its facilities
and equipment in good repair and in clean and sanitary condition at all times.
(Prior Code, § 10-208)
CHAPTER 153:  SUBDIVISIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
153.001   Authority
   
153.002   Purpose
   
153.003   Jurisdiction
   
153.004   Applicability
   
153.005   Definitions
   
153.006   Dedication of public land
   
153.007   Waiver for small subdivisions
   
153.008   Amendments
Procedures
   
153.020   Plat submission requirements
   
153.021   Fees
   
153.022   Scale and preliminary plat contents
   
153.023   Notification of improvement schedule
   
153.024   Notification of County Planning Commission
   
153.025   Notification of school board
   
153.026   Approval or rejection
   
153.027   Recording of action
   
153.028   Approval is conditional
   
153.029   Installation of improvements for final plat approval
   
153.030   Final plat submission requirements
   
153.031   Scale and final plat contents
   
153.032   Supplementary data required
   
153.033   Professional assistance
   
153.034   Planning Commission recommendations
   
153.035   Administrative subdivision
Alleys, Sidewalks and Driveways
   
153.050   Streets
   
153.051   Street extension
   
153.052   Dedication of right-of-way for new streets
   
153.053   Dedication of right-of-way for existing streets
   
153.054   Intersections
   
153.055   Widths
   
153.056   Marginal access streets
   
153.057   Street jogs
   
153.058   Street names
   
153.059   Private streets and reserve strips
   
153.060   Grading specifications
   
153.061   Minimum pavement widths
   
153.062   Street surfacing
   
153.063   Curb and gutter
   
153.064   Blocks
   
153.065   Street name signs
   
153.066   Alleys
   
153.067   Sidewalks
   
153.068   Driveways
   
153.069   Street and walkway lighting
Utility and Drainage Facilities
   
153.085   Sewer and water
   
153.086   Sanitary sewer improvements
   
153.087   Drainage improvements
   
153.088   Storm sowers and storm water drainage
   
153.089   Culverts and bridges
   
153.090   Solar access
   
153.091   Erosion control
   
153.092   Fire protection
   
153.093   Electric
Shared Improvement Costs
   
153.110   Extensions to boundaries
   
153.111   Off-site extensions
Subdivision Improvement Procedure
   
153.125   Subdivision improvements
   
153.126   Surety performance bond
   
153.127   Escrow account
   
153.128   Security agreement
   
153.129   Improvement (assessment) district
   
153.130   Time limits
   
153.131   Installation of improvements
   
153.132   Plan review reimbursement
   
153.133   Failure to complete improvements
   
153.134   Inspection and certification
   
153.135   Reduction of guarantees
   
153.136   Release of guarantees
Annexation and Recording of Plat
   
153.150   Subdivision annexation of adjoining or contiguous properties
   
153.151   Petition for annexation
   
153.152   Adoption plan by resolution
Variances
   
153.165   Granting of variances; conditions
   
153.166   Recording of plat
   
153.167   Planned development
Public Sites and Open Spaces
   
153.180   Recreation standards
   
153.181   Recreation sites
Editor’s note:
The village completed a housing market study in November 2008. A full copy of
the study can be found in the Village Clerk’s office.
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 153.001  AUTHORITY.
   This chapter is hereby adopted and enacted under authority of Neb. RS 19-916
through 19-922 and 17-1001 through 17-1003, and amendments thereto, and
comprise requirements, standards and specifications with respect to provisions
for the proper location and width of streets, building lines, open spaces,
safety, recreation; and, for the manner in which streets will be graded and
improved; and, the extent to which water, sewer and other utility services
shall be provided; and, to provide for the approval of preliminary plats and
final plats and endorsement thereof by the Planning Commission and by the Board
of Trustees. No final plat of a subdivision shall be approved and accepted by
the Village Board unless it conforms to the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 2009-04, passed 4-23-2009)
§ 153.002  PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to provide for the orderly development of the
village and its environs; to proscribe standards for the laying out of
subdivisions in harmony with the Comprehensive Plan; for the coordination of
streets and utilities within subdivisions with other existing or planned
streets and utilities; for coordination of subdivisions with other features of
the Comprehensive Plan to provide for adequate open space for traffic,
recreation, light and air; and for the distribution of population and traffic
in such a manner so as to create conditions favorable to health, safety,
convenience or prosperity, all in accordance with applicable state statutes.
(Ord. 2009-04, passed 4-23-2009)
§ 153.003  JURISDICTION.
   The provisions of this chapter shall apply within the area of planning and
zoning jurisdiction as defined on the official zoning maps of the village, as
may be amended from time to time.
(Ord. 2009-04, passed 4-23-2009)
§ 153.004  APPLICABILITY.
   Any plat, hereafter made, for each subdivision or part thereof lying within
the jurisdiction of this chapter, shall be prepared for approval and recorded
as herein prescribed. The regulations contained in this chapter shall apply to
the subdivision of a lot, tract, parcel of land into two or more lots, tracts,
or other division of land for the purpose of sale or development, whether
immediate or future, including the re-subdivision or re-platting of land or
lots, except that the division of land when the smallest parcel created is more
than ten acres in area shall be exempt from these regulations. Further, the
regulations set forth by this chapter shall be minimum regulations which shall
apply uniformly throughout the jurisdiction of this chapter except as hereafter
provided.
   (A)   Each separate principal use/building within the jurisdiction of this
chapter shall be situated on a separate and single subdivided lot of record
unless otherwise provided in the Zoning Code.
   (B)   No subdivision of land shall be permitted within the planning
jurisdiction of the village unless a plat is approved in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter. Further, no lot in a subdivision may be sold,
transferred or negotiated to sell, no permit to erect, alter, or repair any
building upon land in a subdivision may be issued, and no building may be
erected in a subdivision unless a final plat has been approved by the Village
Board and recorded with the County Register of Deeds.
   (C)   This chapter shall not apply to the following:
      (1)   To a subdivision of land whereby the smallest parcel created or
remaining is more than ten acres;
      (2)   The subdivision of burial lots in cemeteries; or
      (3)   A change in the boundary between adjoining lands which does not
create an additional lot or does not result in a nonconformity of an existing
lot.
(Ord. 2009-04, passed 4-23-2009)
§ 153.005  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BLOCK. A tract or parcel of land bounded by public streets or lands,
streams, railroads, unplatted lands or a combination thereof.
   BUILDING LINE. A line parallel or nearly parallel, to either the street line
or the lot line not abutting the street and at a specified distance from the
street or lot line which marks the minimum distance from either line that a
building may be erected. In the case of a cul-de-sac, the BUILDING LINE shall
be measured around the curvature of the street line.
   BUILDING OFFICIAL. The person or persons designated by the governing body to
administer this chapter whether such person or persons by entitled Building
Official, Building Inspector, Administrative Official, or Zoning Administrator.
   COMMON OPEN SPACE. That undivided land in a subdivision which may be jointly
owned by all property owners of the subdivision, for the benefit of the owners
of the individual building sites of said development.
   COMMON SEWER SYSTEM. A sanitary sewage system in public ownership which
provides for the collection and treatment of domestic effluent in a central
sewage treatment plant which meets the minimum requirements of the Nebraska
Department of Environmental Quality for primary and secondary sewage treatment
and which does not include individual septic tanks or portable sewage treatment
facilities.
   COMMON WATER SYSTEM. A water system which provides for the supply, storage
and distribution of potable water on an uninterrupted basis which is in public
ownership.
   COMPREHENSIVE PLAN. The long range development plan adopted by the Board of
Trustees.
   COVENANT. Written promise or pledge.
   CULVERT. A transverse drain that channels water under a bridge, street or
driveway.
   EASEMENT. A grant by property owner to the public, a corporation or persons
of the use of a tract of land for a specific purpose.
   ENGINEER. One, licensed by the state, designated by the Village Board to act
for the village.
   FRONTAGE. The length of the property abutting on one side of a street
measured along the dividing line between the property and the street.
   GREEN AREA. Same as COMMON OPEN SPACE.
   IMPROVEMENT. Street pavement or resurfacing, curbs, gutter, sidewalks, water
lines, sewer lines, storm drains, street lights, flood control and drainage
facilities, utility lines, landscaping, and other related matters normally
associated with the development of raw land into building sites.
   LOT. A parcel of land occupied or intended for occupancy by a use permitted
in this chapter, including one main building together with its accessory
buildings, the open spaces and parking required by this chapter and fronting
upon a street.
   LOT, CORNER. A lot abutting upon two or more streets at their intersection.
   LOT, INTERIOR. A lot other than a corner lot which has frontage on one
street only.
   LOT, THROUGH. A lot other than a corner lot fronting on more than one
street.
   LOT OF RECORD. A tract of land described as an integral portion of a
subdivision plat which is properly recorded in the office of the County Clerk.
   MONUMENTS. Permanent concrete or iron markers used to establish definitely
all lines of the plat of a subdivision, including all lot corners, boundary
line corners and points of change in street alignment.
   OUT LOT. Property shown on a subdivision plat outside of the boundaries of
the land which is developed and which is to be excluded from the development of
the subdivision.
   PARKING SPACE, OFF-STREET. An area, enclosed or unenclosed, sufficient in
size to store one automobile, together with a driveway connecting the parking
space with a street or alley and permitting ingress and egress.
   PEDESTRIAN WAYS. A tract of land dedicated to public use, which cuts across
a block to facilitate pedestrian access to adjoining streets and properties.
   PLANNED DEVELOPMENT. Special development of certain tracts of land, planned
and designed as a unit for one or more land uses under rules and procedures
contained in this chapter.
   PLANNING AREA. The statutory zoning jurisdiction of the village.
   PLANNING COMMISSION. The appointed planning body designated by the Board of
Trustees.
   PLAT. Map, drawing, or chart upon which the developer’s plan of subdivision
(preliminary) is presented to the Village Board for approval and, after such
approval, to the appropriate County Clerk for recording.
   PLOT. A parcel of ground.
   PUBLIC WAY. An alley, avenue, boulevard, bridge, channel, ditch, easement,
expressway, freeway, highway, land, parkway, right-of-way, road, sidewalk,
street, subway, tunnel, viaduct, walk, or other ways in which the general
public or a public entity have a right, or which are dedicated, whether
improved or not.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. A strip of land taken or dedicated for use as a PUBLIC WAY. In
addition to the roadway, it normally incorporates the curbs, lawn strips,
sidewalks, lighting, and drainage facilities, and may include special features
such as grade separation, landscaped areas, viaducts and bridges.
   SETBACK LINE. A line, as shown on a record plat or otherwise established by
the Village Board, beyond which no part of a main exterior wall of a building
or structure may project.
   SEWERS, ON-SITE. A septic tank or similar installation on an individual lot
which utilizes an aerobic bacteriological process or equally satisfactory
process for the elimination of sewage and provides for the proper and safe
disposal of the effluent, subject to the approval of health and sanitation
officials having jurisdiction.
   STREET. A public or private thoroughfare including avenues, which affords
principle means of access to abutting property.
   SUBDIVIDER. The owners, developers or agents of persons or corporations
affecting subdivision.
   SUBDIVISION. The division of a parcel of land into two or more lots or
parcels for the purpose of transfer of ownership, building development, or, if
a new street is involved, any division of a parcel of land. The term includes
resubdivision, and, when appropriate to the context, shall relate to the
process of subdividing or to the land subdivided.
   SURVEYOR. Any person registered in the state to practice surveying.
   THOROUGHFARE, STREET OR ROAD. The full width between property lines bounding
every public way of whatever nature, with a part thereof to be used for
vehicular traffic and designated as follows:
      (1)   ALLEY.  A dedicated public right-of-way, other than a street, which
provides only a secondary means of access to abutting property.
      (2)   ARTERIAL STREET. A street which provides for through traffic
movement between and around streets with direct access to abutting property,
subject to necessary control of entrances, exits, and curb use.
      (3)   COLLECTOR STREET. A street which provides for traffic movement
between arterials and local streets, with direct access to abutting property.
      (4)   CUL-DE-SAC. A local street of relatively short length with one end
open to traffic and the other end terminating in a vehicular turnaround.
      (5)   DEAD-END STREET. A street temporarily having only one outlot for
vehicular traffic and intended to be extended or continued in the future.
      (6)   LOCAL STREET. A street which provides direct access to abutting
land and local traffic movement, whether in business, industrial or residential
land.
      (7)   MARGINAL ACCESS STREET. A local or collector street, parallel and
adjacent to an arterial or collector street, providing access to abutting
properties and protection from arterial or collector streets. (Also called
frontage street or service road).
   VICINITY MAP. A drawing located on the plat which sets forth by dimensions
or other means, the relationship of the proposed subdivision or use to other
nearby developments or landmarks and community facilities and services within
the village, in order to better locate and orient the area in question.
   WALKWAY. See SIDEWALK.
   ZONE or DISTRICT. A section of the zoning area for which uniform regulations
governing the use, height, area, size and intensity of the use of buildings,
land, and open spaces about buildings, are established.
(Ord. 2009-04, passed 4-23-2009)
§ 153.006  DEDICATION OF PUBLIC LAND.
   (A)   At the time of final plat approval by the Village Board, the owners
shall be required to dedicate to the public use all streets, alleys, easements,
and buffer strips as required by the Village Board of this chapter. Acceptance
of dedicated land shall be recorded in the minutes of the Village Board.
   (B)   Subdividers of commercial type subdivisions may be required to
dedicate land for off-street parking as determined necessary by the Village
Board.
(Ord. 2009-04, passed 4-23-2009)
§ 153.007  WAIVER FOR SMALL SUBDIVISIONS.
   The subdivider may make application for, and the Village Board may grant, a
waiver of some or all of the requirements provided for herein for small
residential, commercial and industrial subdivisions where the following
conditions exist:
   (A)   The subdivision contains no more than four lots, which total area of
said lots shall not exceed one-half acre each, and conform to existing zoning
ordinances;
   (B)   All lots of the proposed subdivisions shall be platted on existing
streets;
   (C)   Surfaces of all streets serving the subdivision meet, or exceed,
street surface standards of the village;
   (D)   Public water, sanitary sewer, and storm sewer system facilities are
available to all lots in the subdivision;
   (E)   The development of the subdivision will not increase erosion or
flooding potential; and
   (F)   The subdivider demonstrates to the Village Board that said development
is in conformity with the potential development of abutting property. A
subdivider requesting a waiver hereunder shall submit said request in writing
to the Village Board prior to the submission of a preliminary plat. The request
for a waiver shall include a list of all requirements for which a waiver is
sought by reference to code numbers and descriptive headings.
(Ord. 2009-04, passed 4-23-2009)
§ 153.008  AMENDMENTS.
   Any provision herein from time to time may be amended, supplemented,
changed, modified or repealed by the governing body according to law; provided,
however, that such amendments, supplements, changes, modifications or repealed
provisions shall not become effective until after study and report and
recommendations of the Planning Commission.
(Ord. 2009-04, passed 4-23-2009)
PROCEDURES
§ 153.020  PLAT SUBMISSION REQUIREMENTS.
   The subdivider shall submit to the Village Clerk 11 copies of the
preliminary plat and supplemental material specified, with written application
for conditional approval, at least ten days prior to the regular meeting of the
Planning Commission at which the request will be heard.
(Ord. 2009-04, passed 4-23-2009)
§ 153.021  FEES.
   Fees are set by the Village Board.
(Ord. 2009-04, passed 4-23-2009)
§ 153.022  SCALE AND PRELIMINARY PLAT CONTENTS.
   Preliminary plats shall be a scale of one inch to 100 feet, or 1" = 200' if
75% of the lots are one acre or larger, and shall be prepared with the
following information:
   (A)   Name, location, acreage, owner and designer of subdivision with legal
description as shown by land records;
   (B)   Present zoning;
   (C)   Date, north point and graphic scale;
   (D)   Location of property lines, roads, existing utilities with size of
lines, and other underground installations and easement;
   (E)   Names of adjoining properties or subdivisions;
   (F)   Proposed utility system, including water, sewer and paving;
   (G)   Dimensions, lot lines, except that in industrial type subdivisions,
lot lines may be excluded;
   (H)   Location of proposed drainage;
   (I)   Contours at five feet intervals at 1" = 200' scale;
   (J)   Proposed improvements and grading concepts;
   (K)   Location of existing buildings; and
   (L)   Proposed easements, dedications and reservations of land required.
(Ord. 2009-04, passed 4-23-2009)
§ 153.023  NOTIFICATION OF IMPROVEMENT SCHEDULE.
   The subdivider shall indicate by a letter when improvements as required will
be provided; any proposed restrictive covenants for the land involved shall
accompany the letter.
(Ord. 2009-04, passed 4-23-2009)
§ 153.024  NOTIFICATION OF COUNTY PLANNING COMMISSION.
   The village shall notify the County Planning Commission of any proposed
subdivision plat and provide the Commission with all available materials on the
proposed plat, when such proposed plat lies partially or totally within the
extraterritorial subdivision jurisdiction being exercised by that municipality
in such county. The Commission shall be given four weeks to officially comment
on the appropriateness of the design and improvements proposed in the plat. The
review period shall run concurrently with subdivision review activities of the
village after the Commission receives all available material for a proposed
subdivision plat.
(Ord. 2009-04, passed 4-23-2009)
§ 153.025  NOTIFICATION OF SCHOOL BOARD.
   At least ten days prior to the Planning Commission meeting at which the
preliminary plat is to be considered for approval, the Planning Commission
shall submit a copy of the proposal to the school board of each school district
which the proposed development affects, and shall notify the school board of
the meeting date. Copies of the plat may be submitted to any other agency which
may be affected.
(Ord. 2009-04, passed 4-23-2009)
§ 153.026  APPROVAL OR REJECTION.
   After review of the preliminary plat and negotiations with the subdivider,
the Planning Commission shall reject or conditionally approve the preliminary
plat, within 30 days after the official meeting at which the plat was
considered.
(Ord. 2009-04, passed 4-23-2009)
§ 153.027  RECORDING OF ACTION.
   The action of the Planning Commission shall be noted on three copies of the
preliminary plat, referenced and attached to any conditions determined. One
copy shall be returned to the subdivider, one copy relayed to the Village Board
and one copy retained by the Planning Commission.
(Ord. 2009-04, passed 4-23-2009)
§ 153.028  APPROVAL IS CONDITIONAL.
   Approval of a preliminary plat shall not constitute approval of the final
plat; it shall be deemed an expression of approval or conditional approval of
the submitted plat, as a guide for the preparation of the final plat, which
will be subject to further consideration by the Planning Commission and the
Village Board. Any conditional approval of the preliminary plat shall be
effective for a period of one year unless an extension is granted by the
Planning Commission.
(Ord. 2009-04, passed 4-23-2009)
§ 153.029  INSTALLATION OF IMPROVEMENTS FOR FINAL PLAT APPROVAL.
   Following approval of the preliminary plat, the subdivider shall:
   (A)   Agree to install the required improvements;
   (B)   Sign an agreement, which shall be entered into only at the option of
the village, thereby guaranteeing the installation of improvements; or
   (C)   Furnish a bond or enter into an escrow or security agreement approved
by the Village Attorney in an amount sufficient to guarantee the installation
of the required improvements.
(Ord. 2009-04, passed 4-23-2009)
§ 153.030  FINAL PLAT SUBMISSION REQUIREMENTS.
   Final plats, showing entire concept, shall be submitted to the Village Clerk
within one year of approval of the preliminary plat, unless an extension is
granted by the Planning Commission. The final plat shall conform to the
preliminary plat as approved and to the requirements of all applicable
ordinances and state statutes; and, if desired by the subdivider, it may
constitute only that portion of the approved preliminary plat which the
subdivider proposes to record and develop at the time; provided, however, that
such portion conforms to all requirements of this chapter.
(Ord. 2009-04, passed 4-23-2009)
§ 153.031  SCALE AND FINAL PLAT CONTENTS.
   One original and two Mylar copies of the final plat and other exhibits
required for approval shall be submitted. The final plat shall be drawn in ink
on Mylar and shall be at a scale of one inch to 100 feet or larger. The final
plat shall show the following:
   (A)   Date, title, name and location of subdivision;
   (B)   Streets and street names, lots, setback lines, lot numbers, and the
like, except that in industrial type subdivision lot designation may be
excluded;
   (C)   Graphic scale and north arrow;
   (D)   Monuments (ferrous) one inch diameter, maximum, 30 inches length
minimum;
   (E)   Dimensions, angles and bearings, and complete legal description of the
property;
   (F)   Sufficient survey data to reproduce any line on the ground;
   (G)   Names of adjoining subdivisions;
   (H)   Location and dimensions of any easements;
   (I)   Purpose for which sites are dedicated or reserved, and the transfer of
ownership of the same;
   (J)   Certification by surveyor as to accuracy of survey and plat;
   (K)   Certification signed and acknowledged by all parties holding title or
having any title interest in the land subdivided and consenting to the
preparation and recording of the plat as submitted;
   (L)   Certification recording the approval by the Planning Commission; and
   (M)   Certification recording the approval by the Village Board and the
acceptance of any dedications.
(Ord. 2009-04, passed 4-23-2009)
§ 153.032  SUPPLEMENTARY DATA REQUIRED.
   The final plat shall be accompanied by construction plans of all required
public improvements, approved by an Engineer.
(Ord. 2009-04, passed 4-23-2009)
§ 153.033  PROFESSIONAL ASSISTANCE.
   The Village Board or the Planning Commission may request such professional
assistance as it deems necessary to properly evaluate the plats submitted.
(Ord. 2009-04, passed 4-23-2009)
§ 153.034  PLANNING COMMISSION RECOMMENDATIONS.
   The Planning Commission shall reject or approve the final plat and have
prepared a recommendation to the Village Board recommending rejection or
approval. All reasons for recommending rejection shall be clearly stated.
Notification of approval or rejection by the Planning Commission or Village
Board shall be given the subdivider within 60 days after submission of the
final plat to the Planning Commission.
(Ord. 2009-04, passed 4-23-2009)
§ 153.035  ADMINISTRATIVE SUBDIVISION.
   In the event that a proposed subdivision does not involve the platting and
dedication of streets, extension of utility systems, change in subdivision
class and type, change in zoning district, change in surface drainage, and will
not result in the creation of more than three lots of record, the subdivider
may apply for administrative subdivision under the provisions of this section.
The utilization of the administrative subdivision does not relieve the
subdivider of its obligation to comply with §§
153.050 through
153.069 and §§
153.085 through
153.093 of this chapter. The necessity of establishing and dedicating easements
for utilities shall not bar the utilization of the administrative subdivision.
The procedure for such application will be as follows:
   (A)   Application will be made to the Village Board and the Village Board
may act or may at their option refer the application to the Planning
Commission. In the event it is referred to the Planning Commission, the
procedures outlined under the final plat provisions shall be followed;
   (B)   The subdivider shall submit an original and 11 copies of the plat. The
original shall be drawn in ink on tracing cloth, Mylar, or similar material,
and shall be at a scale of 1" to 100' or larger. The plat shall contain the
following:
      (1)   Date, title, name and location of the subdivision;
      (2)   Names and locations of abutting streets and lots identifying street
names and lot and block numbers;
      (3)   Identification of the new lot and block numbers and set back lines;
      (4)   Graphic scale and true north point;
      (5)   Monuments;
      (6)   Dimensions, angles and bearings, and complete legal description of
the property;
      (7)   Sufficient engineering data to reproduce any line on the ground;
      (8)   Location, dimensions and purposes of any existing easements;
      (9)   Certification by surveyor or engineer certifying to the accuracy of
the survey and plat; and
      (10)   Certification signed and acknowledged by all parties holding title
or having any title interest in the land subdivided and consenting to the
preparation and recording of the plat as submitted.
   (C)   The plat shall be accompanied by:
      (1)   Protective covenants in form for recording if such are desired by
the subdivider;
      (2)   For subdivisions adjoining or touching the boundaries of the
village corporate limits; a tract or area for which annexation proceedings have
village commenced; an approved subdivision which touches or adjoins the village
corporate limits, a petition signed by the owner or owners requesting
annexation to the village; and
      (3)   Utility easements signed by the owner or owners to permit all lots
created access to all utilities available in the village, including but not
limited to, sanitary sewer, storm sewer, water, electrical, telephone, and
cable television.
(Ord. 2009-04, passed 4-23-2009)
ALLEYS, SIDEWALKS AND DRIVEWAYS
§ 153.050  STREETS.
   The arrangements, character, extent, width, grade and location of all
streets shall conform to the Comprehensive Development Plan and shall be
considered in their relation to existing and planned streets, to topographical
conditions, to public convenience and safety, and in their appropriate relation
to the proposed uses of the land to be served by such streets.
(Ord. 2009-04, passed 4-23-2009)
§ 153.051  STREET EXTENSION.
   The street layout of the proposed subdivision shall provide for the
continuation of appropriate projection of streets and alleys already existing
in areas being subdivided. Where, at the determination of the Village Board, it
is desirable to provide street access to adjoining properties, proposed streets
shall be extended by dedication to the boundaries of such properties. Where the
Village Board deems it necessary, such dead-end streets shall be provided with
a temporary turnaround having a radius of at least 60 feet. The street system
for the proposed subdivision shall provide for extending existing streets at
the same or greater width, but in no case shall a street extension be of less
width than the minimum width required in those regulations for a street in its
category.
(Ord. 2009-04, passed 4-23-2009)
§ 153.052  DEDICATION OF RIGHT-OF-WAY FOR NEW STREETS.
   The dedication of right-of-way for new streets measured from lot line to lot
line shall be as shown on the Comprehensive Development Plan. All streets
classified as arterial streets by the Comprehensive Development Plan shall have
all points of access approved by the Village Board. Marginal access streets may
be required by the Village Board for subdivisions fronting on arterial streets.
(Ord. 2009-04, passed 4-23-2009)
§ 153.053  DEDICATION OF RIGHT-OF-WAY FOR EXISTING STREETS.
   Subdivisions platted along existing streets shall dedicate additional right-
of-way if necessary to meet the minimum street width requirements set forth in
this chapter. The entire minimum right-of-way width shall be dedicated where
the subdivision is on both sides of an existing street. When the subdivision is
located on only one side of an existing street, one-half of the required right-
of-way width, measured from the center line of the existing roadway, shall be
dedicated. Dedication of one-half of the right-of-way for proposed streets
along the boundaries of land proposed for subdivision shall be prohibited.
(Ord. 2009-04, passed 4-23-2009)
§ 153.054  INTERSECTIONS.
   Streets shall intersect as nearly as possible at an angle of 90 degrees, and
no intersection shall be at any angle of less than 60 degrees. Street curb
intersections shall be rounded by radii of at least 20 feet. When the smallest
angle of street intersection is less than 75 degrees, the Village Board may
require curb radii of greater length. Wherever necessary to permit the
construction of a curb having a desirable radius without reducing the sidewalk
at a street corner to less than normal width, the property line at such street
corner shall be rounded or otherwise set back sufficiently to permit such curb
construction. No lot or other parcel of land which abuts on and has access to
either a collector or a minor street shall have a service drive, curb cut, or
other means of access to an arterial street within 50 feet of the right-of-way
of any street which intersects such arterial street on the side on which such
lot or parcel is located.
(Ord. 2009-04, passed 4-23-2009)
§ 153.055  WIDTHS, GRADES AND SIGHT DISTANCE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Right-of-way widths, pavements widths, grades and sight distance
requirements shall be as follows:
Type Right-of- Way Pavement Grade Minimum Sight Distance on Curves
Type              Right-of- Way Pavement        Grade       Minimum Sight
                                                            Distance on Curves
Arterial streets  100 feet*     46 feet         8%          400 feet
Marginal access   60 feet       22 feet with 6- 10%         300 feet
streets                         foot shoulders
Collector streets 70 feet*      44 feet         10%         300 feet
Local streets     60 feet       22 feet with 6- 10% average 300 feet
                                foot shoulders
                                20 feet
Alleys            20 feet       residential     No maximum  None
                                20 feet         No maximum  None
                                commercial
Cul-de-sac        100 feet      40 feet         10% average 200 feet
streets
*   Streets in these classifications shall be designed and graded to the full
right-of-way widths stated
 
   (B)   The horizontal alignment on all streets except in unusual cases as
determined by the Planning Commission shall as follows:
 
Street Type       Radii of Horizontal Curves
Arterial streets  700 feet minimum
Collector streets 300 feet minimum
Local streets     100 feet minimum
 
(Ord. 2009-04, passed 4-23-2009)
§ 153.056  MARGINAL ACCESS STREETS.
   (A)   Where a subdivision abuts or contains an existing or proposed arterial
street, the village may require access streets, reverse frontage with screen
planting contained in a non-access reservation along the rear property line,
deep lots with rear service alleys, or such other treatment as may be necessary
for adequate protection of residential properties and to afford separation of
through and local traffic.
   (B)   Where the proposed subdivision abuts upon or contains an existing or
proposed arterial street or highway or which traffic volumes and vehicular
speeds warrant special safety considerations, the village may require that
marginal access streets be provided in order that no lots front on such
existing or proposed arterial street or highway.
   (C)   Where a subdivision borders on or contains a railway right-of-way or
limited access highway right-of-way, the village may require a street
approximately parallel to and on each side of such right-of-way, at a distance
suitable for the appropriate use of the intervening land, as for park purposes
in residential districts. Such distances shall also be determined with due
regard for the requirements of approach grades and future grade separations.
(Ord. 2009-04, passed 4-23-2009)
§ 153.057  STREET JOGS.
   Street jogs with center line offsets of less than 125 feet shall be
prohibited. Cul-de-sacs, minor terminal or dead-end streets or courts which are
designed so as to have one end permanently closed shall not be longer than 500
feet and shall be provided at the closed end with a turnaround having a radius
at the outside of the right-of-way of at least 100 feet.
(Ord. 2009-04, passed 4-23-2009)
§ 153.058  STREET NAMES.
   Proposed streets which are in alignment with other already existing and
named streets shall bear the names of such existing streets. The name of a
proposed street which is not in alignment with an existing street shall not
duplicate the name of any existing street, irrespective of the use of the
suffix street, avenue, boulevard, drive, place, court, lane, road, pike,
highway, parkway or similar suffix. Whenever a street alignment changes
direction more than 45 degrees without a return to the original alignment
within a distance of 500 feet, then the name of the street shall be changed at
the point of curvature. Whenever a cul-de-sac street serves not more than three
lots, the name of the intersecting street shall apply to the cul-de-sac. To
avoid duplication and confusion, the proposed names of all streets shall be
approved by the designated Village Engineer prior to such names being assigned
or used.
(Ord. 2009-04, passed 4-23-2009)
§ 153.059  PRIVATE STREETS AND RESERVE STRIPS.
   There shall be no private streets platted within a subdivision. There shall
be no reserve strips in a subdivision except where their control is definitely
vested in the village or county under conditions approved by the Village Board
as authorized herein.
(Ord. 2009-04, passed 4-23-2009)
§ 153.060  GRADING SPECIFICATIONS.
   All streets, roads and alleys shall be graded to their full widths by the
subdivider, so that street pavements and sidewalks can be constructed on the
same level plane. Deviation from this standard due to special topographical
conditions will be allowed only with the approval of the Village Board. Before
grading is started, the entire right-of-way area shall be first cleared of all
tree stumps, roots, brush, and other objectional materials and of all trees not
intended for preservation. The subgrade shall be properly shaped, rolled and
uniformly compacted to conform with the accepted cross-section and grades. In
cuts and fills, all tree stumps, boulders, organic material, soft clay, spongy
material and other objectionable materials shall be removed to a depth of at
least two feet below the graded surface. This objectionable matter, as well as
similar matter from cuts, shall be removed from the right-of-way area and
disposed of in such a manner that it will not become incorporated in fills or
hinder proper operation of the drainage system.
(Ord. 2009-04, passed 4-23-2009)
§ 153.061  MINIMUM PAVEMENT WIDTHS.
   Pavement widths shall be measured between curb backs.
(Ord. 2009-04, passed 4-23-2009)
§ 153.062  STREET SURFACING.
   The streets in the proposed subdivision shall be paved, including curbs and
gutters, and street surfacing shall be of concrete or any other suitable
surface as recommended by the designated Village Engineer and approved by the
Village Board. Requirements for paving, including curb and gutter, may be
waived at the request of the subdivider. Streets in such subdivision shall have
a crushed rock or gravel surface which meets the specifications of the village.
(Ord. 2009-04, passed 4-23-2009)
§ 153.063  CURB AND GUTTER.
   Curb and gutter shall be provided as required by the Village Engineer. In
areas of notable flash flooding or heavy rain run-off, curbs shall be required
on all streets designed for areas where the existing or anticipated residential
density of the areas surrounding the proposed subdivision equals or exceeds
three dwelling units per net acre. In commercial developments, or where other
similar intensive urban uses exist or are anticipated, curbs shall be required.
Where curbs exist on abutting properties, their extension shall be required
throughout the proposed subdivision. All curb and gutter shall be constructed
in conformance with the minimum standards of the village and as approved by the
Village Engineer.
(Ord. 2009-04, passed 4-23-2009)
§ 153.064  BLOCKS.
   Except in unusual circumstances, the maximum length of blocks shall be 1,320
feet.
(Ord. 2009-04, passed 4-23-2009)
§ 153.065  STREET NAME SIGNS.
   Street name signs, of a type in use throughout the village, shall be erected
by the subdivider at all intersections.
(Ord. 2009-04, passed 4-23-2009)
§ 153.066  ALLEYS.
   (A)   Alleys shall be provided to give access to the rear of all lots used
for commercial and industrial purposes. Minimum width of an alley shall be 16
feet. Alley intersections and sharp changes in alignment shall be avoided, but
where necessary, corners shall be cut off sufficiently to permit safe vehicular
movement.
   (B)   Dead-end alleys shall be avoided where possible, but if unavoidable,
shall be provided with adequate facilities at the dead-end, as determined by
the Village Board. Alleys need not be provided in residential areas where the
subdivider produces evidence of easements which are satisfactory to the Village
Board.
(Ord. 2009-04, passed 4-23-2009)
§ 153.067  SIDEWALKS.
   Sidewalks shall be provided as required by village ordinances and shall be
constructed of Portland cement concrete or other acceptable materials as
approved by the Village Board. Sidewalk thickness shall be not less than four
inches and sidewalk width not less than four feet.
(Ord. 2009-04, passed 4-23-2009)
§ 153.068  DRIVEWAYS.
   Driveways shall have a maximum grade of 10%. Driveways and curb cuts shall
be located not less than three feet from the side lot lines. Curb cuts for
straight curbs and the flare for rolled curbs shall be three feet wider than
the driveway pavement on each side.
(Ord. 2009-04, passed 4-23-2009)
§ 153.069  STREET AND WALKWAY LIGHTING.
   The street lights shall be installed by the village. Such lights shall be
located at each street and walkway entrance to the subdivision. In addition,
whenever the distance between two adjacent street or walkway lights would
exceed 300 feet, then additional street lights shall be installed in such
manner that proper light intensity shall be provided and maintained. New
subdivision street and walkway lighting may be installed with all associated
wiring underground or overhead, as required by the village.
(Ord. 2009-04, passed 4-23-2009)
UTILITY AND DRAINAGE FACILITIES
§ 153.085  SEWER AND WATER.
   (A)   It shall be required that the owner or developer of the tract to be
subdivided install satisfactory sewer and water lines which are necessary to
serve such subdivision. Installation of the above shall be in accordance with
the specifications of the village and under the direction and supervision of
the Village Board. Where adequate water and sewer lines are accessible within
1,320 feet of the final plat, connections to these lines shall be made. Water
lines shall be looped according to specifications set by the Village Board.
   (B)   The cost of providing this engineering service will be the
responsibility of the owner or developer of the tract to be subdivided or by
other agreement with the village. Design of municipal water mains and sanitary
sewer lines shall conform to standards and guidelines approved by the Village
Engineer.
(Ord. 2009-04, passed 4-23-2009)
§ 153.086  SANITARY SEWER IMPROVEMENTS.
   The following requirements shall govern sanitary sewer improvements:
   (A)   Where an adequate public sanitary sewer system is reasonably
accessible in the determination of the Village Board, public sanitary sewers
shall be installed to adequately serve all lots, including lateral connections
to the public system. Public sewer system extensions shall meet the
requirements of the village standards and the Nebraska Department of
Environmental Quality and the Department of Health and Human Services System.
Combinations of sanitary sewers and storm sewers shall be prohibited.
   (B)   Where a public sanitary sewer system is not reasonably accessible, the
subdivider may provide:
      (1)   A central treatment plant, provided that such central treatment
plant is installed in accordance with the village and State Department of
Environmental Quality and Department of Health ami Human Services System
requirements; or
      (2)   Lots may be served by individual disposal systems, if the
provisions of the following section are met.
   (C)   (1)   Where the installation of individual disposal systems is
considered, the suitability of the soil for individual systems, the absorptive
ability of the soil, surface drainage, ground water level, and topography shall
be the criteria for determining whether or not the installation of individual
systems is permissible. The criteria shall be in accordance with the
requirements of the village and the Nebraska Department of Environmental
Quality and Department of Health and Human Services System.
      (2)   Each lot so served shall be of a size and shape to accommodate the
necessary length of tile field at a safe distance from and at a lower elevation
than the proposed buildings. Such lot size and shape shall conform to the
requirements of the zoning district in which they are located, provided that in
no case shall said minimum lot be less than one acre in area where there is a
public water supply available at the lot, and two and one-half acres where
there is not public water supply available.
      (3)   At least one percolation test shall be made for each lot area being
platted, and each test shall be located in close proximity to the proposed
individual sewage disposal unit, be numbered and its location shown on the
preliminary plat. All percolation tests shall be performed in accordance with
the requirements of the Board of Trustees.
(Ord. 2009-04, passed 4-23-2009)
§ 153.087  DRAINAGE IMPROVEMENTS.
   (A)   An adequate system for the drainage of all surface water within the
area being subdivided, including ditches, pipes, culverts, intersectional
drains, drop inlets, bridges, and other structures, shall be constructed by the
developer. Such drains shall comply as to size with such requirements,
conformable to good engineering practice, as the Village Board shall prescribe;
provided that such drains in no event shall be less than 12 inches in diameter.
Cross drains shall be constructed to accommodate all natural water flow, be
built on a straight line and grade, be laid on a firm base but not on rock and
be of sufficient length to permit construction of streets and alleys to their
required width and grades.
   (B)   Surface drainage pipes shall be laid with the spigot end pointed in
the direction of the flow, and all ends shall be fitted and matched to provide
tight joints and a smooth uniform invert. Such pipes shall be placed at a depth
below the road bed that is sufficient to avoid dangerous pressure from impact,
and the top, in no event, shall be less than one foot below the surface of the
road bed.
   (C)   A culvert or other drainage facility shall in each case be large
enough to accommodate potential runoff from its entire upstream drainage area,
whether inside or outside the subdivision. The Village Engineer shall determine
the necessary size of the facility, based on the provisions of the construction
standards and specifications assuming conditions of maximum potential watershed
development permitted by the Zoning Code.
   (D)   The Village Engineer shall also study the effect of each subdivision
on existing downstream drainage facilities outside the area of the subdivision.
Where it is anticipated that the additional runoff incident to the development
or the subdivision will overload an existing downstream drainage facility or
flood existing development upstream, the Planning Commission may withhold
approval of the subdivision until provision has the village made for the
improvement of said potential condition in such sum as the Planning Commission
shall determine. No subdivision shall be approved unless adequate drainage will
be provided to an adequate drainage watercourse or facility.
   (E)   Subdivision proposals and other proposed new development be required
to assure that all such proposals are consistent with the need to minimize
flood damage; all public utilities and facilities, such as sewer, gas,
electrical, and water systems are located, elevated and constructed to minimize
or eliminate flood damage; and adequate drainage is provided so as to reduce
exposure to flood hazards so as to assure that all building sites are
reasonably safe from flood hazards.
   (F)   Lots shall be laid out so as to provide positive drainage away from
all buildings and individual lot drainage shall be coordinated with the general
storm drainage pattern for the area. Drainage shall be designed so as to avoid
concentration of storm drainage water from each lot into areas not designed to
handle flood waters. Lot drainage plans shall conform to the drainage study
required for submittal approval.
(Ord. 2009-04, passed 4-23-2009)
§ 153.088  STORM SEWERS AND STORM WATER DRAINAGE.
   Where an adequate public storm sewer system is available at the plat
boundary, the village shall construct a storm sewer system and connect with
such storm sewer line. If such a storm sewer system is not accessible, natural
drainage channels with easement of adequate width shall be provided, as
determined by the Village Engineer and approved by the Village Board. Paved
gutters or storm sewers shall be required if velocities are greater than
specified in these regulations or cause destructive erosion. Storm drainage,
including drain tile around basements, shall not be permitted to discharge into
any sanitary sewer facility, but shall connect to an adequate drainage outlet.
(Ord. 2009-04, passed 4-23-2009)
§ 153.089  CULVERTS AND BRIDGES.
   Where natural drainage channels intersect any street right-of-way, it shall
be the responsibility of the village to have satisfactory bridges and/or
culverts constructed. Where culverts are required, minimum requirements shall
be observed as follows:
   (A)   All culverts shall extend across the entire right-of-way width of the
proposed street. The cover over the culvert and its capacity shall be
determined by the Village Engineer. The minimum diameter of a culvert pipe
shall be 18 inches. Depending on existing drainage conditions, head walls may
be required.
   (B)   Driveway culverts shall have a minimum length of 20 feet, and a
minimum diameter of 18 inches. The driveway culverts shall be laid so as to
maintain the flow lines of the ditch or gutter. Head walls may be required.
(Ord. 2009-04, passed 4-23-2009)
§ 153.090  SOLAR ACCESS.
   (A)   In order to promote the conservation of energy through the use of both
passive and active solar systems, streets in residential subdivisions should,
where possible, have an east-west alignment. Lots intended for detached
dwellings should be of sufficient width to allow the structure to be built with
its longest axis running east-west.
   (B)   In order to allow the orientations of structures on the site so as to
maximize potential solar gain, side lot lines should run as near to north-south
as possible providing that the angle between the side of lot line and the
street right-of-way line on a straight street or the tangent to a curved street
shall not be less then 80 degrees.
   (C)   Any property owner or developer may grant or establish a solar sky-
space easement to protect solar energy systems from shade. The easements shall
be created in writing and shall be recorded separately or should be contained
on the face of the plat. The easements shall run with the land.
(Ord. 2009-04, passed 4-23-2009)
§ 153.091  EROSION CONTROL.
   The subdivider shall be required to provide for the control of erosion of
areas of the subdivision which are disturbed by grading operations by
constructing temporary terraces on slopes, temporary silting basins, sod swales
and spillways, and whatever may be necessary to prevent erosion and damage to
adjacent properties from surface drainage as approved by the village and the
Village Engineer.
(Ord. 2009-04, passed 4-23-2009)
§ 153.092  FIRE PROTECTION.
   Fire hydrants shall be provided by the village in all subdivisions with
public water supplies. The hydrants shall be located between property bines and
curbs with all outlets facing or parallel to the street. Hydrants shall be
placed at the corners of all blocks and mid-block for blocks exceed 800 feet in
length. Hydrants shall also be required at the entrance and end of all cul-de-
sacs exceeding 400 feet in length. The type of hydrant and control valves and
the location of the hydrant shall be approved by the Fire Chief. The minimum
size of any water line serving any hydrant shall not be less than six inches in
diameter and should be circulating water lines. The size and location of water
lines shall be approved by the Village Engineer and the Fire Chief.
(Ord. 2009-04, passed 4-23-2009)
§ 153.093  ELECTRIC, GAS AND TELEPHONE IMPROVEMENTS.
   (A)   Electric service and telephone service shall be provided within each
subdivision. Gas service may be required where reasonably accessible. Whenever
such facilities are reasonably accessible and available, they may be required
to be installed within the area prior to the approval of the final plat.
Telephone, electric, street lighting and communications conductors may be
installed underground at the option of the Village Board.
   (B)   Overhead secondary utility lines, where installed shall be located at
the rear of all lots.
   (C)   Whenever a sanitary sewer line and electric and/or telephone line is
each placed underground in the same utility easement, the following provisions
shall be applicable:
      (1)   The total easement width shall not be less than 15 feet; and
      (2)   The sanitary sewer line shall be installed within three feet of the
easement, and the electric and/or telephone line shall be installed within
three feet of the opposite side of the easement.
(Ord. 2009-04, passed 4-23-2009)
SHARED IMPROVEMENT COSTS
§ 153.110  EXTENSIONS TO BOUNDARIES.
   The subdivider may be required to extend the necessary improvements to the
boundary of the proposed subdivision to serve adjoining unsubdivided land, as
determined by the Village Board.
(Ord. 2009-04, passed 4-23-2009)
§ 153.111  OFF-SITE EXTENSIONS.
   If street or utilities are not available at the boundary of a proposed
subdivision, and if the Village Board finds the extensions across undeveloped
areas would not be warranted as a special assessment to the intervening
properties or as a municipal expense until some future time, the subdivider may
be required, prior to the approval of the final plat, to obtain necessary
easements or right-of-way and construct and pay for such extensions. Such
improvements shall be available for connections by subdividers of adjoining
land.
(Ord. 2009-04, passed 4-23-2009)
SUBDIVISION IMPROVEMENT PROCEDURE
§ 153.125  SUBDIVISION IMPROVEMENTS GUARANTEE.
   (A)   Prior to the final plat approval, but after approval of all
improvement plans and specifications, the subdivider shall complete all
improvements required for the subdivision. Final plat approval shall not be
given until the dedication of all appropriate improvements and acceptance
thereof by the Village Board.
   (B)   In lieu of requiring the completion of all improvements prior to the
final plat approval, the Village Board may enter into an agreement with the
subdivider whereby the subdivider shall guarantee to complete all improvements
required by this chapter and approved by the Planning Commission and Village
Board in a manner satisfactory to the Village Board. To secure this agreement,
the subdivider shall provide, subject to the approval of the Village Board, one
or more of the guarantees set forth in §§
153.051 through
153.053 of this chapter.
(Ord. 2009-04, passed 4-23-2009)
§ 153.126  SURETY PERFORMANCE BOND.
   The subdivider shall obtain a performance bond from a bonding company
authorized to do business in the state. The bond shall be payable to the
village and shall be in an amount to cover 110% of the cost of all
improvements, as estimated by the subdivider and accepted by the Village Board
upon recommendations of the Village Attorney and Engineer. The duration of the
bond shall be until such time as the improvements are accepted by the Village
Board in accordance with §
153.134 of this chapter.
(Ord. 2009-04, passed 4-23-2009)
§ 153.127  ESCROW ACCOUNT.
   The subdivider shall deposit cash, or other instrument readily convertible
to cash at face value, either with the Village Board or in escrow with a bank.
The use of any instrument other than cash, and in the case of an escrow
account, the bank with which the funds are to be deposited, shall be subject to
the approval of the Village Board. The amount of the deposit shall be an amount
equal to 110% of the estimated cost of all required improvements as estimated
by the subdivider and accepted by the Village Board upon recommendation of the
Village Engineer.
(Ord. 2009-04, passed 4-23-2009)
§ 153.128  SECURITY AGREEMENT.
   (A)   The subdivider shall provide a security agreement guaranteeing the
installation of all required improvements. The security agreement must be
approved by the Village Attorney and in an amount sufficient to guarantee the
installation of all improvements.
   (B)   In the case of an escrow account, the subdivider shall file with the
Village Board an agreement between the bank and himself or herself guaranteeing
the following:
      (1)   That the funds of said escrow account shall be held in trust until
released by the Village Board and may not be used or pledged by the subdivider
as security in any other matter during that period; and
      (2)   That in the case of a default on the part of the subdivider to
complete said improvements, the bank shall immediately make the funds of said
account available to the Village Board for use in completion of the
improvements.
(Ord. 2009-04, passed 4-23-2009)
§ 153.129  IMPROVEMENT (ASSESSMENT) DISTRICT.
   Because the original intent of such improvements in already built-up areas,
and because the village should not assume the risk of real estate development
which results if the lots are unable to be sold and the subdivider defaults on
the assessment payments, the use of improvement districts in connections with
new subdivision developments shall not be used as a method of financing such
improvements. Only in specific cases where the subdivider illustrates through
extensive market research will the Village Board consider acceptances of an
improvement district as a means of financing the necessary improvements and
providing financial security to the village.
(Ord. 2009-04, passed 4-23-2009)
§ 153.130  TIME LIMITS.
   Prior to the granting of final plat approval, the subdivider and the Village
Board shall agree upon a deadline for the completion of all improvements. Such
deadline shall not exceed two years from the date of final plat approval,
provided, however, the Village Board may extend that deadline for one
additional year where the subdivider present, substantial reason for doing so
and provides any additional performance surety made necessary due to inflation
or increased cost of completing the improvements.
(Ord. 2009-04, passed 4-23-2009)
§ 153.131  INSTALLATION OF IMPROVEMENTS.
   Developers may select either method or combination of methods listed below
to comply with the minimum improvement requirements:
   (A)   They may install the required improvements upon acceptance of plans
and specifications being approved by Village Engineer and Village Board; and
   (B)   They may submit a petition or petitions requesting the village to
construct street surfacing, sanitary sewer, and water mains in the proposed
subdivision by the district method. In that event, the village will prepare
plans and specification for all such improvements districts and shall assess
the cost of such improvements to the adjacent property, as provided by law. The
size of any street improvement district, sanitary sewer district, or water main
district, shall be determined by the Village Board and the construction of any
such district shall be subject to the villages ability to finance any of the
improvements.
(Ord. 2009-04, passed 4-23-2009)
§ 153.132  PLAN REVIEW REIMBURSEMENT.
   The subdivider or sanitary and improvements district shall reimburse the
village such costs incurred by the village for plan review, plan check, and
plan approval as to conformance with approved village standards and
specifications, but such costs shall not exceed 1% of the total contracted cost
for improvements in the subdivision.
(Ord. 2009-04, passed 4-23-2009)
§ 153.133  FAILURE TO COMPLETE IMPROVEMENTS.
   If any portion of the required improvements shall fail to be completed and
accepted for dedication in compliance with §
153.134 of this chapter within the required time period, either for reason of
non-completion or for reason of substandard and unacceptable construction, the
Village Board shall accept one of the following sections:
   (A)   Where improvements have the village guaranteed under §
153.126 of this chapter, the bond shall be forfeited to the village.
   (B)   (1)   Where improvements have the village guaranteed under §
153.126 of this chapter, the Village Board shall declare whatever security has
the village pledged as a guarantee to be forfeited.
      (2)   Where the Village Board is not already in possession of said
security, it shall immediately take the actions necessary to obtain it. Upon
receipt of the security, the Village Board shall use such to finance the
completion of the improvements or rebuilding of substandard improvements.
Unused portions of the surety shall be returned to the subdivider without
interest.
(Ord. 2009-04, passed 4-23-2009)
§ 153.134  INSPECTION AND CERTIFICATION.
   (A)   The Village Engineer or other authorized person shall regularly
inspect construction of required improvements for defects. Upon completion of
the improvements, the Village Engineer or other authorized person shall file
with the Village Board a statement either certifying that the improvements have
the village completed in the specified manner or listing defects in those
improvements which do not meet the requirements of the approved improvement
plans and specifications.
   (B)   Upon completion of the improvements, the subdivider shall file with
the Village Board a statement stipulating the following:
      (1)   That all required improvements are complete;
      (2)   That these improvements are in compliance with the minimum
standards specified by the Planning Commission and Village Board;
      (3)   That the subdivider knows of no defects from any cause in the
improvements; and
      (4)   That these improvements are free and clear of any encumbrance or
lien.
   (C)   If the Village Engineer or other authorized person has certified that
the improvements are complete and free from defect, the Village Board shall
accept any dedication of improvements. The Village Board may, at its
discretion, accept the dedication of any portion of the improvements provided
that all statements and agreements specified above have the village received
for that portion of the improvements.
(Ord. 2009-04, passed 4-23-2009)
§ 153.135  REDUCTION OF GUARANTEES.
   In those cases where improvement guaranteed have the village made under §§
153.126 or
153.127 of this chapter, the amount of the guarantee may be reduced upon
acceptance in compliance with §
153.134 of this chapter of the dedication of a portion of the improvements.
(Ord. 2009-04, passed 4-23-2009)
§ 153.136  RELEASE OF GUARANTEES.
   Upon acceptance, in accordance with this chapter, the Village Board shall
authorize the release of the performance bond or the remaining portion of the
escrow.
(Ord. 2009-04, passed 4-23-2009)
ANNEXATION AND RECORDING OF PLAT
§ 153.150  SUBDIVISION ANNEXATION OF ADJOINING OR CONTIGUOUS PROPERTIES.
   All subdivisions or additions laid out adjoining or contiguous to the
corporate limits shall be included within the same and become a part of the
municipality for all purposes whatsoever, upon approval of and acceptance by
resolution of the Village Board.
(Neb. RS 19-916)  (Ord. 2009-04, passed 4-23-2009)
§ 153.151  PETITION FOR ANNEXATION.
   Any subdivision in which there are lands dedicated to the village or any
subdivision serviced by public utilities shall be annexed to the village.
Before approval for the final plat is given, the municipal body shall receive a
petition for annexation from the owners of the subdivided properties.
(Ord. 2009-04, passed 4-23-2009)
§ 153.152  ADOPTION PLAN BY RESOLUTION.
   (A)   The Village Board desiring to annex land under the authority of this
section shall first adopt both a resolution stating that the village is
considering the annexation of the land and a plan for extending village
services to the land. The resolution shall state:
      (1)   The time, date and location of the public hearing required below;
      (2)   A description of the boundaries of the land proposed for
annexation; and
      (3)   That the plan of the village for extension of village services to
the land proposed for annexation is available for inspection during regular
business hours in the office of the Village Clerk.
   (B)   The plan adopted by the Village Board shall contain sufficient detail
to provide a reasonable persons with a full and complete understanding of the
intentions of the village for extending village services to the land proposed
for annexation. The plan shall:
      (1)   State the estimated cost impact of providing the services to such
land;
      (2)   State the method by which the village plans to finance the
extension of services to the land and how any services already provided to the
land will be maintained;
      (3)   Include a timetable for extending service to the land proposed for
annexation; and
      (4)   Include a map drawn to scale clearly delineating the land proposed
for annexation, the current boundaries of the village, the proposed boundaries
of the village after annexation and the general land-use pattern in the land
proposed for annexation.
   (C)   A public hearing on the proposed annexation shall be held within 60
days following the adoption of the resolution to allow the Village Board to
receive testimony from interested persons. The Village Board may recess the
hearing, for good case, to a time and date specified at the hearing.
   (D)   A copy of the resolution providing for the public hearing shall be
published in the official newspaper or the village at least once not less than
ten days preceding the date of the public hearing. A map drawn to scale
delineating the land proposed for annexation shall be published with the
resolution. A copy of the resolution providing for the public hearing shall be
sent by first-class mail, following its passage, to the school board of any
school district in the land proposed for annexation.
(Ord. 2009-04, passed 4-23-2009)
VARIANCES
§ 153.165  GRANTING OF VARIANCES; CONDITIONS.
   The Village Board may grant variances from the provisions herein, but only
after determining that:
   (A)   There are unique circumstances or conditions affecting the property;
   (B)   The variance is necessary for the reasonable and acceptable
development of the property in question; and
   (C)   The granting of the variance will not be detrimental to the public
welfare or injurious to the adjacent property.
(Ord. 2009-04, passed 4-23-2009)
§ 153.166  RECORDING OF PLAT.
   In no case shall the requirement of filing and recording a plat for
subdivision be waived.
(Ord. 2009-04, passed 4-23-2009)
§ 153.167  PLANNED DEVELOPMENT.
   The Village Board may also grant reasonable variances, if the subdivider
concurrently submits an application for, and obtains approval of, a planned
development. The subdivider shall indicate where the plans vary from the
requirements of this chapter and shall present sufficient evidence to support
the request, indicating why the request, will not be detrimental to the public
health, safety and welfare.
(Ord. 2009-04, passed 4-23-2009)
PUBLIC SITES AND OPEN SPACES
§ 153.180  RECREATION STANDARDS.
   The Planning Commission may require that land be dedicated for parks and
playgrounds or other recreation purposes. Such areas shall be shown and marked
on both the preliminary and final plat, as “dedicated for park and/or
recreation purpose.” The developer shall dedicate all such recreation areas to
the village as a condition of final subdivision plat approval. The Commission
may require that the recreation area be located at a suitable place on the edge
of the subdivision so that additional land may be added at such time as the
adjacent land is subdivided. In no case shall an area of less than one acre be
reserved for recreation purposes if it will be impractical or impossible to
secure additional lands in order to increase its area.
(Ord. 2009-04, passed 4-23-2009)
§ 153.181  RECREATION SITES.
   Land reserved for recreation purposes shall be of a character and location
suitable for use as a playground, playfield, or for other recreation purposes;
and shall be improved by the developer to the standards required by the
Planning Commission, which improvements shall be included in the performance
bond. A recreation site shall have a total frontage on one or more streets of
at least 100 feet, and no other dimension of the site shall be less than 100
feel unless it is for a designated linear park. The Planning Commission may
refer any subdivision proposed to contain a dedicated park to the Park Board
for a recommendation. All land to be reserved for dedication to the village for
park purposes shall have prior approval of the Village Board and shall be shown
marked on the plat “dedicated for park.”
(Ord. 2009-04, passed 4-23-2009)
CHAPTER 154:  ZONING CODE
Section
General Provisions
   
154.001   Title
   
154.002   Jurisdiction
   
154.003   Purpose
   
154.004   Application of regulations generally
   
154.005   Zoning affects every building and use
   
154.006   Yard and lot reduction prohibited
   
154.007   Minimum requirements
   
154.008   Nonconformities
   
154.009   Definitions
Establishment and Designation of Districts
   
154.025   Planning Commission recommendations
   
154.026   Districts created
   
154.027   Official zoning map
   
154.028   Rules for interpretation of district boundaries
Zoning Districts
   
154.040   AGR Agriculture Residential District
   
154.041   R-1 Residential Single-Family District
   
154.042   R-2 Residential Mobile Home/Single- and Multi-Family District
   
154.043   C-1 General Commercial District
   
154.044   C-2 Highway Commercial District
   
154.045   I Industrial District
Special Use Permit
   
154.060   Generally
   
154.061   Procedures
   
154.062   Salvage or junk yard
   
154.063   Landfills and sanitary landfills
Parking Regulations
   
154.075   Generally
   
154.076   Off-street parking requirements
   
154.077   Off-street loading requirements
Accessory Uses and Supplemental Regulations
   
154.090   Accessory buildings
   
154.091   Home occupations
   
154.092   Manufactured homes
   
154.093   Yard regulations
   
154.094   Exceptions to height regulations
   
154.095   Exceptions to lot size requirements
   
154.096   Mobile home parks
   
154.097   Fences, walls and hedges
   
154.098   Sign regulations
Board of Zoning Adjustment
   
154.115   Creation; membership
   
154.116   Meetings
   
154.117   Interpretations and variances
   
154.118   Procedures for requesting a variance
   
154.119   Appeals from Board of Zoning Adjustment
Administration and Enforcement
   
154.135   Enforcement
   
154.136   Building permits required
   
154.137   Certification of occupancy required
   
154.138   Schedule of fees
   
154.139   Amendment
   
154.140   Complaints regarding violations
   
154.141   Remedies
 
   
154.999   Penalty
Editor’s note:
The village completed a housing market study in November 2008. A full copy of
the study can  be found in the Village Clerk’s office.
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 154.001  TITLE.
   This chapter is adopted and cited as the Zoning Code of the Village of
Brady, Nebraska.
(Ord. 2009-04, passed 4-23-2009)
§ 154.002  JURISDICTION.
   The provisions of this chapter shall apply within the planning jurisdiction
of the village as established on the map entitled “The Official Zoning Map of
the Village of Brady, Nebraska.” The jurisdiction includes the zoning areas
within and up to one mile beyond the corporate limits of the village.
(Ord. 2009-04, passed 4-23-2009)
§ 154.003  PURPOSE.
   In pursuance of the authority conferred by Neb. RS 19-901 through 19-914 as
amended, this chapter is enacted for the purpose of promoting the health,
safety, convenience, order, prosperity and welfare of the present and future
inhabitants in the village by regulating and restricting the height, number of
stories, and size of buildings and other structures, the size of yards, courts,
and other open spaces, and the location and use of buildings, structures and
land for trade, industry, residence, or other purposes in accordance with the
Comprehensive Plan and the zoning maps adopted herewith.
(Ord. 2009-04, passed 4-23-2009)
§ 154.004  GENERAL.
   This chapter within each district shall be minimum regulations and shall
apply uniformly to each class or kind of structure or land, except as
hereinafter provided.
(Ord. 2009-04, passed 4-23-2009)
§ 154.005  ZONING AFFECTS EVERY BUILDING AND USE.
   No building, structure, or land shall hereafter be used or occupied, and no
building or structure or part thereof shall hereafter be erected, constructed,
moved or structurally altered except in conformity with all of the zoning
regulations herein specified for the district in which it is located.
(Ord. 2009-04, passed 4-23-2009)  Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.006  YARD AND LOT REDUCTION PROHIBITED.
   No yard or lot existing at the time of passage of this chapter shall be
reduced by private action in dimension or area below the minimum requirements
set herein. Yards or lots created after the effective date of this chapter
shall meet the minimum requirements established by this chapter.
(Ord. 2009-04, passed 4-23-2009)  Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.007  MINIMUM REQUIREMENTS.
   In their interpretation and application, the provisions of this chapter
shall be held to be minimum requirements, adopted for the promotion of the
public health, safety, morals, or general welfare. Where applicable, municipal,
state, or federal standards which are more restrictive than those contained
herein, the more restrictive standards shall apply.
(Ord. 2009-04, passed 4-23-2009)
§ 154.008  NONCONFORMITIES.
   Nonconformities are of three types: nonconforming lots of record,
nonconforming structures and nonconforming uses:
   (A)   Nonconforming lots of record. The Zoning Administrator may issue a
permit for any nonconforming lot of record (in association with §
154.095 of this chapter) provided that:
      (1)   Said lot is shown by a recorded plat or deed to have been owned
separately and individually from adjoining tracts of land at a time when the
creation of a lot of such size and width at such location would not have been
prohibited; and
      (2)   Said lot has remained in separate and individual ownership from
adjoining tracts of land continuously during the entire time that the creation
of such lot has been prohibited by this chapter, and said lot can meet all
required yard regulations for the district in which it is located.
   (B)   Nonconforming structures.
      (1)   Authority to continue. Any structure which is devoted to a use
which is permitted in the zoning district in which it is located, but which is
located on a lot which does not comply with the use regulations and/or the
applicable yard and height regulations may be continued, so long as it remains
otherwise lawful.
      (2)   Enlargement, repair and alterations. Any nonconforming structure
may be enlarged, maintained, repaired, remodeled, or rebuilt; provided,
however, that no such enlargement, maintenance, repair or remodeling shall
either create any additional nonconformity or increase the degree of existing
nonconformity of all or any part of such structure.
      (3)   Damage or destruction. In the event any nonconforming structure is
damaged or destroyed, by any means, to the extent of more than 75% of its
assessed fair market value, such structure shall not be restored unless it
shall thereafter conform to the regulations for the zoning district in which it
is located. When a structure is damaged to the extent of 75% or less of its
assessed fair market value, no repairs or restoration shall be made unless a
building permit is obtained within six months, and restoration is actually
begun one year after the date of such partial destruction and is diligently
pursued to completion.
      (4)   Moving. No nonconforming structure shall be moved in whole or in
part for any distance whatever, to any other location on the same or any other
lot unless the entire structure shall thereafter conform to the regulations of
the zoning district in which it is located after being moved.
   (C)   Nonconforming uses. 
      (1)   Authority to continue. Any lawfully existing nonconforming use of
part or all of a structure or any lawfully existing nonconforming use of land,
not involving a structure or only involving a structure which is accessory to
such use or land, may be continued, so long as otherwise lawful.
      (2)   Ordinary repair and maintenance.
         (a)   Normal maintenance and incidental repair, or replacement,
installation or relocation of nonbearing walls, nonbearing partitions,
fixtures, wiring or plumbing, water and/or waste disposal systems, may be
performed on any structure or system that is devoted in whole or in part to a
nonconforming use.
         (b)   Nothing in this chapter shall be deemed to prevent the
strengthening or restoring to a safe condition of a structure in accordance
with an order of a public official in charge of protecting the public safety
who declares such structure to be unsafe and orders its restoration to a safe
condition.
      (3)   Extension. A nonconforming use shall not be extended, enlarged, or
increased in intensity. Such prohibited activities shall include, without being
limited to the extension of such use to any structure or land area other than
that occupied by such nonconforming use on the effective date of this chapter
(or on the effective date of subsequent amendments hereto that cause such use
to become nonconforming).
      (4)   Enlargement. No structure that is devoted in whole or in part to a
nonconforming use shall be enlarged or added to in any manner unless such
structure and the use thereof shall thereafter conform to the regulations of
the district in which it is located.
      (5)   Damage or destruction. In the event that a nonconforming building
or use is damaged to the extent of more than 75% of its reasonable replacement
value, the property shall conform to the zone in which it is located.
      (6)   Moving. No structure that is devoted in whole or in part to a
nonconforming use and nonconforming use of land shall be moved in whole or in
part for any distance whatever, to any location on the same or any other lot,
unless the entire structure and the use thereof or the use of land shall
thereafter conform to all regulations of the zoning district in which it is
located after being so moved.
      (7)   Change in use. If no external structural alterations are made which
will expand the area or change the dimensions of the existing structure, any
nonconforming use of a structure, or structure and premises, may be changed to
another nonconforming use provided that the governing body after receiving a
recommendation from the Planning Commission, by making findings in the specific
case, shall find that the proposed use is more appropriate to the district than
the existing nonconforming use. More appropriate shall mean creating less
traffic, noise, glare, odor or other characteristics of the proposed use. In
permitting such change, the governing body may require appropriate conditions
and safeguards to protect surrounding areas and properties. Once such use has
changed, it may no longer be returned to the original use or any other less
appropriate use.
      (8)   Abandonment or discontinuance. When a nonconforming use is
discontinued or abandoned, for a period of 12 consecutive months, (as per Neb.
RS 19-904.01), such use shall not thereafter be re-established or resumed, and
any subsequent use or occupancy of such land shall comply with the regulations
of the zoning district in which such land is located.
      (9)   Nonconforming accessory uses. No use which is accessory to a
principal nonconforming use shall continue after such principal use shall cease
or terminate.
(Ord. 2009-04, passed 4-23-2009)  Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.009  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACCESSORY USE OF BUILDING. A subordinate building or use which customarily
is incidental to that of the main or principal building or use of the premises.
Customary accessory uses include, but are not limited to, tennis courts,
swimming pools, detached garages, garden houses, antenna/satellite dishes,
amateur radio or land mobile towers of less than 100 feet, and residential,
agricultural and recreational storage sheds. Garages or other accessory uses
attached to the principal structure shall be considered a part thereof and meet
the requirements of the principal structure.
   AGRICULTURAL FARM OR OPERATION. A tract of land or a combination of tracts
of land utilized primarily for agricultural purposes which either singularly or
jointly consist of at least 20 acres and which produces $1,000 or more of farm
products each year.
   ALLEY.  A public or private thoroughfare which affords only a secondary
means of access to the property abutting thereon.
   BUILDABLE AREA. The portion of a lot remaining after required yards have
been provided.
   BUILDING. An enclosed structure, anchored to permanent foundation, and
having exterior or party walls and a roof, designed for the shelter of persons,
animals or property. When divided by other than common or contiguous walls,
each portion or section of such building shall be regarded as a separate
building, except that two buildings connected by a breezeway shall be deemed
one building. BUILDING includes STRUCTURE.
   BUILDING HEIGHT.  The vertical distance to the highest point of the roofs;
to the deck line of mansard roofs; and to the average height between eaves and
the ridge for gable, hip, and gambrel roofs, measured from the curb level if
the building is not more than ten feet from the front lot line or from the
grade in all other cases.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/efd7f50c42e51d4cfa2f983b8852980be5002405/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1261.jpg]
 
   CAMP GROUNDS.  Any premises where two or more camping units are parked/
placed for camping purposes, or any premises used or set apart for supplying to
the public, camping space for two or more camping units for camping purposes,
which include any buildings, structures, vehicles or enclosures used or
intended for use or intended wholly or in part for the accommodation of
transient campers.
   CHILD CARE CENTER. A facility which is or should be licensed by the Nebraska
Department of Health and Human Services under the authority of Neb. RS 71-1908
through 71-1918, as provided and defined under the Title 474 of the Nebraska
Administrative Code, Chapter 6, Section 002.
   CHILD CARE HOME. A private home providing care (for children) for
compensation which is or should be licensed by the Nebraska Department of
Health and Human Services.
   CONDITIONAL USE.  A use which is allowed in a zone when specified conditions
have been complied with as identified for each district as a CONDITIONAL USE. A
conditional use permit is reviewed and issued by the Zoning Administrator.
   DWELLING.  Any building or portion thereof which is designed and used
exclusively for residential purposes.
   DWELLING, MULTI-FAMILY. A building or portion thereof used for occupancy by
three or more families living independently of each other and containing three
or more dwelling units.
   DWELLING, SINGLE-FAMILY. A dwelling having accommodations for and occupied
by one family.
   DWELLING, TWO-FAMILY. A residential building containing two dwelling units
entirely surrounded by open space on the same lot.
   DWELLING UNIT. Consists of one or more rooms which are arranged, designed or
used as a separate living quarters by a single-family or other group of persons
living together as a household or a person living alone. Individual bathrooms
and complete kitchen facilities, permanently installed, shall always be
included for each DWELLING UNIT.
   EASEMENT. A grant by the property owner to the public, a corporation or
persons for the use of a tract of land for a specific purpose or purposes.
   FARM RESIDENCE. Residential dwellings located on a farm, including mobile
homes appurtenant to agricultural operations including the living quarters for
persons employed on the premises.
   FARMSTEAD. Any building site that includes at least two buildings that have
combined assessed valuation for tax purposes of at least $5,000 as of the date
on which these regulations go into effect.
   GROUP HOME.  A facility which houses more than five but less than 16 persons
who are unrelated by blood, marriage or adoption. Those facilities may offer,
in addition to lodging, accommodations, meals, resident support services,
counseling, guidance and varying levels of medical care. Such facility shall be
licensed or approved by the state or other appropriate agency.
   HOME OCCUPATION. An occupation or activity carried on within the dwelling or
accessory building by a member of the family residing on the premises, which
occupation or activity is incidental and secondary to the residential occupancy
and does not change the residential character nor infringe upon the right of
neighboring residents to enjoy a peaceful occupancy of their homes.
   LANDFILL. A disposal site employing an engineering method of disposing solid
wastes in a manner that minimizes environmental hazards by spreading,
compacting to the smallest volume, and applying cover material over all exposed
waste at the end of each operating day and in conformance with the requirements
of the Nebraska Department of Health and Human Service System.
   LIVESTOCK, CONFINEMENT FACILITIES/OPERATIONS. Any building(s), lot(s), pen
(s), pool(s) or pond(s) or other confined spaces, which normally are not used
for raising crops or grazing animals, which are designed and/or used for on-
going confined raising, feeding or management of animals for more than 180
consecutive days.
   LOT. A parcel of land occupied or intended for occupation by a use permitted
in this chapter and fronting upon a street or road.
   LOT, CORNER. A lot abutting two or more streets or roads at their
intersection.
   LOT DEPTH. The average horizontal distance between the front and rear lot
lines.
   LOT FRONTAGE. The front of a lot shall be construed to be the portion
nearest the street or road.
   LOT OF RECORD. A lot of which is part of a subdivision recorded in the
Office of the Register of Deeds, or a lot or parcel described by metes and
bounds the description of which has been so recorded.
   LOT WIDTH. The distance on a horizontal plane between the side lot lines of
a lot, measured at right angles to the line establishing the lot depth at the
established building setback line.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. A factory-built structure which is to be used as a place
for human habitation, which is not constructed or equipped with a permanent
hitch or other device allowing it to be moved other than to a permanent site,
which does not have permanently attached to its body or frame any wheels or
axles, and which bears a label certifying that it was built to compliance with
National Manufactured Home Construction and Safety Standards, 24 C.F.R. 3280 et
seq., promulgated by the United States Department of Housing and Urban
Development, or a modular housing unit as defined in Neb. RS 71-1557 bearing
the seal of the Department of Health and Human Service System.
   MOBILE HOME. A year-round, transportable structure which is a single-family
dwelling unit suitable for permanent, more than 30 days of living, quarters,
more than eight feet wide and 40 feet in length and built to be towed on its
own chassis with or without a permanent foundation when connected to the
required utilities. This portable dwelling may consist of one or more units
that can be telescoped when towed and expanded later for additional capacity,
or two or more units, separately towable but designed to be joined as one
integral unit. Nothing in this definition shall be construed so as to include
prefabricated, modular, precut dwelling units or these manufactured in sections
or parts away from the site and transported thereto for assembly.
   MOBILE HOME PARK. Any area of land which two or more mobile homes are
parked, connected to utilities and used by one or more persons for living or
sleeping purposes. A mobile home parked in this area can either be placed on
permanent foundation or supported only by its wheels, jacks, blocks, or
skirtings or a combination of those devices. A MOBILE HOME PARK includes any
premises set apart for supplying to the public parking space, either free of
charge or for revenue purposes for one or more mobile homes, connected to
utilities and used by one ore more persons living, or sleeping purposes and
shall include any building, structure, tent, vehicle or enclosure used or
intended for use as part of the equipment of such MOBILE HOME PARK.
   MODULAR HOME. Any dwelling whose construction consists entirely of or the
major portions of its construction consist of a unit or units not fabricated on
the final site for the dwelling units, which units are movable or portable
until placed on a permanent foundation and connected to utilities. All modular
homes shall bear a label certifying that it was built to compliance with the
Nebraska Department of Health and Human Services System as established in Neb.
RS 71-1557.
   NONCONFORMING LOT OF RECORD. A lot which is part of a recorded subdivision
or a parcel of land, the deed to which was recorded prior to the approval date
of this chapter and neither said lot nor parcel complies with the lot width or
area requirements for any permitted uses in the district in which it is
located.
   NONCONFORMING STRUCTURE. An existing structure which does not comply with
the lot coverage, height or yard requirements which are applicable to new
structures in the zoning district in which it is located.
   NONCONFORMING USE. An existing use of a structure or of land which does not
comply with the use regulation applicable to new uses in the zoning district in
which it is located.
   PARKING SPACE, OFF-STREET. An area, enclosed or unenclosed, sufficient in
size to store one automobile, together with a driveway connecting the parking
space with a street or road and permitting ingress and egress of an automobile.
   RECYCLING CENTER. A facility which accepts salvage material limited to
paper, aluminum foil, containers made of glass, plastic, metal, aluminum, and
paper; and similar household wastes; no hazardous material as defined by state
and federal law is accepted; there is no wrecking or dismantling of salvage
material and no salvage material is held outside a building.
   RECYCLING COLLECTION POINT. A collection point for small refuse items, such
as bottles and newspapers, located either in a container or small structure.
   SALVAGE OR JUNK YARD. A place where waste, discarded or salvaged metals,
building materials, paper, textiles, used plumbing fixtures, abandoned or
inoperable motor vehicles or parts thereof, and other used materials are
bought, sold, exchanged, stored, baled or cleaned; and places or yards for the
storage of salvaged metal, materials and equipment; but not including pawn
shops and establishments for the sale, purchase or storage of used cars or
trucks presently in operable condition, boats or trailers presently in operable
condition, and used furniture and household equipment in usable condition and
not including the processing of used, discarded or salvaged material as part of
manufacturing operations.
   SANITARY LANDFILL. A lot or parcel of land used primarily for the disposal,
abandonment, dumping, burial or burning of garbage, sewage, trash, refuse,
junk, discarded machinery or motor vehicles, or parts thereof, or other waste,
and which is in conformance with the requirements of the Nebraska Department of
Health and Human Service System.
   SANITARY TRANSFER STATION. A collection point for temporary storage of
refuse. No processing of refuse would be allowed. The transfer station must be
in conformance with the requirements of the Nebraska Department of Health and
Human Service System.
   SPECIAL USE PERMIT. A written permit issued with authorization of the
applicable governing body. The special permit provides permission under
specific conditions to make certain special uses of land in certain zoning
districts as stipulated under permitted special uses in each of the district
zoning regulations.
   STREET. All property acquired or dedicated to the public and accepted by the
appropriate governmental agencies for street purposes.
   STREET, CENTER LINE. A line midway between street lines.
   STREET LINE. A dividing line between a lot, tract, or parcel of land and the
contiguous street. The right-of-way line of a street.
   STRUCTURAL ALTERATION. Any change to the supporting members of a structure
including foundations, bearing walls, or partitions, columns, beams, girders or
any structural change in the roof.
   STRUCTURE. Anything constructed or erected, the use of which requires
permanent location on the ground or attachment to something having a permanent
location on the ground, but not including fences or public items such as
utility poles, street light fixtures, street signs, bridges and culverts.
   TEMPORARY HOUSING UNITS. Include travel trailers, campers or self-contained
motor homes not exceeding eight feet in width, nor 32 feet in length.
   TOWNHOUSE. One of a group or row of not less than two nor more than 12
attached, single- family dwellings designed and built as a single structure
facing upon a street in which the individual TOWNHOUSE may or may not be owned
separately. For the purpose of the side yard regulations, the structure
containing the row or group of townhouses shall be considered as one building
occupying a single lot.
   VARIANCE. A relaxation of the terms of this chapter, where such VARIANCE
will not be contrary to the public interest and where, owing to conditions
peculiar to the property, and not the result of the actions of the applicant, a
literal enforcement of the ordinance would result in unnecessary and undue
hardship.
   YARD. A required open space, other than a court, unoccupied and unobstructed
by any structure or portion of a structure, provided, however, that fences,
walls, poles, posts, and other customary yards accessories, ornaments, and
furniture may be permitted in any yard subject to the district regulations.
   YARD, FRONT. A yard extending from the front lot line adjoining a public
street to the front of the building between side lot lines.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/efd7f50c42e51d4cfa2f983b8852980be5002405/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1268.jpg]
 
   YARD, REAR. A yard extending between side lot lines and measured
horizontally at right angles to the rear lot bine from the rear lot to the
nearest point of the main building.
   YARD, REQUIRED. The required minimum open space between the property line
and the yard line. The required yard shall contain no building or structure
other than the projection of the usual steps, or open porches, or as, otherwise
provided in this chapter.
   YARD, SIDE. A yard between a building and the side lot line measured
horizontally at right angles to the side lot line from the side lot line to the
nearest point of the main building.
   ZONING ADMINISTRATOR. The person or persons authorized and empowered by the
governing body to administer the requirements of this chapter.
   ZONING BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT. The legally appointed board empowered to hear
and decide appeals from, and to provide interpretations of, the terms of this
chapter and the official maps as defined within this chapter and in accordance
with the laws of the state.
   ZONING DISTRICT. An area delineated on a zoning map for which uniform use
regulations are specified.
   ZONING MAP. A map or maps officially enacted by the governing body as part
of this chapter showing the boundaries of a zoning district or districts, a
copy or copies of which, certified to have been enacted as provided by law, is
filed in the office of the Village Clerk as an official record of the village.
(Ord. 2009-04, passed 4-23-2009)
ESTABLISHMENT AND DESIGNATION OF DISTRICTS
§ 154.025  PLANNING COMMISSION RECOMMENDATIONS.
   It shall be a purpose of the Planning Commission to recommend the boundaries
of the various original districts and appropriate regulations to be enforced
therein. The Planning Commission shall make a preliminary report and hold
public hearings thereon before submitting its final report, and the governing
body shall not hold its public hearings or take action until it has received
the final report of the Planning Commission.
(Ord. 2009-04, passed 4-23-2009)
§ 154.026  DISTRICTS CREATED.
   For the purpose of this chapter, there are hereby created zoning districts,
as named and described in §§
154.040 through
154.045 of this chapter.
   (A)   AGR Agriculture Residential District;
   (B)   R-1 Residential Single-Family District;
   (C)   R-2 Residential Mobile Home/Single- and Multi-Family District;
   (D)   C-1 General Commercial District;
   (E)   C-2 Highway Commercial District; and
   (F)   I Industrial.
(Ord. 2009-04, passed 4-23-2009)
§ 154.027  OFFICIAL ZONING MAP.
   (A)   The boundaries of the district are shown upon maps, which are made a
part hereof, which map(s) are designated as the village zoning district map,
dated 9-8-2010 and signed by the Mayor and attested by the Village Clerk and
hereinafter referred to as the “official zoning maps.”
   (B)   The signed copy of the zoning map(s) containing the zoning districts
designated at the time of adoption of this chapter shall be maintained in the
office of the Village Clerk for the use and benefit of the public.
   (C)   (1)   If in accordance with the provisions of this chapter, changes
are made in the district boundaries or other matter portrayed on the official
zoning map(s), such changes shall be entered on the appropriate part of the
official zoning map(s) promptly after the amendment has been approved by the
governing body, with an entry on the official zoning map(s) as follows:
   “On (date), by official action of the Village Board, the following change
was made in the official zoning map(s) (brief description of the nature of the
change), which entry shall be signed by the Mayor and attested by the Village
Clerk.”
      (2)   No amendment to this chapter, which involves matter portrayed on
the official zoning map(s) shall become effective until after such change and
entry have been made on said map(s).
   (D)   No changes of any nature shall be made in the official zoning map(s)
or matter show thereon except in conformity with the procedures set forth in
this chapter.
   (E)   (1)   In the event that the official zoning map(s) become damaged,
destroyed, lost or difficult to interpret, the Village Board, may, by
ordinance, adopt a new official zoning map(s) which shall supersede the prior
official zoning map(s).
      (2)   The new official zoning map(s) may correct drafting or other errors
or omissions in the prior official zoning map(s), but no such correction shall
have the effect of amending the original official zoning map(s) or any
subsequent amendment thereof.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/efd7f50c42e51d4cfa2f983b8852980be5002405/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1270.jpg]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/efd7f50c42e51d4cfa2f983b8852980be5002405/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1272.jpg]
 
(Ord. 2009-04, passed 4-23-2009; Ord. passed 9-8-2010)
§ 154.028  RULES FOR INTERPRETATION OF DISTRICT BOUNDARIES.
   Where uncertainty exists as to the boundaries of districts as shown on the
official zoning map(s), the following rules shall apply:
   (A)   Boundaries indicated as approximately following the center lines of
streets, highways or alleys shall be construed to follow such center lines;
   (B)   Boundaries indicated as approximately following platted lot lines
shall be construed as following such lot lines;
   (C)   Boundaries indicated as approximately following village limits shall
be construed as following such village limits;
   (D)   Boundaries indicated as following railroad lines shall be construed to
be midway between the main tracks;
   (E)   Boundaries indicated as parallel to or extension of features indicated
in divisions (A) through (D) of this section shall be so construed. Distances
not specifically indicated on the official zoning map(s) shall be determined by
the scale of the map;
   (F)   Where physical or cultural features existing on the ground are at
variance with those shown on the official zoning map(s), or in other
circumstances not covered by divisions (A) through (E) of this section, the
Board of Zoning Adjustment shall interpret the district boundaries; and
   (G)   Where a district boundary line divides a lot which was in single
ownership at the time of passage of this chapter, the Board of Zoning
Adjustment may permit, as an exception, the extension of the regulations for
either portion of the lot not to exceed 150 feet beyond the district line into
the remaining portion of the lot.
(Ord. 2009-04, passed 4-23-2009)
ZONING DISTRICTS
§ 154.040  AGR AGRICULTURE RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT.
   (A)   Intent. This District is intended for general agricultural purposes
within one mile of the village.
   (B)   Permitted principal uses and structures. The following shall be
permitted as uses by right:
      (1)   Single-family dwellings, ranch and farm residences;
      (2)   General farming and ranching activities, excluding any expansion of
existing or development of livestock confinement facilities/operations;
      (3)   Public facilities and utility distribution systems;
      (4)   One additional single-family, ranch and farm residence for the
purpose of housing relatives or agricultural workers; and
      (5)   Churches, places of worship and cemeteries.
   (C)   Permitted accessory uses and structures. The following accessory uses
and structures shall be permitted:
      (1)   Accessory uses and structures normally appurtenant to the permitted
uses and structures and to uses and structures permitted as special uses;
      (2)   Home occupations in accordance with §
154.091 of this chapter; and
      (3)   Roadside stands for the sale of agricultural produce grown on the
agricultural farm or operation.
   (D)   Permitted special uses. A building or premise may be used for the
following purposes in the AGR Agricultural Residential District if a special
permit for such use has been obtained in accordance with §§
154.060 through
154.063 of this chapter:
      (1)   Sewage disposal and water systems, including agricultural
irrigation wells;
      (2)   Public and private uses including parks, playgrounds, golf courses,
campgrounds, recreation uses, riding stables, dude ranches, public utilities
and utility distribution system;
      (3)   Flood, erosion and sediment control projects;
      (4)   Broadcast towers and stations, including amateur radio or land
mobile towers of more than 100 feet;
      (5)   Bed and breakfast establishments;
      (6)   Salvage or junk yard in accordance with §
154.062 of this chapter;
      (7)   Mineral extraction, which shall include the following: oil wells,
sand and gravel extraction, and quarries;
      (8)   Expansion of existing livestock confinement facilities up to a
maximum of 50 head of livestock. Livestock not confined for a period of 180
consecutive days or longer shall be considered grazing livestock and not
defined as a confinement facility; or
      (9)   Rural subdivisions with individual parcels less than three acres in
accordance with the Nebraska Department of Environmental Quality - Title 124
and Department of Health and Human Services Regulations and with a shared or
community drinking water and sanitary sewer system, then the minimum lot area
of individual parcels may be reduced to one-half acre.
   (E)   Prohibited uses and structures. All other uses and structures which
are not specially permitted or not permissible as special uses shall be
prohibited from the AGR Agricultural Residential District.
   (F)   Special regulation. Provisions must be made for disposal of wastes in
accordance with local and state regulations.
   (G)   Minimum lot requirements. The minimum lot area for AGR uses shall be
three acres.
   (H)   Minimum yard requirements.
      (1)   Front yard. There shall be a minimum front yard of not less than a
depth of 30 feet, measured from the existing road way right-of-way line.
      (2)   Rear yard. No limitations, unless abutting a Residential District
then the minimum rear yard shall be 15 feet.
      (3)   Side yard. No limitations, unless abutting a Residential District
then the minimum side yard shall be ten feet.
   (I)   Maximum height. No limitation.
   (J)   Sign regulations. Signs within the AGR Agricultural Residential
District shall be in conformance with the provisions of §
154.098 of this chapter.
   (K)   Utility requirements. Notwithstanding other provisions of this
chapter, all dwellings hereafter erected, enlarged or reconstructed in a AGR
Agricultural District shall conform to the following regulations:
      (1)   No waste absorption field (septic tank, cesspools and the like)
shall be constructed any closer than 50 feet from any adjacent property line.
      (2)   There shall be no waste absorption field located closer than 75
feet from any other residential structure.
      (3)   There shall be no waste absorption field located closer than 50
feet from a water well provided; however, where geology and subsurface
conditions and topography would indicate that seepage could reach the well
supply, a greater distance shall be required.
      (4)   An individual residential waste absorption field shall contain a
minimum of 10,000 square feet, exclusive of the area required by structure. The
entire tract shall contain not less than three acres.
(Ord. 2009-04, passed 4-23-2009)  Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.041  R-1 RESIDENTIAL SINGLE-FAMILY DISTRICT.
   (A)   Intent. This District is intended to provide for residential uses
consisting primarily of single-family dwelling units and accessory structures
by also including the permitted uses set forth in division (B) of this section.
   (B)   Permitted principal uses and structures. The following shall be
permitted as uses by right:
      (1)   Single-family dwellings;
      (2)   Two-family dwellings;
      (3)   Manufactured homes which comply with the provisions of §§
154.092 of this chapter;
      (4)   Public and parochial schools;
      (5)   Child care homes;
      (6)   Public, uses, including but not limited to public parks,
playgrounds, recreational uses, fire stations, public utilities and utility
distribution systems; and
      (7)   Places of worship such as churches and synagogues.
   (C)   Permitted accessory uses and structures. The following accessory uses
and structures shall be permitted:
      (1)   Home occupations in accordance with §
154.091 of this chapter; and
      (2)   Accessory uses and structures normally appurtenant to permitted
uses and structures.
   (D)   Permitted special uses. A building or premises may be used for the
following purpose in the R-1 Residential District if a special permit for such
use has been obtained in accordance with §§
154.060 through
154.063 of this chapter.
      (1)   Medical clinics;
      (2)   Mortuaries;
      (3)   Child care center;
      (4)   Museum and art galleries;
      (5)   Nursing homes;
      (6)   Public and private golf courses;
      (7)   Retirement homes;
      (8)   Bed and breakfast homes;
      (9)   Townhouses; and
      (10)   Multi-family dwellings.
   (E)   Prohibited uses and structures. All other uses and structures which
are not specifically permitted or not permissible as special uses shall be
prohibited from the R-1 Residential District.
   (F)   Height and area regulations. The maximum height and minimum area
regulations shall be as follows:
 
             Lot Area  Required Lot Required    Required   Rear Yard  Height
             (Square   Width (Feet) Front Yard  Side Yard  (Feet)     (Feet)
             Feet)                  (Feet)      (Feet)
Single-
family       7,000     50           25          7          25         35
dwelling
Two-family   3,500 per 50           25          7          25         35
dwelling     family
Multi-family 2,200 per 50           25          7          15         45
dwelling     family
Other
permitted    7,000     50           25          7          25         35
uses
 
      (1)   Buildings on corner lots shall provide front yard setbacks of 25
feet on one street side and 15 feet on the other front yard and designate
remaining yards as one rear and one side yard;
      (2)   Building and structures shall not exceed two and one-half stories
in height; and
      (3)   The side yard setback between individual units of two-family
dwellings may be reduced to zero, if a one-hour fire rated constructed common
wall between units starting at the basement level and continuing through to the
roof line is maintained.
   (G)   Parking regulations. Parking within the R-1 Residential Zoning
District shall be in conformance with the provisions of §§
154.075 through
154.077 of this chapter. In addition, semi-trucks and/or trailers shall not be
allowed to be parked within the R-1 Residential District.
   (H)   Fence regulations. Fences within the R-1 Residential District shall be
in conformance with the provisions of §
154.097 of this chapter.
   (I)   Sign regulations. Signs within the R-1 Residential District shall be
in conformance with the provisions of §
154.097 of this chapter.
(Ord. 2009-04, passed 4-23-2009)  Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.042  R-2 RESIDENTIAL MOBILE HOME/SINGLE- AND MULTI-FAMILY DISTRICT.
   (A)   Intent. It is the intent of this District to provide for single- and
multi-family residential uses and development of residential dwellings
including mobile homes and mobile home parks. Mobile home parks are considered
as a residential use and should be located in areas where services and
amenities are available, such as those found in conventional residential areas.
   (B)   Permitted principal uses and structures. The following shall be
permitted as uses by right:
      (1)   Single-family dwellings;
      (2)   Mobile homes and mobile home parks in accordance with the
provisions of §
154.096 of this chapter;
      (3)   Manufactured homes which comply with the provisions of §
154.092 of this chapter;
      (4)   Two-family dwellings;
      (5)   Multi-family dwellings;
      (6)   Child care homes;
      (7)   Community buildings;
      (8)   Public uses, including but not limited to public parks,
playgrounds, recreational uses, fire stations, public elementary and high
schools, public utilities, and utility distribution systems; and
      (9)   Places of worship such as churches and synagogues.
   (C)   Permitted accessory uses and structures. The following accessory uses
and structures shall be permitted:
      (1)   Home occupations in accordance with §
154.091 of this chapter; and
      (2)   Accessory uses and structures normally appurtenant to the permitted
uses and structures.
   (D)   Permitted special uses. A building or premises may be used for the
following purposes in the R-2 Residential District if a special permit for such
use has been obtained in accordance with §§
154.060 through
154.063 of this chapter:
      (1)   Child care center;
      (2)   Bed and breakfast homes;
      (3)   Communication and utility buildings and uses;
      (4)   Medical clinics;
      (5)   Funeral homes and mortuaries;
      (6)   Clubs, fraternities, lodges and meeting places of a non-commercial
nature; and
      (7)   Public and/or private golf courses.
   (E)   Prohibited uses and structures. All other uses and structures which
are not specifically permitted or not permissible as special uses shall be
prohibited from the R-2 Residential District.
   (F)   Height and area regulations. The maximum height and minimum area
regulations shall be as follows:
 
             Lot Area  Lot Width  Required    Required   Required   Height
             (Square   (Feet)     Front Yard  Side Yard  Rear Yard  (Feet)
             Feet)                (Feet)      (Feet)     (Feet)
Mobile home  4,000     45         15          7          10         35
Single-
family       7,000     50         25          7          15         35
dwelling
Two-family   3,500 per 25 per     25          7          15         35
dwelling     family    family
Multi-family 2,200 per 50         25          7          15         45
dwelling     family
Other
permitted    7,000     50         25          7          15         35
uses
 
      (1)   Buildings on corner lots with a width of 50 feet or less shall
provide a second frontage on the street side of not less than seven feet,
provided that the buildable width need not be reduced to less than 28 feet,
yards remaining shall be designated side yards each with a minimum depth of
five feet;
      (2)   Buildings on corner lots with a width of 50 feet or greater shall
provide a second frontage on the street side of not less than 15 feet, yards
remaining shall be designated side yards with a minimum depth of five feet; and
      (3)   Building and structures shall not exceed three stories in height.
   (G)   Parking regulations. Parking within the R-2 Residential District shall
be in conformance with the provisions of §§
154.075 through
154.077 of this chapter. In addition, semi-trucks and/or trailers shall not be
allowed to be parked within the R-2 Residential District.
   (H)   Fence regulations. Fences within the R-2 Residential District shall be
in conformance with the provisions of §
154.097 of this chapter.
   (I)   Sign regulations. Signs within the R-2 Residential District shall be
in conformance with the provisions of §
154.098 of this chapter.
(Ord. 2009-04, passed 4-23-2009)  Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.043  C-1 GENERAL COMMERCIAL DISTRICT.
   (A)   Intent. This District is designed to provide for a wide range of
retail, office, amusement and service uses normally found in a Central Business
District. Highest density and intensity of use are permitted in this District.
   (B)   Permitted principal uses and structures. The following shall be
permitted as uses by right:
      (1)   Apartments on floors other than ground floor;
      (2)   Automobile sales and services;
      (3)   Automotive wash facilities;
      (4)   Bakery;
      (5)   Banks, savings and loan associations, credit unions, and finance
companies;
      (6)   Barbershops, beauty parlors and shoeshine shops;
      (7)   Business offices;
      (8)   Child care homes and centers;
      (9)   Commercial recreation facilities (bowling alleys, miniature golf
courses and similar uses);
      (10)   Convenience store or filling station;
      (11)   Detached banking facilities (ATM);
      (12)   Dry cleaning or laundry establishments;
      (13)   Food service, restaurants and taverns;
      (14)   Food storage lockers;
      (15)   Funeral homes and mortuaries;
      (16)   Garden centers;
      (17)   Motels and hotels;
      (18)   Museums and art galleries;
      (19)   Office buildings;
      (20)   Parking lots and other off-street parking facilities;
      (21)   Personal and professional services;
      (22)   Photography studios;
      (23)   Private schools, including but not limited to business or
commercial schools, and dance or music academies;
      (24)   Public and private charitable institutions;
      (25)   Public parks, buildings and grounds;
      (26)   Public uses of an administrative, public service or cultural type
including city, county, state or federal administrative centers and courts,
libraries, police and fire stations and other public buildings, structures, and
facilities;
      (27)   Retail store or business;
      (28)   Public utility facilities;
      (29)   Sales and showrooms, including service facilities and rental of
equipment, provided all displays and merchandise are within the enclosure walls
of the buildings;
      (30)   Service stations; and
      (31)   Stores or shops for the sale of goods at retail and/or wholesale.
   (C)   Permitted accessory uses and structures. The following accessory uses
and structures shall be permitted: accessory uses and structures normally
appurtenant to permitted uses and structures and to uses and structures
permitted as special uses.
   (D)   Permitted special uses. A building or premises may be used for the
following purposes in the C-1 Commercial Business District if a special permit
for such use has been obtained in accordance with §§
154.060 through
154.063 of this chapter.
      (1)   Single-family dwellings;
      (2)   Multi-family dwellings;
      (3)   Bed and breakfast guest home;
      (4)   Recycling center; and
      (5)   Mini storage facilities.
   (E)   Prohibited uses and structures. All other uses and structures which
are not specifically permitted or not permissible as special uses shall be
prohibited from the C-1 Commercial Business District.
   (F)   Screening requirements.
      (1)   All business, service, repair, processing, storage or merchandise
display on property abutting or facing a lot within a Residential District
shall be conducted wholly within an enclosed building unless screened from the
residential district by a sight-obscuring barrier permanently maintained at
least six-foot in height.
      (2)   Open storage of materials attendant to a permitted use or special
permit use shall be permitted only within an area surrounded or screened by a
solid wall or fence.
   (G)   Prohibited uses. No use shall be permitted and no process, equipment
or materials shall be used which are found by the village to be objectionable
to persons living or working in the vicinity by reasons of odor, fumes, dust,
smoke, cinders, dirt, refuse, noise, vibrations, illumination, glare, or
unsightliness or to involve any hazard of fire or explosion.
   (H)   Height and area regulations. The minimum area regulations shall be as
follows:
 
             Lot Area  Lot Width  Required    Required     Required   Height
             (Square   (Feet)     Front Yard  Side Yard    Rear Yard  (Feet)
             Feet)                (Feet)      (Feet)       (Feet)
                                              0 or 10 when
Permitted    3,500     25         0           abutting a   15         45
uses                                          Residential
                                              District
Multi-family 2,250 per                        7 or 7-1/
dwelling     family    50         25          2 on corner  15         45
                                              lots
 
   (I)   Fence regulations. Fences within the C-1 General Commercial District
shall be in conformance with the provisions of §
154.097 of this chapter.
   (J)   Sign regulations. Signs within the C-1 General Commercial District
shall be in conformance with the provisions of §
154.098 of this chapter.
(Ord. 2009-04, passed 4-23-2009)  Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.044  C-2 HIGHWAY COMMERCIAL DISTRICT.
   (A)   Intent. The C-2 Highway Commercial District is intended for the
purpose of servicing highway travelers and providing limited commercial
services. Off-street parking is required in order to reduce possible adverse
effects on adjacent properties.
   (B)   Permitted principle uses and structures. The following shall be
permitted as uses by right:
      (1)   Automobile sales;
      (2)   Automobile wash facilities;
      (3)   Churches and other religious institutions;
      (4)   Construction sales and services;
      (5)   Commercial operations and businesses, intended for the purpose of
servicing travel and recreational users;
      (6)   Commercial recreational facilities (bowling alleys, miniature golf
courses and similar uses);
      (7)   Convenience store or filling station;
      (8)   Detached banking facilities (ATM);
      (9)   Electric and telephone substations;
      (10)   Farm implement sales and services;
      (11)   Garden centers and nurseries;
      (12)   Irrigation equipment sales and services;
      (13)   Mini storage facilities;
      (14)   Mobile homes sales;
      (15)   Motels, including accessory service uses, such as swimming pools,
liquor stores and restaurants;
      (16)   Restaurants and cafes;
      (17)   Service stations;
      (18)   Single-family homes;
      (19)   Stores or shops for sale of goods at retail;
      (20)   Transportation warehousing;
      (21)   Trucks and freight terminals;
      (22)   Utilities, including shops and offices; and
      (23)   Medical clinics.
   (C)   Permitted accessory uses and structures. The following accessory uses
and structures shall be permitted: accessory uses and structures normally
appurtenant to the permitted uses and structures and to uses and structures
permitted as special uses.
   (D)   Permitted special uses. A building or premises may be used for the
following purposes in the C-2 Highway Commercial District if a special use
permit for such use has been obtained in accordance with §§
154.060 through
154.063 of this chapter.
      (1)   Private clubs and lodges;
      (2)   Facilities for the commercial storage or sale of fertilizer or
toxic or flammable agriculture chemicals;
      (3)   Radio studios, transmitters and antenna; and
      (4)   Recycling centers.
   (E)   Screening requirements.
      (1)   All business, service, repair, processing, storage or merchandise
display on property abutting or facing a lot within a Residential District
shall be conducted wholly within an enclosed building unless screened from the
Residential District by a sight-obscuring barrier permanently maintained at
least six feet in height.
      (2)   Open storage of materials attendant to a permitted use or special
permit use shall be permitted only within an area surrounded or screened by a
solid wall or fence.
   (F)   Prohibited uses. All other uses and structures which are not
specifically permitted or permissible as special uses shall be prohibited from
the C-2 Highway Commercial District.
   (G)   Height and areas regulations. The maximum height and minimum area
regulations shall be as follows:
 
          Lot Area Lot Width  Required    Required   Required
          (Square  (Feet)     Front Yard  Side Yard  Rear Yard  Height (Feet)
          Feet)               (Feet)      (Feet)     (Feet)
Permitted 7,500    50         25          7          20         35
uses
 
   (H)   Parking regulations. Parking within the C-2 Highway Commercial
District shall be in conformance with the provisions of §§
154.075 through
154.077 of this chapter.
   (I)   Fence regulations. Fences within the C-2 Highway Commercial District
shall be in conformance with the provisions of  §
154.097 of this chapter.
   (J)   Sign regulations. Signs within the C-2 Highway Commercial District
shall be in conformance with the provisions of §
154.098 of this chapter.
(Ord. 2009-04, passed 4-23-2009)  Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.045  I INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT.
   (A)   Intent. This District is designed to provide for a wide range of
industrial and related uses.
   (B)   Permitted principal uses and structures. The following shall be
permitted as uses by right:
      (1)   Agriculture, excluding the expansion of existing or development of
commercial livestock facilities/operations;
      (2)   Animal care;
      (3)   Automobile sales and services;
      (4)   Automotive wash facilities;
      (5)   Bottling works;
      (6)   Building material sales, except for ready-mix concrete plants and
similar uses which emit particulate, odor or smoke;
      (7)   Carpenter, cabinet, plumbing or shoot metal shops;
      (8)   Grain storage;
      (9)   Construction sales and services;
      (10)   Dry cleaning and/or laundry plants;
      (11)   Farm implementation sales and services;
      (12)   Farm produce sales;
      (13)   Food service, restaurants and taverns;
      (14)   Freight and truck terminals;
      (15)   Frozen food lockers;
      (16)   Furniture warehouses;
      (17)   Garden centers and nurseries;
      (18)   Groceries, retail and wholesale;
      (19)   Light manufacturing operations, providing that such use is not
noxious by reason of vibration or noise beyond the confines of the building, or
by the emission of particulate, fumes, gas, odor, or smoke;
      (20)   Machinery sales and storage lots;
      (21)   Mini storage facilities
      (22)   Mobile and modular home sales and manufacturing;
      (23)   Newspaper publishing plants;
      (24)   Public and quasi-public uses of an educational, recreational or
religious type including public and parochial elementary schools and junior
high schools, high schools; private non-profit schools, churches, parsonages,
and other religious institutions; parks and playgrounds;
      (25)   Public utility and public service uses;
      (26)   Transportation warehousing;
      (27)   Warehouse or storage houses;
      (28)   Wholesale sales and services; and
      (29)   Any similar uses that are determined by the Village Board after
referral to and recommendation by the Planning Commission to be of an
industrial use similar to the above listed uses.
   (C)   Permitted accessory uses. Accessory uses and structures normally
appurtenant to permitted uses and structures.
   (D)   Permitted special uses. A building or premises may be used for the
following purposes in the I Industrial District if a special permit for such
use has been obtained in accordance with §§
154.060 through
154.063 of this chapter.
      (1)   Junk and salvage yard (in conformance with §
154.062 of this chapter);
      (2)   Recycling center;
      (3)   Ethanol and/or alcohol plants; and
      (4)   Landfills and sanitary landfills (in conformance with §
154.062 of this chapter).
   (E)   Prohibited uses and structures. All other uses and structures which
are not specifically permitted or not permissible as special uses shall be
prohibited from the I Industrial District.
   (F)   Height and area regulations. The maximum height and minimum area
regulations shall be as follows:
 
          Lot Area Lot Width  Required    Required     Required
          (Square  (Feet)     Front Yard  Side Yard    Rear Yard  Height (Feet)
          Feet)               (Feet)      (Feet)       (Feet)
                                          0 or 10 when
Permitted 10,000   50         35          abutting a   45         35
uses                                      Residential
                                          District
 
   (G)   Parking regulations. Parking within the I-1 Industrial District shall
be in conformance with the provisions of §§
154.075 through
154.077 of this chapter.
   (H)   Fence regulations. Fences within the I-1 Industrial District shall be
in conformance with the provisions of §
154.097 of this chapter.
   (I)   Sign regulations: Signs within the I-1 Industrial District shall be in
conformance with the provisions of §
154.097 of this chapter.
   (J)   Use limitations. All operations, activities and storage shall be
conducted entirely inside of a building, or buildings, unless the nearest point
of such operation or activity is more than 200 feet from the boundary of any
other zoning district other than an I District and except that storage may be
maintained outside the building and side yards or rear yards of such storage
area is separated from public streets and other property by screening of not
less than six feet in height. If a lot in an Industrial District adjoins a
Residential District, screening shall be provided at the lot lines sufficient
to protect, on a year-round basis, the privacy of adjoining residential uses.
(Ord. 2009-04, passed 4-23-2009) Penalty, see §
154.999
SPECIAL USE PERMIT
§ 154.060  GENERALLY.
   The Village Board may authorize by special permit after public hearing, any
of the following buildings or uses designated in this chapter as permitted
special uses.
(Ord. 2009-04, passed 4-23-2009)
§ 154.061  PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Such application shall be in writing, filed in the office of the
Village Clerk, state the proposed location and use of the property, and such
other relevant matters as may be requested by the governing body. Upon receipt
of such application, the Zoning Administrator shall forward the application to
the Planning Commission for its recommendation. Upon hearing, the Planning
Commission shall forward its recommendation to the Village Board, within 30
days. Upon hearing, the Village Board may approve or deny the application in
whole or in part, or prescribe conditions for such use of the property. No
special use permit shall become effective until after separate public hearings
are held by both the Planning Commission and the Village Board in relation
thereto, at which parties in interest and citizens shall have an opportunity to
be heard. Notice of the purpose, time, and place of such hearing shall be given
by publication thereof in a paper of general circulation in the village, one
time at least ten days prior to such hearing.
(Neb. RS 19-904)
   (B)   In addition to the publication of the notice herein prescribed, a
notice, in sign form, of the hearing shall be posted in a conspicuous place on
or near the property on which such action is pending. The sign shall be placed
at least ten days prior to date of each hearing.
   (C)   Except as otherwise provided herein, no special use permit shall be
granted by the Village Board, without an affirmative vote of a majority of all
members of the Village Board and unless the proposed use is found to:
      (1)   Be compatible with and similar to the use permitted in the
district;
      (2)   Not be a matter which should require re-zoning of the property;
      (3)   Not be detrimental to adjacent property;
      (4)   Not tend to depreciate the value of the surrounding structures or
property;
      (5)   Be compatible with the stated intended use of the district;
      (6)   Not change the character of the district; and
      (7)   Be in accordance with the Comprehensive Plan.
   (D)   In case of protest against such special use permit, signed by the
owners of 20% or more either of the area of the lots included in such proposed
change, or of those immediately adjacent on the side and in the rear thereof
extending 100 feet, therefrom, and of those directly opposite thereto extending
100 feet from the street frontage of such opposite lots, such special use
permit shall not become effective except by the favorable vote of two-thirds of
all members of the Village Board.
(Ord. 2009-04, passed 4-23-2009)
§ 154.062  SALVAGE OR JUNK YARD.
   (A)   Salvage or junk yard operations and related facilities shall only be
allowed by special permit in the AGR and I Zoning Districts under the following
conditions:
      (1)   Located on a tract of land at least one-fourth mile from a
residential or agricultural farm residence;
      (2)   The operation shall be conducted wholly within a noncombustible
building or within an area completely surrounded on all sides by a visual
obscuring fence, wall or hedge. The fence, wall or hedge shall be of uniform
height (at least eight feet high) and uniform texture and color shall be so
maintained by the proprietor as to insure maximum safety to the public and
preserve the general welfare of the neighborhood. The fence, wall or hedge
shall be installed in such a manner as to retain all scrap, junk or other
material within the yard and no scrap, junk or other material shall protrude
above the fence;
      (3)   No junk shall be loaded, unloaded or otherwise placed, either
temporarily or permanently, outside the enclosed building, hedge fence or wall,
or within the public right-of-way; and
      (4)   Any other requirement deemed appropriate and necessary by the
Village Board for the protection of the general health and welfare.
   (B)   In making any decision granting a special use permit, the Village
Board shall impose such restrictions, terms, time limitations, landscaping,
improvement of off-street parking lots, and other appropriate safeguards as
required to protect adjoining property.
(Ord. 2009-04, passed 4-23-2009)
§ 154.063  LANDFILLS AND SANITARY LANDFILLS.
   (A)   Private landfill operations shall only be allowed by special permit in
the AGR Agriculture District upon prior approval of the Nebraska Department of
Health and Human Services System and with conformance to the following
conditions:
      (1)   Located on a tract of land at least 300 feet from a residential or
agricultural farm residence;
      (2)   The operation shall be conducted wholly within an area completely
surrounded on all sides by a fence, wall or hedge. The fence, wall or hedge
shall be of uniform height (at least eight feet high) and uniform texture and
color shall be so maintained by the proprietor as to insure maximum safety to
the public and preserve the general welfare of the neighborhood. The fence,
wall or hedge shall be installed in such a manner as to retain all material
within the yard and no material shall protrude above the fence;
      (3)   No material shall be loaded, unloaded or otherwise placed, either
temporarily or permanently, outside the enclosed building, hedge fence or wall,
or within the public right-of-way;
      (4)   Any other requirement deemed appropriate and necessary by the
Village Board for the protection of the general health and welfare; and
      (5)   Special use permits granted under this section shall be subject to
annual review and renewal by the Village Board.
   (B)   In making any decision granting a special use permit, the Village
Board shall impose such restrictions, terms, time limitations, landscaping,
improvement of off-street parking lots, and other appropriate safeguards as
required to protect adjoining property.
(Ord. 2009-04, passed 4-23-2009)
PARKING REGULATIONS
§ 154.075  GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   All buildings and structures erected and all uses of land in all
districts, with the exception of the C-1 Commercial District, established after
the effective date of adopting this chapter, by ordinance, shall provide
accessory parking and loading facilities as required under this section.
   (B)   All off-street parking spaces required by this chapter shall be
located on the same lots as the use it serves, provided, that no parking space
can be reasonably provided on the same lot, such space shall be provided on any
of-street lot a substantial portion of which is within 500 feet of such use.
   (C)   Owners of two or more uses or parcels of land may agree to jointly
utilize the same parking spaces provided that satisfactory legal evidence is
presented in the form of deeds, leases, or contract documents to establish such
a joint area of use.
   (D)   All yard areas including driveways, except the required front yard for
residential uses may be used for off-street parking. Garages and driveways may
be considered as off-street parking spaces. Each required off-street parking
space shall open directly upon an aisle or driveway which provides direct
access to a street or alley or shall itself be directly accessible to such
street or alley.
   (E)   For the purpose of computing the number of parking spaces in a given
area, the formula of 200 square feet per parking space shall be required.
Standing areas, aisles for maneuvering, and entrance and exit roadways shall
not be computed as parking space and shall be provided, when necessary, in
addition to required parking spaces in order to provide for appropriate access.
   (F)   Any lighting used to illuminate off-street parking or loading areas
shall be directed away from residential properties in such a way as not to
interfere with such residential use.
   (G)   A plan, drawn to scale, indicating how the off-street parking and
loading requirements are to be met, shall accompany an application for a
building certificate. The plan shall show all elements necessary to indicate
that the requirements are being fulfilled.
(Ord. 2009-04, passed 4-23-2009)
§ 154.076  OFF-STREET PARKING REQUIREMENTS.
   At the time of construction, or enlargement of more than 50% of an existing
structure or building or change in the use of land, off-street parking spaces
and loading areas shall be provided, constructed, and maintained for all uses
as follows:
Use Minimum Number of Parking Spaces
Use                                     Minimum Number of Parking Spaces
Residential                              
   Single-family, two-family dwelling2 per dwelling
Apartments                               
   Efficiency and one-bedroom        1 per dwelling unit
   Two-bedrooms                      1-1/2 per dwelling unit
   Three or more bedrooms            2 per dwelling unit
Mobile trailer park                     2 per trailer unit
Hotel and motel                         1 per rental unit plus 1 for every 4
                                        employees
Hospitals, nursing homes, rest homes or 1 for every 2-1/2 patient beds and 1
similar uses                            for each staff and employee on the
                                        largest shift
Places of public assembly such as
auditoriums, theaters, stadiums,        1 for every 4 seats
community halls, churches and the like
Bowling alley                           2 for each alley
Retail sales department stores,         1 per 200 square feet of floor area as
restaurants, taverns, grocery stores    determined by exterior wall dimensions
and the like
Professional office establishments      1 per 500 square feet of floor area as
                                        determined by exterior wall dimensions
Manufacturing, wholesale warehouse and  1 for every 2 employees on the largest
similar uses                            working shift
 
(Ord. 2009-04, passed 4-23-2009)
§ 154.077  OFF-STREET LOADING REQUIREMENTS.
   At the time of construction, alteration or enlargement of any structure or
building except residences and farms having an aggregate gross floor area of
500 square feet or more, off-street loading areas shall be provided and
maintained for all uses as follows:
 
Number Loading Area    Gross Floor Area
One    500 square feet For every 5,000 to 20,000 square feet
One    500 square feet For every 20,000 square feet or fraction thereof
 
(Ord. 2009-04, passed 4-23-2009)
ACCESSORY USES AND SUPPLEMENTAL REGULATIONS
§ 154.090  ACCESSORY BUILDINGS.
   (A)   Buildings and structures may be erected and land may be used for
purposes which are clearly incidental to, and customarily and commonly
associated with the main permitted use of the premises. Such accessory
buildings and uses shall be so constructed, maintained and conducted as to not
produce noise, vibration, concussion, dust, dirt, fly ash, odor, noxious gases,
heat or glare which is injurious, damaging, unhealthful or disturbing to
adjacent property, or the users thereof, and shall be on the premises of the
main use.
   (B)   Any accessory building shall have a minimum side yard setback of five
feet on interior lots and 15 on corner lots, provided it is located between the
rear property line and the rear building line of the principle building. No
accessory building shall be located between the front building line of the
principle building and the front property line. No accessory building shall be
located closer than five feet from the rear property line or within ten feet of
any other building on adjacent properties, and no accessory building shall be
located within any easement or right-of-way along the rear property line. All
garage entrances must have a minimum 15 feet long drive when garage opening is
perpendicular to the access alley or 20 feet perpendicular to the access
street. Attached garages are considered part of principal building.
(Ord. 2009-04, passed 4-23-2009)  Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.091  HOME OCCUPATIONS.
   (A)   An occupation or activity carried on within the dwelling or accessory
building by a member of the family residing on the premises, which occupation
or activity is incidental and secondary to the residential occupancy and does
not change the residential character nor infringe upon the right of neighboring
residents to enjoy a peaceful occupancy of their homes.
   (B)   The following conditions and restrictions shall apply to such
customary home occupations:
      (1)   The primary use of the building or structure in which the
occupation is situated shall clearly be the dwelling used by the person as his
or her private residence;
      (2)   Signs and displays shall be limited to one non-illuminated sign not
exceeding six square feet in area; and
      (3)   No equipment or machinery shall be used in such activities that
create excessive noise, smoke, odor, dust, radiation, electrical interference
or vibration. Parking shall be handled in such a manner as to not impede or
hinder traffic on any public right-of-way.
(Ord. 2009-04, passed 4-23-2009)  Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.092  MANUFACTURED HOMES.
   All manufactured homes located outside mobile homo parks shall meet the
following standards:
   (A)   The home shall have no less than 900 square feet of floor area.
   (B)   The home shall have no less than an 18-foot exterior width.
   (C)   The roof shall be pitched with a minimum vertical rise of two and one-
half inches for each 12 inches of horizontal run.
   (D)   The exterior material shall be of a color, material and scale
comparable with those existing in residential site-built, single-family
construction.
   (E)   The home shall have a nonreflective roof material which is or
simulates asphalt or wood shingles, tile or rock.
   (F)   The home shall have wheels, axles, transporting lights and the
removable towing apparatus removed.
   (G)   Nothing in this subchapter shall be deemed to supersede any valid
restrictive covenants of record.
   (H)   The home must meet Building Code requirements adopted by the village.
(Ord. 2009-04, passed 4-23-2009)  Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.093  YARD REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Front yards. The front yards heretofore established shall be adjusted
in the following cases:
      (1)   Where 40% or more of the frontage on one side of a street between
two intersecting streets is developed and the buildings on this side of a block
have observed a front yard greater in depth than herein required, new buildings
shall not be erected closer to the street than the average front yard so
established by the existing buildings provided that no building shall be
required to have a front yard setback of more than 50 feet.
      (2)   Where 40% or more of the frontage on one side of a street between
two intersecting streets is developed with buildings that have a front yard
less than the required, new buildings shall not be erected closer to the street
than the nearest building on the block.
   (B)   Structural projections. The ordinary projections of chimneys and
flues, buttresses, eaves, overhangs, open-unenclosed steps or stoops up to five
feet in height may extend into required yards for a distance of not more than
two feet in the required side yard and not more than five feet in the required
front yard.
(Ord. 2009-04, passed 4-23-2009)
§ 154.094  EXCEPTIONS TO HEIGHT REGULATIONS.
   The height limitations contained in the schedule of district regulations do
not apply to spires, belfries, cupolas, antennas, water tanks, ventilators,
chimneys, or other appurtenances usually required to be placed above the roof
level and not intended for human occupancy and agricultural structures.
(Ord. 2009-04, passed 4-23-2009)
§ 154.095  EXCEPTION TO LOT SIZE REQUIREMENTS.
   If, at the time of passage of this subchapter, a lot or the aggregate of
contiguous lots or land parcels held in a single ownership, has an area or
dimension which does not meet the lot size requirements of the district in
which the property is located, the lot or aggregate holdings may be occupied by
any use permitted outright in the district subject to the other requirements of
the district.
(Ord. 2009-04, passed 4-23-2009)
§ 154.096  MOBILE HOME PARKS.
   (A)   Mobile home parks shall only be allowed in the R-3 Zoning District
under the following conditions:
      (1)   Individual mobile home lots shall have an area of not less than
4,000 square feet per single wide mobile home and 6,000 square feet for double
wide mobile homes, and the total number of lots per gross acre shall not exceed
six.
      (2)   Mobile homes shall be situated on individual lots so there will be
a minimum of 15 feet between mobile homes and that each mobile home will be set
back at least 15 feet from the nearest service road. Mobile homes parked end-
to-end shall have an end-to-end clearance of not less than ten feet. Enclosed
additions shall be considered a part of the mobile home in measuring required
yard distance. The required area for each mobile home space shall not include
area required for access or service roads, service buildings, recreation areas,
office, and other similar mobile home park needs.
      (3)   The mobile home park shall have direct access to a public street or
highway by a right-of-way at least 50 feet in width and a minimum length of 100
feet to permit the easy entrance and exit from the mobile home park. Service
roads shall be provided to each mobile home space. Each service road shall
provide for continuous forward movement, shall connect, with a street or
highway, and shall a minimum clear width of 20 feet paved with a suitable
dustless material.
      (4)   Walkways not less than four feet wide shall be provided from mobile
home spaces to the service buildings. All walkways within the park shall be
hard surfaced and lighted at night with a minimum illumination of 25 watt lamps
spaced at intervals of not more than 100 feet.
      (5)   Two off-street parking spaces for each mobile home space shall be
provided at each mobile home space or in group parking. Each off-street parking
space shall be at least 300 square feet.
      (6)   (a)   The area of the mobile home stand shall be improved to
provide an adequate and approved foundation for the placement and tie-down of
the mobile home, thereby securing the super-structure against uplift, sliding,
rotation, or overturning.
         (b)   The mobile home or trailer stand shall be on incombustible
materials and shall not shift or settle unevenly under the weight of the mobile
home or trailer due to frost action, inadequate drainage, vibration or other
forces acting upon the super-structure. The mobile home or trailer stand may be
provided by means of a solid concrete footer block (16" x 16" x 4" minimum)
placed on solid uniform soil with at least two standard concrete blocks with
cells placed vertically beside each other on the footer block. A solid four
inches concrete cap covering the two concrete blocks shall be provided as the
bearing area to be positioned directly beneath the steel frame of the mobile
home or trailer. Such clocking shall be provided along the full length of the
mobile home or trailer unit, spaced not more than ten feet apart, and not more
than five feet from the ends of the unit.
      (7)   The mobile home or trailer stand shall be provided with anchors and
the tie downs such as cast-in-lace concrete “dead men”, eyelets imbedded in
concrete foundations or runways, screw augers, arrowhead anchors or other
devices securing the stability of the mobile home or trailer. The tie-down
devices shall be compatible with the foundation system provided for the mobile
home or trailer such that the tie-downs are designated to resist the action of
frost in the same manner as the foundation system.
      (8)   The skirting of all mobile homes and trailers is required. Such
skirting shall not attach a mobile home or trailer permanently to the ground,
but shall be sufficient to withstand wind load requirements and shall not
provide a harborage for junk or rodents, nor create a fire hazard. Such
skirting shall be provided with removable access panels sufficient to provide
easy access to all utility connection points of the mobile home or trailer and
its subsequent connection to the utility raisers if they are located within the
skirted area.
   (B)   Wherever a mobile home park is permitted by this chapter to be created
through the granting of conditional uses, or otherwise, said mobile home park
may be designed to permit the sale of the individual mobile home lots within
said park. A proposed mobile home park in which the individual mobile home lots
will be offered for sale must meet all of the following requirements:
      (1)   The individual mobile home lots shall, for the district within
which such mobile home park is located, meet the minimum lot requirements,
minimum yard requirements, maximum lot coverage, and maximum height
requirements of such districts.
      (2)   Each such mobile home lot shall be individually serviced with all
utilities and shall be individually metered for all utilities and treated in
all respects by the village as a separate user of utilities.
      (3)   The developer of such mobile home park shall be required to secure
a preliminary and final plat as per the subdivision process outlined in
 Chapter 153.
      (4)   At the time of an application for a special use permit, or at the
time of the application for subdivision in a mobile home park where the lots
are to be offered for sale, the developer shall submit all legal documents
necessary for the creation of an association having the purpose of maintaining,
controlling, and covering all expenses, taxes and costs incurred on common
areas within the mobile home park. Such association shall require that all
property owners within the mobile home park be members thereof and pledge the
lots owned within the mobile home park as security for the association
performing such obligations. Covenants shall be placed on the property by the
developer and owners thereof so as to ensure this obligation. These documents
shall be submitted by the proper officials to the Village Board for its
approval and no subdivision permit or special use permit may be issued without
the approval of these documents by the Village Board.
(Ord. 2009-04, passed 4-23-2009)
§ 154.097  FENCES, WALLS AND HEDGES.
   (A)   Notwithstanding other provisions of this chapter, fences, walls and
hedges may be permitted in any required yard, provided that no fence, wall or
hedge along the sides or front edge of any front yard shall be over three and
one-half feet in height. Additionally, on a corner lot in a Residential
District, a sight triangle shall be provided such that nothing shall be
erected, placed, planted, or allowed to grow in such a manner as to materially
impede vision between a height of two and one-half feet and ten feet above the
centerline grades of the intersecting streets in the area bounded by the street
lines of such corner lots and a line joining points along said street lines 50
feet from the point of the intersections.
   (B)   The following regulations shall apply to the construction of fences.
      (1)   No solid fence shall be constructed closer to the street than the
property line.
      (2)   No fence erected in a required front yard shall materially obstruct
public view. Permitted types of fences shall include split rail, chain link or
other similar material. No component of a front yard fence shall exceed three
and one-half feet in height, nor shall any structural member exceed 36 inches
in cross-sectional area.
      (3)   No fence shall be constructed which will constitute a traffic
hazard as identified in the site triangle of a corner lot.
      (4)   No fence shall be constructed in such a manner or be of such design
as to be hazardous or dangerous to persons or animals by intent of its
construction or by inadequate maintenance.
      (5)   No fence within Residential Districts, except fences erected upon
public or parochial school grounds or in public parks and in public
playgrounds, shall be constructed of a height greater than six feet, except for
the provisions of subsection (10) below.
      (6)   All fences shall conform to the construction standards of the
Building Code and other applicable ordinances and resolutions.
      (7)   In Commercial and Industrial Districts, the maximum height of
fences shall be eight feet. When industry standards for certain types of
businesses require fences of greater heights, the Zoning Administrator at his
or her discretion, may allow greater heights.
      (8)   All fences constructed in the village shall comply with the
provision of this section and obtain a building permit.
      (9)   The good side of  the fence shall face to the outside of the
property.
(Ord. 2009-04, passed 4-23-2009; Ord. 2020-03, passed 12-9-2020)
§ 154.098  SIGN REGULATIONS.
   The following regulations shall govern the location, area and type of signs
permitted within the village.
   (A)   Intent and applicability.  The following regulations shall govern the
locations, areas heights and types of signs permitted within the zoning
jurisdiction of this chapter.
      (1)   All signs hereafter constructed, erected, printed or otherwise
established, moved, altered or changed shall comply with this chapter.
      (2)   After the effective date of this chapter, no sign shall be erected,
enlarged, constructed or otherwise installed without first obtaining a sign
permit. A sign permit shall be legally issued only when in compliance with this
chapter.
      (3)   No accessory sign, advertising display or structure, poster or
device shall be erected, moved, enlarged, maintained or reconstructed except as
expressly permitted by this subchapter; provided, however, that such state,
county and municipal signs and traffic signs as are installed for public
purposes are exempt from these requirements.
      (4)   Nonconforming signs existing at the time of enactment of this
chapter may be repaired or maintained, but may not be otherwise established,
moved, altered, or changed except in compliance with the provisions of this
chapter.
      (5)   Temporary signs or banners on or over public property may be
authorized by the Village Board for a period not to exceed ten days.
      (6)   Signs attached to a building and projecting over a street, alley,
or other public space shall project no more than ten feet and be no closer than
two feet to a plumb-line from curb-line; clearance below such signs shall be a
minimum of nine feet.
      (7)   No sign except for those of incidental sales of a non-commercial
basis shall be constructed, erected, remodeled, relocated, or expanded, until a
sign permit for such sign has been obtained authorized and signed by the Zoning
Administrator excluding general maintenance. Such requirement shall pertain to
both permanent and temporary signs. A fee for application for a sign permit for
signs shall be paid to the village to handle processing costs. In addition,
information pertinent to the sign characteristics and dimensions must be
presented to the Zoning Administrator sufficient to determine compliance with
the ordinance.
   (B)   On and off-site signs on interstate or federal aid primary highways.
The erection or maintenance of any advertising sign, display or device which is
visible to the traveled way of the National System of Interstate and Defense
Highways, and the system of federal-aid primary roads of the state as defined
by the Nebraska Department of Roads, is hereby prohibited unless in compliance
with the regulations set forth in Rules and Regulations Relating to the Control
of Advertising in Areas Adjacent to the Interstate and Federal Aid Primary
Highways, as amended, adopted and published by the Nebraska Department of
Roads. As of July, 1976, primary highways within the village’s zoning
jurisdiction are Highway 30 and Interstate 80.
   (C)   Prohibited signs. Signs shall not be erected or maintained in such a
manner as to obscure, or otherwise physically interfere with an official
traffic sign, signal or device, or in such a manner as to obstruct or interfere
with a driver’s view of approaching, merging, or intersecting traffic. This
shall also mean pedestrian traffic on sidewalks. All road signs shall be
maintained in a neat and presentable condition.
   (D)   District regulations.
      (1)   Agriculture Residential District (AGR). No regulations apply other
than those outlined herein.
      (2)   Residential Districts (R-1 and R-2).
         (a)   Signs permitted in the Residential Districts shall be erected
and maintained at least 15 feet from the street or road line.
         (b)   One sign not illuminated less than six square feet in area for
each dwelling. A maximum of two signs are permissible for multi-family
apartment buildings, whether attached to the apartment building or mounted on
the ground, at a maximum size of 12 square feet for each sign.
         (c)   Any temporary sign, not illuminated, less than six square feet
in area, advertising the sale, lease or rental of the property.
      (3)   General Commercial District (C-1).  Illuminated or non-illuminated
signs identifying the character or the establishment. No one sign shall exceed
50 square feet in area.
      (4)   Highway Commercial District (C-2). Illuminated or non-illuminated
signs identifying the character of the establishment. No one sign shall exceed
100 square feet in area.
      (5)   Industrial District (I). In an I District, identification and
advertising signs accessory to the allowed use are permitted except that each
sign shall be limited to 100 square feet in area.
   (E)   Political signs.
      (1)   Political signs are not authorized in any zoning district except
for a period of 30 days before a national, state, village or local governmental
subdivision election to which they apply, and such signs must be removed within
a period of five days after such election.
      (2)   No political signs shall be permitted on the public streets, parks,
alleys or other public areas.
   (F)    Discontinuation of use. In the event the use or need of a sign shall
cease, the sign shall be removed promptly and the area restored to a condition
free from refuse and rubbish. After 30 days notice and failure to do so, the
village shall remove the sign and assess the charges to the owner.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/efd7f50c42e51d4cfa2f983b8852980be5002405/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1274.jpg]
 
(Ord. 2009-04, passed 4-23-2009)  Penalty, see §
154.999
BOARD OF ZONING ADJUSTMENT
§ 154.115  CREATION; MEMBERSHIP.
   (A)   The Board of Zoning Adjustment is hereby created and shall be known as
the Board of Zoning Adjustment. The members of said Board shall be appointed by
the Village Board. The legislative body of a village may provide by ordinance
that it shall constitute a Board of Adjustment.
(Neb. RS 19-911)
   (B)   One member only of said Board shall be appointed from membership of
the Planning Commission and the loss of membership on the Planning Commission
by such member shall also result in the immediate loss of membership on the
Board of Zoning Adjustment.
   (C)   Said Board shall consist of five regular members, plus one additional
member designated as an alternate who shall attend and serve only when one of
the regular members is unable to attend for any reason, each to be appointed
for a term of three years and removable for cause by the Village Board upon
written charges and after public hearings. Vacancies shall be filled for the
unexpired terms of any member whose terms becomes vacant.
(Ord. 2009-04, passed 4-23-2009)
§ 154.116  MEETINGS.
   Meetings of the Board of Zoning Adjustment shall be held at the call of the
Mayor and at such times as the Board may determine. The Board shall keep
minutes of its proceedings, showing the vote of each member upon each question,
or if absent or failing to vote, indicating such fact, and shall keep records
of its examinations and other official actions, all of which shall be
immediately filed in the office of the Village Clerk and shall be a public
record.
(Ord. 2009-04, passed 4-23-2009)
§ 154.117  INTERPRETATIONS AND VARIANCES.
   (A)   The Board of Adjustment shall, subject to appropriate conditions and
safeguards as specified in this chapter, have the following powers (Neb. RS 19-
910):
      (1)   To hear and decide appeals where it is alleged there is error in
any order, requirement, decision or determination made by an administrative
official or the Planning Commission based on or made in the enforcement of any
zoning regulation or any regulation relating to the location or soundness of
structures;
      (2)   To hear and decide, in accordance with the provisions of any
regulation, requests for interpretation of any maps, or for decisions upon
other special questions upon which the Board is authorized by any such
regulation to pass; and
      (3)   Where by reason of exceptional narrowness, shallowness, or shape of
a specific piece of property at the time of adoption of this chapter, or by
reason of exceptional topographic conditions or other extraordinary and
exceptional situation or condition of such piece of property, the strict
application of any enacted regulation under Neb. RS 19-901, 19-903 to 19-
904.01, 19-908 and 19- 910  would result in peculiar and exceptional practical
difficulties to, or exceptional and undue hardships upon the owner of such
property, to authorize, upon appeal relating to the property, a variance from
such strict application so as to relieve such difficulties or hardships, if
such relief may be granted without substantial detriment to the public good and
without substantially impairing the intent and purpose of this chapter, but no
such variance shall be authorized unless the Board finds that:
         (a)   The strict application of the regulation would produce undue
hardship;
         (b)   Such hardship is not shared generally by other properties in the
same zoning district and the same vicinity;
         (c)   The authorization of such variance will not be of substantial
detriment to adjacent property and the character of the district will not be
changed by the granting of the variance; and
         (d)   The granting of such variance is based upon reasons of
demonstrable and exceptional hardship as distinguished from variations for
purposes of convenience, profit or caprice.
   (B)   No variance shall be authorized unless the Board finds that the
condition or situation of the property concerned or the intended use of the
property is not of so general or recurring a nature as to make reasonable and
practicable the formulation of a general regulation to be adopted as an
amendment to this chapter.
   (C)   In exercising the above-mentioned powers, such Board may, in
conformity with the provisions of said sections, reverse or affirm, wholly or
partly, or may modify the order, requirement, decision or determination
appealed from, and may make such order, requirement, decision or determination
as shall be proper, and to that end shall have all the powers of the officer
from whom the appeal is taken. The concurring vote of four members of the Board
shall be necessary to reverse any order, requirement, decision or determination
of any such administrative official, or to decide in favor of the applicant on
any matter upon which it is required to pass under any such regulation or to
effect any variation in such regulation.
(Ord. 2009-04, passed 4-23-2009)
§ 154.118  PROCEDURES FOR REQUESTING A VARIANCE.
   The procedures to be followed by the Board of Zoning Adjustment shall be as
follows.
   (A)   Appeals to the Board may be taken by any person aggrieved or by any
officer, department or governmental agency affected by any decision of the
Zoning Administrator. Such appeal shall be made within ten days from the date
of decision by any official or department. The appeal filed in writing shall
define the appeal being requested and the grounds therefor. The officer from
whom the appeal is taken shall forthwith transmit to the Board of Zoning
Adjustment all the paper constituting the record upon which the action appealed
from was taken.
   (B)   The Chairperson of the Board shall set a hearing within 30 days of
receipt of the appeal. The time, date, place of the hearing, and description of
the request shall be published in a local newspaper of general circulation ten
days prior to the actual hearing. The Board shall also notify the interested
parties in the case of the hearing date, time and place.
(Ord. 2009-04, passed 4-23-2009)
§ 154.119  APPEALS FROM BOARD OF ZONING ADJUSTMENT.
   Any person or persons, jointly or separately, aggrieved by any decision of
the Board of Zoning Adjustment, or any officer, departments, board or bureau of
the village, may seek review of such decision by the District Court for the
village in the manner provided by the laws of the state and particularly by
Neb. RS 19-912.
(Ord. 2009-04, passed 4-23-2009)
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 154.135  ENFORCEMENT.
   This chapter shall be enforced and administered by a Zoning Administrator
who shall be appointed by the Village Board and who may be provided with the
assistance of such other persons as the Village Board may direct in order to
carry out the following duties and responsibilities:
   (A)   Approve and issue all building permits and occupancy certificates when
compliance is made with this chapter;
   (B)   Conduct inspections of buildings, structures and uses of land to
determine compliance with the provisions of this chapter;
   (C)   Receive, file and forward to the Board of Zoning Adjustment the
records in all appeals for variances;
   (D)   Maintain permanent and current records of this chapter, including but
not limited to, all zoning maps, amendments, special use permits, variances,
appeals and applications thereof and records of hearings thereon;
   (E)   Prepare and have available in book, pamphlet or map for each year;
      (1)   The compiled text of this chapter and amendments thereto, including
all amendments adopted through the preceding December 31; and
      (2)   A zoning map or maps, showing the zoning districts, divisions and
classifications in effect on the preceding December 31.
   (F)   Whenever the Zoning Administrator shall find that any of the
provisions of this chapter have been or are being violated, he or she shall
notify in writing the person responsible for such violation, indicating the
nature of the violation and ordering the action necessary to correct it. He or
she may order discontinuance of illegal use of land, buildings or structures;
removal of illegal buildings, structures or additions or alterations thereto;
discontinuance of any illegal work being done; or take any other appropriate
action authorized by this chapter to insure compliance with, or to prevent
violation of, its provisions.
(Ord. 2009-04, passed 4-23-2009)
§ 154.136  BUILDING PERMITS REQUIRED.
   (A)   General. No building or other structure shall be erected, moved, added
to, or structurally altered without a building permit first having been issued
by the Zoning Administrator. No building permit shall be issued unless the
proposed construction or use is in conformance with all of the provisions of
this chapter and with all other applicable codes, regulations and laws of the
village and with all orders, and variances lawfully issued by the Board of
Adjustment. A building permit shall not be required for agricultural
(nonresidential) buildings or structures in the AGR Agricultural Districts or
for improvements which have a value of $1,000 or less. If the work for which a
permit has been issued shall not have begun within six months of the date
thereof, or if the construction shall be discontinued for a period of six
months, the permit shall be void. Before work can be resumed, a new permit
shall be obtained in the same manner and form as an original permit.
   (B)   Application for building permit. All applications for a building
permit shall be accompanied by a plot plan showing the location, ground area,
height and bulk of all present and proposed structures, additions, parking
areas and site improvements; the actual dimensions and shape of the lot lines;
the uses to be built upon; the building lines in proposed structures or
additions; and any other reasonable and pertinent information as may be
required by the Zoning Administrator or the proper enforcement of this chapter.
   (C)   Approval or disapproval of permit. The Zoning Administrator shall
examine all applications for building permits, including plans, specifications
and documents filed therewith and shall either approve or disapprove such
application within 30 days of receipt of same. Upon approval and receipt of
required fees, the Zoning Administrator shall promptly issue the building
permit and shall affix his or her signature to the permit and the plans and
mark the plans “approved.” Upon disapproval of the application, the Zoning
Administrator shall refuse to issue the permit and shall state in writing on
the plans the reasons for disapproval, affix his or her signature and mark the
plans “disapproved.”
   (D)   Appeal from approval or disapproval. An appeal from approval or
disapproval of any application shall be made to the Board of Zoning Adjustment
in writing within ten days after the determination of the Zoning Administrator
has been filed.
(Ord. 2009-04, passed 4-23-2009)  Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.137  CERTIFICATION OF OCCUPANCY REQUIRED.
   (A)   General. No building, structure or land shall be used or occupied, in
whole or in part, nor shall any change made in the use or type of occupancy of
an existing building or structure requiring a building permit, nor shall any
change be made in the use of land, except to any use which is primarily
agricultural, unless a certificate of occupancy shall be issued by the Zoning
Administrator in accordance with this chapter.
   (B)   Temporary certificate. Upon request, the Zoning Administrator may
issue a partial certificate of occupancy for a period not to exceed 90 days,
for a building or structure or part thereof, before the entire work covered by
the building permit shall have been completed, provided such portion or
portions as have been completed may be occupied safely without endangering life
or the public welfare.
   (C)   Application for certificate of occupancy. All applications for a
certificate of occupancy shall be made by the owner or his or her agent and
shall be accompanied by an affidavit of the owner, registered architect,
licensed professional engineer, or superintendent of construction who shall
state that he or she has examined the approved plans of the structure, that
said structure has been erected in accordance with the approved plans and that
it complies with this chapter and all local code and resolutions/ordinances
governing building construction. The application and affidavit shall be filed
with the Zoning Administrator.
   (D)   Issuance of certificate of occupancy. Before issuing a certificate of
occupancy, the Zoning Administrator shall examine all buildings, structures or
sites for which an application has been filed for a building permit to
construct, enlarge, alter, repair, remove, demolish, or change the use or
occupancy. The Zoning Administrator shall maintain a record of all examinations
and inspections, together with a record of findings of violations of the law.
   (E)   Authorization. A certificate of occupancy shall be deemed to
authorize, and is required for, both initial and continued occupancy and use of
the building or land to which it applies, and shall continue in effect so long
as such building or land is used as authorized in the certificate of occupancy.
(Ord. 2009-04, passed 4-23-2009)  Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.138  SCHEDULE OF FEES.
   The schedule of fees shall be established for this chapter by the Village
Board. The schedule of fees shall be posted in the office of the Zoning
Administrator and may be altered or amended only by the Village Board. Until
all applicable fees, charges and expenses have been paid in full, no action
shall be taken on any application or appeal.
(Ord. 2009-04, passed 4-23-2009)  Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.139  AMENDMENT.
   (A)   Generally. The Village Board may from time to time supplement, change
or generally revise the boundaries or regulations contained in this chapter. A
proposal for such amendment may be initiated by the Village Board, Planning
Commission or upon application of the owner of the property affected. A filing
fee established by the Village Board is required for each application to be
considered by the Planning Commission.
   (B)   Submission to Planning Commission.
      (1)   All such proposed amendments shall first be submitted to the
Planning Commission for recommendation and report. Upon the development of
tentative recommendations, the Planning Commission shall hold a public hearing
thereon and shall cause an accurate written summary to be made of proceedings,
and shall give notice in like manner as that required for the original zoning
recommendations. Such notice shall fix the time and place for such hearing and
contain a statement regarding the proposed changes in regulations or
restrictions or in the boundary of any district.
      (2)   If such proposed amendment is not a general revision of an existing
provision of this chapter, and will affect specific property, it shall be
designated by legal description and general street location and in addition to
such publication notice, written notice of such proposed amendment shall be
mailed to all owners of lands located within 300 feet of the area proposed to
be altered and an opportunity granted to interested parties to be heard.
   (C)   Amendment conspiration and adoption.
      (1)   The procedure for the consideration and adoption of any such
proposed amendments, to the this chapter, shall be in like manner as that
required for the consideration and adoption of the ordinance except herein
before or herein after modified. For action on zoning amendments, a quorum of
the Planning Commission is more than one-half of all the members. A vote either
for or against an amendment by a majority of all the Planning Commission
members present constitutes a recommendation of the Commission; whereas a vote
either for or against an amendment by less than a majority of the Planning
Commission present constitutes a failure to recommend.
      (2)   When the Planning Commission submits a recommendation of approval
or disapproval of such amendment, the Village Board, if it approves such
recommendation, may either adopt such recommendation by ordinance or take no
further action thereof as appropriate. In the event the Planning Commission
submits a failure to recommend, the Village Board may take such action as it
deems appropriate. Upon receipt of a recommendation of the Planning Commission
which the Village Board disapproves, the said governing body shall return such
recommendation to the Planning Commission with a statement specifying the basis
for disapproval, and such recommendation shall be considered in like manner as
that required for the original recommendation returned to the Planning
Commission. If such amendment shall affect the boundaries of any district, the
ordinance shall define the change or the boundary as amended, shall order the
official zoning map(s) to be changed to reflect such amendment, and shall amend
the section of the ordinance incorporating the same and reincorporate such map
as amended.
   (D)   Protest. Regardless of whether or not the Village Board approves or
disapproves a proposed zoning amendment or fails to recommend, if a protest
against such amendment be filed in the office of the Village Clerk within 14
days after the date of the conclusion of the public hearing pursuant to said
publication notice, duly signed and acknowledged by the owners of 20% or more
either of the area of the lots included in such proposed change, or of those
immediately adjacent in the rear thereof extending 100 feet therefrom, or of
those directly opposite thereto extending 100 feet from the street frontage of
such opposite lots, such amendments shall not become effective except by the
favorable vote of two-thirds majority of the Village Board.
(Ord. 2009-04, passed 4-23-2009)
§ 154.140  COMPLAINTS REGARDING VIOLATIONS.
   Whenever a violation of this chapter occurs, or is alleged to have occurred,
any person may file a written complaint. Such complaint stating fully the
causes and basis thereof shall be filed with the Zoning Administrator. He or
she shall record properly such complaint, immediately investigate and take
action thereon as provided by this chapter.
(Ord. 2009-04, passed 4-23-2009)
§ 154.141  REMEDIES.
   In case any building or structure is erected, constructed, reconstructed,
altered, repaired, converted, or maintained; or any building, structure or land
is used in violation of this chapter, the appropriate authorities of the
village may institute any appropriate action or proceedings to prevent such
unlawful erection, construction, reconstruction, alteration, repair,
conversion, maintenance or use; to restrain, correct or abate such violation;
to prevent the occupancy of said building, structure or land; or to prevent any
illegal act, conduct, business or use in or about such premises.
(Ord. 2009-04, passed 4-23-2009)
§ 154.999  PENALTY.
   (A)   The owner or agent of a building or premises in or upon which a
violation of any provisions of this chapter has been committed or shall exist
or lessee or tenant of an entire building or entire premises in or upon which
such violation shall exist, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor. Each and every
day that such violation continues after notification shall constitute a
separate offense.
   (B)   Nothing herein contained shall prevent the village from taking such
other lawful action as is necessary to prevent or remedy any violation.
(Ord. 2009-04, passed 4-23-2009)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   Table
      
I.   FRANCHISE AGREEMENTS
TABLE I:  FRANCHISE AGREEMENTS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
                     Grant of telephone system franchise to Consolidated
-        - -         Telephone Company of Nebraska
                     (Prior Code, § 10-701)
                     Grant of electric light and power system franchise to
-        - -         Nebraska Dawson Public Power District
                     (Prior Code, § 10-702)
                     Grant of cable television franchise to Consolidated
-        - -         Telephone Company of Nebraska
                     (Prior Code, § 10-703)
                     Grant of natural gas transmission and Distribution
-        - -         franchise to Source Gas Company
                     (Prior Code, § 10-704)
                     Transfer of the community antenna television franchise to
-        - -         Consolidated Cable, Inc.; effective date of transfer;
                     amending certain original ordinance provisions
                     (Prior Code, §§ 12-201, 12-202, 12-203)
                     Grant of electric system franchise to Nebraska Public
-        - -         Power District; notice of intentions; penal provisions
                     (Prior Code, §§ 12-301, 12-302, 12-303)
                     Grant of gas system franchise to Source Gas Distribution;
-        - -         notice of intention; penal provisions
                     (Prior Code, §§ 12-401, 12-402, 12-403)
                    
 
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Nebraska Revised Statutes
References to Prior Code
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO NEBRASKA REVISED STATUTES
Neb. RS Section Code Section
Neb. RS Section                        Code Section
3-501 et seq.                          35.08
9-646                                  111.02
10-201 through 10-411                  35.18
10-601 through 10-614                  35.18
11-101                                 31.02
11-103 through 11-118                  31.02
12-1001                                35.18
13-501 to 13-513                       34.36;
                                       35.05
13-506                                 35.02
13-507                                 35.02
13-508                                 35.16
13-509                                 35.16
13-510                                 35.17
13-511                                 35.17
13-518 to 13-522                       35.02
13-519                                 33.02
13-801 to 13-827                       35.08
13-2001 to 13-2043                     34.36
16-230                                 51.04
16-231                                 51.04
16-246                                 51.04
16-318(3)                              31.18
16-714 through 16-716                  35.19
16-901                                 51.04
17-119                                 31.20
17-134                                 115.01
17-137                                 111.01
                                       53.001;
17-149                                 53.003;
                                       53.005
17-202                                 30.01
17-202 through 17-210                  30.03
17-204                                 30.02;
                                       31.44
17-205                                 31.44
17-207                                 10.99;
                                       30.04
                                       31.15;
17-208                                 32.03;
                                       92.01
17-209.02                              31.01;
                                       31.16
17-210                                 31.44
17-502                                 11.01
17-503                                 151.17
17-503.01                              151.17
17-505                                 10.99;
                                       34.01
17-510                                 151.68
17-511                                 151.67
17-522                                 151.39
17-524                                 151.67
17-525                                 115.01
                                       90.21;
                                       90.22;
17-526                                 90.25;
                                       90.27;
                                       90.32;
                                       90.39
17-529.01                              35.18
17-529.08                              35.18
17-531                                 52.01
17-534                                 35.18;
                                       52.01
17-536                                 52.14
                                       52.03;
                                       52.04;
                                       52.05;
                                       52.11;
17-537                                 52.12;
                                       52.16;
                                       52.18;
                                       52.21;
                                       52.40
17-538                                 52.07;
                                       52.10
17-539                                 52.15
17-541                                 31.20;
                                       52.07
                                       52.06;
17-542                                 52.07;
                                       52.22
17-543                                 31.20
                                       90.01;
17-547                                 90.02;
                                       90.05
17-550                                 91.23
17-552                                 73.02
17-555                                 92.15
17-556                                 130.25;
                                       130.42
17-557                                 71.08
                                       151.18;
17-557.01                              151.35;
                                       151.36;
                                       151.38
17-558                                 151.56
17-559                                 151.56
17-561                                 73.02
17-567                                 151.16
17-568                                 31.19
17-568.01                              35.11
17-568.02                              35.11
                                       53.001;
17-574                                 53.003;
                                       53.005
17-575                                 53.005
17-601.01                              33.05
17-601.02                              33.05
17-604                                 31.02
17-605                                 31.17
17-606 through 17-609                  31.18
17-606(2)                              31.18
17-607                                 35.15
17-608                                 35.15
17-609                                 35.15
17-611                                 31.01
17-612                                 31.01
                                       34.04;
17-613                                 34.08;
                                       34.09;
                                       35.11
                                       10.15;
17-614                                 34.05;
                                       34.06;
                                       34.10
17-616                                 34.07
17-701                                 35.01
17-702                                 35.05
17-706                                 35.05
17-708                                 35.10
17-710                                 35.15
17-711                                 35.14
17-714                                 35.13
17-715                                 35.13
17-720                                 35.19
17-905                                 35.18
17-908                                 35.18
17-911                                 35.18
17-919                                 31.19
                                       53.001;
17-925.01                              53.009;
                                       53.011;
                                       53.016
17-939                                 35.18
17-948 through 17-952                  93.01
17-958                                 35.18
17-968                                 35.18
17-1001                                150.17
                                       10.16;
                                       91.20;
18-132                                 150.15;
                                       150.16;
                                       150.17;
                                       150.18
18-412.01                              35.11
18-503                                 53.011
18-1001 to 18-1006                     151.17
18-1214                                35.20
18-1701                                31.17
18-1719                                130.47
                                       10.99;
                                       92.15;
18-1720                                130.12;
                                       130.45;
                                       130.48;
                                       150.50
                                       10.99;
18-1722                                150.47;
                                       150.49;
                                       150.50
18-1736 through 18-1737                71.32
18-1741.01 through 18-1741.07          71.32
18-1748                                53.012
18-1756                                35.11
18-1801 through 18-1805                35.18
18-2101 to 18-2154                     35.08
18-2102.01                             32.05
18-2146                                150.16
18-2501 through 18-2511                34.25
18-2501 through 18-2531                34.99
18-2512                                34.26
18-2513                                34.26
18-2516                                34.28
18-2517                                34.29
18-2518                                34.30
18-2519                                34.31
18-2520                                34.31
18-2521                                34.33
18-2522                                34.34
18-2523 through 18-2526                34.35
18-2527                                34.36
18-2528                                34.36
18-2529 through 18-2531                34.37
18-2532 through 18-2535                34.99
18-2715                                32.05
18-3301                                31.19
19-710                                 92.17
19-901                                 154.117
19-901 et seq.                         32.05
19-901 through 19-914                  154.003
19-902                                 91.20
19-903                                 32.05
19-903 to 19-904.01                    154.117
19-904                                 154.061
19-904.01                              154.008
19-908                                 154.117
19-910                                 154.117
19-911                                 154.115
19-912                                 154.119
19-916                                 32.05;
                                       153.150
19-916 through 19-922                  153.001
19-925 through 19-933                  32.05
19-930 to 19-933                       32.05
19-1101                                31.18
19-1102 through 19-1104                31.17
19-1103                                31.18
19-1301 through 19-1304                35.15
19-1305                                52.01
19-1309                                35.07;
                                       35.09
19-1309 through 19-1312                35.09
19-2106                                51.02
19-2427                                151.68
19-2701                                52.03;
                                       52.20
19-2903                                35.12
19-2905                                35.12
20-203                                 90.28
23-122                                 31.17
23-3513                                35.18
25-505.01                              33.09
25-510.02                              34.27
25-21,149 to 25-21,164                 34.27
Ch. 28, Art. 3, 4, 7, 8, 11 or 12      112.06
Ch. 28, Art. 3, 4, 7, 8, 10, 11, or 12 112.37
28-308                                 130.40
28-309                                 130.40
28-310                                 130.40
28-510                                 130.02
28-511                                 130.02
28-520                                 90.28
28-521                                 90.28
28-523                                 130.43
28-906                                 90.29
28-907                                 91.08;
                                       130.08
28-1008                                90.38
28-1009                                90.38
28-1012                                90.38
28-1202                                130.25
28-1241                                130.28
28-1241 through 28-1252                111.01
28-1322                                130.40
28-1418                                130.09
28-1419                                130.11
28-1420                                114.01
28-1421                                114.01
28-1422                                114.02
28-1423                                114.02
28-1424                                114.03
28-1425                                114.03
28-1427                                130.10;
                                       130.11
28-521                                 130.01
28-908                                 91.02;
                                       91.04
28-1009                                90.03
29-4001 to 29-4014                     131.02
29-4003                                131.02;
                                       131.03
29-4013                                131.02;
                                       131.03
29-4015 to 29-4017                     131.01
29-4017                                131.03
32-101 to 32-1551                      35.08
32-102                                 33.03
32-404                                 33.01
32-405                                 33.02;
                                       33.09
32-505                                 33.01
32-532                                 30.01
32-559                                 33.02
32-560                                 30.05;
                                       33.08
32-560 through 32-572                  30.05
32-562                                 33.09
32-567 to 32-570                       33.09
32-574                                 33.09
32-607                                 33.03
32-616 through 32-618                  33.03
32-621                                 33.03
32-625                                 33.03
32-628                                 33.03
32-628 to 32-631                       35.08
32-629                                 33.09
32-630                                 33.09
32-802                                 35.08
32-807                                 33.06
32-918                                 33.10
32-952 through 32-959                  33.02
32-1301 through 32-1309                33.09
32-1304                                33.09
32-1307                                33.09
32-1308                                30.05
32-1524                                33.10
32-1525                                33.10
33-141                                 31.18
35-106                                 110.06
39-311                                 70.20
39-836                                 35.18
45-623                                 35.21
46-1212                                151.20
46-1201 et seq.                        52.66
48-1501                                35.11
49-801(16)                             10.05
49-14,103.01 to 49-14,103.06           31.16
49-14,103.01 through 49-103.06         31.16
51-201                                 35.08;
                                       94.01
51-201 to 51-220                       32.04
51-202                                 94.01
51-205                                 94.02
51-209                                 94.03
51-211                                 94.01
51-214                                 94.02
51-501                                 35.08
                                       112.01;
                                       112.13;
53-101 to 53-1,122                     112.30;
                                       112.32;
                                       112.36
53-101.1                               112.32
53-103                                 112.01
53-116.01                              112.16
53-123.12                              112.38
53-124                                 112.38
53-124.01                              112.38
53-124(5)                              112.33
53-124.12                              112.33
53-125                                 112.06;
                                       112.37
53-129                                 112.38
53-131                                 112.33;
                                       112.38
53-132                                 112.33;
                                       112.38
53-133                                 112.38
                                       112.02;
                                       112.31;
53-134                                 112.32;
                                       112.33;
                                       112.38
53-134.03                              112.38
53-135                                 112.35
53-135.01                              112.35;
                                       112.38
53-148                                 112.36
53-168.06                              112.30;
                                       112.32
53-168.06(9)                           112.07
53-177                                 112.04
53-178                                 112.05
53-179                                 112.03
53-180                                 112.07
53-180.02                              130.06
53-183                                 112.07
53-184                                 112.10
53-186                                 130.05
53-1,101                               112.06
53-1,102                               112.06
53-1,116                               112.02
53-1,121                               112.15
54-601                                 90.33
54-602                                 90.33
54-603                                 90.21;
                                       90.40
54-606                                 90.20
54-903                                 90.03
Ch. 60                                 70.01;
                                       72.06
60-136                                 92.15
60-301                                 35.20
Ch. 60, Art. 3                         72.06
60-3,100                               71.06
60-3,104                               35.20
60-3,113.04                            71.25;
                                       71.26
60-4,126                               72.06
                                       70.24;
60-4,182                               70.25;
                                       70.26
Ch. 60, Art. 6                         72.05
60-601 through 60-6,383                70.01
60-611                                 72.01
60-636                                 72.03
60-637                                 72.05
60-639                                 72.02
60-640                                 72.02
60-663                                 72.04
60-672                                 71.32
60-678                                 72.03;
                                       72.06
                                       70.02;
                                       70.05;
                                       71.02;
60-680                                 71.03;
                                       71.04;
                                       71.05;
                                       71.07;
                                       71.09
60-683                                 70.36
60-689                                 71.32
60-699                                 72.06
60-6,112 through 60-6,121              70.05
60-6,129                               70.21
60-6,131                               70.04
60-6,136                               70.29
60-6,138                               72.01
60-6,139                               70.31
60-6,140                               70.32
60-6,142                               72.01
60-6,146 through 60-6,154              70.03
60-6,159                               70.02
60-6,164                               70.28
60-6,165                               71.12
                                       71.04;
60-6,166                               71.12;
                                       91.05
60-6,168                               71.01
60-6,178                               70.33
60-6,179                               70.37
60-6,184                               91.07
                                       70.22;
60-6,186                               70.30;
                                       72.05
60-6,190                               70.22
60-6,196 through 60-6,203              70.23
60-6,212                               70.25
60-6,215                               70.24
60-6,219                               72.02
60-6,222                               70.36
60-6,243                               70.37
60-6,250                               151.65
60-6,278 through 60-6,282              72.02;
                                       72.05
60-6,286                               70.34
60-6,304                               70.37
60-6,306                               72.02
60-6,308                               70.31
60-6,310                               72.05
60-6,311                               72.05
60-6,312                               72.05
60-6,313                               72.05
60-6,314                               72.01
60-6,315                               72.01
60-6,316                               72.01
60-6,317                               72.01
60-6,335                               72.04
60-6,337                               72.04
60-6,338                               72.04
60-6,344                               72.04
60-6,347                               72.03
60-6,348                               72.03
60-6,352                               72.03
60-6,353                               72.03
60-6,355                               72.06
60-6,357                               72.06
60-6,357 to 60-6,359                   72.06
60-6,358                               72.06
60-6,359                               72.06
60-6,360                               72.06
60-6,361                               72.06
60-6,362                               72.06
60-6,371                               70.34
60-1901 through 60-1911                130.60
60-1904                                130.60
60-1906                                130.60
60-1907                                130.60
60-1909                                130.60
70-1601 through 70-1615                52.07;
                                       53.011
71-1637                                35.08
71-1908 to 71-1923                     131.02
71-4401                                90.20
71-4406                                90.34
71-4412                                90.21
71-5301                                52.23
73-101                                 35.11
74-1323                                73.06
76-701 through 76-724                  36.04
76-704 through 76-724                  151.56
77-1343                                151.68
77-1601                                35.16
77-1601.02                             35.16
77-1606                                35.08;
                                       35.16
77-2201                                31.18
77-2201 through 77-2215                31.18
77-2202                                31.18
77-2209                                31.18
77-2210                                31.18
77-2212                                31.18
77-2304                                35.19
77-2337                                35.15
77-2341                                35.15
77-2362 through 77-2364                35.15
77-2366                                35.15;
                                       35.19
77-2386 through 77-2397                35.15
77-2386 to 77-23,108                   35.15;
                                       35.19
                                       35.05;
77-3442                                35.08;
                                       35.09
77-3442 through 77-3444                35.08
77-3443                                35.08
77-3444                                33.02;
                                       35.08
81-145 to 81-162                       35.11
81-502                                 91.20
81-520.01                              91.22
81-2005                                70.35
81-2008                                70.36
81-3401 et seq.                        150.34
81-3423                                151.20
81-3445                                151.20
81-3449 to 81-3453                     151.20
81-3449 through 81-3453                151.20
84-712                                 31.17;
                                       31.18
84-712 through 84-712.09               31.17;
                                       31.18
84-712(2)                              31.17
84-1201 through 84-1220                31.17
84-1408 through 84-1413                31.37
84-1408 to 84-1414                     31.43
84-1409(1)                             31.36
84-1410                                31.38
84-1411                                31.39;
                                       31.42
84-1412                                31.43
84-1413                                31.40;
                                       31.41
                                       
 
REFERENCES TO PRIOR CODE
Prior Code 2020 Code
Prior Code 2020 Code
1-101      30.01
1-102      30.02
1-103      30.03
1-104      30.04
1-105      30.05
1-201      31.15
1-202      31.16
1-203      31.17
1-207      31.19
1-208      31.20
1-209      31.21
1-301      31.02
1-302      31.02
1-401      11.01
1-501      31.35
1-502      31.36
1-503      31.37
1-504      31.38
1-505      31.39
1-506      31.40
1-507      31.41
1-508      31.42
1-509      31.43
1-510      31.44
1-511      31.44
1-512      31.44
1-513      31.44
1-601      34.01
1-602      34.02
1-603      34.03
1-604      34.04
1-605      34.05
1-606      34.06
1-607      34.07
1-608      34.08
1-609      34.09
1-610      34.10
1-701      33.01
1-704      33.03
1-705      33.04
1-706      33.05
1-707      33.06
1-708      33.07
1-709      33.08
1-710      33.09
1-801      35.01
1-804      35.03
1-805      35.04
1-806      35.05
1-807      35.06
1-808      35.07
1-809      35.08
1-810      35.09
1-811      35.10
1-812      35.11
1-813      35.12
1-814      35.13
1-815      35.14
1-816      35.15
1-817      35.15
1-818      35.15
1-819      35.15
1-820      35.16
1-821      35.17
1-822      35.18
1-823      35.19
1-901      31.01
1-902      31.01
1-1001     36.03
1-1101     34.25
1-1102     34.26
1-1103     34.27
1-1104     34.28
1-1105     34.29
1-1106     34.30
1-1107     34.31
1-1108     34.32
1-1109     34.33
1-1110     34.34
1-1111     34.35
1-1112     34.36
1-1113     34.37
1-1114     34.99
1-1201     36.04
2-101      32.01
2-102      32.03
2-103      32.03
2-104      32.04
2-109      32.05
2-110      32.06
2-201      32.02
2-202      32.02
3-101      52.01
3-102      52.02
3-103      52.03
3-104      52.04
3-105      52.05
3-106      52.06
3-107      52.07
3-108      52.08
3-109      52.09
3-110      52.10
3-111      52.11
3-112      52.12
3-113      52.13
3-114      52.14
3-115      52.15
3-116      52.16
3-117      52.17
3-118      52.18
3-119      52.19
3-120      52.20
3-121      52.21
3-122      52.22
3-123      52.23
3-124      52.24
3-125      52.40
3-126      52.41
3-127      52.42
3-128      52.43
3-129      52.44
3-130      52.45
3-131      52.46
3-132      52.46
3-133      52.46
3-134      52.46
3-135      52.46
3-136      52.60
3-137      52.61
3-138      52.62
3-139      52.63
3-140      52.64
3-141      52.65
3-142      52.66
3-143      52.67
3-144      52.67
3-145      52.25
3-145      52.67
3-146      52.26
3-201      53.001
3-202      53.002
3-203      53.003
3-204      53.004
3-205      53.005
3-206      53.006
3-207      53.007
3-208      53.008
3-209      53.009
3-210      53.010
3-211      53.011
3-212      53.012
3-213      53.013
3-214      53.014
3-215      53.015
3-216      53.016
3-217      53.035
3-218      53.036
3-219      53.037
3-220      53.038
3-221      53.039
3-222      53.040
3-223      53.055
3-224      53.056
3-225      53.057
3-226      53.058
3-227      53.059
3-228      53.060
3-229      53.061
3-230      53.062
3-231      53.063
3-232      53.075
3-233      53.076
3-234      53.077
3-235      53.078
3-236      53.079
3-237      53.080
3-238      53.081
3-239      53.081
3-240      53.082
3-241      53.083
3-242      53.017
3-243      53.017
3-244      53.017
3-245      53.018
3-246      53.019
3-247      53.020
3-301      51.15
3-302      51.16
3-303      51.17
3-304      51.18
3-305      51.19
3-306      51.20
3-307      51.20
3-308      51.20
3-309      51.21
3-401      93.01
3-402      93.02
3-403      93.03
3-501      94.01
3-502      94.02
3-503      94.03
3-601      50.01
3-602      50.01
3-701      36.02
3-702      36.02
3-703      36.02
3-704      36.02
4-101      92.01
4-102      92.02
4-103      92.03
4-201      51.01
4-202      51.01
4-203      51.02
4-204      51.03
4-205      51.04
4-206      51.04
4-207      51.04
4-208      51.04
4-301      92.15
4-302      92.16
4-303      92.17;
           92.99
4-304      92.18
4-306      92.99
4-307      92.19
5-101      70.01
5-102      70.02
5-103      70.02
5-104      70.03
5-105      70.03
5-106      70.04
5-107      70.05
5-108      70.06
5-109      70.06
5-201      70.20
5-202      70.21
5-203      70.22
5-204      70.22
5-205      70.23
5-206      70.24
5-207      70.25
5-208      70.26
5-209      70.27
5-210      70.28
5-211      70.29
5-212      70.30
5-213      70.31
5-214      70.32
5-215      70.32
5-216      70.33
5-217      70.34
5-218      70.35
5-219      70.36
5-220      70.37
5-221      70.36
5-222      70.38
5-223      70.38
5-224      70.36
5-301      71.01
5-302      71.02
5-303      71.03
5-304      71.04
5-305      71.04
5-306      71.04
5-307      71.05
5-308      71.25
5-309      71.26
5-310      71.27
5-311      71.28
5-312      71.28
5-313      71.29
5-314      71.30
5-315      71.31
5-316      71.32
5-317      71.06
5-318      71.07
5-319      71.07
5-320      71.08
5-321      71.09
5-322      71.10
5-324      71.11
5-325      71.12
5-401      72.01
5-402      72.01
5-403      72.01
5-501      72.02
5-502      72.02
5-503      72.02
5-504      72.02
5-601      72.03
5-602      72.03
5-603      72.03
5-604      72.03
5-701      72.04
5-702      72.04
5-703      72.04
5-704      72.04
5-705      72.04
5-801      72.05
5-802      72.05
5-803      72.05
5-804      72.05
5-805      72.05
5-806      72.05
5-901      72.06
5-902      72.06
5-903      72.06
5-904      72.06
5-905      72.06
5-906      72.06
5-907      72.06
5-908      72.06
5-909      72.06
6-101      90.20
6-102      90.20
6-103      90.21
6-104      90.22
6-106      90.20
6-106      90.23
6-107      90.24
6-108      90.25
6-109      90.26
6-110      90.27
6-111      90.28;
           90.99
6-112      90.29
6-113      90.30
6-114      90.31
6-115      90.32
6-116      90.33
6-117      90.22
6-118      90.34
6-119      90.34
6-120      90.35
6-121      90.36
6-122      90.37
6-123      90.38
6-124      90.38
6-125      90.38
6-126      90.39
6-127      90.40
6-128      90.99
6-129      90.99
6-201      90.01
6-202      90.02
6-203      90.03
6-204      90.03
6-205      90.04
6-206      90.05
6-207      90.06
6-208      90.06
6-209      90.06
6-301      130.01
6-302      130.02
6-303      130.03
6-304      130.04
6-305      130.05
6-306      130.06
6-307      130.07
6-308      130.07
6-309      130.25
6-310      130.26
6-311      130.27
6-312      130.28
6-313      130.40;
           130.99
6-314      130.41
6-315      130.42
6-316      130.43
6-317      130.44
6-318      130.45
6-319      130.46
6-320      130.46
6-321      130.47
6-322      130.47
6-323      130.48;
           130.99
6-324      130.60;
           130.99
6-325      130.61;
           130.99
6-326      130.62
6-327      130.08
6-328      130.09;
           130.99
6-329      130.12
6-330      130.99
6-331      130.99
6-400      131.01
6-401      131.02
6-402      131.03
7-101      91.01
7-102      91.02
7-103      91.03
7-104      91.04
7-105      91.05
7-106      91.06
7-107      91.07
7-108      91.08
7-201      91.20
7-202      91.20
7-203      91.21
7-204      91.22
7-205      91.23
8-101      151.15
8-102      151.16
8-103      151.17
8-104      151.18
8-105      151.18
8-106      151.19
8-107      151.20
8-201      151.35
8-202      151.36
8-203      151.37
8-204      151.38
8-205      151.39
8-206      151.40
8-301      151.55
8-302      151.56
8-303      151.57
8-304      151.58
8-305      151.59
8-306      151.60
8-307      151.61
8-308      151.62
8-309      151.63
8-310      151.64
8-311      151.65
8-312      151.56
8-313      151.66
8-314      151.67
8-315      151.68
8-316      151.68
8-317      151.68
8-401      151.01
9-101      150.30
9-102      150.31
9-103      150.32
9-104      150.33
9-105      150.34
10-101     112.01
10-102     112.30
10-103     112.31
10-104     112.32
10-105     112.33
10-106     112.34
10-107     112.35
10-108     112.02
10-109     112.03
10-110     112.04
10-111     112.05
10-112     112.36
10-113     112.06
10-114     112.06
10-115     112.06
10-116     112.07
10-117     112.08
10-118     112.09
10-119     112.10
10-120     112.11
10-121     112.12
10-122     112.13
10-123     112.14
10-124     112.15
10-125     112.07
9-201      150.15
9-301      150.16
9-401      150.17
9-501      150.18
9-601      150.01
9-701      150.45
9-702      150.46
9-703      150.47
9-704      150.48
9-705      150.49
9-706      150.50
9-801      150.02
10-201     152.01
10-202     152.02
10-203     152.03
10-204     152.04
10-205     152.05
10-206     152.06
10-207     152.06
10-208     152.07
10-301     114.01
10-302     114.02
10-401     115.01
10-501     113.01
10-502     113.02
10-603     111.01
10-604     73.01
10-605     73.02
10-606     73.03
10-607     73.04
10-608     73.05
10-609     73.06
10-701     TSO Table I
10-702     TSO Table I
10-703     TSO Table I
10-704     TSO Table I
10-801     110.01
10-802     110.02
10-803     110.03
10-804     110.04
10-805     110.05
10-806     110.06
10-807     110.07
10-1001    111.02
12-100     36.01
12-101     36.01
12-103     36.01
12-201     TSO Table I
12-202     TSO Table I
12-203     TSO Table I
12-301     TSO Table I
12-302     TSO Table I
12-303     TSO Table I
12-401     TSO Table I
12-402     TSO Table I
12-403     TSO Table I
           
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
                     153.001 -
                     153.008;
                     153.020 -
                     153.035;
                     153.050 -
                     153.069;
                     153.085 -
                     153.093;
                     153.110;
                     153.111;
                     153.125 -
                     153.136;
                     153.150 -
                     153.152;
                     153.160 -
                     153.162;
                     153.180;
2009-04  4-23-2009   153.181;
                     154.001 -
                     154.009;
                     154.025 -
                     154.028;
                     154.040 -
                     154.045;
                     154.060 -
                     154.063;
                     154.075 -
                     154.077,
                     154.090 -
                     154.098;
                     154.115 -
                     154.119;
                     154.135 -
                     154.141;
                     154.999
–      9-8-2010    154.027
2020-01  5-13-2020   90.28,
                     90.99
2020-02  8-12-2020   70.39
                     Adopting Ordinance;
                     71.10;
2020-03  12-9-2020   111.01;
                     130.28;
                     154.097
                     31.17;
                     31.18;
                     31.37;
                     32.05;
                     33.02;
                     33.09;
2021-01  3-10-2021   33.10;
                     35.02;
                     112.16;
                     112.37;
                     114.01;
                     114.03;
                     130.09 -
                     130.11
2021-02  4-14-2021   35.20
2021-03  4-14-2021   35.21
2021-04  4-14-2021   112.38
2021-05  4-14-2021   52.46
2021-06  4-14-2021   130.29
                    
                    
 
 
 
