CITY OF BRIDGEPORT, NEBRASKA
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2025 S-9 Supplement Contains:
Local Legislation current through Ordinance No. 1019, passed 5-8-2025
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street, Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Internet: http://www.amlegal.com
ADOPTING ORDINANCES
ORDINANCE NO. 805
AN ORDINANCE TO REVISE ALL THE ORDINANCES OF THE CITY OF BRIDGEPORT, NEBRASKA,
TO REPEAL PRIOR ORDINANCES, TO REQUIRE FILING, AND TO PROVIDE AN EFFECTIVE
DATE.
   BE IT ORDAINED BY THE MAYOR AND CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF BRIDGEPORT,
NEBRASKA.
   Section 1. The general ordinances of the City of Bridgeport, Nebraska, are
hereby revised, codified, and printed in book form as the "City of Bridgeport,
Nebraska Code of Ordinances" consisting of the following Titles:
Title I: General Provisions
Title III: Administration
Title V: Public Works
Title VII: Traffic Code
Title IX: General Regulations
Title XI: Business Regulations
Title XIII: General Offenses
Title XV: Land Usage
Table of Special Ordinances
Parallel References
   Section 2. The Code of Ordinances contains all of the provisions of a
general nature pertaining to the subjects enumerated and embraced in the code.
All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated by the code are
repealed, except that nothing shall affect any rights acquired under, actions
involving, or fines, penalties. forfeitures, or liabilities incurred pursuant
to such ordinances prior to repeal.
   Section 3. All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other
ordinances pertaining to subjects not embraced in the Code of Ordinances,
including ordinances specified in this section, shall remain in full force and
effect unless repealed expressly or by necessary implication.
      1.   Vacating or setting the boundaries of streets. alleys, or other
public places.
      2.   Annexing or detaching territory.
      3.   Granting or accepting easements, plats, or dedication of land to
public use.
      4.   Providing for the acquisition or conveyance of real or personal
property.
      5.   Authorizing or directing public improvements to be made.
      6.   Levying taxes or special assessments.
      7.   Appropriating money.
      8.   Granting franchises or special licenses.
      9.   Providing for the issuance of bonds or other instruments of
indebtedness.
   Section 4. At least one copy of the Code of Ordinances shall be on file in
the office of the City Clerk and available for inspection by members of the
public during the hours the office is kept open for the ordinary transaction of
business. The Clerk shall file a copy of the ordinances with the County Court.
   Section 5. This ordinance shall be in full force and shall take effect from
and after its passage, approval, and publication according to law.
   PASSED AND APPROVED THIS 10th DAY OF JUNE, 2010.
                                 J.W. BERG /s/
                                 J.W. BERG
                                 MAYOR
ATTEST:
DORETTA J. HUCK /s/
DORETTA J. HUCK
CITY CLERK/TREASURER
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
      Chapter
         
10.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
         
11.   CITY STANDARDS
CHAPTER 10: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Interpretation
   
10.03   Application to future ordinances
   
10.04   Captions
   
10.05   Definitions
   
10.06   Rules of interpretation
   
10.07   Severability
   
10.08   Reference to other sections
   
10.09   Reference to offices
   
10.10   Errors and omissions
   
10.11   Official time
   
10.12   Reasonable time
   
10.13   Ordinances repealed
   
10.14   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.15   Repeal or modification of ordinance
   
10.16   Section histories; statutory references
 
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01 TITLE OF CODE.
   This codification of ordinances shall be designated as the City of
Bridgeport, Nebraska, Code of Ordinances and may be so cited.
§ 10.02 INTERPRETATION.
   Unless otherwise provided herein, or by law or implication required, the
same rules of construction, definition, and application shall govern the
interpretation of this code as those governing the interpretation of state law.
§ 10.03 APPLICATION TO FUTURE ORDINANCES.
   All provisions of Title I compatible with future legislation shall apply to
ordinances hereafter adopted amending or supplementing this code unless
otherwise specifically provided.
§ 10.04 CAPTIONS.
   Headings and captions used in this code, other than the title, chapter, and
section numbers, are employed for reference purposes only and shall not be
deemed a part of the text of any section.
§ 10.05 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   General rule. Words and phrases shall be taken in their plain, or
ordinary, and usual sense. However, technical words and phrases having a
peculiar and appropriate meaning in law shall be understood according to their
technical import.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this code, the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      CITY COUNCIL or GOVERNING BODY. The legislative body of the city.
      CITY, MUNICIPAL CORPORATION, or MUNICIPALITY. The city adopting this
code.
      CODE, THIS CODE, or THIS CODE OF ORDINANCES. This city code as modified
by amendment, revision, and adoption of new titles, chapters, or sections.
      COUNTY. Morrill County, Nebraska.
      MAY. The act referred to is permissive.
      MONTH. A calendar month.
      OATH. Includes an affirmation in all cases in which, by law, an
affirmation may be substituted for an oath, and in those cases the words SWEAR
and SWORN shall be equivalent to the words AFFIRM and AFFIRMED.
      OFFICER, OFFICE, EMPLOYEE, COMMISSION, or DEPARTMENT. An officer, office,
employee, commission, or department of this city unless the context clearly
requires otherwise.
      PERSON. Includes bodies politic and corporate, societies, communities,
the public generally, individuals, partnerships, limited liability companies,
joint stock companies, and associations.
(Neb. RS 49-801(16))
      PRECEDING or FOLLOWING. Next before or next after, respectively.
      SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory.
      SIGNATURE or SUBSCRIPTION. Includes a mark when the person cannot write.
      STATE. The State of Nebraska.
      SUBCHAPTER.
         (a)   A division of a chapter, designated in this code by a heading in
the chapter analysis and a capitalized heading in the body of the chapter,
setting apart a group of sections related by the subject matter of the heading.
         (b)   Not all chapters have SUBCHAPTERS.
      WRITTEN. Any representation of words, letters, or figures, whether by
printing or otherwise.
      YEAR. A calendar year, unless otherwise expressed.
§ 10.06 RULES OF INTERPRETATION.
   (A)   Generally. The construction of all ordinances of this city shall be by
the following rules, unless that construction is plainly repugnant to the
intent of the Mayor and City Council or of the context of the same ordinance.
   (B)   Specifically.
      (1)   AND or OR. Either conjunction shall include the other as if written
"and/or," if the sense requires it.
      (2)   Acts by assistants. When a statute or ordinance requires an act to
be done which, by law, an agent or deputy as well may do as the principal, the
requisition shall be satisfied by the performance of the act by an authorized
agent or deputy.
      (3)   Gender; singular and plural; tenses. Words denoting the masculine
gender shall be deemed to include the feminine and neuter genders; words in the
singular shall include the plural, and words in the plural shall include the
singular; the use of a verb in the present tense shall include the future, if
applicable.
      (4)   General term. A general term following specific enumeration of
terms is not to be limited to the class enumerated unless expressly so limited.
§ 10.07 SEVERABILITY.
   If any provision of this code as now or later amended or its application to
any person or circumstance is held invalid, the invalidity does not affect
other provisions that can be given effect without the invalid provision or
application.
§ 10.08 REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   Whenever a section refers to another section hereof, that reference shall
extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently amended, revised,
recodified, or renumbered unless the subject matter is materially altered by
the amendment or revision.
§ 10.09 REFERENCE TO OFFICES.
   Reference to a public office or officer shall be deemed to apply to any
office, officer, or employee of this city exercising the powers, duties, or
functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any transfer of
functions or change in the official title of the functionary.
§ 10.10 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error is discovered, consisting of the misspelling of any
words; the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention of
the provisions affected; the use of a word or words to which no meaning can be
attached; or the use of a word or words when another word or words was clearly
intended to express the intent, the spelling shall be corrected and the word or
words supplied, omitted, or substituted as will conform with the manifest
intention, and the provisions shall have the same effect as though the correct
words were contained in the text as originally published. No alteration shall
be made or permitted if any question exists regarding the nature or extent of
the error.
§ 10.11 OFFICIAL TIME.
   The official time, as established by applicable state/federal laws, shall be
the official time within this city for the transaction of all city business.
§ 10.12 REASONABLE TIME.
   (A)   In all cases where an ordinance requires an act to be done in a
reasonable time or requires reasonable notice to be given, reasonable time or
notice shall be deemed to mean the time which is necessary for a prompt
performance of the act or the giving of the notice.
   (B)   The time within which an act is to be done, as herein provided, shall
be computed by excluding the first day and including the last. If the last day
is Sunday, it shall be excluded.
§ 10.13 ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   This code contains all of the provisions of a general nature pertaining to
the subjects enumerated and embraced in this code. All prior ordinances
pertaining to the subjects treated by this code are repealed, except that
nothing shall affect any rights acquired under, actions involving, or fines,
penalties, forfeitures, or liabilities incurred pursuant to those ordinances
prior to repeal.
§ 10.14 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   (A)   Generally. All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all
other ordinances pertaining to subjects not embraced in this code, including
ordinances specified in this section, shall remain in full force and effect
unless repealed expressly or by necessary implication.
   (B)   Specifically.
      (1)   Vacating or setting the boundaries of streets, alleys, or other
public places;
      (2)   Annexing or detaching territory;
      (3)   Granting or accepting easements, plats, or dedication of land to
public use;
      (4)   Providing for the acquisition or conveyance of real or personal
property;
      (5)   Authorizing or directing public improvements to be made;
      (6)   Levying taxes or special assessments;
      (7)   Appropriating money;
      (8)   Granting franchises or special licenses; or
      (9)   Providing for the issuance of bonds or other instruments of
indebtedness.
§ 10.15 REPEAL OR MODIFICATION OF ORDINANCE.
   (A)   Whenever any ordinance or part of an ordinance is repealed or modified
by a subsequent ordinance, the ordinance or part of an ordinance thus repealed
or modified shall continue in force until the publication of the ordinance
repealing or modifying it to give effect thereto.
   (B)   No suit, proceedings, right, liability, fine, forfeiture, or penalty
instituted, created, given, secured, or accrued under any ordinance previous to
its repeal shall in any way be affected, released, or discharged, but may be
prosecuted, enjoyed, and recovered as fully as if the ordinance had continued
in force, unless it is otherwise expressly provided.
   (C)   When any ordinance repealing a former ordinance, clause, or provision
is itself repealed, the repeal shall not be construed to revive the former
ordinance, clause, or provision, unless it is expressly provided.
Statutory reference:
   Requirements for amendments and revisions, see Neb. RS 17-614
§ 10.16 SECTION HISTORIES; STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   A statutory cite included in the history indicates that the text of
the section reads substantially the same as the statute. Example: (Neb. RS 18-
132)
   (B)   A statutory cite set forth as a "statutory reference" following the
text of the section indicates that the reader should refer to that statute for
further information. Example:
      § 39.01 PUBLIC RECORDS AVAILABLE.
         This municipality shall make available to any person for inspection or
copying all public records, unless otherwise exempted by state law.
      Statutory reference:
         Inspection of public records, see Neb. RS 84-712 et seq.
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who violates any of the provisions of this city code,
unless otherwise specifically provided herein, shall be deemed guilty of an
offense and, upon conviction thereof, shall be fined in any sum not exceeding
$500. A new violation shall be deemed to have been committed every 24 hours of
failure to comply with the provisions of this code.
   (B)   (1)   Whenever a nuisance exists as defined in Title IX of this code,
the city may proceed by a suit in equity to enjoin and abate the same, in the
manner provided by law.
      (2)   Whenever, in any action, it is established that a nuisance exists,
the court may, together with the fine or penalty imposed, enter an order of
abatement as a part of the judgment in the case.
   (C)   Any person, whether as owner, proprietor, or as the agent, attorney,
or representative of any owner or proprietor of land, who shall plat or
subdivide any tract of land within the corporate limits of the city, or
adjoining and contiguous to the same, except as herein authorized, or who shall
sell, transfer, deed or convey, contract, or agree to sell, transfer, or offer
for sale any lot or piece of ground in any addition or subdivision of three or
more parts within the corporate limits, or adjoining and contiguous thereto,
without having first obtained the acceptance and approval of the plat or map
thereof by the City Council, and any person who shall violate, or who shall
fail, neglect, or refuse, or refuse to comply with any of the provisions
hereinbefore, as now existing, or as hereafter amended, shall, upon conviction,
be fined in any sum not exceeding $500.
(1973 Code, § 11-601) (Ord. 694, passed 7-8-1999)
Statutory reference:
   Authority to abate nuisances, see Neb. RS 18-1,720 and 18-1,722
   Authority to impose fines, see Neb. RS 17-505
CHAPTER 11: CITY STANDARDS
Section
   
11.01   Official Corporate Seal
§ 11.01 OFFICIAL CORPORATE SEAL.
   The Official Corporate Seal of the city shall be kept in the office of the
City Clerk/Treasurer, and shall bear the following inscription: Seal, City of
Bridgeport, Morrill County, Nebraska. The City Clerk/Treasurer shall affix an
impression of the Official Corporate Seal to all warrants, licenses, permits,
ordinances, and all other official papers issued by order of the City Council
and countersigned by the City Clerk/Treasurer.
(Neb. RS 17-502) (1973 Code, § 1-401)
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
      Chapter
         
30.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
         
31.   CITY OFFICIALS
         
32.   CITY ORGANIZATIONS
         
33.   FINANCE AND REVENUE
CHAPTER 30: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
Meetings
   
30.01   Public meetings
   
30.02   City Council
   
30.03   Order of business
   
30.04   Parliamentary procedure
   
30.05   Change in office
   
30.06   Organizational
   
30.07   Definitions
   
30.08   Closed sessions
   
30.09   Emergency meetings
   
30.10   Minutes
   
30.11   Votes
   
30.12   Notice to news media
   
30.13   Public participation
   
30.14   Regular meetings
   
30.15   Special meetings
Ordinances
   
30.30   Grant of power
   
30.31   Introduction
   
30.32   Resolutions and motions
   
30.33   Style
   
30.34   Title
   
30.35   Passage
   
30.36   Publication
   
30.37   Certificate of publication or posting
   
30.38   Emergency ordinances
   
30.39   Amendments and revisions
Elections
   
30.50   Generally
   
30.51   Notice
   
30.52   Registered voters; qualifications
   
30.53   Special elections
   
30.54   Election of officers; certifications required; how Council members
elected
   
30.55   Partisan ballot; when allowed; requirements
   
30.56   Candidate filing forms; deadlines; filing officer
   
30.57   Filing fee
   
30.58   Petition, write-in, and other candidates for general election ballot;
procedures
   
30.59   Recall procedure
   
30.60   Exit polls
Intergovernmental Risk Management
   
30.75   Authority
Statutory reference:
   Election Act, see Neb. RS 32-101
MEETINGS
§ 30.01 PUBLIC MEETINGS.
   All public meetings as defined by law shall be held in a city public
building which shall be open to attendance by the public. All meetings shall be
held in the public building in which the City Council usually holds the
meetings unless the publicized notice hereinafter required shall designate some
other public building or other specified place. The advance publicized notice
of all public convened meetings shall be simultaneously transmitted to all
members of the City Council and to the public by a method designated by the
City Council or by the Mayor if the City Council has not designated a method.
The notice shall contain the time and specific place for each meeting and
either an enumeration of the agenda subjects known at the time of the notice,
or a statement that such an agenda kept continually current shall be readily
available for public inspection at the office of the City Clerk/Treasurer.
Except for items of an emergency nature, the agenda shall not be altered later
than 24 hours before the scheduled commencement of the meeting, or 48 hours
before the scheduled commencement of a meeting of the City Council scheduled
outside the corporate limits of the city. The City Council shall have the right
to modify the agenda to include items of an emergency nature only at the public
meetings. The minutes of the City Clerk/Treasurer shall include the record of
the manner and advance time by which the advance publicized notice was given, a
statement of how the availability of an agenda of the then known subjects was
communicated, the time and specific place of the meetings, and the names of
each member of the City Council present or absent at each convened meeting. The
minutes of the City Council shall be a public record open to inspection by the
public upon request at any reasonable time at the office of the City Clerk/
Treasurer. Any official action on any question or motion duly moved and
seconded shall be taken only by roll call vote of the City Council in open
session. The record of the City Clerk/Treasurer shall show how each member
voted, or that the member was absent and did not vote.
(Neb. RS 84-1,408, 84-1,409, 84-1,411, and 84-1,413) (1973 Code, § 1-501) (Ord.
540, passed 10-6-1983; Ord. 590, passed 11-5-1987)
§ 30.02 CITY COUNCIL.
   The meetings of the City Council shall be held in the meeting place of the
city. Regular meetings shall be held on the second Tuesday of each month at the
hour of 5:30 p.m. Special meetings may be called by the Mayor, or by three
members of the City Council, the object of which shall be submitted to the
Council in writing. The call and object, as well as the disposition thereof,
shall be entered upon the journal by the City Clerk/Treasurer. No other
business shall be transacted at the meeting unless all members of the City
Council are present and consent thereto. On filing the call for a special
meeting, the City Clerk/Treasurer shall notify the Council Members of the
special meeting, stating the time and its purpose. Notice of a special meeting
need not be given to a Council Member known to be out of the state, or
physically unable to be present. Two-thirds of the members of the City Council
shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business, but a smaller number
may adjourn from day to day and compel the attendance of the absent members;
provided, that on the request of any two members, whether a quorum is present
or not, all absent members shall be sent for and compelled to attend. At the
hour appointed for the meeting, the City Clerk/Treasurer shall proceed to call
the roll of members and announce whether a quorum is present. If a quorum is
present, the Council shall be called to order by the Mayor, if present, or if
absent, by the President of the Council. In the absence of both the Mayor and
the President of the Council, the City Council Members shall elect a President
Pro Tempore.
(Neb. RS 17-105 and 17-106) (1973 Code, § 1-502) (Ord. 459, passed 7-6-1978;
Ord. 833, passed 11-6-2011; Ord. 850, passed 4-23-2012; 853, passed 7-12-2012;
Ord. 1001, passed 12-14-2023)
§ 30.03 ORDER OF BUSINESS.
   All meetings of the City Council shall be open to the public. Promptly at
the hour set by law on the day of each regular meeting, the members of the City
Council, the City Clerk/Treasurer, the Mayor, and any other city officials that
may be required shall take their regular stations in the meeting place, and the
business of the city shall be taken up for consideration, and disposition in
the manner prescribed by the official agenda on file at the office of the City
Clerk/Treasurer.
(1973 Code, § 1-503)
§ 30.04 PARLIAMENTARY PROCEDURE.
   The Mayor shall preserve order during meetings of the City Council and shall
decide all questions of order, subject to an appeal to the City Council. When
any person is called to order, he or she shall be seated until the point is
decided. When the Mayor is putting the question, no person shall leave the
meeting room. Every person present, previous to speaking shall rise from his or
her seat and address himself or herself to the presiding officer and while
speaking shall confine himself or herself to the question. When two or more
persons rise at once, the Mayor shall recognize the one who spoke first. All
resolutions or motions shall be reduced to writing before being acted upon, if
requested by the City Clerk/Treasurer, or any member of the City Council. Every
member of the City Council who is present when a question is voted upon shall
cast his or her vote unless excused by a majority of the City Council present.
No motion shall be put or debated unless seconded. When seconded, it shall be
stated by the Mayor before being debatable. In all cases where a motion or
resolution is entered on the minutes, the name of the member of the City
Council making the motion, or resolution shall be entered also. After each
vote, the "Yeas" and "Nays" shall be taken, and entered in the minutes upon the
request of any member of the City Council. Before the vote is actually taken,
any resolution, motion, or proposed ordinance may be withdrawn from
consideration by the sponsor thereof with the consent of the member of the City
Council seconding the resolution, motion, or ordinance. When, in the
consideration of an ordinance, different times, or amounts are proposed, the
question shall be put on the largest sum, or the longest time. A question to
reconsider shall be in order when made by a member voting with the majority,
but the motion to reconsider must be made before the expiration of the third
regular meeting after the initial consideration of the question. When any
question is under debate, no motion shall be made, entertained, or seconded
except the previous question, a motion to table, and to adjourn. Each of the
motions shall be decided without debate. Any of the rules of the City Council
for meetings may be suspended by a two-thirds vote of the members present. In
all cases in which provisions are not made by these rules, Robert's Rules of
Order is the authority by which the City Council shall decide all procedural
disputes that may arise.
(1973 Code, § 1-504)
§ 30.05 CHANGE IN OFFICE.
   The change in office shall be made as follows. The Mayor and Council shall
meet on the first regular meeting date in December of each year in which a city
election is held and the outgoing officers and the outgoing members of the
Council shall present their reports, and upon the old Council having completed
its business up to the time, the outgoing members of the Council shall
surrender their offices to the incoming members, and the outgoing officers
shall thereupon each surrender to his or her successor in office all property,
records, papers, and moneys, belonging to the same.
(1973 Code, § 1-505)
§ 30.06 ORGANIZATIONAL.
   The newly elected Council shall convene at the regular place of meeting in
the city on the first regular meeting in December of each year in which a city
election is held immediately after the prior Council adjourns and proceed to
organize itself for the ensuing year. The Mayor elected for the new city year
shall call the meeting to order. The Council shall then proceed to examine the
credentials of its members and other elective officers of the city to see that
each has been duly and properly elected, and to see that the oaths and bonds
have been given as are required. After ascertaining that all members are duly
qualified, the Council shall then elect one of its own body who shall be styled
as President of the Council. The Mayor shall then nominate his or her
candidates for appointive offices. He or she shall then proceed with the
regular order of business. It is hereby made the duty of each and every member
of the Council, or his or her successor in office, and of each officer elected
to any office, to qualify prior to the first regular meeting in December
following his or her election. All appointive officers shall qualify within two
weeks following their appointments. Qualification for each officer who is not
required to give bond shall consist in his or her subscribing and taking an
oath to support the Constitution of the United States, the State Constitution,
the laws of the city and to perform faithfully and impartially the duties of
his or her office, the oath to be filed in the office of the City Clerk/
Treasurer. Each officer who is required to give a bond shall file the required
bond in the office of the City Clerk/Treasurer with sufficient sureties,
conditioned on the faithful discharge of the duties of his or her office, with
the oath endorsed thereon.
(1973 Code, § 1-506) (Ord. 454, passed 12-1-1977)
§ 30.07 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      MEETINGS. All regular, special, or called meetings, formal or informal,
of a public body for the purposes of briefing, discussion of public business,
formation of tentative policy, or the taking of any action.
(Neb. RS 84-1,409(2)) (1973 Code, § 1-507)
      PUBLIC BODY.
         (a)   The City Council of the city;
         (b)   All independent boards, commissions, bureaus, committees,
councils, subunits, or any other bodies, now or hereafter created by
Constitution, statute, ordinance, or otherwise pursuant to law; and
         (c)   Advisory committees of the bodies listed above.
   (B)   This subchapter shall not apply to subcommittees of the bodies unless
a quorum of the public body attends a subcommittee meeting or unless the
subcommittees are holding hearings, making policy or taking formal action on
behalf of their parent body.
(Neb. RS 84-1,409(1)) (1973 Code, § 1-508)
(Ord. 453, passed 12-1-1977; Ord. 540, passed 10-6-1983; Ord. 632, passed 6-10-
1993)
§ 30.08 CLOSED SESSIONS.
   (A)   Any public body may hold a closed session by the affirmative vote of a
majority of its voting members if a closed session is clearly necessary for the
protection of the public interest or for the prevention of needless injury to
the reputation of an individual and if the individual has not requested a
public meeting.
      (1)   Closed sessions may be held for, but shall not be limited to, such
reasons as:
         (a)   Strategy sessions with respect to collective bargaining, real
estate purchases, pending litigation or litigation which is imminent as
evidenced by communication of a claim or threat of litigation to or by the
public body;
         (b)   Discussion regarding deployment of security personnel or
devices;
         (c)   Investigative proceedings regarding allegations of criminal
misconduct; or
         (d)   Evaluation of the job performance of a person when necessary to
prevent needless injury to the reputation of a person and if the person has not
requested a public meeting.
      (2)   Nothing in this section shall permit a closed meeting for
discussion of the appointment or election of a new member to any public body.
   (B)   The vote to hold a closed session shall be taken in open session. The
vote of each member on the question of holding a closed session, the reason for
the closed session, and the time when the closed session commenced and
concluded shall be recorded in the minutes. The public body holding such a
closed session shall restrict its consideration to matters during the closed
portions to only those purposes set forth in the minutes as the reason for the
closed session. The meeting shall be reconvened in open session before any
formal action may be taken. For purposes of this section, FORMAL ACTION shall
mean a collective decision or a collective commitment or promise to make a
decision on any question, motion, proposal, resolution, order, or ordinance or
formation of a position or policy.
   (C)   Any member of any public body shall have the right to challenge the
continuation of a closed session if the member determines that the session has
exceeded the reason stated in the original motion to hold a closed session or
if the member contends that the closed session is neither clearly necessary for
the protection of the public interest or the prevention of needless injury to
the reputation of an individual. The challenge shall be overruled only by a
majority vote of the members of the public body. The challenge and its
disposition shall be recorded in the minutes.
   (D)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to require that any meeting
be closed to the public. No person or public body shall fail to invite a
portion of its members to a meeting and no public body shall designate itself a
subcommittee of the whole body for the purpose of circumventing the provisions
of this subchapter. No closed session, informal meeting, chance meeting, social
gathering, or electronic communication shall be used for the purpose of
circumventing the provisions of this subchapter. The provisions of this
subchapter shall not apply to chance meetings, or to attendance at or travel to
conventions or workshops of members of a public body at which there is no
meeting of the body then intentionally convened and there is no vote or other
action taken regarding any matter over which the public body has supervision,
control, jurisdiction, or advisory power.
(Neb. RS 84-1,410) (1973 Code, § 1-509) (Ord. 540, passed 10-6-1983; Ord. 642,
passed 11-12-1993)
§ 30.09 EMERGENCY MEETINGS.
   (A)   When it is necessary to hold an emergency meeting without reasonable
advance public notice, the nature of the emergency shall be stated in the
minutes and any formal action taken in the meeting shall pertain only to the
emergency. The emergency meetings may be held by means of electronic or
telecommunication equipment. The provisions of §
30.12 shall be complied with in conducting emergency meetings.
   (B)   Complete minutes of the emergency meetings specifying the nature of
the emergency and any formal action taken at the meeting shall be made
available to the public by no later than the end of the next regular business
day.
(Neb. RS 84-1,411) (1973 Code, § 1-510) (Ord. 453, passed 12-1-1977; Ord. 540,
passed 10-6-1983)
§ 30.10 MINUTES.
   (A)   Each public body shall keep minutes of all meetings showing the time,
place, members present and absent, and the substance of all matters discussed.
   (B)   The minutes shall be public records and open to public inspection
during normal business hours.
   (C)   Minutes shall be written and available for inspection within ten
working days, or prior to the next convened meeting, whichever occurs earlier.
(Neb. RS 84-1,412 and 84-1,413) (1973 Code, § 1-511) (Ord. 453, passed 12-1-
1977)
§ 30.11 VOTES.
   (A)   Any action taken on any question or motion duly moved and seconded
shall be by roll call vote of the public body in open session, and the record
shall state how each member voted, or if the member was absent or not voting.
   (B)   The vote to elect leadership within a public body may be taken by
secret ballot, but the total number of votes for each candidate shall be
recorded in the minutes.
(Neb. RS 17-616 and 84-1,413) (1973 Code, § 1-512) (Ord. 453, passed 12-1-1977)
§ 30.12 NOTICE TO NEWS MEDIA.
   The City Clerk/Treasurer, Secretary, or other designee of each public body
shall maintain a list of the news media requesting notification of meetings and
shall make reasonable efforts to provide advance notification to them of the
time and place of each meeting, and the subjects to be discussed at that
meeting.
(Neb. RS 84-1,411) (1973 Code, § 1-513) (Ord. 453, passed 12-1-1977)
§ 30.13 PUBLIC PARTICIPATION.
   (A)   Subject to the provisions of this subchapter, the public shall have
the right to attend and the right to speak at meetings of public bodies and all
or any part of a meeting of a public body except for closed meetings called
pursuant to §
30.08 may be videotaped, televised, photographed, broadcast, or recorded by any
person in attendance by means of a tape recorder, camera, video equipment, or
any other means of pictorial or sonic reproduction or in writing.
   (B)   It shall not be a violation of this section for any public body to
make and enforce reasonable rules and regulations regarding the conduct of
persons attending, speaking at, videotaping, televising, photographing,
broadcasting, or recording its meetings. A body may not be required to allow
citizens to speak at each meeting, but it may not forbid public participation
at all meetings. No public body shall require members of the public to identify
themselves as a condition for admission to the meeting. The body may require
any member of the public desiring to address the body to identify himself or
herself. No public body shall for the purpose of circumventing the provisions
of this subchapter hold a meeting in a place known by the body to be too small
to accommodate the anticipated audience. No public body shall be deemed in
violation of this section if it holds its meeting in its traditional meeting
place which is located in this state. An agency which contracts with cities
outside the state may hold meetings of any committee outside the state if the
meetings are held only in the contracting cities. Final action on any agenda
item shall only be taken by the agency at a meeting in the state, which meeting
shall comply with Neb. RS 84-1,408 through 84-1,414. The public body shall,
upon request, make a reasonable effort to accommodate the public's right to
hear the discussion and testimony presented at the meeting. Public bodies shall
make available at the meeting, for examination and copying by members of the
public, at least one copy of all reproducible written material to be discussed
at an open meeting.
(Neb. RS 84-1,412 and 18-2,438) (1973 Code, § 1-514) (Ord. 453, passed 12-1-
1977; Ord. 540, passed 10-6-1983; Ord. 591, passed 11-5-1987) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 30.14 REGULAR MEETINGS.
   (A)   All meetings of the City Council shall be held at Prairie Winds
Community Center. Regular meetings shall be held on the second Tuesday of each
month at the hour of 5:30 p.m.
   (B)   At all meetings of the Council, a majority of the Council Members
shall constitute a quorum to do business.
(Neb. RS 17-105) (1973 Code, § 1-515) (Ord. 565, passed 9-5-1985; Ord. 833,
passed 11-6-2011; Ord. 850, passed 4-23-2012; Ord. 853, passed 7-12-2012; Ord.
947, passed 11-27-2018; Ord. 1001, passed 12-14-2023)
§ 30.15 SPECIAL MEETINGS.
   (A)   Special meetings may be called by the Mayor, or by three members of
the City Council, the object of which shall be submitted to the Council in
writing. The call and object, as well as the disposition thereof, shall be
entered upon the journal by the City Clerk/Treasurer. On filing the call for a
special meeting, the City Clerk/Treasurer shall notify the Council Members of
the special meeting, stating the time and its purpose. Notice of a special
meeting need not be given to a Council Member known to be out of the state, or
physically unable to be present. A majority of the members of the City Council
shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business, but a smaller number
may adjourn from day to day and compel the attendance of the absent members.
Whether a quorum is present or not, all absent members shall be sent for and
compelled to attend.
   (B)   At the hour appointed for the meeting, the City Clerk/Treasurer shall
proceed to call the roll of members and announce whether a quorum is present.
If a quorum is present, the Council shall be called to order by the Mayor, if
present, or if absent, by the President of the Council. In the absence of both
the Mayor and the President of the Council, the City Council Members shall
elect a President Pro Tempore. All ordinances passed at any special meeting
shall comply with procedures set forth in §§
30.30 through
30.39.
(Neb. RS 17-106) (1973 Code, § 1-516) (Ord. 565, passed 9-5-1985)
ORDINANCES
§ 30.30 GRANT OF POWER.
   The City Council shall have the responsibility of making all ordinances,
bylaws, rules, regulations, and resolutions, not inconsistent with the laws of
the state, as may be necessary and proper for maintaining the peace, good
government, and welfare of the city and its trade, commerce, and security.
(Neb. RS 17-505) (1973 Code, § 1-601)
§ 30.31 INTRODUCTION.
   Ordinances shall be introduced by members of the City Council in either of
the following ways:
   (A)   With the recognition of the Mayor, a Council Member may, in the
presence and hearing of a majority of the members elected to the Council, read
aloud the substance of his or her proposed ordinance and file a copy of the
same with the City Clerk/Treasurer for future consideration; or
   (B)   With the recognition of the Mayor, a Council Member may present his or
her proposed ordinance to the Clerk/Treasurer who, in the presence and hearing
of a majority of the members elected to the Council, shall read aloud the
substance of the same and shall file the same for future consideration.
(1973 Code, § 1-602)
§ 30.32 RESOLUTIONS AND MOTIONS.
   Resolutions and motions shall be introduced in one of the methods prescribed
for the introduction of ordinances. After their introduction, they shall be
fully and distinctly read one time in the presence and hearing of a majority of
the members elected to the Council. The issue raised by the resolutions or
motions shall be disposed of in accordance with the usage of parliamentary law
adopted for the guidance of the Council. A majority vote shall be required to
pass any resolution or motion. The vote on any resolution or motion shall be by
roll call vote.
(1973 Code, § 1-603)
§ 30.33 STYLE.
   The style of all city ordinances shall be: "Be it ordained by the Mayor and
Council of the City of Bridgeport, Nebraska."
(Neb. RS 17-613) (1973 Code, § 1-604)
§ 30.34 TITLE.
   No ordinance shall contain a subject not clearly expressed in its title.
(Neb. RS 17-614) (1973 Code, § 1-605)
§ 30.35 PASSAGE.
   Ordinances, resolutions, or orders for the appropriation of money shall
require for their passage the concurrence of the majority of the members of the
City Council. Ordinances of a general or permanent nature shall be read by the
title on three different days. This requirement may be suspended by three-
fourths vote of the Council, in that case the ordinance may be read by title or
number and then moved for final passage. Three-fourths of the Council may
require any ordinance to be read in full before final passage under either
process.
(Neb. RS 17-614) (1973 Code, § 1-606)
§ 30.36 PUBLICATION.
   All ordinances of a general nature shall be published one time within 15
days after they are passed in some newspaper in or of general circulation in
the city, or if no paper is published in the city, then by posting a written or
printed copy thereof in each of three public places in the city.
(Neb. RS 17-613) (1973 Code, § 1-607)
§ 30.37 CERTIFICATE OF PUBLICATION OR POSTING.
   The passage, approval, and publication or posting of all ordinances shall be
sufficiently proven by a certificate under the Seal of the city from the City
Clerk/Treasurer showing that the ordinance was passed and approved, and when,
and in what paper the same was published, or when, and by whom, and where the
same was posted.
(Neb. RS 17-613) (1973 Code, § 1-608)
§ 30.38 EMERGENCY ORDINANCES.
   In the case of riot, infectious or contagious diseases, or other impending
danger, failure of a public utility, or other emergency requiring its immediate
operation, the ordinance shall take effect upon the proclamation of the Mayor,
and the posting thereof in at least three of the most public places in the
city. The emergency notice shall recite the emergency and be passed by a three-
fourths vote of the City Council, and entered upon the City Clerk/Treasurer's
minutes.
(Neb. RS 17-613) (1973 Code, § 1-609)
§ 30.39 AMENDMENTS AND REVISIONS.
   No ordinance or section thereof shall be revised or amended unless the new
ordinance contains the entire ordinance or section as revised or amended, and
the ordinance or section so amended shall be repealed.
(Neb. RS 17-614) (1973 Code, § 1-610)
ELECTIONS
§ 30.50 GENERALLY.
   (A)   All city issues and offices shall be combined on the statewide primary
and general election ballots whenever possible. The issuance of separate
ballots shall be avoided in a statewide election if city offices or issues can
reasonably be combined with the nonpartisan ballot and state law does not
require otherwise. All city elections involving the election of officers shall
be held in accordance with the Election Act and in conjunction with the
statewide primary or general election.
(Neb. RS 32-556)
   (B)   When the city holds an election in conjunction with the statewide
primary or general election, the election shall be held as provided in the
Election Act. Any other election held by the city shall be held as provided in
the Election Act unless otherwise provided by the charter, code, or bylaws of
the city.
(Neb. RS 32-404)
§ 30.51 NOTICE.
   The notice of election required to be published by the Election Commissioner
or County Clerk pursuant to Neb. RS 32-802 shall serve as the notice
requirement for all city elections which are held in conjunction with the
statewide primary or general election.
§ 30.52 REGISTERED VOTERS; QUALIFICATIONS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      REGISTERED VOTER. An elector who has a current voter registration record
on file with the Election Commissioner or County Clerk in the county of his or
her residence.
(Neb. RS 32-115)
   (B)   All registered voters residing within the corporate limits of the city
on or before election day shall be entitled to vote at all city elections.
(Neb. RS 17-602)
Statutory reference:
   Definition of elector, see Neb. RS 32-110
§ 30.53 SPECIAL ELECTIONS.
   (A)   (1)   Except as provided in Neb. RS 77-3444, any issue to be submitted
to the registered voters at a special election by the city shall be certified
by the City Clerk/Treasurer to the Election Commissioner or County Clerk at
least 50 days prior to the election. A special election may be held by mail as
provided in Neb. RS 32-952 through 32-959. Any other special election under
this section shall be subject to division (B) of this section.
      (2)   In lieu of submitting the issue at a special election, the city may
submit the issue at a statewide primary or general election or at any scheduled
county election, except that no such issue shall be submitted at a statewide
election or scheduled county election unless the issue to be submitted has been
certified by the City Clerk/Treasurer to the Election Commissioner or County
Clerk by March 1 for the primary election and by September 1 for the general
election.
      (3)   After the Election Commissioner or County Clerk has received the
certification of the issue to be submitted, he or she shall be responsible for
all matters relating to the submission of the issue to the registered voters,
except that the City Clerk/Treasurer shall be responsible for the publication
or posting of any required special notice of the submission of the issue other
than the notice required to be given of the statewide election issues. The
Election Commissioner or County Clerk shall prepare the ballots and issue
ballots for early voting and shall also conduct the submission of the issue,
including the receiving and counting of ballots on the issue. The election
returns shall be made to the Election Commissioner or County Clerk. The ballots
shall be counted and canvassed at the same time and in the same manner as the
other ballots. Upon completion of the canvass of the vote by the County
Canvassing Board, the Election Commissioner or County Clerk shall certify the
election results to the City Council. The canvass by the County Canvassing
Board shall have the same force and effect as if made by the City Council.
(Neb. RS 32-559)
   (B)   Any special election under the Election Act shall be held on the first
Tuesday following the second Monday of the selected month unless otherwise
specifically provided. No special election shall be held under the Election Act
in April, May, June, October, November, or December of an even- numbered year
unless it is held in conjunction with the statewide primary or general
election.
(Neb. RS 32-405)
§ 30.54 ELECTION OF OFFICERS; CERTIFICATIONS REQUIRED; HOW COUNCIL MEMBERS
ELECTED.
   (A)   No later than January 5 of each even-numbered year, the City Council
shall certify to the Secretary of State, the Election Commissioner, or the
County Clerk the name of the city, the number of officers to be elected, the
length of the terms of office, the vacancies to be filled by election and
length of remaining term, and the number of votes to be cast by a registered
voter for each office. The Secretary of State, Election Commissioner, and
County Clerk shall prescribe the forms to be used for certification to him or
her.
(Neb. RS 32-404)
   (B)   City Council members of the city shall be elected on an at-large basis
for terms of four years, with the terms to be staggered so two City Council
members are elected every four years.
(Ord. 792, passed 8-6-2009)
§ 30.55 PARTISAN BALLOT; WHEN ALLOWED; REQUIREMENTS.
   All elective city officers shall be nominated and elected on a nonpartisan
basis unless the city provides for a partisan ballot by ordinance. No ordinance
providing for nomination and election on a partisan ballot shall permit
affiliation with any party not recognized as a political party for purposes of
the Election Act. The ordinance providing for nomination and election on a
partisan ballot shall be adopted and effective not less than 60 days prior to
the filing deadline.
(Neb. RS 32-557)
§ 30.56 CANDIDATE FILING FORMS; DEADLINES; FILING OFFICER.
   (A)   Any candidate may place his or her name on the primary election ballot
by filing a candidate filing form prescribed by the Secretary of State as
provided in division (B). If a candidate is an incumbent of any elective
office, the filing period for filing the candidate filing form shall be between
December 1 and February 15 prior to the date of the primary election. No
incumbent who resigns from elective office prior to the expiration of his or
her term shall file for any office after February 15 of that election year. All
other candidates shall file for office between December 1 and March 1 prior to
the date of the general election.
(Neb. RS 32-606)
   (B)   Candidate filing forms shall be filed in the office of the Election
Commissioner or County Clerk.
(Neb. RS 32-607)
(Ord. 841, passed 2-9-2012)
Statutory reference:
   Filling of vacancy on ballot, see Neb. RS 32-625 and 32-627
   Withdrawal after filing, see Neb. RS 32-622
§ 30.57 FILING FEE.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (D) or (E) of this section, a filing
fee shall be paid to the City Clerk/Treasurer by or on behalf of each candidate
for city office prior to filing for office. The fee shall be placed in the
general fund of the city. No candidate filing forms shall be filed until the
proper payment or the proper receipt showing the payment of the filing fee is
presented to the filing officer. On the day of the filing deadline, the City
Clerk/Treasurer's office shall remain open to receive filing fees until the
hour of the filing deadline.
   (B)   Except as provided in division (D) or (E) of this section, the filing
fee shall be a sum equal to 1% of the annual salary the candidate will receive
if he or she is elected and qualifies for the office for which he or she files
as a candidate.
   (C)   All declared write-in candidates shall pay the filing fees that are
required for the office at the time that they present the write-in affidavit to
the filing officer. Any undeclared write-in candidate who is nominated or
elected by write-in votes shall pay the filing fee required for the office
within ten days after the canvass of votes by the county canvassing board and
shall file the receipt with the person issuing the certificate of nomination or
the certificate of election prior to the certificate being issued.
   (D)   No filing fee shall be required for any candidate filing for an office
in which a per diem is paid rather than a salary or for which there is a salary
of less than $500 per year.
   (E)   (1)   No filing fee shall be required of any candidate completing an
affidavit requesting to file for elective office in forma pauperis.
      (2)    For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
         AVAILABLE RESOURCES. Includes every type of property or interest in
property that an individual owns and may convert into cash except:
            1.   Real property used as a home;
            2.   Household goods of a moderate value used in the home; and
            3.   Assets to a maximum value of $3,000 used by a recipient in a
planned effort directed towards self-support.
       PAUPER.  A person whose income and other resources for maintenance are
found under assistance standards to be insufficient for meeting the cost of his
or her requirements and whose reserve of cash or other available resources does
not exceed the maximum available resources that an eligible individual may own.
   (F)   If any candidate dies prior to an election, the spouse of the
candidate may file a claim for refund of the filing fee with the City Council
prior to the date of the election. Upon approval of the claim by the City
Council, the filing fee shall be refunded.
(Neb. RS 32-608)
§ 30.58 PETITION, WRITE-IN, AND OTHER CANDIDATES FOR GENERAL ELECTION BALLOT;
PROCEDURES.
   (A)   (1)   Any registered voter who was not a candidate in the primary
election and who was not registered to vote with a party affiliation on or
before March 1 in the calendar year of the general election may have his or her
name placed on the general election ballot for a partisan office by filing
petitions as prescribed in this section and Neb. RS 32-621 or by nomination by
political party convention or committee pursuant to Neb. RS 32-627 or 32-710.
      (2)   Any candidate who was defeated in the primary election and any
registered voter who was not a candidate in the primary election may have his
or her name placed on the general election ballot if a vacancy exists on the
ballot under Neb. RS 32-625(2) and the candidate files for the office by
petition as prescribed in divisions (B) and (C) of this section, or files as a
write-in candidate as prescribed in Neb. RS 32-615, or is nominated by
political party convention or committee pursuant to Neb. RS 32-710.
(Neb. RS 32-616)
   (B)   Petitions for nomination shall conform to the requirements of Neb. RS
32-628. Petitions shall state the office to be filled and the name and address
of the candidate. Petitions for partisan office shall also indicate the party
affiliation of the candidate. A sample copy of the petition shall be filed with
the filing officer prior to circulation. Petitions shall be signed by
registered voters residing in the municipality, if candidates are chosen at
large, or in the ward in which the officer is to be elected, if candidates are
chosen by ward, and shall be filed with the filing officer in the same manner
as provided for candidate filing forms in § 30.56. Petition signers and
petition circulators shall conform to the requirements of Neb. RS 32-629 and
32-630. No petition for nomination shall be filed unless there is attached
thereto a receipt showing the payment of the filing fee required pursuant to
Neb. RS 32-608. The petitions shall be filed by September 1 in the year of the
general election.
(Neb. RS 32-617)
   (C)   (1)   The number of signatures of registered voters needed to place
the name of a candidate upon the nonpartisan ballot for the general election
shall be at least 10% of the total number of registered voters voting for
Governor or President of the United States at the immediately preceding general
election in the municipality or in the ward in which the officer is to be
elected, not to exceed 2,000.
      (2)   The number of signatures of registered voters needed to place the
name of a candidate upon the partisan ballot for the general election shall be
at least 20% of the total vote for Governor or President of the United States
at the immediately preceding general election within the municipality or in the
ward in which the officer is to be elected, as appropriate, not to exceed
2,000.
(Neb. RS 32-618)
(Ord. 842, passed 2-9-2012)
§ 30.59 RECALL PROCEDURE.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      FILING CLERK. The Election Commissioner or County Clerk.
(Neb. RS 32-1301)
   (B)   (1)   The Mayor, any member of the City Council, and any other elected
official of the city may be removed from office by recall pursuant to this
section.
      (2)   The recall procedure and special election provisions of this
section shall apply to members of the City Council who are elected by ward.
Only registered voters of such member's ward may sign a recall petition or vote
at the recall election. The recall election shall be held within the member's
ward. When a member of the City Council is nominated by ward in the primary
election and elected at large in the general election, the recall provisions
shall apply to the registered voters at the general election.
(Neb. RS 32-1302)
   (C)   (1)   A petition demanding that the question of removing the Mayor, a
member of the City Council, or any other elected official be submitted to the
registered voters shall be signed by registered voters equal in number to at
least 35% of the total vote cast for that office in the last general election,
except that for City Council office for which more than one candidate is
chosen, the petition shall be signed by registered voters equal in number to at
least 35% of the number of votes cast for the person receiving the most votes
for such office in the last general election. The signatures shall be affixed
to petition papers and shall be considered part of the petition.
      (2)   Petition circulators shall conform to the requirements of Neb. RS
32-629 and 32-630.
      (3)   The petition papers shall be procured from the filing clerk. Prior
to the issuance of such petition papers, an affidavit shall be signed and filed
with the filing clerk by at least one registered voter. Such voter or voters
shall be deemed to be the principal circulator or circulators of the recall
petition. The affidavit shall state the name and office of the official sought
to be removed, shall include in typewritten form in concise language of 60
words or less the reason or reasons for which recall is sought, and shall
request that the filing clerk issue initial petition papers to the principal
circulator for circulation. The filing clerk shall notify the official sought
to be removed by any method specified in Neb. RS 25-505.01 or, if notification
cannot be made with reasonable diligence by any of the methods specified in
Neb. RS 25-505.01, by leaving a copy of the affidavit at the official's usual
place of residence and mailing a copy by first-class mail to the official's
last-known address. If the official chooses, he or she may submit a defense
statement in typewritten form in concise language of 60 words or less for
inclusion on the petition. Any such defense statement shall be submitted to the
filing clerk within 20 days after the official receives the copy of the
affidavit. The principal circulator or circulators shall gather the petition
papers within 20 days after the receipt of the official's defense statement.
The filing clerk shall notify the principal circulator or circulators that the
necessary signatures must be gathered within 30 days from the date of issuing
the petitions.
      (4)   The filing clerk, upon issuing the initial petition papers or any
subsequent petition papers, shall enter in a record, to be kept in his or her
office, the name of the principal circulator or circulators to whom the papers
were issued, the date of issuance, and the number of papers issued. The filing
clerk shall certify on the papers the name of the principal circulator or
circulators to whom the papers were issued and the date they were issued. No
petition paper shall be accepted as part of the petition unless it bears such
certificate. The principal circulator or circulators who check out petitions
from the filing clerk may distribute such petitions to persons who may act as
circulators of such petitions.
      (5)   Petition signers shall conform to the requirements of Neb. RS 32-
629 and 32-630. Each signer of a recall petition shall be a registered voter
and qualified by his or her place of residence to vote for the office in
question.
(Neb. RS 32-1303)
   (D)   Each petition paper shall conform to the requirements of Neb. RS 32-
1304.
   (E)   (1) The principal circulator or circulators shall file, as one
instrument, all petition papers comprising a recall petition for signature
verification with the filing clerk within 30 days after the filing clerk issues
the initial petition papers to the principal circulator or circulators as
provided in division (C) of this section.
      (2)   Within 15 days after the filing of the petition, the filing clerk
shall ascertain whether or not the petition is signed by the requisite number
of registered voters. No new signatures may be added after the initial filing
of the petition papers. No signatures may be removed unless the filing clerk
receives an affidavit signed by the person requesting his or her signature be
removed before the petitions are filed with the filing clerk for signature
verification. If the petition is found to be sufficient, the filing clerk shall
attach to the petition a certificate showing the result of such examination. If
the requisite number of signatures has not been gathered, the filing clerk
shall file the petition in his or her office without prejudice to the filing of
a new petition for the same purpose.
(Neb. RS 32-1305)
   (F)   (1)   If the recall petition is found to be sufficient, the filing
clerk shall notify the official whose removal is sought and the City Council
that sufficient signatures have been gathered. Notification of the official
sought to be removed may be by any method specified in Neb. RS 25-505.01 or, if
notification cannot be made with reasonable diligence by any of the methods
specified in Neb. RS 25-505.01, by leaving such notice at the official's usual
place of residence and mailing a copy by first-class mail to the official's
last-known address.
      (2)   The City Council shall order an election to be held not less than
30 nor more than 75 days after the notification of the official whose removal
is sought under division (F)(1) of this section, except that if any other
election is to be held in the city within 90 days after such notification, the
City Council shall provide for the holding of the recall election on the same
day. All resignations shall be tendered as provided in Neb. RS 32-562. If the
official whose removal is sought resigns before the recall election is held,
the City Council may cancel the recall election if the City Council notifies
the election commissioner or county clerk of the cancellation at least 16 days
prior to the election, otherwise the recall election shall be held as
scheduled.
      (3)   If the City Council fails or refuses to order a recall election
within the time required, the election may be ordered by the district court
having jurisdiction over a county in which the elected official serves. If a
filing clerk is subject to a recall election, the Secretary of State shall
conduct the recall election.
(Neb. RS 32-1306)
   (G)   The form of the official ballot at a recall election held pursuant to
division (F) of this section shall conform to the requirements of Neb. RS 32-
1307.
   (H)   (1)   If a majority of the votes cast at a recall election are against
the removal of the official named on the ballot or the election results in a
tie, the official shall continue in office for the remainder of his or her term
but may be subject to further recall attempts as provided in division (I) of
this section.
      (2)   If a majority of the votes cast at a recall election are for the
removal of the official named on the ballot, he or she shall, regardless of any
technical defects in the recall petition, be deemed removed from office unless
a recount is ordered. If the official is deemed removed, the removal shall
result in a vacancy in the office which shall be filled as otherwise provided
in this section and Neb. RS 32-567 to 32-570.
      (3)   If the election results show a margin of votes equal to 1% or less
between the removal or retention of the official in question, the Secretary of
State, Election Commissioner, or County Clerk shall order a recount of the
votes cast unless the official named on the ballot files a written statement
with the filing clerk that he or she does not want a recount.
      (4)   If there are vacancies in the offices of a majority or more of the
members of the City Council or any other governing body at one time due to the
recall of such members, a special election to fill such vacancies shall be
conducted as expeditiously as possible by the Secretary of State, Election
Commissioner, or County Clerk.
      (5)   No official who is removed at a recall election or who resigns
after the initiation of the recall process shall be appointed to fill the
vacancy resulting from his or her removal or the removal of any other member of
the same governing body during the remainder of his or her term of office.
(Neb. RS 32-1308)
   (I)   No recall petition shall be filed against an elected official within
12 months after a recall election has failed to remove him or her from office
or within six months after the beginning of his or her term of office or within
six months prior to the incumbent filing deadline for the office.
(Neb. RS 32-1309)
(Ord. 843, passed 2-9-2012)
Statutory reference:
   Filling of vacancy on ballot, see Neb. RS 32-625 and 32-627
   Withdrawal after filing, see Neb. RS 32-622
§ 30.60 EXIT POLLS.
   No person shall conduct an exit poll, a public opinion poll, or any other
interview with voters on election day seeking to determine voter preference
within 20 feet of the entrance of any polling place or, if inside the polling
place or building, within 100 feet of any voting booth.
(Neb. RS 32-1525) Penalty, see §
10.99
INTERGOVERNMENTAL RISK MANAGEMENT
§ 30.75 AUTHORITY.
   The City Council and any one or more public agencies, as defined in Neb. RS
44-4,303, may make and execute an agreement providing for joint and cooperative
action in accordance with Neb. RS 44-4,301 through 44-4,339, to form, become
members of, and operate a risk management pool for the purpose of providing to
members risk management services and insurance coverages in the form of group
self-insurance or standard insurance, including any combination of group self-
insurance and standard insurance, to protect members against losses arising
from any of the following:
   (A)   General liability;
   (B)   Damage, destruction, or loss of real or personal property, including,
but not limited to, loss of use or occupancy, and loss of income or extra
expense resulting from loss of use or occupancy;
   (C)   Errors and omissions liability; and
   (D)   Workers' compensation liability.
(Neb. RS 44-4,301 through 44-4,339) (1973 Code, § 1-1001) (Ord. 582, passed 9-
10-1987)
CHAPTER 31: CITY OFFICIALS
Section
Elected Officials
   
31.01   Mayor; selection and duties
   
31.02   City Council; Acting President
   
31.03   City Council; selection and duties
   
31.04   City Council; organization
   
31.05   Vacancy
   
31.06   Mayor vacancy
   
31.07   Mayor; election; qualifications; term
Appointed
   
31.19   Appointment; terms; removal; powers; duties
   
31.20   Merger of offices
   
31.21   City Clerk/Treasurer; clerk duties
   
31.22   City Clerk/Treasurer; treasurer duties
   
31.23   Clerk/Treasurer's monthly report
   
31.24   Clerk/Treasurer's annual report
   
31.25   City Attorney
   
31.26   City Physician
   
31.27   City Police Chief
   
31.28   City police officers
   
31.29   City Fire Chief and Assistant City Fire Chief
   
31.30   City Engineer
   
31.31   Public Works Director
   
31.32   (Reserved)
   
31.33   City Building Inspector
   
31.34   City Zoning Inspector
   
31.35   City Administrator
Bonds and Oath
   
31.50   Bonds; form
   
31.51   Oath of office; city officials
Compensation
   
31.65   City officials
   
31.66   Conflict of interest
ELECTED OFFICIALS
§ 31.01 MAYOR; SELECTION AND DUTIES.
   The Mayor of the city shall have the general and immediate control over all
property and officials, whether elected or appointed, of the city. He or she
shall preside at all meetings of the City Council, and shall have the right to
vote only when his or her vote shall be decisive on any pending matter. His or
her signature must appear on the City Clerk/Treasurer's minutes of all
meetings, and he or she must sign all resolutions which have been passed, and
warrants for the payment of money when ordered by the City Council; provided,
any ordinance vetoed by the Mayor may be passed over his or her veto by a two-
thirds vote by the members of the City Council, but if the Mayor refuses to
sign any ordinance, and returns it to the Council with his or her objections,
the unsigned ordinance would then become law without his or her signature at
the time of the next meeting of the Council. He or she shall from time to time
communicate to the Council any information and recommendations as, in his or
her opinion, may improve the city. He or she may require at reasonable
intervals any city official to exhibit his or her accounts and make reports to
the Council on any subject pertaining to his or her office. He or she shall
have the power to remit fines or pardon any offense arising under the
ordinances of the city. He or she shall have the authority to call on every
male inhabitant of the city over 18 years of age and under the age of 50 years
to aid in enforcing the laws. He or she may remove at any time an appointed
police officer of the city. His or her territorial authority shall extend over
all places within five miles of the corporate limits of the city for the
enforcement of any health ordinance, and one-half mile in all matters vested in
him or her except taxation. He or she shall also have any other duties as the
City Council may by resolution confer upon him or her, or in any other matters
which the laws of the state repose in him or her. He or she shall be elected at
the city election, and shall serve a four-year term of office. Any candidate
for Mayor must have resided within the city for 40 days prior to filing for the
office and must, in addition, be a qualified taxpayer.
(Neb. RS 17-110 through 17-117 ) (1973 Code, § 1-101)
§ 31.02 CITY COUNCIL; ACTING PRESIDENT.
   The City Council shall elect one of its own body each year who shall be
styled the President of the Council, and who shall preside at all meetings of
the City Council in the absence of the Mayor. In the absence of the Mayor, and
the President of the Council, the City Council shall elect one of its own body
to occupy his or her place temporarily, who shall be styled Acting President of
the Council. Both the President of the Council and the Acting President of the
Council, when occupying the position of the Mayor, shall have the same
privileges as the other members of the City Council, and all acts of the
President of the Council, or Acting President of the Council, while so acting,
shall be as binding upon the City Council, and upon the city as if done by the
elected Mayor.
(Neb. RS 17-148) (1973 Code, § 1-102)
§ 31.03 CITY COUNCIL; SELECTION AND DUTIES.
   The members of the City Council shall be elected and serve for a four-year
term. The City Council shall be the legislative division of the city
government, and shall perform the duties, and have the powers as may be
authorized by law. The City Council shall maintain the peace, regulate
business, protect the public health and safety, and assess the taxes and fees
as are necessary and appropriate in the exercise of these functions.
(Neb. RS 17-103 and 17-104) (1973 Code, § 1-103)
§ 31.04 CITY COUNCIL; ORGANIZATION.
   City Council Members of this city shall take office and commence their
duties on the first regular meeting in December following their election. The
newly elected Council Members who have qualified as prescribed by law, together
with the members of the City Council holding over, shall assemble in a regular
meeting at the hour and place hereinafter prescribed and perfect the
reorganization of the City Council as herein provided, and all appointive
offices in which the terms of incumbents are expired shall be filled by
appointment. After the meeting has been called to order, the City Clerk/
Treasurer shall report to the City Council the names of all City Council
Members-elect who have qualified for their respective offices, and this report
shall be spread upon the minutes of the meeting preceding the roll call.
(Neb. RS 17-104 and 19-613) (1973 Code, § 1-104) (Ord. 454, passed 12-1-1977;
Ord. 792, passed 8-6-2009)
§ 31.05 VACANCY.
   (A)   Whenever a vacancy occurs in an elected office of the city, except
Mayor, notice of the vacancy shall be presented in writing to the City Council
at a regular meeting and the notice shall appear as a part of the minutes of
the meeting.
   (B)   The City Council shall at once give public notice of the vacancy by
causing to be published in a newspaper of general circulation within the city
or by posting in three public places in the city the office vacated and the
length of the unexpired term.
   (C)   The Mayor shall within two weeks after the regular meeting at which
the notice has been presented, or upon the death of the incumbent, call a
special meeting of the City Council, at which time the Mayor shall submit the
name of a qualified elector to fill the vacancy for the balance of the
unexpired term. Upon a majority vote of approval by the City Council, the
vacancy shall be filled.
   (D)   If a majority vote is not reached, the nomination shall be rejected
and the Mayor shall at the next regular meeting submit the name of another
qualified elector. If the vote on the nominee fails to carry by majority vote,
the Mayor shall continue at the meeting to submit the names of qualified
electors and the City Council shall continue to vote upon the nominations until
the vacancy is filled.
   (E)   The Mayor shall cast his or her vote only in case of a tie vote of the
City Council.
   (F)   All City Council Members shall cast a ballot for or against each
nominee.
(1973 Code, § 1-105) (Ord. 421, passed 3-4-1976)
§ 31.06 MAYOR VACANCY.
   (A)   Whenever a vacancy occurs in the Office of Mayor, or in case of his or
her disability or absence, the President of the Council shall exercise the
Office of Mayor until the vacancy is filled or the disability is removed, or in
case of temporary absence, until the Mayor returns.
   (B)   When the successful candidate for Mayor shall be prevented from
assuming office, the incumbent Mayor shall not be entitled to hold over the
term, but the office shall automatically become vacant and the President of the
Council shall exercise the office of Mayor until the vacancy is filled.
   (C)   If the President of the Council shall for any cause assume the office
of Mayor for the remainder of the unexpired term, there shall be a vacancy on
the Council which shall be filled as provided in §
31.05.
(Neb. RS 17-107) (1973 Code, § 1-106) (Ord. 421, passed 3-4-1976)
§ 31.07 MAYOR; ELECTION; QUALIFICATIONS; TERM.
   (A)   The Mayor shall be elected as provided in the Election Act. The Mayor
shall take office on the date of the first regular meeting of the City Council
held in December following the statewide general election. The Mayor shall be a
resident and registered voter of the city.
(Neb. RS 17-107)
   (B)   The Mayor shall serve for a term of four years or until his or her
successor is elected and qualified.
(Neb. RS 32-533)
(Ord. 848, passed 4-5-2012)
APPOINTED OFFICIALS
§ 31.19 APPOINTMENT; TERMS; REMOVAL; POWERS; DUTIES.
   (A)   (1)   The Mayor, with the consent of the City Council, may appoint
such officers as shall be required by ordinance or otherwise required by law.
Such officers may be removed from office by the Mayor.
      (2)   The terms of office for all officers, except regular police
officers, appointed by the Mayor and confirmed by the Council shall be
established by the City Council by ordinance. The ordinance shall provide that
either:
         (a)   The officers hold the office to which they have been appointed
until the end of the Mayor's term of office and until their successors are
appointed and qualified unless sooner removed; or
         (b)   The officers hold office for one year unless sooner removed.
(Neb. RS 17-107)
   (B)   (1)   The city may enact ordinances or bylaws to regulate and
prescribe the powers and duties of officers not provided for in state law.
(Neb. RS 17-604)
      (2)   If the Mayor and City Council appoint any of the officials
specified in this chapter or any other officials, the officials shall have the
powers and duties, if any, provided in this chapter or as otherwise provided by
city ordinances and state law.
(Ord. 839, passed 2-9-2012)
§ 31.20 MERGER OF OFFICES.
   The City Council of the city may, in its discretion, by ordinance combine,
and merge any elective, or appointive office, or employment, except the Mayor
or a City Council Member with any other elective or appointive office so that
one or more of the offices may be held by the officer or employee at the same
time; provided, the offices so merged, and combined shall always be construed
to be separate, and the effect of the combination or merger shall be limited to
a consolidation of official duties only; and provided further, the salary of
the officer holding the merged offices shall not be in excess of the maximum
amount provided by law for the salary of the offices so combined.
(Neb. RS 17-108.02) (1973 Code, § 1-201)
§ 31.21 CITY CLERK/TREASURER; CLERK DUTIES.
   (A)   The City Clerk/Treasurer shall attend the meetings of the City
Council, and keep a correct journal of the proceedings of that body. He or she
shall keep a record of all outstanding bonds against the city and when any
bonds are sold, purchased, paid, or canceled, the record shall show the fact.
He or she shall make, at the end of the fiscal year, a report of the business
of the city transacted through his or her office for the year. That record
shall describe particularly the bonds issued, and sold during the year, and the
terms of the sale with each, and every item, and expense thereof. He or she
shall file all official bonds after the same shall have been properly executed,
and approved. He or she shall make the proper certificate of passage which
shall be attached to original copies of all bond ordinances hereafter enacted
by the City Council.
   (B)   The City Clerk/Treasurer shall issue and sign all licenses, permits,
and occupation tax receipts authorized by law, and required by the city
ordinances. He or she shall collect all occupation taxes, and license money
except where some other city officer is specifically charged with that duty. He
or she shall keep a register of all licenses granted in the city, and the
purpose for which they have been issued.
   (C)   The City Clerk/Treasurer shall permit no records, public papers, or
other documents of the city kept, and preserved in his or her office to be
taken therefrom, except by the officers of the city as may be entitled to the
use of the same, but only upon their leaving a receipt therefor. He or she
shall keep all the records of his or her office, including a record of all
licenses issued by him or her in a blank book with a proper index. He or she
shall include as part of his or her records all petitions under which the City
Council shall order public work to be done at the expense of the property
fronting thereon, together with references to all resolutions and ordinances
relating to the same. He or she shall endorse the date and hour of filing upon
every paper, or document so filed in his or her office. All the filings made by
him or her shall be properly docketed. Included in his or her records shall be
all standard codes, amendments thereto, and other documents incorporated by
reference, and arranged in triplicate in a manner convenient for reference. He
or she shall keep an accurate, and complete account of the appropriation of the
several funds, draw, sign, and attest all warrants ordered for the payment of
money on the particular fund from which the same is payable. At the end of each
month, he or she shall then make a report of the amounts appropriated to the
various funds, and the amount of the warrants drawn thereon. Nothing herein
shall be construed to prevent any citizen, official, or other person from
examining any public records at all reasonable times.
   (D)   The City Clerk/Treasurer shall deliver all warrants, ordinances, and
resolutions under his or her charge to the Mayor for his or her signature. He
or she shall also deliver to officers, employees, and committees all
resolutions, and communications which are directed at the officers, employees,
or committees. With the Seal of the city, he or she shall duly attest the
Mayor's signature to all ordinances, deeds, and papers required to be attested
to when ordered to do so by the City Council. Within 30 days after any meeting
of the City Council, the City Clerk/Treasurer shall prepare, and publish the
official proceedings of the City Council in a legal newspaper of general
circulation in the city, and which was duly designated as such by the City
Council. The publication shall set forth a statement of the proceedings thereof
and shall also include the amount of each claim allowed, the purpose of the
claim, and the name of the claimant, except that the aggregate amount of all
payroll claims may be included as one item. Between July 15 and August 15 of
each year, the employee job titles and the current annual, monthly, or hourly
salaries corresponding to the job titles shall be published. Each job title
published shall be descriptive and indicative of the duties and functions of
the position. The charge for the publication shall not exceed the rates
provided by the statutes of the state. The publication shall be charged against
the General Fund. He or she shall then keep in a book with a proper index,
copies of all notices required to be published, or posted by the City Clerk/
Treasurer by order of the City Council, or under the ordinances of the city. To
each of the file copies of the notices shall be attached the printer's
affidavit of publication, if the notices are required to be published, or the
City Clerk/Treasurer's certificate under seal where the same are required to be
posted only.
   (E)   The City Clerk/Treasurer shall receive all objections to creation of
paving districts, and other street improvements. He or she shall receive the
claims of any person against the city, and in the event that the claim is
disallowed in part, or in whole, the City Clerk/Treasurer shall notify the
claimant, his or her agent, or attorney by letter within five days after the
disallowance, and the City Clerk/Treasurer shall then prepare transcripts on
appeals of any disallowance of a claim in all proper cases.
   (F)   The City Clerk/Treasurer may charge a reasonable fee for certified
copies of any record in his or her office as set by resolution of the City
Council. He or she shall destroy city records under the direction of the State
Records Board pursuant to Neb. RS 84-1,201 through 84-1,220; provided, the City
Council shall not have the authority to destroy the minutes of the City Clerk/
Treasurer, the permanent ordinances, and resolution books, or any other records
classified as permanent by the State Records Board.
(Neb. RS 17-605, 19-1,102, 19-1,104, 84-712, and 84-1,201 through 84-1,220)
(1973 Code, § 1-202) (Ord. 455, passed 12-1-1977; Ord. 630, passed 5-10-1993)
§ 31.22 CITY CLERK/TREASURER; TREASURER DUTIES.
   The City Clerk/Treasurer shall be the custodian of all moneys belonging to
the city. He or she shall keep all money belonging to the city separate and
distinct from his or her own money. He or she shall keep a separate account of
each fund or appropriation, and the debits, and credits belonging thereto. He
or she shall issue duplicate (two) receipts for all moneys received by him or
her for the city. He or she shall give to every person paying money into the
city treasury, a receipt therefor, specifying the date of payment, and the
account paid. One of the receipts shall be filed with his or her monthly
report, and the last copy of the receipt shall be kept on file in his or her
office. His or her books and accounts shall always be open for inspection by
any citizen of the city whenever any city fiscal record, audit, warrant,
voucher, invoice, purchase order, requisition, payroll check, receipt or other
record of receipt, cash, or expenditure involving public funds is involved. He
or she shall cancel all bonds, coupons, warrants, and other evidences of debt
against the city, whenever paid by him or her, by writing, or stamping on the
face thereof, "Paid by the City Clerk/Treasurer," with the date of payment
written or stamped thereon. He or she shall collect all special taxes, allocate
special assessments to the several owners, and shall obtain from the County
Clerk a monthly report as to the collection of delinquent taxes. The Clerk/
Treasurer's daily cash book shall be footed and balanced daily, and he or she
shall adopt the bookkeeping methods as the City Council shall prescribe. He or
she shall invest and collect all money owned by, or owed to, the city as
directed by the City Council.
(Neb. RS 17-606 through 17-609 and 84-712) (1973 Code, § 1-203)
§ 31.23 CLERK/TREASURER'S MONTHLY REPORT.
   The City Clerk/Treasurer shall at the end of each and every month, and any
other times as the City Council may deem necessary, render an account to the
City Council under oath showing the financial state of the city at that date,
the amount of money remaining in each fund and the amount paid therefrom, and
the balance of money remaining in the treasury. He or she shall accompany the
account with a statement of all receipts and disbursements, together with all
warrants redeemed, and paid by him or her. He or she shall also produce
depository evidence that all city money is in a solvent and going bank in the
name of the city. If the City Clerk/Treasurer shall neglect, or fail for the
space of ten days from the end of each and every month to render his or her
accounts as aforesaid, the City Council shall, by resolution, declare the
office vacant, and appoint some person to fill the vacancy. The City Clerk/
Treasurer shall be present at each regular meeting of the City Council at which
time he or she shall read and file his or her monthly report.
(Neb. RS 17-606) (1973 Code, § 1-204)
§ 31.24 CLERK/TREASURER'S ANNUAL REPORT.
   It shall be the duty of the Clerk/Treasurer of the city having a population
of not more than 100,000 to prepare and publish annually within 60 days
following the close of its municipal fiscal year a statement of the receipts
and expenditures by funds of the city for the preceding fiscal year. Not more
than the legal rate provided for in Neb. RS 33-141 shall be charged and paid
for the publication.
(Neb. RS 19-1,101) (1973 Code, § 1-205)
§ 31.25 CITY ATTORNEY.
   The City Attorney shall be the legal advisor of the Council. He or she shall
commence, prosecute, and defend all suits and actions necessary to be
commenced, prosecuted or defended on behalf of the corporations, or that may be
ordered by the Council. When requested, he or she shall attend meetings of the
Council and give them his or her opinion upon any matters submitted to him or
her, either orally or in writing, as may be required. He or she shall draft or
review for legal correctness ordinances, contracts, franchises and other
instruments as may be required, and he or she shall perform such other duties
as may be imposed upon him or her by general law or ordinance. The City Council
shall have the right to pay the City Attorney compensation for legal services
performed by him or her for it on such terms as the City Council and attorney
may agree, and to employ additional legal assistance and to pay for the legal
assistance out of the funds of the city.
(Neb. RS 17-610) (1973 Code, § 1-206)
§ 31.26 CITY PHYSICIAN.
   The City Physician shall be a member of the Board of Health of the city, and
perform the duties devolving upon him or her as the medical advisor of the
Board. In all injuries where a liability may be asserted against the city, the
City Physician shall immediately investigate the injuries, the extent thereof,
and the circumstances. He or she shall then report the results of his or her
investigation with the name of the party injured, and all other persons who may
have personal knowledge of the matter. He or she shall make all physical
examinations, and necessary laboratory tests incident thereto, and issue the
health certificates as are required by ordinance. For the purpose of making
examinations of the sanitary conditions of the property, and the state of
health of the inhabitants therein, he or she shall have the right at all
reasonable hours to go upon, and enter all premises, buildings, or other
structures in the city. He or she shall perform the other duties as may be
required of him or her by the laws of the state, and the ordinances of the
city. When ordered to do so by the City Council, he or she shall disinfect or
fumigate the premises or persons in or about the premises, when the premises
are quarantined, and to call upon indigent sick persons, and perform other
professional services at the direction of the City Council. The City Physician
shall receive as compensation for his or her services the sum as the City
Council may from time to time set by resolution. He or she shall receive no
compensation for his or her services as a member of the City Board of Health.
(Neb. RS 17-121) (1973 Code, § 1-207)
§ 31.27 CITY POLICE CHIEF.
   The City Police Chief shall direct the police work of the city and shall be
responsible for the maintenance of law and order. He or she shall act as Health
Inspector and Building Inspector, except in the event the city appoints another
person. He or she shall file the necessary complaints in cases arising out of
violations of city ordinances, and shall make all necessary reports required by
the city ordinances, or the laws of the state.
(Neb. RS 17-107 and 17-121) (1973 Code, § 1-208)
§ 31.28 CITY POLICE OFFICERS.
   The city police, whether regular or special, shall have the power to arrest
all offenders against the laws of the state or the city, by day or by night,
and keep the offenders in the city jail, or some other place to prevent their
escape until trial can be held before the proper official of the state or the
city. They shall have full power and authority to call on any person whenever
necessary to assist them in performing public duties, and failure, neglect, or
refusal to render the assistance shall be deemed a misdemeanor punishable upon
conviction by a fine. Every city police officer shall be expected to be
conversant and knowledgeable with the city and state laws. City police officers
shall have the duty to file the complaints and reports as may be required by
the city ordinances, and the laws of the state. Any city police officer who
shall willfully fail, neglect, or refuse to make an arrest, or who purposely,
and willfully fails to make a complaint after an arrest is made shall be deemed
guilty of a misdemeanor, and upon conviction shall be fined. It shall be
unlawful for the City Council to retain any city police officer in that
position after he or she shall have been duly convicted of the willful
violation of any law of the United States of America, the state, or any
ordinance of the city, except minor traffic violations. It shall be the duty of
every city police officer making a lawful arrest to search all persons in the
presence of some other person, whenever possible, and shall carefully keep and
produce to the proper judicial official upon the trial everything found upon
the person of the prisoners. All personal effects so taken from prisoners
aforesaid shall be restored to them upon their release. Suitable uniforms and
badges shall be furnished to the city police by the city. Any member who shall
lose or destroy the same shall be required to pay the replacement costs, and in
the event that any member shall leave the force, he or she shall immediately
deliver his or her badge to the Police Chief. The City Council may from time to
time provide the city police with the uniforms, equipment, and transportation
as may be essential in the performance of their official duties.
(Neb. RS 17-118 and 17-124) (1973 Code, § 1-209) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 31.29 CITY FIRE CHIEF AND ASSISTANT CITY FIRE CHIEF.
   (A)   The members of the city Fire Department shall, at the time of their
annual meeting, or at any other meeting as necessary and practicable, recommend
some persons for the offices of City Fire Chief and Assistant City Fire Chief.
The Mayor shall appoint such persons as recommended by the city Fire
Department, who shall be confirmed by a majority vote of the City Council. The
City Fire Chief and Assistant City Fire Chief shall hold such office until his
or her successor is appointed and qualified. The Fire Chief shall enforce all
laws and ordinances covering the prevention of fires; the storage and use of
explosives and flammable substances; the installation of fire alarm systems;
the maintenance of fire extinguishing equipment; the regulation of fire
escapes; and the inspection of all premises requiring adequate fire escapes. He
or she shall within two days investigate the cause, origin, and circumstances
of fires arising within his or her jurisdiction. He or she shall, on or before
April 1 and October 1 of each year, cause the Secretary to file with the City
Clerk/Treasurer, and the Clerk of the District Court, a certified copy of the
rolls of all members in good standing in their respective companies in order to
obtain the exemptions provided by law. He or she shall have the power during
the time of a fire, and for a period of 36 hours thereafter to arrest any
suspected arsonist, or any person for hindering the Department’s efforts,
conducting himself or herself in a noisy and disorderly manner, or who shall
refuse to obey any lawful order by the Fire Chief or Assistant Fire Chief. The
Fire Chief shall appoint one captain for every eight members on the Fire
Department. The Fire Chief, or his or her assistant in charge of operations at
a fire may command the services of any person present at any fire in
extinguishing the same or in the removal, and protection of property.
   (B)   Failure to obey such an order shall be a misdemeanor punishable by a
fine.
   (C)   The Fire Chief shall have the right to enter at all reasonable hours
into buildings, and upon all premises within his or her jurisdiction for the
purpose of examining the same for fire hazards, and related dangers. The City
Fire Chief shall be compensated at a rate of $500 per month, and the Assistant
City Fire Chief shall be compensated at a rate of $250 per month.
(Neb. RS 17-147, 17-505, 35-102, 35-108, 81-506, and 81-512) (1973 Code, § 1-
210) (Ord. 423, passed 4-5-1976; Ord. 800, passed 9-10-2009; Ord. 885, passed
9-18-2014; Ord. 977, passed 7-29-2021)
§ 31.30 CITY ENGINEER.
   The City Engineer shall make all surveys, estimates, and calculations
necessary to be made for the establishment of any public utilities, and the
costs of labor and materials therefor. He or she shall accurately make all
plats, sections, and maps as may be necessary under the direction of the City
Council. Upon request, he or she shall make estimates of the cost of labor and
material and make all surveys, estimates, and calculations necessary to be made
for the establishment of grades, building of culverts and for the building,
constructing, or repairing of any public improvement of the city. Upon the
request of the City Council, he or she shall inspect all works of public
improvement, and if found to be properly done, shall accept the same, and
report his or her acceptance to the City Council. He or she shall estimate the
cost of all proposed city utilities and public improvements, together with any
extensions thereof, which the City Council may propose to construct or improve.
He or she shall also perform any other duties in the line of his or her work as
may be requested by the City Council.
(Neb. RS 17-150, 17-405, 17-568.01, 17-919, and 81-839) (1973 Code, § 1-211)
§ 31.31 PUBLIC WORKS DIRECTOR.
   (A)   Creation of office. There is hereby established the position of the
position of Public Works Director. Except as otherwise provided herein, the
Public Works Director shall have administrative supervision and direction over
all city utility departments, including, but not limited to, the Electric,
Water, Wastewater, Solid Waste, Street, and Park Departments, with additional
oversite responsibilities for other departments as determined by the Mayor with
advice and consent from the City Council.
   (B)   Powers and duties. In the performance of his or her role as Public
Works Director, the Public Works Director shall have the following duties and
powers.
      (1)   He or she shall have the power, subject to provisions of applicable
law, and with guidance and direction of the Mayor, to employ, discipline, and
remove all non-elected employees of the city departments over which this
position has oversite responsibilities.
      (2)   He or she shall insure the enforcement of all state, federal, and
local laws and ordinances within the city and within its extraterritorial
jurisdiction insofar as is necessary to perform duties related to the Electric,
Water, Wastewater, Solid Waste, Street, and Park Departments, and any other
departments set forth by the Mayor with advice and consent of the City Council.
      (3)   He or she shall be required to possess all required licenses and/or
certificates necessary to carry out the requirements of each department for
which he or she is responsible, and/or hire, engage, or otherwise procure the
necessary employee(s) with said licenses and/or certificates.
      (4)   He or she shall be responsible for preparation and management of
the budget for each of the departments for which he or she is responsible, and
shall be expected to manage the departments adequately within the bounds of
said budgets.
      (5)   He or she shall be responsible for assuring that the day-to-day
operations of each of the departments for which the Public Works Director has
responsibility are performing adequately and in such a manner as is deemed by
the Mayor and Council to be in the best interests of the city.
      (6)   He or she shall be responsible for attending the scheduled meetings
of the City Council and presenting reports as to the activities of each
department for which the Public Works Director has supervisory responsibility
when requested by the Mayor and/or City Council.
      (7)   He or she shall perform any other duties and exercise such other
powers as the Mayor and Council may from time to time assign.
   (C)   Appointment and removal.
      (1)   The position of Public Works Director shall be filled by
appointment of the Mayor with consent of the majority of the City Council.
      (2)   He or she shall serve for periods of one year for a term
corresponding wit the terms of the other appointed officials of the city.
      (3)   He or she may be removed at any time upon notice given by the Mayor
and with approval of a majority of the City Council.
   (D)   Qualifications.
      (1)   The Public Works Director need not be a resident of the city at the
time of his or her appointment, but shall become a resident of the city within
such reasonable time as the Council and Mayor may allow.
      (2)   The Public Works Director shall possess all necessary licenses and/
or certifications required by law in order to manage the Electric, Water,
Wastewater, Solid Waste, Street, and Park Departments, and for any other
departments designated by the Mayor and Council. In the event that the Public
Works Director lacks any necessary licenses, certifications, and/or
credentialing, he or she shall obtain said certifications in a timely manner
after hire as allowable by law, but under no circumstances more than one year
after hire, or be able to employ the properly licensed, certified, and/or
credentialed personnel within the parameters of the department budget(s).
      (3)   The Public Works Director shall be bondable as with any other
elected or appointed official.
   (E)   Compensation. The Public Works Director shall receive compensation and
allowances as the Mayor and Council may prescribe.
(Ord. 968, passed 8-27-2020)
§ 31.32 (RESERVED).
§ 31.33 CITY BUILDING INSPECTOR.
   The City Building Inspector shall conduct surveys and make inspections in
any area of the city to determine whether all buildings and structures are in
compliance with the city ordinances. He or she shall investigate all complaints
whether they are verbal, written, or in the form of a petition alleging, and
charging that a violation of the city ordinances exists, and that a building,
or structure is unfit, or unsafe for human habitation. The Building Inspector
is authorized upon properly identifying himself or herself to enter, inspect,
survey, and investigate between the hours of 8:00 a.m., and 5:00 p.m., or at
any time if an emergency exists, or if requested by the owner, or occupant
thereof. He or she shall keep records of all complaints received, inspection
reports, orders, and complaints issued. The records shall be available for
public inspection, and he or she shall prepare an annual report including
statistics based on the records kept. The Building Inspector shall have no
financial interest in the furnishing of labor, materials, or appliances for the
construction, alteration, or maintenance of a building, except where he or she
is the owner of a building, and he or she shall not act as an agent for any
dealer, or as an agent for the sale, lease, or rental of any real estate. The
Building Inspector shall report to the City Council as often as it may deem
necessary, and shall have any other duties and issue the permits as it may
direct. The Building Inspector may be removed at any time for good and
sufficient cause by the City Council. In the event no individual is
specifically appointed to be Building Inspector, the City Administrator shall
be the ex officio Building Inspector.
(1973 Code, § 1-214) (Ord. 801, passed 9-10-2009)
§ 31.34 CITY ZONING INSPECTOR.
   The Mayor may appoint a Zoning Inspector. In the absence of a specific
appointment by the Mayor, the City Administrator is hereby designated as Zoning
Inspector.
(1973 Code, § 1-215) (Ord. 801, passed 9-10-2009)
§ 31.35 CITY ADMINISTRATOR.
   (A)   Creation of office. There is hereby established in the city the Office
of City Administrator. The City Administrator shall be the Chief Administrative
Officer of the city and shall serve as an administrative agent for the Mayor
and City Council in the supervision of the offices and good government of the
city. Except as otherwise provided herein, all the departments of the city
shall be under the administrative supervision and direction of the City
Administrator, and the Mayor and Council shall deal with all departments of the
city and employees through the City Administrator.
   (B)   Powers and duties. In the performance of his or her role as Chief
Administrative Officer of the city, the City Administrator shall have the
following duties and powers:
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided herein, he or she shall take charge of
and direct the operation of all city departments with the guidance and
direction of the Mayor.
      (2)   He or she shall have the power, subject to the provisions of
applicable law, and with the guidance and direction of the Mayor, to employ,
discipline, and remove all nonelected employees of the city and members of the
Volunteer Fire Department and EMS Department; provided, however, that with
respect to the offices of City Clerk/Treasurer, City Engineer, City Attorney,
Public Works Director, City Physician, Fire Chief, EMS Administrator, and Chief
of Police and police officers, employment, discipline, and removal decisions
shall be made by the Mayor and Council in the manner provided in this code
book, with or without the advice of the City Administrator.
      (3)   He or she shall insure the enforcement of all laws and ordinances
within the city and within its extraterritorial jurisdiction insofar as their
enforcement is within the power of the city and consistent with the policy of
the Mayor and City Council. Except for purposes of inquiry, the City
Administrator shall deal with the members of the Police Department through the
Chief of Police, except at such times the Chief is unavailable.
      (4)   He or she shall serve as the City Planning Director and shall
advise both the City Planning Commission and the City Council in matters
pertaining to the planning of the city.
      (5)   He or she shall attend all meetings of the Mayor and City Council
and advise the Council in all matters pertaining to the city and its affairs.
      (6)   He or she shall recommend to the Mayor and Council such measures as
he or she may deem necessary or expedient for the good government and welfare
of the city.
      (7)   He or she shall be responsible for the care and maintenance of all
city property.
      (8)   He or she shall prepare and submit to the Mayor and Council a
proposed annual budget, together with his or her recommendations and comments.
He or she shall be responsible for the execution and administration of the
adopted budget. He or she shall supervise the maintenance and custody of all
accounts and records of the city and shall provide the Mayor and Council with a
report of the financial condition of the city at such times as the Mayor and
City Council may require.
      (9)   He or she shall supervise the performance of all contracts and
agreements to which the city is a part.
      (10)   He or she shall serve as purchasing agent of the city, and no
purchase will be made without his or her approval. In no case will he or she
make or approve any such purchase unless the funds for the same have been duly
appropriated by the Mayor and Council, and as to those purchases where the
amount involved exceeds $5,000, he or she shall first obtain the approval of
the Mayor and Council.
      (11)   With the guidance and direction of the Mayor, he or she shall
serve as a public relations officer of the city government.
      (12)   He or she shall perform any other duties and exercise such other
powers as the Mayor and Council may from time to time assign.
   (C)   Additional powers. With the guidance and direction of the Mayor, the
City Administrator may designate such city employees from time to time as
necessary or appropriate to assist in carrying out the duties set forth in
division (B) above, subject to his or her supervision and direction.
   (D)   Appointment and removal.
      (1)   The office of City Administrator shall be filled by appointment of
the Mayor with consent of the majority of the City Council.
      (2)   He or she shall serve for periods of one year for a term
corresponding to the terms of the other appointed officials of the city.
      (3)   He or she may be removed at anytime upon notice given by the Mayor
and with the approval of a majority of the City Council.
   (E)   Qualifications. The City Administrator need not be a resident at the
time of his or her appointment, but shall become a resident within such
reasonable time as the Council and Mayor may allow.
   (F)   Compensation. The City Administrator shall receive such compensation
and allowances as the Mayor and Council may prescribe.
   (G)   Requirements. The City Administrator shall take no part in any
election held for the purpose of electing the Mayor, members of the City
Council, or other elective city office of the city, except for the casting of
his or her individual ballot. The City Administrator shall be an officer of the
city within the meaning of Neb. RS 17-611 and shall be subject to and bound by
the prohibitions therein contained. Before taking office, the City
Administrator shall file with the City Clerk/Treasurer a bond in favor of the
city for the faithful performance of his or her duties in the amount of $5,000.
The premium of the bond shall be paid by the city.
   (H)   Vacancy of the City Administrator. During any temporary or extended
period of absence of the City Administrator, or if a vacancy exists or is
created in the office by the removal, resignation, disability, or death of the
current or prior City Administrator, the Mayor and City Council may:
      (1)   Appoint an Interim City Administrator to fulfil the duties of the
position until a permanent replacement is secured, or the position is
eliminated. Said appointment shall be made at the next regular or special
meeting of the Mayor and City Council following the vacancy, or as soon
thereafter as may be possible.
      (2)   The Interim City Administrator shall be appointed by the Mayor and
approved by a majority of the City Council. The Interim City Administrator
shall serve until the appointment of a (permanent) City Administrator.
      (3)   The Interim City Administrator with regard to the administration of
the office, shall be bound by the same terms as set forth herein for the City
Administrator. The Interim City Administrator shall be tasked with all duties,
obligations, and responsibilities of the City Administrator as prescribed by
the Bridgeport City Code.
      (4)   In the event that no City Administrator or Interim City
Administrator is appointed, or the office is vacant for any other reason, the
Mayor shall assume all duties of the City Administrator until the appointment
of a (permanent) City Administrator or Interim City Administrator. The Mayor,
as he or she deems necessary, may designate one or more persons to assist in
the administration of said duties.
(1973 Code, § 1-216) (Ord. 685, passed 9-10-1998; Ord. 801, passed 9-10-2009;
Ord. 821, passed 5-5-2011; Ord. 949, passed 1-10-2019)
BONDS AND OATH
§ 31.50 BONDS; FORM.
   Official bonds of the city shall be in form, joint and several, and shall be
made payable to the city in the penalty as the City Council may set by
resolution; provided, the penalty amount on any bond shall not fall below the
legal minimum, when one has been set by the state, for each particular
official. All official bonds of the city officials shall be executed by the
principal named in the bonds and by at least two sufficient sureties who shall
be freeholders of the county, or by the official as principal and by a
guaranty, surety, fidelity, or bonding company; provided no city official,
while still in his or her official term of office, shall be accepted as surety
on any other official's bond, contractor's bond, license bond, or appeal bond
under any circumstances. Only companies that are legally authorized to transact
business in the state shall be eligible for suretyship on the bond of an
official of the city. All the bonds shall obligate the principal, and sureties
for the faithful discharge of all duties required by law of the principal, and
shall inure to the benefit of the city and any persons who may be injured by a
breach of the conditions of the bonds. No bond shall be deemed to be given or
complete until the approval of the City Council, and all sureties are endorsed
in writing on the instrument by the Mayor and City Clerk/Treasurer pursuant to
the approval of the City Council. The premium on any official bond required to
be given may be paid out of the General Fund, or other proper city fund, upon a
resolution to that effect by the City Council at the beginning of any city
year. All official bonds, meeting the conditions herein, shall be filed with
the City Clerk/Treasurer for his or her official records, and it shall be the
duty of the City Clerk/Treasurer to furnish a certified copy of any bond so
filed upon the payment of a fee which shall be set by resolution of the City
Council. In the event that the sureties on the official bond of any officer of
the city, in the opinion of the City Council, become insufficient, the City
Council may, by resolution, fix a reasonable time within which the officer may
give a new bond or additional sureties as directed. In the event that the
officer should fail, refuse, or neglect to give a new bond, or additional
sureties to the satisfaction, and approval of the City Council then the office
shall, by the failure, refusal, or neglect, become vacant, and it shall be the
duty of the City Council to appoint a competent, and qualified person to fill
the office. Any official who is reelected to office shall be required to file a
new bond after each election.
(Neb. RS 11-103 through 11-118 and 17-604) (1973 Code, § 1-301)
§ 31.51 OATH OF OFFICE; CITY OFFICIALS.
   All officials of the city, whether elected or appointed, except when a
different oath is specifically provided herein, shall, before entering upon
their respective duties, take and subscribe the following oath which shall be
endorsed upon their respective bonds: "I __________________________ do solemnly
swear that I will support the Constitution of the United States and the
Constitution of the State of Nebraska, against all enemies foreign and
domestic; that I will bear true faith and allegiance to the same; that I take
this obligation freely, and without mental reservation, or for the purpose of
evasion; and that I will faithfully and impartially perform the duties of the
office of ___________________________, according to law, and to the best of my
ability. And I do further swear that I do not advocate, nor am I a member of
any political party or organization that advocates the overthrow of the
government of the United States or of this State by force, or violence; and
that during such time as I am in this position I will not advocate, nor become
a member of any political party or organization that advocates the overthrow of
the government of the United States or of this State by force or violence. So
help me God."
(Neb. RS 11-101) (1973 Code, § 1-302)
COMPENSATION
§ 31.65 CITY OFFICIALS.
   The compensation of any elective official of the city shall not be increased
or diminished during the term for which he or she shall have been elected
except when there has been a merger of offices; provided, the compensation of
the members of the City Council, a board, or commission may be increased or
diminished at the beginning of the full term of any member whether or not the
terms of one or more members commence and end at different times. No elected
official may be rehired at a greater salary if he or she resigns and desires to
be rehired during the unexpired term of office. He or she may be rehired after
the term of office during which he or she resigned at a greater salary. All
salaries shall be set by ordinance of the City Council and will be available
for public inspection at the office of the City Clerk/Treasurer.
(Neb. RS 17-108.02, 17-209.02, and 17-612) (1973 Code, § 1-902)
§ 31.66 CONFLICT OF INTEREST.
   No officer of the city shall be permitted to benefit from any contract to
which the city is a party when the consideration of the contract is in an
amount in excess of $10,000 in any one year, and no contract may be divided for
the purpose of evading the requirements of this section. Any such interest in a
contract shall void any obligation on the part of the city; provided, the
receiving of deposits, cashing of checks, and buying and selling of the
warrants and bonds of the city shall not be considered a contract under the
provisions of this section. No official shall receive any pay or compensation
from the city other than his or her salary. The City Council shall not pay or
appropriate any money or other valuable thing to pay a person who is not an
officer for the performance of any act, service, or duty which shall come
within the proper scope of the duties of any officer of the city; provided,
that ownership of less than 1% of the outstanding stock of any class in a
corporation shall not constitute an interest within the meaning of this
section.
(1973 Code, § 1-902)
Cross-reference:
   Conflict of interest; free or underpriced services prohibited, see Neb. RS
17-611 and Neb. RS 18-305 through 18-312
CHAPTER 32: CITY ORGANIZATIONS
Section
   
32.01   Library Board
   
32.02   Planning Commission
   
32.03   Board of Health
   
32.04   Board of Park Commissioners
   
32.05   Housing Authority Board
   
32.06   Community Development Agency
   
32.07   Police Department
   
32.08   Police; arrest enforcement jurisdiction
   
32.09   Bridgeport Tree Board
   
32.10   Keno Advisory Board
§ 32.01 LIBRARY BOARD.
   (A)   City library; Library Board; members; elected or appointed; terms;
vacancies, how filled.
      (1)   When the City Council decides by ordinance to establish and
maintain a public library and reading room under Neb. RS 51-201 to 51-219, the
City Council shall establish a Library Board. The Library Board shall have at
least five members. Neither the Mayor nor any member of the City Council shall
be a member of the Library Board. Except as otherwise provided in division (A)
(2) below, the City Council shall by ordinance determine the number of members,
whether the members are elected or appointed, and the length of the terms of
the members. The terms of members serving on the effective date of a change in
the number of members shall not be shortened, and the City Council shall
provide for the appointment or election of their successors. In cases of
vacancies by resignation, removal, or otherwise, the City Council shall fill
the vacancy for the unexpired term. No member shall receive any pay or
compensation for any services rendered as a member of the Board.
      (2)   If the City Council by ordinance provides for appointment of the
members to the Library Board, the Library Board members shall be appointed by a
majority vote of the members of the City Council. If an interlocal agreement, a
memorandum of understanding, or any other contractual agreement between the
city and another political subdivision providing for library services allows
representation from the other political subdivision on the Library Board from
outside the city or village, the governing board of the other political
subdivision may appoint one or more members to the Library Board as provided in
the interlocal agreement, memorandum of understanding, or other contractual
agreement.
      (3)   If the City Council adopts an ordinance to provide for the election
of Library Board members at municipal elections in April, it shall follow the
statutes governing municipal elections. If the municipal election is to be held
in conjunction with the statewide primary election, the election shall be held
as provided in the Election Act. If the board members are to be elected, the
City Council shall give public notice of the election after the adoption of the
ordinance naming the offices to be filled, the length of terms, and the filing
deadline for the placing of names of candidates on the ballot.
(Neb. RS 51-202)
   (B)   Library Board; organization; officers; quorum. The members of the City
Library Board shall immediately after their appointment meet and organize by
electing from their number a president, secretary, and the other officers as
may be necessary. A majority of the members of a City Library Board shall
constitute a quorum for the transaction of business.
(Neb. RS 51-204)
   (C)   Library Board; bylaws, rules, and regulations. The Library Board shall
have the power to make and adopt such bylaws, rules, and regulations for its
own guidance and for the government of the library and reading room as it may
deem expedient, not inconsistent with Neb. RS 51-201 to 51-219.
(Neb. RS 51-205)
   (D)   Library Board; mortgages; release or renewal. The President shall have
the power to release, upon full payment, any mortgage constituting a credit to
the library fund and standing in the name of the Library Board. The signature
of the President on any such release shall be authenticated by the Secretary of
the Board. The President and Secretary in like manner, upon resolution duly
passed and adopted by the Board, may renew any such mortgage.
(Neb. RS 51-206)
   (E)   Library Board; funds; buildings; custody and control. The Library
Board shall have exclusive control of expenditures, of all money collected or
donated to the credit of the library fund, of the renting and construction of
any library building, and the supervision, care and custody of the grounds,
rooms or buildings constructed, leased or set apart for that purpose.
(Neb. RS 51-207)
   (F)   Library Board; use of library for city or school purposes; contracts.
The Library Board of any public library may contract with the city council of
any city, with the trustees of any incorporated village, with the county board
of the county in which the library is located or of any adjacent county, or
with the directors of any school district, to furnish the use and privilege of
its library to the inhabitants of such city, village, county, township or
school district, to the extent and upon such terms as may be agreed upon.
(Neb. RS 51-208)
   (G)   Public library; funds; disbursements; sinking fund; bonds.
      (1)   All taxes levied or collected and all funds donated or in any way
acquired for the erection, maintenance, or support of any public library shall
be kept for the use of the library separate and apart from all other funds of
the city shall be drawn upon and paid out by the Clerk/Treasurer upon vouchers
signed by the President of the Library Board and authenticated by the Secretary
of the Board, and shall not be used or disbursed for any other purpose or in
any other manner.
      (2)   The city may establish a Public Library Sinking Fund for major
capital expenditures.
      (3)   The county may issue bonds for library purposes pursuant to Neb.
Ch. 10.
(Neb. RS 51-209)
   (H)   Library Board; building sites; acquisition; procedure. Every library
board created under Neb. RS 51-201 to 51-219 shall have power to purchase or
lease grounds, to exercise the power of eminent domain, and to condemn real
estate for the purpose of securing a site for a library building. The procedure
to condemn property shall be exercised in the manner set forth in Neb. RS 76-
704 to 76-724.
(Neb RS 51-210)
   (I)   Library Board; general powers and duties; discrimination prohibited.
      (1)   The Library Board shall have the power to erect, lease, or occupy
an appropriate building for the use of the library and to appoint a suitable
librarian and assistants, to fix their compensation, and to remove the
appointees at pleasure. It shall have the power to establish rules and
regulations for the government of the library as may be deemed necessary for
its preservation and to maintain its usefulness and efficiency. It shall have
the power to fix and impose, by general rules, penalties and forfeitures for
trespasses upon or injury to the library grounds, rooms, books, or other
property, for failure to return any book, or for violation of any bylaw, rule,
or regulation and to fix and impose reasonable fees, not to exceed the
library's actual cost, for nonbasic services. The Board shall have and exercise
the power as may be necessary to carry out the spirit and intent of Neb RS 51-
201 to 51-219 in establishing and maintaining a public library and reading
room.
      (2)   The public library shall make its basic services available without
charge to all residents of the political subdivision which supplies its tax
support.
      (3)   No service shall be denied to any person because of race, sex,
religion, age, color, national origin, ancestry, physical handicap, or marital
status.
(Neb RS 51-211)
   (J)   Public library; use and purpose. Except as provided in Neb RS 51-211,
every library and reading room supported by public tax shall be forever free to
the use of the inhabitants of the city maintaining the library, subject always
to the reasonable regulations as the Library Board may adopt to render the
library of the greatest use to the inhabitants of the city. The Board may
exclude from the use of the library and reading rooms any person who willfully
violates or refuses to comply with rules and regulations established for the
government thereof.
(Neb RS 51-212)
   (K)   Library Board; annual report; contents. The Library Board shall, on or
before the second Monday in February in each year, make a report to the City
Council of the condition of its trust on the last day of the prior fiscal year.
The report shall show all money received and credited or expended; the number
of materials held, including books, video and audio materials, software
programs, and materials in other formats; the number of periodical
subscriptions on record, including newspapers; the number of materials added
and the number withdrawn from the collection during the year; the number of
materials circulated during the year; and other statistics, information, and
suggestions as the Library Board may deem of general interest or as the City
Council may require. The report shall be verified by affidavit of the proper
officers of the Library Board.
(Neb RS 51-213)
   (L)   Penalties; action to recover; disposition of funds collected.
Penalties imposed or accruing by any bylaw or regulation of the Library Board
and any court costs and attorney's fees may be recovered in a civil action
before any court having jurisdiction, the action to be instituted in the name
of the Library Board of the city. Money, other than any court costs and
attorney's fees, collected in the actions shall be forthwith placed in the
treasury of the city to the credit of the city library fund. Attorney's fees
collected pursuant to this division shall be placed in the treasury of the city
and credited to the budget of the city.
(Neb RS 51-214)
   (M)   Public library; donations; Library Board may accept. Any person may
make donation of money, lands or other property for the benefit of any public
library. The title to property so donated may be made to and shall vest in the
Library Board of the library and their successors in office, and the board
shall thereby become the owners thereof in trust to the uses of the public
library of the city.
(Neb RS 51-215)
   (N)   Real estate; sale and conveyance; conditions; remonstrance; procedure.
The Library Board may, by resolution, direct the sale and conveyance of any
real estate owned by the Library Board or by the public library, which is not
used for library purposes, or of any real estate so donated or devised to the
Library Board or to the public library upon the terms as the Library Board may
deem best. Before any such sale is made the Library Board shall advertise the
sale once each week for three consecutive weeks in a legal newspaper published
or, if none is published, of general circulation in the city in which the
public library is situated, and the notice shall set out the time, place,
terms, manner of sale, legal description of the real estate, and the right to
reject any and all bids. If the bid or bids have not been rejected, then the
real estate shall be sold to the highest bidder for cash, and the Chairperson
of the Library Board, upon resolution of the Library Board directing him or her
so to do, shall convey the real estate to the purchaser of the real estate upon
his or her payment of his or her bid. If within 30 days after the third
publication of the notice a remonstrance against the sale is signed by 30% of
the registered voters of the city voting at the last regular city election and
is filed with the City Council of the city, the property shall not then, nor
within one year thereafter, be sold. If the date for filing the remonstrance
falls upon a Saturday, Sunday, or legal holiday, the signatures shall be
collected within the 30-day period, but the filing shall be considered timely
if filed or postmarked on or before the next business day.
(Neb RS 51-216)
   (O)   Public library; use by school districts. Any school district may in
its discretion at its annual meeting, by a majority vote, authorize the school
board to contract for the use of a public library by the inhabitants of the
district.
(Neb RS 51-217)
   (P)   Public library; property; exemption from execution and taxation; when.
The property of any public library shall be exempt from execution and shall be
exempt from taxation to the extent it is used for a public purpose.
(Neb RS 51-218)
   (Q)   Private and associate libraries; deposit and use; authorized;
requirements. The Library Board shall have power to authorize any circulating
library, reading matter, or work of art belonging to any private person,
association or corporation, to be deposited in the public library rooms, to be
drawn or used outside of the rooms only on payment of the fee or membership as
the person, corporation or association owning the same may require. Deposits
may be removed by the owner thereof at pleasure, but the books or other reading
matter so deposited in the rooms of any such public library shall be separately
and distinctly marked and kept upon shelves apart from the books of the public
city library. Every such private or associate library or other property so
deposited in any public library, while so placed or remaining, shall, without
charge, be subject to use and reading within the library room by any person who
is an inhabitant of the city and entitled to the use of the free library.
(Neb RS 51-219)
   (R)   Law library; establishment; maintenance; supervision. The county board
may, when in its discretion it shall deem it advisable, provide by purchase or
otherwise for the procuring and maintaining of a suitable law library for the
use of the public. The library shall be under the supervision of the judges of
the district court of the county wherein the same is located.
(Neb RS 51-220)
§ 32.02 PLANNING COMMISSION.
   (A)   The Planning Commission shall consist of five members who shall
represent, insofar as is possible, the different professions or occupations in
the city who shall be chosen by the Mayor with the approval of a majority vote
of the elected members of the City Council. Two of the regular members may be
residents of the area over which the city is authorized to exercise
extraterritorial zoning and subdivision regulations. When there is a sufficient
number of residents in the area over which the municipality exercises
extraterritorial zoning and subdivision regulation, one regular member of the
Commission shall be a resident from such area. If it is determined by the City
Council that a sufficient number of residents reside in the area subject to
extraterritorial zoning or subdivision regulation, and no such resident is a
regular member of the commission, the first available vacancy on the commission
shall be filled by the appointment of such an individual. For purposes of this
section, a sufficient number of residents shall mean 500 residents. A number of
Commissioners equal to a majority of the number of regular members appointed to
the Commission shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of any business.
All members of the Commission shall serve without compensation and shall hold
no other municipal office except when appointed to serve on the Board of
Adjustment as provided in Neb. RS 19-908. The term of each regular members
shall be three years. All regular members shall hold office until their
successors are appointed. Any member may, after a public hearing before the
City Council, be removed by the mayor with the consent of a majority vote of
the members elected to the City Council for inefficiency, neglect of duty or
malfeasance in office, or other good and sufficient cause. Vacancies occurring
otherwise than through the expiration of term shall be filled for the unexpired
portion of the term by the Mayor.
   (B)   There shall also be one alternate member to the Planning Commission
who shall be chosen by the Mayor with the approval of a majority vote of the
elected members of the Council. The alternate member shall serve without
compensation and shall hold no other municipal office. The term of the
alternate member shall be three years, and he or she shall hold office until
his or her successor is appointed and approved. The alternate member may be
removed from office in the same manner as a regular member. If the alternate
member position becomes vacant other than through the expiration of the term,
the vacancy shall be filled for the unexpired portion of the term by the Mayor
with the approval of a majority vote of the elected members of the City
Council. The alternate member may attend any meeting and may serve as a voting
and participating member of the Commission at any time when less than the full
number of regular commission members is present and capable of voting.
   (C)   The Commission shall elect its Chairperson from its members and create
and fill such other of its offices as it may determine. The term of the
Chairperson shall be one year, and he or she shall be eligible for reelection.
The Commission shall hold at least one regular meeting in each calendar
quarter, except the municipal governing body may require the commission to meet
more frequently and the Chairperson of the Commission may call for a meeting
when necessary to deal with business pending before the Commission. The
Commission shall adopt rules and regulations for the transaction of business
and shall keep a record of its resolutions, transactions, findings, and
determinations, which shall be a public record.
   (D)   (1)   The Council may provide the funds, equipment and accommodations
necessary for the work of the Commission, but the expenditures of the
Commission, exclusive of gifts, shall be within the amounts appropriated for
that purpose by the Council; and no expenditures nor agreements for
expenditures shall be valid in excess of such amounts. The Planning Commission
shall:
         (a)   Make and adopt plans for the physical development of the
municipality, including any areas outside its boundaries which in the
commission's judgment bear relation to the planning of such municipality and
including a comprehensive development plan as defined by Neb. RS 19-903;
         (b)   Prepare and adopt such implemental means as a capital
improvement program, subdivision regulations, building codes, and a zoning
ordinance in cooperation with other interested municipal departments; and
         (c)   Consult with and advise public officials and agencies, public
utilities, civic organizations, educational institutions, and citizens with
relation to the promulgation and implementation of the comprehensive
development plan and its implemental programs.
      (2)   The Commission may delegate authority to any such group to conduct
studies and make surveys for the Commission, make preliminary reports on its
findings, and hold public hearings before submitting its final reports. The
municipal governing body shall not take final action on matters relating to the
comprehensive development plan, capital improvements, building codes,
subdivision development, the annexation of territory, or zoning until it has
received the recommendation of the Planning Commission if such Commission in
fact has been created and is existent. The governing body shall by ordinance
set a reasonable time within which the recommendation from the Planning
Commission is to be received. A recommendation from the Planning Commission
shall not be required for subdivision of existing lots and blocks whenever all
required public improvements have been installed, no new dedication of public
rights-of-way or easements is involved, and such subdivision complies with the
ordinance requirements concerning minimum areas and dimensions of such lots and
blocks, if the governing body has designated, by ordinance, an agent pursuant
to Neb. RS 19-916. The Commission may, with the consent of the governing body,
in its own name:
         (a)   Make and enter into contracts with public or private bodies;
         (b)   Receive contributions, bequests, gifts, or grant funds from
public or private sources;
         (c)   Expend the funds appropriated to it by the municipality;
         (d)   Employ agents and employees; and
         (e)   Acquire, hold, and dispose of property.
   (E)   The Commission may on its own authority make arrangements consistent
with its program, conduct or sponsor special studies or planning work for any
public body or appropriate agency, receive grants, remuneration, or
reimbursement for such studies or work, and at its public hearings, summon
witnesses, administer oaths, and compel the giving of testimony. The Commission
may grant conditional uses or special exceptions to property owners for the use
of their property if the municipal governing body has, through a zoning
ordinance or special ordinance, generally authorized the Commission to exercise
such powers and has approved the standards and procedures adopted by the
Commission for equitably and judiciously granting such conditional uses or
special exceptions. The granting of a conditional use permit or special
exception shall only allow property owners to put their property to a special
use if it is among those uses specifically identified in the zoning ordinance
as classifications of uses which may require special conditions or requirements
to be met by the owners before a use permit or building permit is authorized.
The power to grant conditional uses or special exceptions shall be the
exclusive authority of the Commission, except that the municipal governing body
may choose to retain for itself the power to grant conditional uses or special
exceptions for those classifications of uses specified in the zoning ordinance.
The municipal governing body may exercise such power if it has formally adopted
standards and procedures for granting such conditional uses or special
exceptions in a manner that is equitable and will promote the public interest.
An appeal of a decision by the Commission or municipal governing body regarding
a conditional use or special exception shall be made to the district court.
(1973 Code, § 2-102) (Ord. 494, passed 5-8-1980; Ord. 825, passed 6-9-2011;
Ord. 994, passed 5-11-2023)
§ 32.03 BOARD OF HEALTH.
   The City Council shall appoint a Board of Health. The Board of Health shall
consist of four members. The members of the Board shall include the Mayor, who
shall serve as Chairperson; the Police Chief, who shall serve as Secretary and
Quarantine Officer; a physician who shall serve as the Medical Advisor; and the
President of the City Council. The members of the Board shall serve, without
compensation, a one-year term of office, unless reappointed, and shall
reorganize at the first meeting in June of each year. It shall be the duty of
the Secretary to keep the full and correct minutes and records of all meetings
and to file the same with the City Clerk/Treasurer where they shall be
available for public inspection at any reasonable time. The Board of Health
shall be funded by the City Council from time to time out of the General Fund.
A majority of the Board shall constitute a quorum for the purpose of doing
business. The Board shall meet at any times as the City Council may designate.
Special meetings may be held upon the call of the Chairperson, or any two
members of the Board. It shall be the duty of the Board to enact rules and
regulations which shall have the full force and effect of law, to safeguard the
health of the residents of the city. Included in the duties of the Board shall
be to enforce the rules and regulations, and to provide fines and punishments
for any violations thereof. It may regulate, suppress, and prevent the
occurrence of nuisances and shall actively enforce all laws of the state and
ordinances of the city relating to matters of sanitation which affect the
health and safety of the people. The Board shall regularly inspect the premises
and businesses as the City Council may direct. All members of the Board shall
be responsible for making the reports and performing any other duties as the
City Council may, from time to time, designate. No member of the Board of
Health shall hold more than one Board of Health position.
(Neb. RS 17-121) (1973 Code, § 2-103)
§ 32.04 BOARD OF PARK COMMISSIONERS.
   (A)   The City Council shall appoint the Board of Park Commissioners. The
Board shall consist of not less than three members, who shall be resident
freeholders in the city. The members of the Board shall serve a three-year term
of office unless reappointed. The Board shall serve without compensation and
may be required, in the discretion of the City Council, to give a bond in a sum
set by resolution of the City Council, and conditioned upon the faithful
performance of their duties.
   (B)   At the time of the Board’s first meeting, which shall occur on or
before March 20 of each year, the Board shall organize by selecting from their
number a Chairperson and Secretary. It shall be the duty of the Secretary to
keep the full and correct minutes and records of all meetings, and to file the
same with the City Clerk/Treasurer where they shall be available for public
inspection at any reasonable time. A majority of the Board members shall
constitute a quorum for the transaction of business. The Board shall meet at
any times as the City Council may designate. Special meetings may be held upon
the call of the Chairperson, or any two of the Board members. It shall be the
duty of the Board to take the immediate charge of all parks and recreational
facilities belonging to the city. The Board shall establish appropriate rules
and regulations for the management, use, and operation of the same. All
employees of the city doing work in or for the city park shall be under the
supervision and direction of the Board. All actions of the Board shall be
subject to the review and control of the City Council. The Board shall be
responsible for making the reports and performing any other duties as the City
Council may, from time to time, designate. No member of the City Council shall
serve as a member of the Park Commission while serving a term of office as a
member of the City Council. No member of the Park Commission shall serve in the
capacity of both the Chairperson and Secretary of the Board.
   (C)   The Board, when requested by the City Council, shall consider,
investigate, make finding, report, and recommend upon any special matter of
question coming within the scope of its work.
(Neb. RS 17-952) (1973 Code, § 2-104) (Ord. 472, passed 9-6-1979; Ord. 923,
passed 6-8-2017; Ord. 959, passed 11-14-2019)
§ 32.05 HOUSING AUTHORITY BOARD.
   (A)   The City Council shall appoint five persons who shall constitute the
Housing Authority and the persons shall be called the Commissioners. One
Commissioner shall be appointed each year. Each Commissioner shall serve a
five-year term of office or until his or her successor is duly appointed;
provided, that all vacancies shall be filled for the unexpired terms. A
certificate of the appointment or reappointment of any Commissioner shall be
filed with the City Clerk/Treasurer and the certificate shall be conclusive
evidence of the proper appointment of the Commissioner. A Commissioner shall
receive no compensation for his or her services, but he or she shall be
entitled to the necessary expenses, including travel expenses, incurred in
discharge of his or her duties. The Housing Authority Commissioners shall meet
on the third Tuesday, unless the same shall be a legal holiday, it which event
the meeting shall be held on the next succeeding nonsecular day. The meetings
are to be held in June, September, December, and March. The annual meeting
shall be held in conjunction with the regular June meeting of each year. Be it
further ordained that all meetings be held in the business office of the
Community Building at the Camp Clarke Villa at 8:00 p.m. Three Commissioners
shall constitute a quorum of the Authority for the purpose of conducting its
business, exercising its powers, and for all other purposes. Action may be
taken by the Authority upon the vote of the majority of the Commissioners
present unless in any case the bylaws of the Authority shall require a larger
number. The Commissioners shall elect a Chairperson and Vice-Chairperson from
among the Commissioners and shall have the power to employ an executive
director who shall serve as ex officio Secretary of the Authority. The
Authority may also employ legal counsel, or it may call upon the chief law
officer of the city, for the services as it may require. It may employ
technical experts and any other officers, agents, and employees as it may
require and shall determine their qualifications, duties, compensations, and
terms of office. The Authority may delegate any other powers and duties to its
agents or employees as it may deem proper. During his or her tenure, and for
one year thereafter, no commissioner, officer, or employee of the City Housing
Authority shall voluntarily acquire any interest, direct or indirect, in any
project or in any property included or planned to be included in any project,
or in any contract or proposed contract relating to any housing project. If any
such commissioner, officer, or employee involuntarily acquires any such
interest, or voluntarily or involuntarily acquired any such interest prior to
appointment or employment as commissioner, officer, or employee, he or she
shall immediately disclose his or her interest in writing to the Authority, and
such disclosure shall be entered upon the minutes of the Authority, and he or
she shall not participate in any action by the Authority relating to the
property or contract in which he or she has any such interest; provided, that
nothing herein shall apply to the acquisition of any interest in notes or bonds
of the Authority issued in connection with any housing project, or to the
execution of agreements by banking institutions for deposit or handling of
funds in connection with a project or to act as trustee under any trust
indenture, or to utility services, the rates for which are fixed or controlled
by a governmental agency. The Mayor may remove a Commissioner for neglect of
duty or misconduct in office in the manner prescribed hereinafter. The Mayor
shall send a notice of removal to the Commissioner which notice shall contain a
statement containing the charges against him or her. Unless, within ten days
from the receipt of the notice, the Commissioner files with the Clerk/Treasurer
a request for a hearing before the City Council, the Commissioner shall be
deemed as removed from office. If a request for a hearing is filed with the
Clerk/Treasurer, the City Council shall hold a hearing at which the
Commissioner shall have the right to appear in person or by counsel and the
City Council shall determine whether the removal shall be disapproved or
upheld. If the removal is disapproved, the Commissioner shall continue to hold
his or her position.
   (B)   The Housing Authority shall keep an accurate account of all its
activities and of all its receipts and disbursements and shall make a report to
the City Council on all the information.
(1973 Code, § 2-106) (Ord. 568, passed 12-5-1985)
§ 32.06 COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT AGENCY.
   (A)   Per Neb. RS 18-2,101.01, the city hereby creates a Community
Development Agency, which Agency shall consist of the Mayor and City Council.
   (B)   The name of the Community Development Agency shall be the Community
Redevelopment Authority of the city.
   (C)   The Community Redevelopment Authority of the city shall function in
the manner prescribed by ordinance and may exercise all of the power and
authority granted to a community redevelopment authority in Neb. RS 18-2,101
through 18-2,144.
   (D)   The Mayor shall function as the Chairperson of the Community
Redevelopment Authority.
(1973 Code, § 2-201) (Ord. 752, passed 7-6-2006)
§ 32.07 POLICE DEPARTMENT.
   The Police Department shall consist of the Police Chief and any further
number of regular police officers as may be duly ordered by resolution of the
Council. The Police Chief shall, subject to the direction of the Mayor, have
control and management of all matters relating to the Police Department, and
its officers and members, and shall have the custody and control of all
property and books belonging to the Department. He or she shall devote his or
her whole time to city affairs, the interests of the city, and to the
preservation of peace, order, safety, and cleanliness thereof. The Department
shall execute and enforce all laws and also the orders of the Mayor. It shall
be the duty of the Department to protect the rights of persons and property.
There shall be a proper police force at all fires. The Department shall take
notice of all nuisances, impediments, obstructions, and defects in the streets,
avenues, alleys, business places, and residences of the city. The Department
shall execute, or cause to be executed, the processes issued and shall cause
all persons arrested to be brought before the proper court for trial as
speedily as possible. The Police Chief, and all regular and special police
officers, shall become thoroughly conversant with the laws of the city, and
shall see that the same are strictly enforced, and shall make sworn complaints
against any person or persons for violation of the same.
(1973 Code, § 3-401)
§ 32.08 POLICE; ARREST AND ENFORCEMENT JURISDICTION.
   (A)   The police officers of the municipality shall have the power to arrest
all offenders against the laws of the state or of the city, by day or by night,
in the same manner as the County Sheriff and to keep such offenders in the
municipal prison or other place to prevent their escape until trial can be had
before the proper officer.
(Neb. RS 17-118)
   (B)   Every municipal law enforcement officer has the power and authority to
enforce the laws of this state and the municipality or otherwise perform the
functions of that office anywhere within his or her primary jurisdiction.
   (C)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      LAW ENFORCEMENT OFFICER IN NEED OF ASSISTANCE.
         (a)   A law enforcement officer whose life is in danger; or
         (b)   A law enforcement officer who needs assistance in making an
arrest and the suspect:
            1.   Will not be apprehended unless immediately arrested;
            2.   May cause injury to himself or herself or others or damage to
property unless immediately arrested; or
            3.   May destroy or conceal evidence of the commission of a crime.
      PRIMARY JURISDICTION.  The geographic area within territorial limits of
the municipality.
   (D)   Any municipal law enforcement officer who is within this state, but
beyond his or her primary jurisdiction, has the power and authority to enforce
the laws of this state or any legal ordinance of any city or incorporated
village or otherwise perform the functions of his or her office, including the
authority to arrest and detain suspects, as if enforcing the laws or performing
the functions within his or her primary jurisdiction in the following cases:
      (1)   Any municipal law enforcement officer, if in a fresh attempt to
apprehend a person suspected of committing a felony, may follow that person
into any other jurisdiction in this state and there arrest and detain that
person and return that person to the officer's primary jurisdiction;
      (2)   Any municipal law enforcement officer, if in a fresh attempt to
apprehend a person suspected of committing a misdemeanor or a traffic
infraction, may follow that person anywhere in an area within 25 miles of the
boundaries of the officer's primary jurisdiction and there arrest and detain
that person and return that person to the officer's primary jurisdiction;
      (3)   Any municipal law enforcement officer has this enforcement and
arrest and detention authority when responding to a call in which a local,
state, or federal law enforcement officer is in need of assistance; and
      (4)   If the municipality, under the provisions of the Interlocal
Cooperation Act or the Joint Public Agency Act, enters into a contract with any
other municipality or county for law enforcement services or joint law
enforcement services, law enforcement personnel may have this enforcement
authority within the jurisdiction of each of the participating political
subdivisions if provided for in the agreement. Unless otherwise provided in the
agreement, the municipality shall provide liability insurance coverage for its
own law enforcement personnel as provided in Neb. RS 13-1802.
   (E)   When probable cause exists to believe that a person is operating or in
the actual physical control of any motor vehicle, motorboat, personal
watercraft, or aircraft while under the influence of alcoholic liquor or of any
drug or otherwise in violation of Neb. RS 28-1465, 28-1466, 28-1472, 37-
1254.01, 37-1254.02, 60-4,163, 60-4,164, 60-6,196, 60-6,197, 60-6,211.01, or
60-6,211.02, a municipal law enforcement officer has the power and authority to
do any of the following or any combination thereof:
      (1)   Transport that person to a facility outside of the law enforcement
officer's primary jurisdiction for appropriate chemical testing of the person;
      (2)   Administer outside of the law enforcement officer's primary
jurisdiction any post-arrest test advisement to the person; or
      (3)   With respect to that person, perform other procedures or functions
outside of the law enforcement officer's primary jurisdiction which are
directly and solely related to enforcing the laws that concern a person
operating or being in the actual physical control of any motor vehicle,
motorboat, personal watercraft, or aircraft while under the influence of
alcoholic liquor or of any other drug or otherwise in violation of Neb. RS 28-
1465, 28-1466, 28-1472, 37-1254.01, 37-1254.02, 60-4,163, 60-4,164, 60-6,196,
60-6,197, 60-6,211.01, or 60-6,211.02.
(Neb. RS 29-215)
   (F)   If municipal law enforcement personnel are rendering aid in their law
enforcement capacity outside the limits of the municipality in the event of
disaster, emergency, or civil defense emergency or in connection with any
program of practice or training for a disaster, emergency, or civil defense
emergency when that program is conducted or participated in by the Nebraska
Emergency Management Agency or with any other related training program, the law
enforcement personnel have the power and authority to enforce the laws of this
state or any legal ordinances or resolutions of the local government where they
are rendering aid or otherwise perform the functions of their office, including
the authority to arrest and detain suspects, as if enforcing the laws or
performing the functions within their primary jurisdiction. The municipality
shall self-insure or contract for insurance against any liability for personal
injuries or property damage that may be incurred by it or by its personnel as
the result of any movement made pursuant to this division.
(Neb. RS 81-829.65)
(Ord. 840, passed 2-9-2012)
§ 32.09  BRIDGEPORT TREE BOARD .
   The City of Bridgeport hereby creates the Tree Board:
   (A)   The City Council shall appoint the Tree Board. The Board shall consist
of six members. The members of the Board shall serve a three year term of
office unless reappointed. The Board shall serve without compensation and may
be required, in the discretion of the City Council, to give a bond in a sum set
by resolution of the City Council, and conditioned upon the faithful
performance of their duties.
   (B)   The membership of the Board shall be comprised of the following
individuals:
      (1)   A member of the Park Board;
      (2)   A member of the City Council;
      (3)   An employee of the city;
      (4)   A member of the Planning Commission;
      (5)   A member of the law enforcement agency for the city;
      (6)   A resident of the city;
   (C)   At the time of the Board's first meeting, which shall occur on or
before February 1 of each year, or at such alternate day as otherwise
determined from the Board, the Board shall organize by selecting from their
number a Chairperson and Secretary. It shall be the duty of the Secretary to
keep the full and correct minutes and records of all meetings, and to file the
same with the City Clerk/Treasurer where they shall be available for public
inspection at any reasonable time. A majority of the Board members shall
constitute a quorum for the transaction of business.
   (D)   The Board shall meet at any times as the City Council may designate.
Special meetings may be held upon the call of the Chairperson, or any two of
the Board members.
   (E)   It shall be the duty of the Board to take the immediate charge of all
trees located on or above city property and/or city rights-of-way. The Board
shall establish appropriate rules and regulations for the management, use, and
operation of the same.
   (F)   It shall be the responsibility of the Tree Board to study,
investigate, counsel, and develop a written plan for the care, preservation,
trimming, planting, removal, or disposition of trees and shrubs in public ways,
streets, alleys, and on or above city property. The plan will be presented to
the City Council and upon its acceptance and approval shall constitute the City
Official Comprehensive Community Tree Plan. The Board shall review annually and
update if needed the Comprehensive Community Tree Plan. The Board shall prepare
and present an annual work plan to the City Council for its acceptance and
approval.
   (G)   All employees of the city doing work at the bequest of the Tree Board
shall be under the supervision and direction of the Board. All actions of the
Board shall be subject to the review and control of the City Council. The Board
shall be responsible for making the reports and performing any other duties as
the City Council may, from time to time, designate. The Board, when requested
by the City Council, shall consider, investigate, make finding, report, and
recommend upon any special matter of question coming within the scope of its
work.
(Ord. 959, passed 11-14-2019; Ord. 988, passed 2-9-2023; Ord. 993, passed 5-11-
2023)
§ 32.10 KENO ADVISORY BOARD.
   (A)   The Keno Advisory Board shall consist of five members who shall be
chosen by the Mayor with the approval of a majority vote of the elected members
of the City Council. Commencing with the appointments made in January 2021, two
of the five members shall be appointed to two-year terms, and three of the five
members shall be appointed to four-year terms. Upon the expiration of the terms
of those appointments made in January 2021, each member so appointed shall
serve a four-year term. Members appointed to fill a vacancy shall serve the
remainder of the term of the member which he or she has been appointed to
replace.
   (B)   The Board shall serve without compensation and may be required, in the
discretion of the City Council, to give a bond in a sum set by resolution of
the City Council, and conditions upon the faithful performance of their duties.
   (C)   The Board shall meet in November of each year. At the time of the
Board's meeting in November of each year, the Board shall organize by selecting
from their number a Chairperson and Secretary. A majority of the Board members
shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business. Special meetings may
be held upon the call of the Chairperson, or any two of the Board members.
   (D)   It shall be the responsibility of the Keno Advisory Board to provide
recommendations to the City Council for the disbursement of Keno funds.
Authority to disburse Keno funds shall rest with the City Council.
(Ord. 899, passed 11-17-2015; Ord. 972, passed 1-14-2021; Ord. 984, passed 10-
20-2022; Ord. 1006, passed 5-13-2024)
CHAPTER 33: FINANCE AND REVENUE
Section
General Provisions
   
33.01   Public funds defined
   
33.03   Annual audit; financial statements
   
33.03   Contracts and purchases; bidding and other requirements
   
33.04   Orders or warrants for money; contracts; expenditures; requirements
   
33.05   Claims and accounts payable
   
33.06   Collection of special assessments; procedure
   
33.07   Special assessment fund
   
33.08   Sinking funds; gifts of money or property
   
33.09   Deposit of funds
   
33.10   Certificates of deposit; time deposits; conditions
   
33.11   Investment and use of surplus funds
   
33.12   Bond issues
   
33.13   Debt collection; authority to contract with collection agency
   
33.14   Credit cards; authority to accept
Annual Budget
   
33.25   Fiscal year
   
33.26   Budget procedures
   
33.27   Expenditures prior to adoption of budget
   
33.28   Proposed budget statement; contents; availability; correction
   
33.29   Proposed budget statement; hearing; adoption; certification of tax
amount
   
33.30   Adopted budget statement; filing; certification of amount of tax
   
33.31   Appropriation bill
   
33.32   General Fund
   
33.33   Transfer of funds
   
33.34   Budget revision
   
33.35   Proprietary functions; fiscal year; budget statements; filing; hearing;
adoption; reconciliation
Tax Levies
   
33.45   Property tax levy for general revenue purposes
   
33.46   Levies for other taxes and special assessments
   
33.47   All-purpose levy; extraordinary levies; allocation; abandonment
   
33.48   Property tax levy; maximum; authority to exceed
   
33.49   Property tax levy; certification of amount; collection
   
33.50   Property tax request; procedure for setting
   
33.51   Motor vehicle tax
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 33.01 PUBLIC FUNDS DEFINED.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PUBLIC FUNDS. All money, including non-tax money, used in the operation and
functions of governing bodies. If the city has a lottery established under the
Nebraska County and City Lottery Act, only those net proceeds which are
actually received by the city from a licensed lottery operator shall be
considered PUBLIC FUNDS, and PUBLIC FUNDS shall not include amounts awarded as
prizes.
(Neb. RS 13-503)
§ 33.02 ANNUAL AUDIT; FINANCIAL STATEMENTS.
   (A)   (1)   For the purpose of this division (A), the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
         ACCOUNTANT. A duly licensed public accountant or certified public
accountant who otherwise is not an employee of or connected in any way with the
city.
         ANNUAL AUDIT REPORT. The written report of the accountant and all
appended statements and schedules relating thereto presenting or recording the
findings of an examination or audit of the financial transactions, affairs, or
financial condition of the city and its proprietary functions for the fiscal
year immediately prior to the making of the annual report.
         FISCAL YEAR. The fiscal year for the city or the fiscal year
established in Neb. RS 18-2804 for a proprietary function if different than the
city fiscal year.
(Neb. RS 19-2902)
      (2)   The City Council shall cause an audit of the city's accounts to be
made by a recognized independent and qualified accountant as expeditiously as
possible following the close of the fiscal year and to cover all financial
transactions and affairs of the city for that preceding fiscal year. The audit
shall be made on a cash or accrual method at the discretion of the City
Council. The audit shall be completed and the annual audit report made by the
accountant shall be submitted within six months after the close of the fiscal
year in any event, unless an extension of time is granted by a written
resolution adopted by the City Council. If the city owns or operates any type
of public utility or other enterprise which substantially generates its own
revenue, that phase of the affairs of the city shall be audited separately from
other functions of the city and the result shall appear separately in the
annual audit report made by the accountant to the city and the audit shall be
on an accrual basis and shall contain statements and materials which conform to
generally accepted accounting principles. For the utilities operated through
the Board of Public Works, the City Council may provide for an entirely
separate audit, on an accrual basis, of the operations and report and by a
different accountant than the one making the general audit.
(Neb. RS 19-2903)
      (3)   The annual audit report shall set forth, insofar as possible, the
financial position and results of financial operations for each fund or group
of accounts of the city. When the accrual method is selected for the annual
audit report, the report shall be in accordance with generally accepted
accounting principles. The annual audit report shall also include the
professional opinion of the accountant with respect to the financial
statements, or, if an opinion cannot be expressed, a declaration that the
accountant is unable to express such an opinion with an explanation of the
reasons why he or she cannot do so.
(Neb. RS 19-2904)
      (4)   At least three copies of such annual audit report shall be properly
signed and attested by the accountant; two copies shall be filed with the City
Clerk/Treasurer, and one copy shall be filed with the Auditor of Public
Accounts. The annual audit report filed, together with any accompanying comment
or explanation, shall become a part of the public records of the City Clerk/
Treasurer and shall at all times thereafter be open and subject to public
inspection.
(Neb. RS 19-2905)
   (B)   The City Council shall provide and file with the City Clerk/Treasurer,
not later than August 1 of each year, financial statements showing the city's
actual and budgeted figures for the most recently completed fiscal year.
(Neb. RS 13-606)
Statutory reference:
   Other provisions on audits, Neb. RS 19-2906 through 19-2909
§ 33.03 CONTRACTS AND PURCHASES; BIDDING AND OTHER REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Except as provided in Neb. RS 18-412.01 for a contract with a public
power district to operate, renew, replace, or add to the electric distribution,
transmission, or generation system of the city, no contract for enlargement or
general improvements, such as water extensions, sewers, public heating system,
bridges, work on streets, or any other work or improvement when the cost of the
enlargement or improvement is assessed to the property, costing over $30,000,
shall be made unless it is first approved by the governing body.
   (B)   Except as provided in Neb. RS 18-412.01, before the governing body
makes any contract in excess of $30,000 for enlargement or general
improvements, such as water extensions, sewers, public heating system, bridges,
work on streets, or any other work or improvement when the cost of the
enlargement or improvement is assessed to the property, an estimate of the cost
shall be made by the Municipal Engineer and submitted to the governing body. In
advertising for bids as provided in divisions (C) and (E) of this section, the
governing body may publish the amount of the estimate.
   (C)   Advertisements for bids shall be required for any contract costing
over $30,000 entered into:
      (1)   For enlargement or general improvements, such as water extensions,
sewers, public heating system, bridges, work on streets, or any other work or
improvement when the cost of the enlargement or improvement is assessed to the
property; or
      (2)   For the purchase of equipment used in the construction of the
enlargement or general improvements.
   (D)   A municipal electric utility may enter into a contract for the
enlargement or improvement of the electric system or for the purchase of
equipment used for the enlargement or improvement without advertising for bids
if the price is:
      (1)   Thirty thousand dollars or less;
      (2)   Sixty thousand dollars or less and the city electric utility has
gross annual revenue from retail sales in excess of $1,000,000;
      (3)   Ninety thousand dollars or less and the city electric utility has
gross annual revenue from retail sales in excess of $5,000,000; or
      (4) One hundred twenty thousand dollars or less and the city electric
utility has gross annual revenue from retail sales in excess of $10,000,000.
   (E)   The advertisement provided for in division (C) of this section shall
be published at least seven days prior to the bid closing in a legal newspaper
published in or of general circulation in the municipality, and if there is no
legal newspaper published in or of general circulation in the municipality,
then in some newspaper of general circulation published in the county in which
the municipality is located, and if there is no legal newspaper of general
circulation published in the county in which the municipality is located, then
in a newspaper, designated by the County Board, having a general circulation
within the county where bids are required, and if no newspaper is published in
the municipality or county, or if no newspaper has general circulation in the
county, then by posting a written or printed copy thereof in each of three
public places in the municipality at least seven days prior to the bid closing.
In case of a public emergency resulting from infectious or contagious diseases,
destructive windstorms, floods, snow, war, or an exigency or pressing necessity
or unforeseen need calling for immediate action or remedy to prevent a serious
loss of or serious injury or damage to life, health, or property, estimates of
costs and advertising for bids may be waived in the emergency ordinance
authorized by Neb. RS 17-613 when adopted by a 3/4 vote of the governing body
and entered of record.
   (F)   If, after advertising for bids as provided in this section, the
governing body receives fewer than two bids on a contract or if the bids
received by the governing body contain a price which exceeds the estimated
cost, the governing body may negotiate a contract in an attempt to complete the
proposed enlargement or general improvements at a cost commensurate with the
estimate given.
   (G)   If the materials are of such a nature that, in the opinion of the
manufacturer and with the concurrence of the governing body or Board of Public
Works, no cost can be estimated until the materials have been manufactured or
assembled to the specific qualifications of the city, the governing body or
Board of Public Works may authorize the manufacture and assemblage of those
materials and may thereafter approve the estimated cost expenditure when it is
provided by the manufacturer.
(Neb. RS 17-568.01)
   (H)   Any bidding procedure may be waived by the governing body or Board of
Public Works:
      (1)   When materials or equipment are purchased at the same price and
from the same seller as materials or equipment which have formerly been
obtained pursuant to the state bidding procedure in Neb. RS 81-145 through 81-
162; or
      (2)   When the contract is negotiated directly with a sheltered workshop
pursuant to Neb. RS 48-1503; or
      (3)   When required to comply with any federal grant, loan, or program.
(Neb. RS 17-568.02)
   (I)   (1)   Notwithstanding any other provisions of law or a home rule
charter, a municipality which has established, by an interlocal agreement with
any county, a joint purchasing division or agency may purchase personal
property without competitive bidding if the price for the property has been
established by the federal General Services Administration or the materiel
division of the Department of Administrative Services.
      (2)   For the purpose of this division (I), the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
         (a)   PERSONAL PROPERTY. Includes but is not limited to supplies,
materials, and equipment used by or furnished to any officer, office,
department, institution, board, or other agency.
         (b)   PURCHASING or PURCHASE. The obtaining of personal property by
sale, lease, or other contractual means.
(Neb. RS 18-1756).
(Ord. 844, passed 2-9-2012)
Statutory reference:
   Requirements for public lettings, see Neb. RS 73-101 et seq.
§ 33.04 ORDERS OR WARRANTS FOR MONEY; CONTRACTS; EXPENDITURES; REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The Mayor and City Council shall have no power to appropriate, issue,
or draw any order or warrant on the City Clerk/Treasurer for money, unless the
same has been appropriated or ordered by ordinance, or the claim for the
payment of which the order or warrant is issued has been allowed according to
the provisions of §
33.05, and funds for the class or object out of which the claim is payable have
been included in the adopted budget statement or transferred according to law.
(Neb. RS 17-708)
   (B)   No contract shall be hereafter made by the City Council, or any
committee or member thereof, and no expense shall be incurred by any of the
officers or departments of the city, whether the object of the expenditures
shall have been ordered by the City Council or not, unless an appropriation
shall have been previously made concerning the expense, except as otherwise
expressly provided in division (A).
(Neb. 17-709)
   (C)   All warrants drawn upon the City Clerk/Treasurer must be signed by the
Mayor and countersigned by the City Clerk/Treasurer, stating the particular
fund to which the same is chargeable, the person to whom payable, and for what
particular object. No money shall be otherwise paid than upon the warrants so
drawn. Each warrant shall specify the amount included in the adopted budget
statement for such fund upon which it is drawn and the amount already expended
of such fund.
(Neb. 17-711)
§ 33.05 CLAIMS AND ACCOUNTS PAYABLE.
   (A)   (1)   All liquidated and unliquidated claims and accounts payable
against the city shall:
         (a)   Be presented in writing;
         (b)   State the name and address of the claimant and the amount of the
claim; and
         (c)   Fully and accurately identify the items or services for which
payment is claimed or the time, place, nature, and circumstances giving rise to
the claim.
      (2)   As a condition precedent to maintaining an action for a claim,
other than a tort claim as defined in Neb. RS 13-903, the claimant shall file
the claim within 90 days of the accrual of the claim in the office of the City
Clerk/Treasurer.
      (3)   The City Clerk/Treasurer shall notify the claimant or his or her
agent or attorney by letter mailed to the claimant's address within five days
if the claim is disallowed by the City Council.
      (4)   No costs shall be recovered against the city in any action brought
against it for any claim or for any claim allowed in part which has not been
presented to the City Council to be audited, unless the recovery is for a
greater sum than the amount allowed with the interest due.
(Neb. RS 17-714)
   (B)   Upon the allowance of claims by the City Council, the order for their
payment shall specify the particular fund or appropriation out of which they
are payable as specified in the adopted budget statement; and no order or
warrant shall be drawn in excess of 85% of the current levy for the purpose for
which it is drawn, unless there is sufficient money in the treasury at the
credit of the proper fund for its payment; provided that if there exists at the
time the warrant is drawn, obligated funds from the federal government or the
state, or both from the federal government and the state, for the general
purpose or purposes of the warrant, then the warrant may be drawn in excess of
85% of the current levy for the purpose for which it is drawn to the additional
extent of 100% of the obligated federal or state funds. No claim shall be
audited or allowed unless an order or warrant for the payment thereof may
legally be drawn.
(Neb. RS 17-715)
§ 33.06 COLLECTION OF SPECIAL ASSESSMENTS; PROCEDURE.
   (A)   The city shall have authority to collect the special assessments which
it levies and to perform all other necessary functions related thereto
including foreclosure.
   (B)   The City Council of any city collecting its own special assessments
shall direct that notice that special assessments are due shall be mailed or
otherwise delivered to the last known address of the person against whom those
special assessments are assessed or to the lending institution or other party
responsible for paying those special assessments. Failure to receive the notice
shall not relieve the taxpayer from any liability to pay the special
assessments and any interest or penalties accrued thereon.
   (C)   A city collecting its own assessments shall:
      (1)   File notice of the assessments and the amount of assessment being
levied for each lot or tract of land to the Register of Deeds; and
      (2)   File a release of assessment upon final payment of each assessment
with the Register of Deeds.
(Neb. RS 18-1216)
Statutory reference: 
   Refunding erroneously paid special assessments, see Neb. RS 17-703
§ 33.07 SPECIAL ASSESSMENT FUND.
   All money received on special assessments shall be held by the City Clerk/
Treasurer as a special fund to be applied to the payment of the improvement for
which the assessment was made, and this money shall be used for no other
purpose whatever, unless to reimburse the city for money expended for any such
improvement.
(Neb. RS 17-710)
§ 33.08 SINKING FUNDS; GIFTS OF MONEY OR PROPERTY.
   (A)   The city is hereby empowered to receive money or property by donation,
bequest, gift, devise, or otherwise for the benefit of any one or more of the
public purposes for which sinking funds are established by the provisions of
this section, as stipulated by the donor. The title to the money or property so
donated shall vest in the City Council, or in its successors in office, who
shall become the owners thereof in trust to the uses of the sinking fund or
funds; provided, if the donation is real estate, the City Council may manage
the same as in the case of real estate donated to the city for city library
purposes under the provisions of Neb. RS 51-215 and 51-216.
(Neb. RS 19-1301)
   (B)   The City Council, subject to all the limitations set forth in this
section, shall have the power to levy a tax of not to exceed $.105 on each $100
in any one year upon the taxable value of all the taxable property within the
city for a term of not to exceed ten years, in addition to the amount of tax
which may be annually levied for the purposes of the adopted budget statement
of the city, for the purpose of establishing a sinking fund for the
construction, purchase, improvement, extension, original equipment, or repair,
not including maintenance, of any one or more of the following public
improvements, including acquisition of any land incident to the making thereof:
city library; city auditorium or community house for social or recreational
purposes; city hall; city public library, auditorium, or community house in a
single building; city swimming pool and appurtenances thereto; city jail; city
building to house equipment or personnel of a fire department, together with
firefighting equipment or apparatus; city park; city cemetery; city medical
clinic building, together with furnishings and equipment; or city hospital. The
city shall not be authorized to levy the tax or to establish the sinking fund
as provided in this division if, having bonded indebtedness, the city has been
in default in the payment of interest thereon or principal thereof for a period
of ten years prior to the date of the passage of the resolution providing for
the submission of the proposition for establishment of the sinking fund as
required in division (C).
(Neb. RS 19-1302)
   (C)   Before any sinking fund or funds are established or before any annual
tax is levied for any such planned city improvement mentioned in division (B)
by the city, the City Council shall declare its purpose by resolution to submit
to the qualified electors of the city at the next general city election the
proposition to provide the city with the specific city improvement planned for
consummation under this section. The resolution of submission shall, among
other things, set forth a clear description of the improvement planned, the
estimated cost according to the prevailing costs, the amount of annual levy
over a definite period of years, not exceeding ten years, required to provide
the cost, and the specific name or designation for the sinking fund sought to
be established to carry out the planned improvement, together with a statement
of the proposition for placement upon the ballot at the election. Notice of the
submission of the proposition, together with a copy of the official ballot
containing the same, shall be published in its entirety three successive weeks
before the day of the election in a legal newspaper published in the city or,
if no legal newspaper is published therein, in some legal newspaper published
in the county in which the city is located and of general circulation. If no
legal newspaper is published in the county, the notice shall be published in
some legal newspaper of general circulation in the county in which the city is
located. No such sinking fund shall be established unless the same has been
authorized by a majority or more of the legal votes of the city cast for or
against the proposition. If less than a majority of the legal votes favor the
establishment of the sinking fund, the planned improvement shall not be made,
no annual tax shall be levied therefor, and no sinking fund or sinking funds
shall be established in connection therewith, but such resolution of submission
shall immediately be repealed. If the proposition shall carry at the election
in the manner prescribed in this division, the City Council and its successors
in office shall proceed to do all things authorized under the resolution of
submission but never inconsistent with this section. Provisions of the statutes
of this state relating to election of officers, voting places, election
apparatus and blanks, preparation and form of ballots, information to voters,
delivery of ballots, conduct of elections, manner of voting, counting of votes,
records and certificates of elections, and recounts of votes, so far as
applicable, shall apply to voting on the proposition under this section.
(Neb. RS 19-1303)
   (D)   All funds received by the City Clerk/Treasurer, by donation or by tax
levy, as hereinbefore provided, shall, as they accumulate, be immediately
invested by the Clerk/Treasurer, with the written approval of the City Council,
in the manner provided in §
33.11. Whenever investments of the sinking fund or funds are made, as
aforesaid, the nature and character of the same shall be reported to the City
Council, and the investment report shall be made a matter of record by the City
Clerk/Treasurer in the proceedings of the City Council. The sinking fund, or
sinking funds, accumulated under the provisions of this section, shall
constitute a special fund, or funds, for the purpose or purposes for which the
same was authorized and shall not be used for any other purpose unless
authorized by 60% of the qualified electors of the city voting at a general
election favoring the change in the use of the sinking fund or sinking funds;
provided that the question of the change in the use of the sinking fund or
sinking funds, when it fails to carry, shall not be resubmitted in substance
for a period of one year from and after the date of the election.
(Neb. RS 19-1304)
Statutory reference:
   Additional levy limitations, see Neb. RS 17-702
   Investment in warrants, see Neb. RS 77-2337
§ 33.09 DEPOSIT OF FUNDS.
   (A)   (1)   The City Clerk/Treasurer shall deposit, and at all times keep on
deposit, for safekeeping, in banks, capital stock financial institutions, or
qualifying mutual financial institutions of approved and responsible standing,
all money collected, received, or held by him or her as City Clerk/Treasurer.
These deposits shall be subject to all regulations imposed by law or adopted by
the City Council for the receiving and holding thereof. The fact that a
stockholder, director, or other officer of the bank, capital stock financial
institution, or qualifying mutual financial institution is also serving as
Mayor, a member of the City Council, as a member of the Board of Public Works,
or as any other officer of the city shall not disqualify the bank, capital
stock financial institution, or qualifying mutual financial institution from
acting as a depository for the city funds.
      (2)   The City Council shall require from all banks, capital stock
financial institutions, or qualifying mutual financial institutions a bond in
the penal sum as may be the maximum amount on deposit at any time less the
amount insured or guaranteed by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation or,
in lieu thereof, security given as provided in the Public Funds Deposit
Security Act, to secure the payment of all the deposits and accretions. The
City Council shall approve this bond or giving of security. The City Clerk/
Treasurer shall not be liable for any loss of any money sustained by reason of
the failure of any such depository so designated and approved.
(Neb. RS 17-607)
   (B)   The insurance afforded to depositors in banks, capital stock financial
institutions, or qualifying mutual financial institutions through the Federal
Deposit Insurance Corporation shall be deemed and construed to be a surety bond
or bonds to the extent that the deposits are insured or guaranteed by that
corporation, and for deposits so insured or guaranteed, no other surety bond or
bonds or other security shall be required.
(Neb. RS 77-2362)
   (C)   Neb. RS 77-2366 shall apply to deposits in capital stock financial
institutions. Neb. RS 77-2365.01 shall apply to deposits in qualifying mutual
financial institutions.
(Neb. RS 17-607 and 77-2362)
Statutory reference: 
   Other provisions on deposits of public funds, see Neb. RS 77-2363 and 77-
2364
   Public Funds Deposit Security Act, see Neb. RS 77-2386
§ 33.10 CERTIFICATES OF DEPOSIT; TIME DEPOSITS; CONDITIONS.
   The City Clerk/Treasurer may, upon resolution of the Mayor and City Council
authorizing the same, purchase certificates of deposit from and make time
deposits in any bank, capital stock financial institution, or qualifying mutual
financial institution in the state to the extent that those certificates of
deposit or time deposits are insured or guaranteed by the Federal Deposit
Insurance Corporation. Deposits may be made in excess of the amounts so secured
by the corporation, and the amount of the excess deposit shall be secured by a
bond or by security given in the same manner as is provided for cities of the
first class in Neb. RS 16-714 through 16-716 as of the time the deposit is
made. Neb. RS 77-2366 shall apply to deposits in capital stock financial
institutions. Neb. RS 77-2365.01 shall apply to deposits in qualifying mutual
financial institutions.
(Neb. RS 17-720)
§ 33.11 INVESTMENT AND USE OF SURPLUS FUNDS.
   (A)   When the City Clerk/Treasurer holds funds of the city in excess of the
amount required for maintenance or set aside for betterments and improvements,
the Mayor and City Council may, by resolution, direct and authorize the Clerk/
Treasurer to invest the surplus funds in the outstanding bonds or registered
warrants of the city, bonds and debentures issued either singly or collectively
by any of the 12 federal land banks, the 12 intermediate credit banks, or the
13 banks for cooperatives under the supervision of the Farm Credit
Administration, or in interest-bearing bonds or the obligations of the United
States. The interest on the bonds or warrants shall be credited to the fund out
of which the bonds or warrants were purchased.
(Neb. RS 17-608)
   (B)   All income received by the city from public utilities and from the
payment and collection of water taxes, rents, rates or assessments shall be
applied to the payment of running expenses, interest on bonds or money borrowed
and the erection and construction of public utilities; should there be any
surplus, it shall be annually created into a sinking fund for the payment of
public utility bonds or for the improvements of the works, or into the general
fund as the Council may direct. The surplus remaining, if any, may, if the
Council, be invested in interest-bearing bonds or obligations of the United
States.
(Neb. RS 17-540)
   (C)   The Mayor and City Council may, by resolution, direct and authorize
the Clerk/Treasurer to dispose of the surplus electric light, water, or gas
funds, or the funds arising from the sale of electric light, water, or natural
gas distribution properties, by the payment of outstanding electric light,
water, or gas distribution bonds or water warrants then due. The excess, if
any, after the payments, may be transferred to the general fund of the city.
(Neb. RS 17-609)
   (D)   Any surplus funds arising out of the operation of any system of
waterworks, power plant, ice plant, gas plant, sewerage, heating or lighting
plant, or distribution system by the Board of Public Works, or by the City
Council, where any of the utilities are not being operated by such a Board, may
be invested, if not invested pursuant to the provisions of any other law upon
the subject, in like manner and subject to the same conditions as the
investment of similar funds of cities of the first class, as provided in Neb.
RS 16-691.01.
(Neb. RS 17-803)
   (E)   (1)   Whenever the city has accumulated a surplus of any fund in
excess of its current needs or has accumulated a sinking fund for the payment
of its bonds and the money in the sinking fund exceeds the amount necessary to
pay the principal and interest of any such bonds which become due during the
current year, the City Council may invest any such surplus in excess of current
needs or such excess in its sinking fund in certificates of deposit, in time
deposits, and in any securities in which the State Investment Officer is
authorized to invest pursuant to the Nebraska Capital Expansion Act and the
Nebraska State Funds Investment Act and as provided in the authorized
investment guidelines of the Nebraska Investment Council in effect on the date
the investment is made. The State Investment Officer shall upon request furnish
a copy of current authorized investment guidelines of the Nebraska Investment
Council.
      (2)   Nothing in division (E)(1) shall be construed to authorize
investments in venture capital.
(Neb. RS 77-2341)
§ 33.12 BOND ISSUES.
   The City Council may, after meeting all the requirements of state law, issue
bonds, fund bonds, and retire bonds for the purposes as may be permitted by
state law. The City Council shall have the authority to levy special
assessments for the payment of interest and principal on these bonds and may
spread the payments up to the maximum number of years permitted by state law.
Statutory reference:
   Bonds in general, see Neb. RS 18-1801 through 18-1805
   Funding and refunding bonds, see Neb. RS 10-606 through 10-612
   General provisions, see Neb. RS 10-101 through 10-143
§ 33.13 DEBT COLLECTION; AUTHORITY TO CONTRACT WITH COLLECTION AGENCY.
   (A)   The city may contract to retain a collection agency licensed pursuant
to Neb. RS 45-601 through 45-622, within or without this state, for the purpose
of collecting public debts owed by any person to the city.
   (B)   No debt owed pursuant to division (A) of this section may be assigned
to a collection agency unless:
      (1)   There has been an attempt to advise the debtor by first-class mail,
postage prepaid, at the last known address of the debtor:
         (a)   Of the existence of the debt; and
         (b)   That the debt may be assigned to a collection agency for
collection if the debt is not paid; and
      (2)   At least 30 days have elapsed from the time the notice was sent.
   (C)   A collection agency which is assigned a debt under this section shall
have only those remedies and powers which would be available to it as an
assignee of a private creditor.
   (D)   For purposes of this section, debt shall include all delinquent fees
or payments except delinquent property taxes on real estate. In the case of
debt arising as a result of an order or judgment of a court in a criminal or
traffic matter, a collection fee may be added to the debt. The collection fee
shall be $25 or 4.5% of the debt, whichever is greater. The collection fee
shall be paid by the person who owes the debt directly to the person or agency
providing the collection service.
(Neb. RS 45-623)
§ 33.14 CREDIT CARDS; AUTHORITY TO ACCEPT.
   (A)   If authorized by the City Council, any city official may accept credit
cards, charge cards, or debit cards, whether presented in person or
electronically, or electronic funds transfers as a method of cash payment of
any tax, levy, excise, duty, custom, toll, interest, penalty, fine, license,
fee, or assessment of whatever kind or nature, whether general or special, as
provided by Neb. RS 77-1702.
   (B)   The total amount of the taxes, levies, excises, duties, customs,
tolls, interest, penalties, fines, licenses, fees, or assessments of whatever
kind or nature, whether general or special, paid for by credit card, charge
card, debit card, or electronic funds transfer shall be collected by the city
official.
   (C)   With respect to a facility which it operates in a proprietary
capacity, the City Council may choose to accept credit cards, charge cards, or
debit cards, whether presented in person or electronically, or electronic funds
transfers as a means of cash payment and may adjust the price for services to
reflect the handling and payment costs.
   (D)   The city official shall obtain, for each transaction, authorization
for use of any credit card, charge card, or debit card used pursuant to this
section from the financial institution, vending service company, credit card or
charge card company, or third-party merchant bank providing that service.
   (E)   The types of credit cards, charge cards, or debit cards accepted and
the payment services provided shall be determined by the State Treasurer and
the Director of Administrative Services with the advice of a committee convened
by the State Treasurer and the director. The committee shall consist of the
State Treasurer, the Tax Commissioner, the director, and representatives from
counties, cities, and other political subdivisions as may be appropriate. The
committee shall develop recommendations for the contracting of the services.
The State Treasurer and the director shall contract with one or more credit
card, charge card, or debit card companies or third-party merchant banks for
services on behalf of the state and those counties, cities, and political
subdivisions that choose to participate in the state contract for the services.
The State Treasurer and the director shall consider, for purposes of this
section, any negotiated discount, processing, or transaction fee imposed by a
credit card, charge card, or debit card company or third-party merchant bank as
an administrative expense. If the City Council chooses not to participate in
the state contract, it may choose types of credit cards, charge cards, and
debit cards and may negotiate and contract independently or collectively as a
governmental entity with one or more financial institutions, vending service
companies, credit card, charge card, or debit card companies, or third-party
merchant banks for the provision of these services.
   (F)   Subject to the direction of the City Council, a city official
authorizing acceptance of credit card or charge card payments shall be
authorized but not required to impose a surcharge or convenience fee upon the
person making a payment by credit card or charge card so as to wholly or
partially offset the amount of any discount or administrative fees charged to
the city, but the surcharge or convenience fee shall not exceed the surcharge
or convenience fee imposed by the credit card or charge card companies or
third-party merchant banks which have contracted under division (E) of this
section. The surcharge or convenience fee shall be applied only when allowed by
the operating rules and regulations of the credit card or charge card involved
or when authorized in writing by the credit card or charge card company
involved. When a person elects to make a payment to the city by credit card or
charge card and such a surcharge or convenience fee is imposed, the payment of
the surcharge or convenience fee shall be deemed voluntary by that person and
shall be in no case refundable. If a payment is made electronically by credit
card, charge card, debit card, or electronic funds transfer as part of a system
for providing or retrieving information electronically, the city official shall
be authorized but not required to impose an additional surcharge or convenience
fee upon the person making a payment.
   (G)   For the purpose of this section, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      ELECTRONIC FUNDS TRANSFER. The movement of funds by nonpaper means,
usually through a payment system, including, but not limited to, an automated
clearinghouse or the Federal Reserve's Fedwire system.
(Neb. RS 13-609)
ANNUAL BUDGET
§ 33.25 FISCAL YEAR.
   The fiscal year of the city and any public utility of the city commences on
October 1 and extends through the following September 30 except as provided in
the Municipal Proprietary Function Act.
(Neb. RS 17-701)
§ 33.26 BUDGET PROCEDURES.
   The budget instruction manual prepared by the Auditor of Public Accounts is
incorporated by reference for the purpose of proper budget preparation.
§ 33.27 EXPENDITURES PRIOR TO ADOPTION OF BUDGET.
   (A)   On and after the first day of its fiscal year in 1993 and of each
succeeding year and until the adoption of the budget by the City Council in
September, the City Council may expend any balance of cash on hand for the
current expenses of the city. Except as provided in division (B) of this
section, these expenditures shall not exceed an amount equivalent to the total
amount expended under the last budget in the equivalent period of the prior
budget year. These expenditures shall be charged against the appropriations for
each individual fund or purpose as provided in the budget when adopted.
(Neb. RS 13-509.01)
   (B)   The restriction on expenditures in division (A) of this section may be
exceeded upon the express finding of the City Council that expenditures beyond
the amount authorized are necessary to enable the city to meet its statutory
duties and responsibilities. The finding and approval of the expenditures in
excess of the statutory authorization shall be adopted by the City Council in
open public session. Expenditures authorized by this section shall be charged
against appropriations for each individual fund or purpose as provided in the
budget when adopted, and nothing in this section shall be construed to
authorize expenditures by the city in excess of that authorized by any other
statutory provision.
(Neb. RS 13-509.02)
§ 33.28 PROPOSED BUDGET STATEMENT; CONTENTS; AVAILABILITY; CORRECTION.
   (A)   The City Council shall annually prepare a proposed budget statement on
forms prescribed and furnished by the Auditor of Public Accounts. The proposed
budget statement shall be made available to the public prior to publication of
the notice of the hearing on the proposed budget statement pursuant to §
33.29. A proposed budget statement shall contain the following information,
except as provided by state law:
      (1)   For the immediately preceding fiscal year, the revenue from all
sources, including motor vehicle taxes, other than revenue received from
personal and real property taxation, allocated to the funds and separately
stated as to each such source: the unencumbered cash balance at the beginning
and end of the year; the amount received by taxation of personal and real
property; and the amount of actual expenditures;
      (2)   For the current fiscal year, actual and estimated revenue from all
sources, including motor vehicle taxes, allocated to the funds and separately
stated as to each such source: the actual unencumbered cash balance available
at the beginning of the year; the amount received from personal and real
property taxation; and the amount of actual and estimated expenditures,
whichever is applicable. This statement shall contain the cash reserve for each
fiscal year and shall note whether or not the reserve is encumbered. The cash
reserve projections shall be based upon the actual experience of prior years.
The cash reserve shall not exceed 50% of the total budget adopted exclusive of
capital outlay items;
      (3)   For the immediately ensuing fiscal year, an estimate of revenue
from all sources, including motor vehicle taxes, other than revenue to be
received from taxation of personal and real property, separately stated as to
each such source: the actual or estimated unencumbered cash balances, whichever
is applicable, to be available at the beginning of the year; the amounts
proposed to be expended during the year; and the amount of cash reserve, based
on actual experience of prior years, which cash reserve shall not exceed 50% of
the total budget adopted exclusive of capital outlay items;
      (4)   A statement setting out separately the amount sought to be raised
from the levy of a tax on the taxable value of real property:
         (a)   For the purpose of paying the principal or interest on bonds
issued by the City Council; and
         (b)   For all other purposes.
      (5)   A uniform summary of the proposed budget statement, including each
proprietary function fund included in a separate proprietary budget statement
prepared pursuant to the Municipal Proprietary Function Act, and a grand total
of all funds maintained by the City Council; and
      (6)   A list of the proprietary functions which are not included in the
budget statement. These proprietary functions shall have a separate budget
statement which is approved by the City Council as provided in the Municipal
Proprietary Function Act.
   (B)   The actual or estimated unencumbered cash balance required to be
included in the budget statement by this section shall include deposits and
investments of the city as well as any funds held by the County Treasurer for
the city and shall be accurately stated on the proposed budget statement.
   (C)   The city shall correct any material errors in the budget statement
detected by the Auditor of Public Accounts or by other sources.
(Neb. RS 13-504)
   (D)   The estimated expenditures plus the required cash reserve for the
ensuing fiscal year less all estimated and actual unencumbered balances at the
beginning of the year and less the estimated income from all sources, including
motor vehicle taxes, other than taxation of personal and real property shall
equal the amount to be received from taxes, and that amount shall be shown on
the proposed budget statement pursuant to this section. The amount to be raised
from taxation of personal and real property, as determined above, plus the
estimated revenue from other sources, including motor vehicle taxes, and the
unencumbered balances shall equal the estimated expenditures, plus the
necessary required cash reserve, for the ensuing year.
(Neb. RS 13-505)
§ 33.29 PROPOSED BUDGET STATEMENT; HEARING; ADOPTION; CERTIFICATION OF TAX
AMOUNT.
   (A)   The City Council shall each year conduct a public hearing on its
proposed budget statement. Notice of the place and time of the hearing,
together with a summary of the proposed budget statement, shall be published at
least five days prior to the date set for hearing in a newspaper of general
circulation within the city's jurisdiction.
   (B)   After the hearing, the proposed budget statement shall be adopted, or
amended and adopted as amended, and a written record shall be kept of the
hearing. The amount to be received from personal and real property taxation
shall be certified to the levying board after the proposed budget statement is
adopted or is amended and adopted as amended. The certification of the amount
to be received from personal and real property taxation shall specify
separately the amount to be applied to the payment of principal or interest on
bonds issued by the City Council and the amount to be received for all other
purposes.
   (C)   If the adopted budget statement reflects a change from that shown in
the published proposed budget statement, a summary of the changes shall be
published within 20 days after its adoption in the manner provided in this
section, but without provision for hearing, setting forth the items changed and
the reasons for the changes.
   (D)   Upon approval by City Council, the budget shall be filed with the
Auditor of Public Accounts. The Auditor may review the budget for errors in
mathematics, improper accounting, and noncompliance with the provisions of the
Nebraska Budget Act or Neb. RS 13-518 to 13-522. If the Auditor detects the
errors, he or she shall immediately notify the Council of the errors. The
Council shall correct any such error as provided in §
33.34. Warrants for the payment of expenditures provided in the budget adopted
under this section shall be valid notwithstanding any errors or noncompliance
for which the Auditor has notified the Council.
(Neb. RS 13-506)
   (E)   When a levy increase has been authorized by vote of the electors, the
adopted budget statement shall indicate the amount of the levy increase.
(Neb. RS 13-507)
§ 33.30 ADOPTED BUDGET STATEMENT; FILING; CERTIFICATION OF AMOUNT OF TAX.
   (A)   (1)   After publication and hearing on the proposed budget statement
and within the time prescribed by law, the City Council shall file with and
certify to the levying board or boards on or before September 20 of each year
and file with the Auditor of Public Accounts a copy of the adopted budget
statement which complies with Neb. RS 13-518 to 13-522, together with the
amount of the tax required to fund the adopted budget, setting out separately:
         (a)   The amount to be levied for the payment of principal or interest
on bonds issued by the City Council; and
         (b)   The amount to be levied for all other purposes.
      (2)   Proof of publication shall be attached to the statements.
   (B)   The City Council, in certifying the amount required, may make
allowance for delinquent taxes not exceeding 5% of the amount required plus the
actual percentage of delinquent taxes for the preceding tax year and for the
amount of estimated tax loss from any pending or anticipated litigation which
involves taxation and in which tax collections have been or can be withheld or
escrowed by court order. For purposes of this section, anticipated litigation
shall be limited to the anticipation of an action being filed by a taxpayer who
or which filed a similar action for the preceding year which is still pending.
Except for the allowances, the City Council shall not certify an amount of tax
more than 1% greater or lesser than the amount determined under §
33.28.
   (C)   The City Council shall use the certified taxable values as provided by
the County Assessor pursuant to Neb. RS 13-509 for the current year in setting
or certifying the levy. The City Council may designate one of its members to
perform any duty or responsibility required of the Council by this section.
(Neb. RS 13-508)
§ 33.31 APPROPRIATION BILL.
   The City Council shall adopt a budget statement pursuant to the Nebraska
Budget Act, to be termed, "The Annual Appropriation Bill," in which the Council
may appropriate those sums of money as may be deemed necessary to defray all
necessary expenses and liabilities of the city.
(Neb. RS 17-706)
§ 33.32 GENERAL FUND.
   If the city has not decided to follow the all-purpose levy method of
financing for the fiscal year, all money not specifically appropriated in the
annual appropriation bill shall be deposited in and known as the General Fund.
§ 33.33 TRANSFER OF FUNDS.
   (A)   Whenever during the current fiscal year it becomes apparent to the
City Council that due to unforeseen emergencies there is temporarily
insufficient money in a particular fund to meet the requirements of the adopted
budget of expenditures for that fund, the Council may by a majority vote,
unless otherwise provided by state law, transfer money from other funds to the
fund.
   (B)   No expenditure during any fiscal year shall be made in excess of the
amounts indicated in the adopted budget statement, except as authorized in §
33.34 or by state law.
   (C)   Any officer or officers of the City Council who obligate funds
contrary to the provisions of this section shall be guilty of an offense.
(Neb. RS 13-510) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 33.34 BUDGET REVISION.
   (A)   Unless otherwise provided by law, the City Council may propose to
revise the previously adopted budget statement and shall conduct a public
hearing on that proposal whenever during the current fiscal year it becomes
apparent to the City Council that:
      (1)   There are circumstances which could not reasonably have been
anticipated at the time the budget for the current year was adopted;
      (2)   The budget adopted violated Neb. RS 13-518 through 13-522, such
that the revenue of the current fiscal year for any fund thereof will be
insufficient, additional expenses will be necessarily incurred, or there is a
need to reduce the budget requirements to comply with Neb. RS 13-518 through
13-522; or
      (3)   The City Council has been notified by the Auditor of Public
Accounts of a mathematical or accounting error or noncompliance with the
Nebraska Budget Act.
   (B)   Notice of the time and place of the hearing shall be published at
least five days prior to the date set for hearing in a newspaper of general
circulation within the Council's jurisdiction. This published notice shall set
forth:
      (1)   The time and place of the hearing;
      (2)   The amount in dollars of additional or reduced money required and
for what purpose;
      (3)   A statement setting forth the nature of the unanticipated
circumstances and, if the budget requirements are to be increased, the reasons
why the previously adopted budget of expenditures cannot be reduced during the
remainder of the current year to meet the need for additional money in that
manner;
      (4)   A copy of the summary of the originally adopted budget previously
published; and
      (5)   A copy of the summary of the proposed revised budget.
   (C)   At the hearing any taxpayer may appear or file a written statement
protesting any application for additional money. A written record shall be kept
of all the hearings.
   (D)   Upon conclusion of the public hearing on the proposed revised budget
and approval of the proposed revised budget by the City Council, the Council
shall file with the County Clerk of the county or counties in which the City
Council is located, and with the Auditor of Public Accounts, a copy of the
revised budget, as adopted. The City Council may then issue warrants in payment
for expenditures authorized by the adopted revised budget. These warrants shall
be referred to as registered warrants and shall be repaid during the next
fiscal year from funds derived from taxes levied therefor.
   (E)   Within 30 days after the adoption of the budget under §
33.29, the City Council may, or within 30 days after notification of an error
by the Auditor of Public Accounts, the Council shall correct an adopted budget
which contains a clerical, mathematical, or accounting error which does not
affect the total amount budgeted by more than 1% or increase the amount
required from property taxes. No public hearing shall be required for such a
correction. After correction, the City Council shall file a copy of the
corrected budget with the County Clerk of the county or counties in which the
City Council is located and with the Auditor of Public Accounts. The City
Council may then issue warrants in payment for expenditures authorized by the
budget.
(Neb. RS 13-511)
§ 33.35 PROPRIETARY FUNCTIONS; FISCAL YEAR; BUDGET STATEMENTS; FILING; HEARING;
ADOPTION; RECONCILIATION.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      PROPRIETARY FUNCTION. A water supply or distribution utility, a
wastewater collection or treatment utility, an electric generation,
transmission, or distribution utility, a gas supply, transmission, or
distribution utility, an integrated solid waste management collection,
disposal, or handling utility, or a hospital or a nursing home owned by the
city.
(Neb. RS 18-2803)
      SUBSIDIZATION. The costs of operation of a proprietary function are
regularly financed by appropriations from the city's general fund in excess of
the amount paid by the city to the proprietary function for actual service or
services received.
(Neb. RS 18-2804)
   (B)   The City Council may establish a separate fiscal year for each
proprietary function, except that any proprietary function which is subsidized
by appropriations from the city's general fund shall have the same fiscal year
as the city.
   (C)   (1)   At least 30 days prior to the start of the fiscal year of each
proprietary function, a proposed proprietary budget statement shall be prepared
in writing and filed with the City Clerk/Treasurer containing the following
information:
         (a)   For the immediately preceding fiscal year, the revenue from all
sources, the unencumbered cash balance at the beginning and end of the year,
the amount received by taxation, and the amount of actual expenditure;
         (b)   For the current fiscal year, actual and estimated revenue from
all sources separately stated as to each such source, the actual unencumbered
cash balance available at the beginning of the year, the amount received from
taxation, and the amount of actual and estimated expenditure, whichever is
applicable;
         (c)   For the immediately ensuing fiscal year, an estimate of revenue
from all sources separately stated as to each such source, the actual or
estimated unencumbered cash balance, whichever is applicable, to be available
at the beginning of the year, the amounts proposed to be expended during the
fiscal year, and the amount of cash reserve based on actual experience of prior
years; and
         (d)   A uniform summary of the proposed budget statement which shall
include a total of all funds maintained for the proprietary function.
      (2)   The statement shall contain the estimated cash reserve for each
fiscal year and shall note whether or not the reserve is encumbered. The cash
reserve projections shall be based upon the actual experience of prior years.
      (3)   Each proprietary budget statement shall be filed on forms
prescribed and furnished by the Auditor of Public Accounts following
consultation with representatives of such governing bodies as operate
proprietary functions subject to the provisions of the Municipal Proprietary
Function Act.
(Neb. RS 18-2805)
   (D)   (1)   After a proposed proprietary budget statement is filed with the
City Clerk/Treasurer, the City Council shall conduct a public hearing on the
statement. Notice of the time and place of the hearing, a summary of the
proposed proprietary budget statement, and notice that the full proposed
proprietary budget statement is available for public review with the City
Clerk/Treasurer during normal business hours shall be published one time at
least five days prior to the hearing in a newspaper of general circulation
within the City Council's jurisdiction or by mailing to each resident within
the City Council's jurisdiction.
      (2)   After the hearing, the proposed proprietary budget statement shall
be adopted or amended and adopted as amended, and a written record shall be
kept of the hearing. If the adopted proprietary budget statement reflects a
change from the proposed proprietary statement presented at the hearing, a copy
of the adopted proprietary budget statement shall be filed with the City Clerk/
Treasurer within 20 days after its adoption and published in a newspaper of
general circulation within the City Council's jurisdiction or by mailing to
each resident within the City Council's jurisdiction.
(Neb. RS 18-2806)
   (E)   If the actual expenditures for a proprietary function exceed the
estimated expenditures in the proprietary budget statement during its fiscal
year, the City Council shall adopt a proprietary function reconciliation
statement within 90 days after the end of the fiscal year which reflects any
difference between the adopted proprietary budget statement for the previous
fiscal year and the actual expenditures and revenue for that fiscal year. After
the adoption of a proprietary function reconciliation statement, it shall be
filed with the City Clerk/Treasurer and published in a newspaper of general
circulation within the City Council's jurisdiction or by mailing to each
resident within the City Council's jurisdiction. If the difference between the
adopted proprietary budget for the previous fiscal year and the actual
expenditures and revenues for that fiscal year is greater than 10%, the
proprietary function reconciliation statement shall only be adopted following a
public hearing.
(Neb. RS 18-2807)
   (F)   If the budget of a proprietary function is included in the city budget
statement created pursuant to the Nebraska Budget Act, the Municipal
Proprietary Function Act need not be followed for that proprietary function.
Any income from a proprietary function which is transferred to the general fund
of the city shall be shown as a source of revenue in the city budget statement
created pursuant to the Nebraska Budget Act.
(Neb. RS 18-2808)
TAX LEVIES
§ 33.45 PROPERTY TAX LEVY FOR GENERAL REVENUE PURPOSES.
   The city shall have power to levy taxes for general revenue purposes in any
one year not to exceed $.35 on each $100 upon the taxable value of all the
taxable property in the city. The valuation of such property shall be
ascertained from the books or assessment rolls of the County Assessor.
(Neb. RS 17-506)
§ 33.46 LEVIES FOR OTHER TAXES AND SPECIAL ASSESSMENTS.
   The city shall have power to levy any other tax or special assessment
authorized by law.
(Neb. RS 17-507)
§ 33.47 ALL-PURPOSE LEVY; EXTRAORDINARY LEVIES; ALLOCATION; ABANDONMENT.
   (A)   Notwithstanding provisions in the statutes of Nebraska and this code
to the contrary, for any fiscal year the City Council may decide to certify to
the County Clerk for collection one all-purpose levy required to be raised by
taxation for all city purposes instead of certifying a schedule of levies for
specific purposes added together. Subject to the limits in §
33.48, the all-purpose levy shall not exceed an annual levy of $1.05 on each
$100 upon the taxable valuation of all the taxable property in the city.
Otherwise authorized extraordinary levies to service and pay bonded
indebtedness of the city may be made by the city in addition to such all-
purpose levy.
(Neb. RS 19-1309)
   (B)   If the method provided in division (A) is followed in city financing,
the city shall allocate the amount so raised to the several departments of the
city in its annual budget and appropriation ordinance, or in other legal
manner, as the City Council deems wisest and best.
(Neb. RS 19-1310)
   (C)   If the city elects to follow the method provided in division (A), it
shall be bound by that election during the ensuing fiscal year but may abandon
such method in succeeding fiscal years.
(Neb. RS 19-1311)
   (D)   If it is necessary to certify the amount to county officers for
collection, the same shall be certified as a single amount for general fund
purposes.
(Neb. RS 19-1312)
§ 33.48 PROPERTY TAX LEVY; MAXIMUM; AUTHORITY TO EXCEED.
   (A)   Property tax levies for the support of the city for fiscal years
beginning on or after 7-1-1998, shall be limited to the amounts set forth in
this division (A), except as provided in division (C). The city may levy a
maximum levy of $.45 per $100 of taxable valuation of property subject to the
levy plus an additional $.05 per $100 of taxable valuation to provide financing
for the city's share of revenue required under an agreement or agreements
executed pursuant to the Interlocal Cooperation Act or the Joint Public Agency
Act. The maximum levy shall include amounts levied to pay for sums to support a
library pursuant to Neb. RS 51-201, museum pursuant to Neb. RS 51-501, visiting
community nurse, home health nurse, or home health agency pursuant to Neb. RS
71-1637, or statue, memorial, or monument pursuant to Neb. RS 80-202. Property
tax levies for judgments, except judgments or orders from the Commission of
Industrial Relations, obtained against the city which require or obligate the
city to pay that judgment, to the extent the judgment is not paid by liability
insurance coverage of the city, for preexisting lease-purchase contracts
approved prior to 7-1-1998, for bonded indebtedness approved according to law
and secured by a levy on property, and for payments by a public airport to
retire interest-free loans from the Department of Aeronautics in lieu of bonded
indebtedness at a lower cost to the public airport are not included in the levy
limits established by this division (A). The limitations on tax levies provided
in this division (A) are to include all other general or special levies
provided by law. Notwithstanding other provisions of law, the only exceptions
to the limits in this division (A) are those provided by or authorized by this
section. Tax levies in excess of the limitations in this section shall be
considered unauthorized levies under Neb. RS 77-1606 unless approved under
division (C).
(Neb. RS 77-3442)
   (B)   (1)   All city airport authorities established under the Cities
Airport Authorities Act, community redevelopment authorities established under
the Community Development Law, and off-street parking districts established
under the Offstreet Parking District Act may be allocated property taxes as
authorized by law which are authorized by the city and are counted in the
municipal levy limit provided by division (A), except that such limitation
shall not apply to property tax levies for preexisting lease- purchase
contracts approved prior to 7-1-1998, for bonded indebtedness approved
according to law and secured by a levy on property, and for payments by a
public airport to retire interest-free loans from the Department of Aeronautics
in lieu of bonded indebtedness at a lower cost to the public airport. For off-
street parking districts established under the Offstreet Parking District Act,
the tax shall be counted in the allocation by the city proportionately, by
dividing the total taxable valuation of the taxable property within the
district by the total taxable valuation of the taxable property within the city
multiplied by the levy of the district. The City Council shall review and
approve or disapprove the levy request of the political subdivisions subject to
this division (B). The City Council may approve all or a portion of the levy
request and may approve a levy request that would allow a levy greater than
that permitted by law. The levy allocated by the city may be exceeded as
provided in division (C).
      (2)   On or before August 1, all political subdivisions subject to city
levy authority under this division (B) shall submit a preliminary request for
levy allocation to the City Council. The preliminary request of the political
subdivision shall be in the form of a resolution adopted by a majority vote of
members present of the political subdivision's governing body. The failure of a
political subdivision to make a preliminary request shall preclude that
political subdivision from using procedures set forth in Neb. RS 77-3444 to
exceed the final levy allocation as determined in this division (B).
      (3)   (a)   The City Council shall:
            1.   Adopt a resolution by a majority vote of members present which
determines a final allocation of levy authority to its political subdivisions;
and
            2.   Forward a copy of that resolution to the chairperson of the
governing body of each of its political subdivisions.
         (b)   No final levy allocation shall be changed after September 1
except by agreement between both the City Council and the governing body of the
political subdivision whose final levy allocation is at issue.
(Neb. RS 77-3443)
   (C)   (1)   The city may exceed the limits provided in division (A) by an
amount not to exceed a maximum levy approved by a majority of registered voters
voting on the issue in a primary, general, or special election at which the
issue is placed before the registered voters. A vote to exceed the limits must
be approved prior to October 10 of the fiscal year which is to be the first to
exceed the limits.
      (2)   The City Council may call for the submission of the issue to the
voters:
         (a)   By passing a resolution calling for exceeding the limits by a
vote of at least two-thirds of the members of the City Council and delivering a
copy of the resolution to the County Clerk or Election Commissioner of every
county which contains all or part of the city; or
         (b)   Upon receipt of a petition by the County Clerk or Election
Commissioner of every county containing all or part of the city requesting an
election signed by at least 5% of the registered voters residing in the city.
      (3)   The resolution or petition shall include the amount of levy which
would be imposed in excess of the limits provided in division (A) and the
duration of the excess levy authority. The excess levy authority shall not have
a duration greater than five years. Any resolution or petition calling for a
special election shall be filed with the County Clerk or Election Commissioner
no later than 30 days prior to the date of the election, and the time of
publication and providing a copy of the notice of election required in Neb. RS
32-802 shall be no later than 20 days prior to the election.
      (4)   The County Clerk or Election Commissioner shall place the issue on
the ballot at an election as called for in the resolution or petition which is
at least 30 days after receipt of the resolution or petition. The election
shall be held pursuant to the Election Act. For petitions filed with the County
Clerk or Election Commissioner on or after May 1, 1998, the petition shall be
in the form as provided in Neb. RS 32-628 through 32-631.
      (5)   Any excess levy authority approved under this division (C) shall
terminate pursuant to its terms, on a vote of the City Council to terminate the
authority to levy more than the limits, at the end of the fourth fiscal year
following the first year in which the levy exceeded the limit, or as provided
in division (C)(8), whichever is earliest.
      (6)   The City Council may pass no more than one resolution calling for
an election pursuant to this division (C) during any one calendar year. Only
one election may be held in any one calendar year pursuant to a petition
initiated under this division (C). The ballot question may include any terms
and conditions set forth in the resolution or petition and shall include the
language specified in Neb. RS 77-3444.
      (7)   If a majority of the votes cast upon the ballot question are in
favor of the tax, the County Board shall authorize a tax in excess of the
limits in division (A), but the tax shall not exceed the amount stated in the
ballot question. If a majority of those voting on the ballot question are
opposed to the tax, the City Council shall not impose the tax.
      (8)   (a)   The city may rescind or modify a previously approved excess
levy authority prior to its expiration by a majority of registered voters
voting on the issue in a primary, general, or special election at which the
issue is placed before the registered voters. A vote to rescind or modify must
be approved prior to October 10 of the fiscal year for which it is to be
effective.
         (b)   The City Council may call for the submission of the issue to the
voters:
            1.   By passing a resolution calling for the rescission or
modification by a vote of at least two-thirds of the members of the City
Council and delivering a copy of the resolution to the County Clerk or Election
Commissioner of every county which contains all or part of the city; or
            2.   Upon receipt of a petition by the County Clerk or Election
Commissioner of every county containing all or part of the city requesting an
election signed by at least 5% of the registered voters residing in the city.
         (c)   The resolution or petition shall include the amount and the
duration of the previously approved excess levy authority and a statement that
either the excess levy authority will be rescinded or the excess levy authority
will be modified. If the excess levy authority will be modified, the amount and
duration of the modification shall be stated. The modification shall not have a
duration greater than five years. The County Clerk or Election Commissioner
shall place the issue on the ballot at an election as called for in the
resolution or petition which is at least 30 days after receipt of the
resolution or petition, and the time of publication and providing a copy of the
notice of election required in Neb. RS 32-802 shall be no later than 20 days
prior to the election. The election shall be held pursuant to the Election Act.
(Neb. RS 77-3444)
§ 33.49 PROPERTY TAX LEVY; CERTIFICATION OF AMOUNT; COLLECTION.
   The City Council shall, at the time and in the manner provided by law, cause
to be certified to the County Clerk the amount of tax to be levied upon the
taxable value of all the taxable property of the city which the city requires
for the purposes of the adopted budget statement for the ensuing year,
including all special assessments and taxes assessed as otherwise provided. The
County Clerk shall place the same on the property tax lists to be collected in
the manner provided by law for the collection of county taxes in the county
where the city is situated. In all sales for any delinquent taxes for municipal
purposes, if there are other delinquent taxes due from the same person or a
lien on the same property, the sale shall be for all the delinquent taxes. Such
sales and all sales made under or by virtue of this section or the provision of
law herein referred to shall be of the same validity and in all respects be
deemed and treated as though such sales had been made for the delinquent county
taxes exclusively.
(Neb. 17-702)
§ 33.50 PROPERTY TAX REQUEST; PROCEDURE FOR SETTING.
   (A)   The property tax request for the prior year shall be the property tax
request for the current year for purposes of the levy set by the County Board
of Equalization in Neb. RS 77-1601 unless the City Council passes by a majority
vote a resolution or ordinance setting the tax request at a different amount.
That resolution or ordinance shall only be passed after a special public
hearing called for the purpose is held and after notice is published in a
newspaper of general circulation in the area of the city at least five days
prior to the hearing.
   (B)   The hearing notice shall contain the following information:
      (1)   The dollar amount of the prior year's tax request and the property
tax rate that was necessary to fund that tax request;
      (2)   The property tax rate that would be necessary to fund last year's
tax request if applied to the current year's valuation; and
      (3)   The proposed dollar amount of the tax request for the current year
and the property tax rate that will be necessary to fund that tax request.
   (B)   Any resolution setting a tax request under this section shall be
certified and forwarded to the County Clerk on or before October 13 of the year
for which the tax request is to apply.
   (C)   Any tax levy which is not in compliance with this section and Neb. RS
77-1601 shall be construed as an unauthorized levy under Neb. RS 77-1606.
(Neb. RS 77-1601.02)
§ 33.51 MOTOR VEHICLE TAX.
   The city may levy a tax on all motor vehicles owned or used in the city.
Until the implementation date designated by the Director of Motor Vehicles
under Neb. RS 23-186, the tax shall be paid to the designated county official
of the county in which the city is located when the registration fees as
provided in the Motor Vehicle Registration Act are paid. These taxes shall be
remitted to the County Treasurer for credit to the road fund of the city. On
and after the implementation date designated under Neb. RS 23-186, the tax
shall be paid to the County Treasurer for credit to such road fund. These funds
shall be used by the city for constructing, resurfacing, maintaining, or
improving streets, roads alleys, public ways, or parts thereof or for the
amortization of bonded indebtedness when created for those purposes.
(Neb. RS 18-1214)
Statutory reference:
   Designation of county official, see Neb. RS 23-186
   Motor Vehicle Registration Act, see Neb. RS 60-301
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
      Chapter
         
50.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
         
51.   WATER
         
52.   SEWERS
         
53.   ELECTRICAL SYSTEM
         
54.   SOLID WASTE
CHAPTER 50: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
Utility Billing Procedure
   
50.01   Definitions
   
50.02   Utility billing policies and procedures
   
50.03   Utility billing
   
50.04   Rate ordinances
   
50.05   Monthly utility bill
   
50.06   Extra service bills
   
50.07   Billing cycle
   
50.08   Delinquent customers
   
50.09   Municipal utility service application
   
50.10   Utility deposit
   
50.11   Utility deposit refund
   
50.12   Disputed utility bills
   
50.13   Promissory agreement
   
50.14   Service charges
   
50.15   Meter obstruction
   
50.16   Effective date
   
50.17   Adjusted base rates
Utilities; Generally
   
50.30   Diversion of services
   
50.31   Installation of water and sewer lines; assessment against purchaser
   
50.32   Sharing of city utility services
UTILITY BILLING PROCEDURE
§ 50.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BILL. The statement of account for city utility services rendered by the
city to a customer and due and payable to the city by the customer.
   CITY. The city corporation known as the City of Bridgeport, Nebraska, and
any designated agent authorized to act on behalf of the city.
   CITY UTILITIES. The water, sewer, and electric services, departments, or
systems of the city or any combination thereof.
   CUSTOMER. Any person, firm, corporation, or entity to which the city utility
services are rendered.
   DELINQUENT CUSTOMER. Any person, firm, corporation, or entity who fails to
pay any current charges or portion thereof for any city utility by the due date
of the bill.
   DISCONNECT. The water, sewer, and electric services shall not be made
available to any person, firm, corporation, or entity due to nonpayment.
   PAST DUE AMOUNT. Any current charges or portion thereof for any city utility
which remain unpaid past the due date of the bill on which such current charges
first appear.
   PROMISSORY AGREEMENT. A contract between customer and the city allowing the
customer to make payments to the city to pay any current charges or portion
thereof for any city utility by a determined date.
(Ord. 780, passed 11-6-2008; Ord. 803, passed 2-11-2010; Ord. 921, passed 5-11-
2017)
§ 50.02 UTILITY BILLING POLICIES AND PROCEDURES.
   The following policies and procedure shall govern the provision of city
utilities.
(Ord. 780, passed 11-6-2008; Ord. 803, passed 2-11-2010; Ord. 921, passed 5-11-
2017)
§ 50.03 UTILITY BILLING.
   There is hereby created a utility billing section within such department(s)
as may be designated by the City Council. The billing section shall be
responsible for the calculation and rendering of all city utility bills. The
utility billing section shall maintain account records for each customer that
includes the customer’s name, billing address, service address, current
charges, and account history, including past due charges, penalties, and fees.
(Ord. 780, passed 11-6-2008; Ord. 803, passed 2-11-2010; Ord. 921, passed 5-11-
2017)
§ 50.04 RATE ORDINANCES.
   All city utility charges shall be calculated in accordance with the specific
rate ordinance applicable to each city utility or service rendered to a
customer.
(Ord. 780, passed 11-6-2008; Ord. 803, passed 2-11-2010; Ord. 921, passed 5-11-
2017)
§ 50.05 MONTHLY UTILITY BILL.
   The utility billing section shall provide each city utility customer a
combined monthly city utility bill which shall include the charges incurred by
the customer for regular monthly water, sewer, trash, and electric services, or
any combination thereof, plus any fees, penalties, or previous balances. Each
city utility shall be designated as a separate entry on the billing statement.
Bills for city utility services provided shall be rendered and paid monthly.
(Ord. 780, passed 11-6-2008; Ord. 803, passed 2-11-2010; Ord. 921, passed 5-11-
2017)
§ 50.06 EXTRA SERVICE BILLS.
   Billings for any extra services, installation charges, or other special
charges shall be rendered in accordance with the applicable utility or service
rate resolution and shall be included on the appropriate monthly billing
statement or as a separate bill.
(Ord. 780, passed 11-6-2008; Ord. 803, passed 2-11-2010; Ord. 921, passed 5-11-
2017)
§ 50.07 BILLING CYCLE.
   (A)   Generally. The city's billing cycle shall be defined by the following
dates.
   (B)   Specifically.
      (1)   Meter reading date. Meters shall be read on approximately the
fifteenth day of the month.
      (2)   Billing period. Monthly billings shall be rendered within ten days
following the meter reading date. The date the bill is mailed shall be known as
the billing date. The total bill shall be due and payable by the close of
business no later than the tenth day of the next month after the billing date.
The tenth day of the next month following the billing date shall be known as
the due date. If the due date falls on a holiday, Saturday, or Sunday, the due
date shall be on the first business day following the holiday or weekend.
      (3)   Delinquent date. If a bill is not paid on or before the close of
business of the due date, a late charge equal to 10% of the current electric
bill amount shall be added to the charges. The first business day following the
due date shall be known as the delinquent date. If the delinquent date falls on
a holiday, Saturday, or Sunday, the bill shall then become delinquent at 8:00
a.m. on the first business day following the holiday or weekend.
      (4)   Disconnect notification date. If a bill is not paid on or before
10:00 a.m. on the business day following the due date, the city will mail by
first-class mail and/or post a disconnection notification card on the
customer's main entrance in clear view. If the disconnection notification date
falls on a holiday, Saturday, or Sunday, the disconnection notification shall
then be distributed on the first business day following the holiday or weekend.
      (5)   Disconnection date. If a bill is not paid on or before eight
business days following the due date, the city shall disconnect and discontinue
all utility services until account is made current. The eighth business day
following the due date shall be known as the disconnection date. If the
disconnection date falls on a holiday, Saturday, or Sunday, then disconnections
shall then occur on the first business day following the holiday or weekend.
(Ord. 780, passed 11-6-2008; Ord. 803, passed 2-11-2010; Ord. 921, passed 5-11-
2017)
§ 50.08 DELINQUENT CUSTOMERS.
   (A)   Any customer whose bill remains unpaid at 4:30 p.m. on the tenth day
of the month after the billing date shall be considered delinquent. Any
customer who is delinquent on any one city utility (water, sewer, trash, or
electric) or any combination thereof may be disconnected from the city water
and electric systems and once disconnected shall not be reconnected or
reinstated until payment of all charges, fees, deposit, and penalties necessary
to bring the account(s) to a current status. The city may also refer delinquent
customers to a collection agency or attorney for collection on a case-by-case
basis.
   (B)   Neither water or electric service shall be restored to any property or
premises on which there are unpaid delinquent charges for either water or
electric service. Charges for water or electric service shall be a lien upon
the premises as provided by statute whenever a bill for water or electric
service remains unpaid 60 days after it has been rendered, the Clerk may file
with the County Clerk a statement of lien claim. The statement shall contain
the legal description of the premises served, the amount of the unpaid bill and
a notice that the city claims a lien for this amount as well as for all charges
for water or electric service served subsequent to a period covered by the
bill. If the consumer of water or electricity whose bill is unpaid is not the
owner of the premises and the Clerk has notice of this, then notice shall be
mailed to the owner of the premises if his or her address is known to the
Clerk, whenever the bill remains unpaid for a period of 60 days after it has
been rendered.
(Ord. 780, passed 11-6-2008; Ord. 803, passed 2-11-2010; Ord. 921, passed 5-11-
2017; Ord. 1008, passed 9-11-2024)
§ 50.09 MUNICIPAL UTILITY SERVICE APPLICATION.
   Any person, firm, or corporation desiring to establish any city utility or
combination thereof shall make application for the service(s). The application
shall be on the form(s) as may now or hereinafter be prescribed by the
appropriate utility. The application shall include the applicant's name, spouse
name, service address, mailing address, landlord's name, telephone number, and
personal identification number (e.g., Social Security number, driver's license
number, and date of birth) or federal identification number (businesses) and
signature of the party responsible for payment Each service location shall be
considered a separate account.
(Ord. 780, passed 11-6-2008; Ord. 803, passed 2-11-2010; Ord. 921, passed 5-11-
2017)
§ 50.10 UTILITY DEPOSIT.
   (A)   Initial deposit. Any customer who establishes water, sewer and/or
electric service shall be required to pay an initial utility deposit of $200.
Utility deposits shall be maintained in a separate account and held as security
for the payment of city utility bills. The utility deposit once so established
shall be considered a combined utility deposit for the benefits of any and all
city utilities received by the customer. Utility deposits shall not be required
for federal, state, or local government agencies. Utility deposits may not be
transferred from one customer to another and must be carried in the name of the
person, firm, or corporation from whom the service is rendered.
   (B)   Waiving of initial deposit. Any customer who has previously
established an account in good standing with the city, or any customer who can
produce two letters of reference from previous utility companies setting forth
that the customer has been in good standing with said utility companies for no
less than one year immediately preceding date said customer wishes to have a
city utility account established, shall have their initial deposit waived.
   (C)   Reconnect deposit. Prior to the restoration of city utility service,
any customer whose service has been disconnected or discontinued due to
nonpayment shall be subject to an increased service deposit, equal to the
largest utility bill in the past 12 months.
(Ord. 780, passed 11-6-2008; Ord. 803, passed 2-11-2010; Ord. 921, passed 5-11-
2017)
§ 50.11 UTILITY DEPOSIT REFUND.
   The city utility deposit will be refunded to the customer only upon the
certain circumstances:
   (A)   Upon termination of city utility service and payment of all amounts
owed. In this case, the deposit shall be applied to the customer's final city
utility bill upon service termination.
   (B)   Upon payment of 12 consecutive months of on-time payments to the city.
On-time payments shall mean that there have been no penalties applied to the
accounts for 12 consecutive months. In this case, the deposit will only be
applied to the customer's next city utility bill after the customer makes a
request in writing to have the deposit refunded.
(Ord. 780, passed 11-6-2008; Ord. 803, passed 2-11-2010; Ord. 921, passed 5-11-
2017)
§ 50.12 DISPUTED UTILITY BILLS.
   (A)   A customer may request a face-to-face conference regarding any dispute
over a proposed disconnection of service before the City Administrator, or his
or her designee, to hear such matters. The City Administrator, or his or her
designee, is hereby authorized to waive charges and fees that occur after the
due date on the current month’s city utility bill on a case-by-case basis for
city utility customers whose principal income is from one of the following
sources received on a once per month basis; Social Security, retirement plan,
disability income, or state or federal assistance programs. Person desiring
waiver of the monthly charges and fees must provide appropriate documentation
of principal income.
   (B)   A customer may request a face-to-face conference before the City
Administrator, or his or her designee, to consider a payment plan that would
cause a utility account to be made current. The City Administrator, or his or
her designee, is hereby authorized to enter into a promissory agreement for the
current month’s city utility bill on a case-by-case basis for city utility
customers whose principal income is from one of the following sources received
on a once per month basis; Social Security, retirement plan, disability income,
or state or federal assistance programs. A customer that desires to enter into
a promissory agreement for the current month’s city utility bill must provide
appropriate documentation of principal income and/or hardship. If a customer
fails to make good on any term and/or condition contained within the promissory
agreement, the customer’s utility services may be disconnected immediately.
(Ord. 780, passed 11-6-2008; Ord. 803, passed 2-11-2010; Ord. 921, passed 5-11-
2017)
§ 50.13 PROMISSORY AGREEMENT.
   (A)   Any customer may request a face-to-face conference before the City
Administrator, or his or her designee, to consider entering into a promissory
agreement that identifies certain terms and conditions of a payment plan that
would cause a utility account to be made current. The City Administrator, or
his or her designee, is hereby authorized to enter into a written promissory
agreement for only the current month's city utility bill on a case-by-case
basis for city utility customers.
   (B)   All promissory agreements must adhere to the following conditions and/
or stipulations.
      (1)   No promissory agreement will be accepted unless it is presented
with a payment of not less than 50% of the total amount past due, including all
late charges and/or service charges.
      (2)   The customer must request and sign the promissory agreement in
writing and in person. No promissory agreements will be granted if received by
telephone, e-mail, night deposit, mail, or facsimile. Additionally, no
promissory agreement will be granted unless it has been signed by the City
Administrator, or his or her designee.
      (3)   The payment terms of all promissory agreements shall not exceed 10
days from the date of request, and shall not extend past the due date of the
next billing cycle. This date shall become known as the promise date, and will
serve as the new disconnect date. This postponement does not reinitiate the
disconnection procedure, but rather, is the final date that payment may be made
or service will be disconnected immediately.
      (4)   Only one promissory agreement will be allowed per account per
billing cycle, and no modifications and/or extensions will be allowed after a
promissory agreement has been signed.
      (5)   Any payment, including down payment or deferred payments, made by
check that is returned for non-sufficient funds, will result in immediate
disconnection of utility service. The customer must pay the entire past due
balance, as well as all applicable service charges, stated in §
50.14, before service will be restored.
(Ord. 780, passed 11-6-2008; Ord. 803, passed 2-11-2010; Ord. 921, passed 5-11-
2017)
§ 50.14 SERVICE CHARGES.
   (A)   Generally. The following additional fees shall be charged for services
provided by the city utility.
   (B)   Specifically.
      (1)   Disconnection of service due to nonpayment of bill: $30, charged
when the disconnection is made;
      (2)   Reconnection of service due to nonpayment of bill:
         (a)   $30, charged when reconnection is made during the hours of 7:30
a.m. to 4:30 p.m., Monday through Friday (excluding holidays); and
         (b)   $175, charged when reconnection is made during all other times.
      (3)   Returned check fees: $30, charged when the check is returned to the
city. Additionally, after two returned checks, the customer shall pay all
current and future payments by cash or money order for a period of no less than
12 months.
(Ord. 780, passed 11-6-2008; Ord. 803, passed 2-11-2010; Ord. 921, passed 5-11-
2017)
§ 50.15 METER OBSTRUCTION.
   It shall be prohibited for any person to obstruct access to a city utility
water meter whether in a public right-of-way or on private property. Should any
person, in violation of this section, refuse to remove an obstruction within 24
hours after notification to do so, the city shall cause the obstruction to be
removed at the owner's expense, including, but not limited to, towing and
storage charges for vehicles.
(Ord. 780, passed 11-6-2008; Ord. 803, passed 2-11-2010; Ord. 921, passed 5-11-
2017) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 50.16 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This subchapter shall be in full force and effect from and after its
passage, approval, and publication in pamphlet form according to law.
(Ord. 780, passed 11-6-2008; Ord. 803, passed 2-11-2010; Ord. 921, passed 5-11-
2017)
§ 50.17 ADJUSTED BASE RATES.
   (A)   Water and electric customers. Calculation of adjusted rates for
electric and water customers that establish service for 15 or more days during
a particular billing cycle shall pay 100% of the base rate for water and
electric services, with charges due and owing above and beyond the base rate
being prorated by the number of days service was active. Customers that
establish service for less than 15 days during a particular billing cycle shall
pay 50% of the base rate for water and electric services, with charges due and
owing above and beyond the base rate being prorated by the number of days
service was active. This shall only apply to billing periods in which a
customer has service for less than the entirety of the billing cycle.
   (B)   Sewer and trash customers. Calculation of adjusted rates for sewer and
trash customers that establish service for 15 or more days during a particular
billing cycle shall pay 100% of the flat fee due for sewer and trash. Customers
that establish service for less than 15 days during a particular billing cycle
shall pay 50% of the flat fee due for sewer and trash. This shall only apply to
billing periods in which a customer has service for less than the entirety of
the billing cycle.
(Ord. 942, passed 6-14-2018)
UTILITIES; GENERALLY
§ 50.30 DIVERSION OF SERVICES.
   (A)   The city may bring a civil action for damages against any person who
commits, authorizes, solicits, aids, abets, or attempts bypassing, tampering,
or unauthorized metering when the act results in damages to a city utility. A
city may bring a civil action for damages pursuant to this section against any
person receiving the benefit of utility service through means of bypassing,
tampering, or unauthorized metering.
   (B)   In any civil action brought pursuant to this section, the city shall
be entitled, upon proof of willful or intentional bypassing, tampering, or
unauthorized metering to recover as damages:
      (1)   The amount of actual damage or loss if the amount of the damage or
loss is susceptible of reasonable calculation; or
      (2)   Liquidated damages of, until 7-1-1985, $500, and, on 7-1-1985, and
thereafter, $750, if the amount of actual damage or loss is not susceptible of
reasonable calculation.
   (C)   In addition to damage or loss under divisions (B)(1) or (B)(2) above,
the city may recover all reasonable expenses and costs incurred on account of
the bypassing, tampering, or unauthorized metering including, but not limited
to, disconnection, reconnection, service calls, equipment, costs of the suit,
and reasonable attorneys' fees in cases within the scope of Neb. RS 25-1,801.
   (D)   There shall be a rebuttable presumption that a tenant or occupant at
any premises where bypassing, tampering, or unauthorized metering is proven to
exist caused or had knowledge of the bypassing, tampering, or unauthorized
metering if the tenant or occupant had access to the part of the utility supply
system on the premises where the bypassing, tampering, or unauthorized metering
is proven to exist and was responsible or partially responsible for payment,
either directly or indirectly, to the utility or to any other person for
utility services to the premises.
   (E)   There shall be a rebuttable presumption that a customer at any
premises where bypassing, tampering, or unauthorized metering is proven to
exist caused or had knowledge of the bypassing, tampering, or unauthorized
metering if the customer controlled access to the part of the utility supply
system on the premises where the bypassing, tampering, or unauthorized metering
was proven to exist.
   (F)   The remedies provided by this section shall be deemed to be
supplemental and additional to powers conferred by existing laws and the
remedies provided in this section are in addition to and not in limitation of
any other civil or criminal statutory or common law remedies.
(1973 Code, § 3-1102) (Ord. 541, passed 10-6-1983)
§ 50.31 INSTALLATION OF WATER AND SEWER LINES; ASSESSMENT AGAINST PURCHASER.
   (A)   Upon the sale of any lot located in an undeveloped block platted
within the city limits that the city shall cause to have installed sewer and
water lines for the complete block. Upon the purchase of any lot located in the
block that the city has installed water and sewer lines, the purchaser shall be
assessed $9 per foot of the lot frontage for the water line and shall be
assessed $9 per foot of the lot frontage for the sewer line, the assessments to
be due and payable upon the purchase of the lot.
   (B)   The above fee shall be in addition to any hook up charges assessed by
the city.
(1973 Code, § 3-1104) (Ord. 620, passed 6-11-1992)
§ 50.32 SHARING OF CITY UTILITY SERVICES.
   (A)   No person or entity who holds an active account for city utility
services, which includes, but is not limited to, water, trash, sewer, and
electric, shall be permitted to share, provide, supply, or otherwise allow
these services to be utilized by any other person or entity outside the
premises serviced by said account.
   (B)   Upon discovery of a violation of division (A) above by law enforcement
or other city official, the city's Director of Public Works, or his or her
designee, may take whatever action is deemed necessary to abate the violation
if such violation is found to pose a danger to persons or property.
   (C)   Violation of division (A) above is punishable pursuant to §
10.99. Fines for a first offense shall be no less than $250, and for each
second or subsequent offense shall be no less than $400.
   (D)   In addition to the penalties set forth in in division (C) above for
violation of this section, a violator may also be subject to suspension of his/
her/its city utility account.
(Ord. 915, passed 3-9-2017)
CHAPTER 51: WATER
Section
Water Department; Generally
   
51.01   Operation and funding
   
51.02   Water contract
   
51.03   Installation expense; fees for water taps
   
51.04   Repairs and maintenance
   
51.05   Minimum rates
   
51.06   Lien
   
51.07   Single premise
   
51.08   Restricted use
   
51.09   Fire hydrants
   
51.10   Fire suppression
   
51.11   Pollution
   
51.12   Destruction of property
   
51.13   Bonded plumber
   
51.14   Prohibition of lead pipes, solder, and flux
   
51.15   Deposit
   
51.16   (Reserved)
   
51.17   Connection required
   
51.18   Water wells
   
51.19   Bulk water users and rates
Backflow/Backsiphonage Prevention
   
51.30   Statement of policy
   
51.31   Definitions
   
51.32   Cross-connections prohibited
   
51.33   Survey and investigations
   
51.34   Where protection is required
   
51.35   Type of protection required
   
51.36   Backflow prevention devices
   
51.37   Installation
   
51.38   Testing
   
51.39   Authorized representative; authority
   
51.40   Appeals
   
51.41   Violations
   
51.42   Liability claims
   
51.43   Customer installation, maintenance, and testing
Drought Emergency Contingency Plan
   
51.55   Adoption
   
Appendix A:   Water and Wastewater Rates
WATER DEPARTMENT; GENERALLY
§ 51.01 OPERATION AND FUNDING.
   The city owns and operates the City Water Department through the Director of
Public Works. The City Council, for the purpose of defraying the cost of the
care, management, and maintenance of the City Water Department may each year
levy a tax not exceeding the maximum limit prescribed by state law, on the
actual valuation of all real estate and personal property within the corporate
limits that is subject to taxation. The revenue from the tax shall be known as
the Water Fund and shall remain in the custody of the City Clerk/Treasurer. The
Director of Public Works shall have the direct management and control of the
City Water Department and shall faithfully carry out the duties of his or her
office. The Director of Public Works shall have the authority to adopt rules
and regulations for the sanitary and efficient management of the Water
Department subject to the supervision and review of the City Council. The City
Council shall set the rates to be charged for services rendered by resolution
and shall file a copy of the rates in the office of the City Clerk/Treasurer
for public inspection at any reasonable time.
(Neb. RS 17-531, 17-534, and 19-1,305) (1973 Code, § 3-101)
§ 51.02 WATER CONTRACT.
   The city, through its Water Department, shall furnish water to persons
within its corporate limits whose premises abut a street or alley in which a
commercial main now is or may hereafter be laid. The city may furnish water to
persons within its corporate limits whose premises do not abut a street or
alley in which a city commercial main is now or may hereafter be laid and may
also furnish water to persons whose premises are situated outside the corporate
limits of the city, as and when, according to law, the City Council may see fit
to do so. The rules, regulations, and water rates hereinafter named in this
chapter, shall be considered a part of every application hereafter made for
water service and shall be considered a part of the contract between every
consumer now or hereafter served. Without further formality, the making of
application on the part of any applicant or the use or consumption of water
service by present consumers thereof and the furnishing of water service to the
consumer shall constitute a contract between the consumer and the city, to
which the contract both parties are bound. If the consumer shall violate any of
the provisions of the contract or any reasonable rules and regulations that the
Water Department may hereafter adopt, the Director of Public Works or his or
her agent, may cut off or disconnect the water service from the building or
premise or place of the violation. No further connection for water service to
the building, premise, or place shall again be made save or except by order of
the Director of Public Works or his or her agent.
(1973 Code, § 3-102)
§ 51.03 INSTALLATION EXPENSE; FEES FOR WATER TAPS.
   The city shall tap the main and provide the fixtures and labor up to and
including the meter pit at the property lot line of the customer. No person
other than the Director of Public Works or his or her duly authorized agent
shall tap the water main. The customer shall pay a water tap fee, at the time
of filing the application for a water tap, and for any additional costs
corresponding with the work, according to the following.
   (A)   Single-family residential customers within the city limits.
      (1)   Upon an initial payment of $700 to the City Clerk, the city will
furnish and install a one inch tap, a line from the water main to the property,
and a standard pit and meter.
      (2)   For any work deemed necessary by the Director of Public Works to
install the tap that is located under any type of permanent surfacing, such as
concrete or asphalt, the customer will pay for the actual costs of any
necessary material and labor at the rate calculated by the city.
      (3)   For any work requiring boring of any type and the property owner
shall pay the actual costs to complete the boring as calculated by the city.
      (4)   Any connection larger than the minimum one-inch water line shall
pay an additional fee of $100 per inch larger than the minimum, or any fraction
thereof.
      (5)   Any connection larger than one inch shall also pay the difference
in expense of any materials, as long as such expenses are greater than normally
incurred by the city for a one-inch tap.
   (B)   Multi-family residential customers within the city limits.
      (1)   The same charges as set forth in division (A) apply to multi-family
residential customers.
      (2)   If the multi-family residential building uses one meter to feed one
building with multiple units, there will be an additional charge for each
multi-family separate unit of $100 per unit.
      (3)   The per unit fee of a multi-family water tap will also apply if a
multi-family dwelling adds units to be served upon its pre-existing water tap
at a later date.
   (C)   Commercial customers within the city limits.
      (1)   The same charges as set forth in division (A) apply to commercial
customers.
   (D)   Residential and commercial customers outside the city limits.
      (1)   The property in question must be adjacent to streets or roads
containing water mains of the city.
      (2)   Pay twice the amount as set forth in the appropriate subdivisions
of divisions (A) and (B).
      (3)   If the property owner disconnects from the city water system, and
remains disconnected for more than 12 consecutive months, it will be as the
property was never connected to the city water system, and if owner desires to
reconnect after those 12 consecutive months, they must connect at the same fee
as if they were never connected previously. This division does not waive any
fee in relation to disconnect and reconnect activity due to non-payment of
utility bills, or at the desires of the property owner.
      (4)   If the property is not adjacent to a street or road containing
water mains of the city, then the fee will be decided on a case by case basis
by the City Council. In no instance shall it be less than double the rates of
divisions (A), (B), or (C), and all costs incurred by the city above the normal
tap fees shall be reimbursed to the city in order to reach the property.
   (E)   The extension of commercial mains into unsupplied territory within the
corporate limits may be made by means of a water extension district.
(1973 Code, § 3-103) (Ord. 536, passed 9-8-1983; Ord. 714, passed 9-13-2001;
Ord. 734, passed 8-5-2004; Ord. 828, passed 8-11-2011; 854, passed 7-12-2012;
Ord. 965, passed 5-14-2020)
§ 51.04 REPAIRS AND MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   The city shall repair or replace, as the case may be, all supply pipe
between the commercial main and the stop box.
   (B)   The customer at his or her own expense shall replace and keep in
repair all service pipe from the stop box to the place of dispersement.
   (C)   When leaks occur in service pipes, the Director of Public Works shall
shut off water service until the leak is repaired at the expense of the
customer to the satisfaction of the Director of Public Works.
(1973 Code, § 3-104) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.05 MINIMUM RATES.
   All water consumers shall be liable for the minimum rate provided by
resolution unless and until the consumer shall, by written order, direct the
Director of Public Works to shut off the water at the stop box, in which case
he or she shall not be liable thereafter for water rental until the water is
turned on again.
(Neb. RS 17-542) (1973 Code, § 3-105)
§ 51.06 LIEN.
   In addition to all other remedies, if a customer shall for any reason remain
indebted to the city for water service furnished, the amount due, together with
any rents and charges in arrears, shall be considered a delinquent water rent
which is hereby declared to be a lien upon the real estate for which the same
was used. The City Clerk/Treasurer shall notify in writing or cause to be
notified in writing, all owners of premises or their agents whenever their
tenants or lessees are 60 days or more delinquent in the payment of water rent.
Upon request of the Mayor or City Council, a report shall be presented by the
City Clerk/Treasurer of all unpaid accounts due foe water. If said report is
approved by the City Council, the City Council may direct that the unpaid water
accounts shall be certified by the City Clerk/Treasurer to the County Clerk to
be collected as a special tax in the manner provided by law.
(Neb. RS 17-538) (1973 Code, § 3-107) (Ord. 965, passed 5-14-2020)
§ 51.07 SINGLE PREMISE.
   No consumer shall supply water to other families, or allow them to take
water from his or her premise, nor after water is supplied into a building
shall any person make or employ a plumber or other person to make a tap or
connection with the pipe upon the premise for alteration, extension, or
attachment without the written permission of the Director of Public Works. It
shall further be unlawful for any person to tamper with any water meter or by
means of any contrivance or device to divert the water from the service pipe so
that the water will not pass through the meter or while passing through the
meter to cause the meter to register inaccurately.
(Neb. RS 17-537) (1973 Code, § 3-108) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.08 RESTRICTED USE.
   The City Council or the Director of Public Works may order a reduction in
the use of water or shut off the water on any premise in the event of a water
shortage due to fire or other good and sufficient cause. The city shall not be
liable for any damages caused by shutting off the supply of water of any
consumer while the system or any part thereof is undergoing repairs or when
there is a shortage of water due to circumstances over which the city has no
control.
(Neb. RS 17-537) (1973 Code, § 3-109)
§ 51.09 FIRE HYDRANTS.
   All hydrants for the purpose of extinguishing fires are hereby declared to
be public hydrants, and it shall be unlawful for any person other than members
of the City Fire Department under the orders of the Fire Chief or the Assistant
Fire Chief, or members of the Water Department, to open or attempt to open any
of the hydrants and draw water from the same, or in any manner to interfere
with the hydrants.
(1973 Code, § 3-110) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.10 FIRE SUPPRESSION.
   (A)   Fees for water taps for fire suppression only. The city shall
initially pay for the costs and materials for tapping the main up to the
utility customer’s property line or valve stop. No person other than the
Director of Public Works or his or her designate shall tap the water main. The
utility customer shall pay a tapping fee of $300 and shall pay for the cost of
materials for the tap, including tap, pipe and valve, for all taps that are
required solely for fire suppression and/or sprinkler systems. The utility
customer, at his or her sole expense, shall pay to bring the tap from the
property line, or valve stop, to the premise.
   (B)   Repairs and maintenance relating to water lines solely for the purpose
of fire suppression. The city shall repair or replace, as the case may be, all
supply and valves up to the property line or valve stop. The utility customer
shall, at his or her own expense, be responsible for the repair and replacement
of the fire suppression line from the valve stop to the premises.
   (C)   Fire suppression water lines monthly rate and metering. The city shall
not meter or charge a monthly fee for water lines that are installed and
maintained solely for the purpose of fire suppression.
(1973 Code, § 3-110.01) (Ord. 756, passed 1-11-2007)
§ 51.11 POLLUTION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to pollute or attempt to pollute any
stream or source of water for the supply of the City Water Department.
(Neb. RS 17-536) (1973 Code, § 3-111) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.12 DESTRUCTION OF PROPERTY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to willfully or carelessly break,
injure, or deface any building, machinery, apparatus, fixture, attachment, or
appurtenance of the City Water Department. No person may deposit anything in a
stop box or commit any act tending to obstruct or impair the intended use of
any of the above-mentioned property without the written permission of the
Director of Public Works.
(1973 Code, § 3-112) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.13 BONDED PLUMBER.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any plumber or pipefitter to do any work upon
any of the pipes or appurtenances of the system of waterworks, or to make any
connection with or extension of the supply pipes of any consumer taking water
from the system until the plumber or pipefitter shall have first deposited a
bond in the amount and style as required by the City Council with the city.
   (B)   All plumbing shall be done in the manner required by the Director of
Public Works.
   (C)   The bonded plumber shall be at all times subject to the inspection and
approval of the Director of Public Works and it shall be further unlawful to
cover or conceal willfully any defective or unsatisfactory plumbing work.
(Neb. RS 17-537) (1973 Code, § 3-113)
§ 51.14 PROHIBITION OF LEAD PIPES, SOLDER, AND FLUX.
   (A)   Any pipe, solders, or flux used in the installation or repair of any
residential or nonresidential facility which is connected to the public water
supply system shall be lead free.
   (B)   For purposes of this section, LEAD FREE shall mean:
      (1)   Solders and flux: not more than 0.20% lead, or the amount as set
forth by the Nebraska Department of Health and Human Services; and
      (2)   Pipe and pipe fittings: not more than 0.25% lead, or the amount as
set forth by the Nebraska Department of Health and Human Services.
(Neb. RS 71-5,301) (1973 Code, § 3-116) (Ord. 598, passed 5-12-1988; Ord. 965,
passed 5-14-2020) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.15 DEPOSIT.
   In the event that the electrical service is disconnected by the city because
of nonpayment of the utility bill, the deposit shall be applied towards the
unpaid bill and prior to reconnecting the service, the unpaid bill shall be
paid in full along with the reconnect fee and the person requesting the
reconnection shall deposit with the city an amount equal to double the deposit
held by the city prior to the disconnection.
(1973 Code, § 3-117) (Ord. 613, passed 5-9-1991; Ord. 965, passed 5-14-2020)
§ 51.16 (RESERVED).
§ 51.17 CONNECTION REQUIRED.
   All persons within 300 feet of a water main shall be required, upon notice
by the governing body, to hook-up with the municipal water system.
(Ord. 812, passed 10-14-2001)
§ 51.18 WATER WELLS.
   (A)   No permits will be issued for the drilling of any water well, potable
or other within the city limits of the City of Bridgeport, Morrill County
Nebraska. Sump pumps within buildings and sand points used to dewater buildings
are exempt from this section.
   (B)   No permits will be issued within city limits or within the zoning
jurisdiction of the city for construction of any of the following, if they are
within the stated distances of any municipal water well for the city:
      Category            Distance (in feet)
      Water well               1,000
      Sewage lagoon            1,000
      Land application of municipal
       or industrial waste material      1,000
      Feedlot or feedlot runoff         1,000
      Underground disposal system
       (septic system, cesspool, etc)       500
      Corral                   500
      Pit toilet/vault toilet             500
      Wastewater holding tanks          500
      Sanitary landfill/dump          500
      Chemical or petroleum product
       storage                500
      Sewage treatment plant          500
      Sewage wet well             500
      Sanitary sewer connection          100
      Sanitary sewer manhole          100
      Sanitary sewer line             50
   (C)   Any of the above for which permits are granted must be constructed to
State of Nebraska Standards and any of the above that are required to be
constructed by licensed contractors by the State of Nebraska shall be so
required by this section.
(Ord. 830, passed 10-6-2011)
§ 51.19 BULK WATER USERS AND RATES.
   (A)   Bulk water user defined. Any user or purchaser of water that does not
have access to water release valve with a permanently fixed meter owned by the
city shall be considered a bulk water user.
   (B)   Bulk water rates. A bulk water user shall purchase the water at a rate
of two and one- half times the currently adopted usage rate for a property that
is currently connected to the city's water system at the completion of their
use. The bulk water user shall accurately report the total amount used to the
City Clerk, or their representative, who shall calculate the amount due to the
city plus sales tax. For the purposes of billing the time of reporting the
water used shall be deemed the time of consumption and thereby the appropriate
charge.
(Ord. 866, passed 2-14-2013)
BACKFLOW/BACKSIPHONAGE PREVENTION
§ 51.30 STATEMENT OF POLICY.
   (A)   The purpose of this subchapter is:
      (1)   To protect the public potable water supply of the city water system
from contamination or pollution by containing within the consumer's internal
distribution system or private water system contaminants or pollutants which
could backflow through the service connection into the public potable water
supply system;
      (2)   To promote the elimination, containment, isolation, or control of
existing cross connections, actual or potential, between the public or
consumer's potable water systems and nonpotable water systems, plumbing
fixtures, and industrial process systems; and
      (3)   To provide for the maintenance of a continuing program of cross
connection control which will systematically and effectively prevent the
contamination or pollution of all potable water systems.
   (B)   This subchapter shall apply to all premises served by the public
potable water system of the city.
   (C)   The City Water Department shall be primarily responsible for
protection of the public potable water distribution system from contamination
or pollution due to backflow or contaminants or pollutants through the water
service connection. The consumer is responsible for preventing contamination of
the water system within consumer's own premises.
(1973 Code, § 3-119) (Ord. 691, passed 1-7-1999)
§ 51.31 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AIR GAP SEPARATION. The unobstructed vertical distance through the free
atmosphere between the lowest opening from any pipe or faucet supplying water
to a tank, plumbing fixture, or other device and the overflow level rim of the
receptacle.
   APPROVED TESTER. A person qualified to make inspections; to test and repair
backflow prevention/cross-connection control devices; and who is approved by
the city.
   AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE. Any person designated by the city to administer
this subchapter. Unless otherwise specified, the Director of Public Works shall
be the authorized representative.
   AUXILIARY WATER SUPPLY. Any water source system, other than the public water
supply, that may be available in the building or premises.
   BACKFLOW. The flow other than the intended direction of flow, of any foreign
liquids, gases, or substances into the distribution system of a public water
supply.
   BACKFLOW PREVENTION DEVICE. Any device, method, or type of construction
intended to prevent backflow into a potable water system provided backflow
preventers have been tested and approved by a reputable testing laboratory.
   BACKSIPHONAGE. The flowing back of water, or other foreign liquids, gases,
or substances into the water distribution system due to negative pressure in
the piping of the water distribution system.
   CONSUMER. The owner or person in control of any premises supplied by or in
any manner connected to a public water system.
   CONTAINMENT. Protection of the public water supply by installing a cross-
connection control device or air gap separation on the main service line to a
facility, or as an installation within equipment handling potentially hazardous
materials.
   CONTAMINATION. An impairment of the quality of the water by sewage, process
fluids, or other wastes to a degree which could create an actual hazard to the
public health through poisoning or through spread of disease by exposure.
   CROSS-CONNECTION. Any physical link, between a potable water supply and any
other substance, fluid, or source, which makes possible contamination of the
potable water supply due to the reversal of flow of the water in the piping or
distribution system.
   HAZARD, DEGREE OF. An evaluation of the potential risk to public health and
the adverse effect of the hazard upon the potable water system.
      (1)   HAZARD, HEALTH. Any condition, device, or practice in the water
supply system and its operation which could create or may create a danger to
the health and well-being of the water consumer.
      (2)   HAZARD, PLUMBING. A plumbing type cross-connection in a consumer's
potable water system that has not been properly protected by a vacuum breaker,
air gap separation or backflow prevention device.
      (3)   HAZARD, POLLUTIONAL. An actual or potential threat to the physical
properties of the water system or to the consumer's potable water system but
which would constitute a nuisance or be aesthetically objectionable or could
cause damage to the system or its appurtenances, but would not be dangerous to
health.
      (4)   HAZARD, SYSTEM. An actual or potential threat of severe damage to
the physical properties of the public potable water system or the consumer's
potable water system, or of a pollution or contamination which would have a
protracted effect on the quality of the potable water in the system.
   ISOLATION. Protection of a facility service line by installing a cross-
connection control device or air gap separation on an individual fixture,
appurtenance, or system.
   POLLUTION. The presence of any foreign substance (organic, inorganic, or
biological) in water which tends to degrade its quality so as to constitute a
hazard or impair the usefulness of the water to a degree which does not create
an actual hazard to the public health, but which does adversely and
unreasonably affect the waters for domestic use.
   PUBLIC POTABLE WATER SYSTEM. Any publicly or privately owned water system
supplying water to the general public which is satisfactory for drinking,
culinary and domestic purposes and meets the requirements of the State
Department of Health.
   SERVICE CONNECTION. The terminal end of a service line from the public water
system. If a meter is installed at the end of the service, then the SERVICE
CONNECTION means the down stream end of the meter.
   WATER DEPARTMENT. The City Water Department of the City of Bridgeport,
Nebraska.
(1973 Code, § 3-120) (Ord. 691, passed 1-7-1999)
§ 51.32 CROSS-CONNECTIONS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No water service connection shall be installed or maintained to any
premises where actual or potential cross-connections to the public water supply
system may exist, unless the actual or potential cross-connections are abated
or controlled to the satisfaction of the city or its authorized representative.
   (B)   No connection shall be installed or maintained whereby an auxiliary
water supply may enter a public water supply system.
   (C)   No water service connection shall be installed or maintained to any
premises in which the plumbing system, facilities, and fixtures have not been
constructed and installed using acceptable plumbing practices considered by the
City Water Department as necessary for the protection of health and safety.
(1973 Code, § 3-121) (Ord. 691, passed 1-7-1999) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.33 SURVEY AND INVESTIGATIONS.
   (A)   The consumer's premises shall be open at all reasonable times to the
city or its authorized representative, for surveys and investigations of water
use practices within the consumer's premises to determine whether there are
actual or potential cross-connections in the consumer's water system.
   (B)   On request by the city or its authorized representative, the consumer
shall furnish requested information on water use practices within his or her
premises and in the consumer's water system.
   (C)   On request by the city or its authorized representative, the consumer
shall conduct periodic surveys of water use practices on the premises of the
consumer's water system to determine whether there are actual or potential
cross-connections. The consumer shall provide the survey results to the city or
its authorized representative.
(1973 Code, § 3-122) (Ord. 691, passed 1-7-1999) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.34 WHERE PROTECTION IS REQUIRED.
   (A)   An approved backflow prevention device shall be installed between the
service connection and the point of potential backflow into a consumer's water
supply system when in the judgment of the city or its authorized representative
a health, plumbing, pollution, or system hazard exists.
   (B)   An approved air gap separation or reduced pressure principle backflow
prevention device shall be installed at the service connection or within any
premises where, in the judgment of the City Water Department, the nature and
extent of activities on the premises, or the materials used in connection with
the activities, or materials stored on the premises, would present an immediate
and dangerous hazard to health should a cross-connection occur, even though the
cross-connection may not exist at the time the backflow prevention device is
required to be installed. This includes, but is not limited to, the following
situations:
      (1)   Premises having an auxiliary water supply, unless the quality of
the auxiliary supply is acceptable to the city, or its authorized
representative and the State Department of Health;
      (2)   Premises having internal cross-connections that are not
correctable, or intricate plumbing arrangements which make it impractical to
ascertain whether or not cross-connections exist;
      (3)   Premises where entry is restricted so that inspections for cross-
connections cannot be made with sufficient frequency or at sufficiently short
notice to assure the cross-connections do not exist;
      (4)   Premises having a repeated history of cross-connections being
established or reestablished;
      (5)   Premises, which due to the nature of the enterprise therein, are
subject to recurring modification or expansion;
      (6)   Premises on which any substance is handled under pressure so as to
permit entry into the public water supply system, or where a cross-connection
could reasonably be expected to occur. This shall include the handling of
process waters and cooling waters; and
      (7)   Premises where toxic or hazardous materials are handled.
   (C)   The following types of facilities fall into one or more of the
categories or premises where an approved air gap separation or reduced pressure
principle backflow prevention device may be required by the city or its
authorized representative or the State Department of Health to protect the
public water supply and must be installed at these facilities unless all
hazardous or potentially hazardous conditions have been eliminated or corrected
by other methods to the satisfaction of the city, its authorized representative
and the State Department of Health:
      (1)   Agricultural chemical facilities;
      (2)   Auxiliary water systems, wells;
      (3)   Premises having water recirculating systems as used for boilers or
cooling systems;
      (4)   Bulk water loading facilities;
      (5)   Car washes, automobile servicing facilities;
      (6)   Feedlots;
      (7)   Fire protection systems;
      (8)   Hazardous waste storage and disposal sites;
      (9)   Outdoor faucets, irrigation and lawn sprinkler systems;
      (10)   Laundries and dry cleaning;
      (11)   Petroleum processing or storage plants;
      (12)   Beauty salons;
      (13)   Schools;
      (14)   Sewage pumping stations; and
      (15)   Other commercial or industrial facilities which may constitute
potential cross-connections.
(1973 Code, § 3-123) (Ord. 691, passed 1-7-1999) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.35 TYPE OF PROTECTION REQUIRED.
   (A)   Generally. The type of protection required by this subchapter shall
depend on the degree of hazard which exists, as follows.
   (B)   Specifically.
      (1)   An approved air gap separation shall be installed where the potable
water system may be contaminated with substances that could cause a severe
health hazard.
      (2)   An approved air gap separation or an approved reduced pressure
principle backflow prevention device shall be installed where the public
potable water system may be contaminated with a substance that could cause a
health hazard.
      (3)   An approved air gap separation or an approved reduced pressure
principle backflow prevention device or an approved double check valve assembly
shall be installed where the public potable water system may be polluted with
substances what could cause a pollutional hazard not dangerous to health.
(1973 Code, § 3-124) (Ord. 691, passed 1-7-1999) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.36 BACKFLOW PREVENTION DEVICES.
   (A)   Any backflow prevention device required by this subchapter shall be of
a model or construction approved by the city or its authorized representative
and the State Department of Health.
   (B)   Air gap separation to be approved shall be at least twice the diameter
of the supply pipe measured vertically above the top rim of the vessel, but in
no case less than one inch.
   (C)   Double check valve assemblies or reduced pressure principle backflow
prevention devices shall appear on the current list of approved backflow
prevention devices established by the State Department of Health, unless the
device was installed prior to the time this subchapter were passed and complies
with required inspection and maintenance.
(1973 Code, § 3-125) (Ord. 691, passed 1-7-1999) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.37 INSTALLATION.
   (A)   Backflow prevention devices required by this subchapter shall be
installed at a location and in a manner approved by the city or its authorized
agent. All devices shall be installed at the expense of the consumer.
   (B)   Backflow prevention devices installed at the service connection shall
be located on the consumer's side of the water meter (if one is installed), or
the corporation stop, as close to the meter as is reasonably practical, and
prior to any other connection.
   (C)   Backflow prevention devices shall be conveniently accessible for
maintenance and testing, protected from freezing, and where no part of the
device will be submerged or subject to flooding by any fluid. All devices shall
be installed according to manufacturer's recommendations.
   (D)   The consumer shall install backflow prevention devices on all outdoor
faucets at the cost of the consumer.
(1973 Code, § 3-126) (Ord. 691, passed 1-7-1999; Ord. 965, passed 5-14-2020)
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.38 TESTING.
   Backflow and backsiphonage prevention devices designed to be tested shall be
tested for proper operation annually or when necessary in the opinion of the
city or its authorized representative. Actual testing shall be at the expense
of the consumer. Any required maintenance or repairs shall be at the expense of
the consumer and subject to the approval of the city. If testing shall require
entry into the premises, the city’s authorized representative shall give notice
setting forth a proposed date and time to the consumer at least ten days in
advance by first-class mail, return receipt requested, or by personal contact.
If the consumer cannot make the premises available for inspection on that date
and time, the consumer shall contact the city’s authorized representative to
arrange another date and time.
(1973 Code, § 3-127) (Ord. 691, passed 1-7-1999; Ord. 965, passed 5-14-2020)
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.39 AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE; AUTHORITY.
   The authorized representative shall have the authority to issue any order
consistent with the provisions of this subchapter in order to protect the
public health and safety. Any order of the authorized representative shall be
in writing and shall clearly state the nature of the order, compliance
requirements, and set a reasonable date by which compliance must be met. All
orders will be mailed to the consumer by certified mail, return receipt
requested.
(1973 Code, § 3-128) (Ord. 691, passed 1-7-1999)
§ 51.40 APPEALS.
   (A)   In the event that it is claimed that the true intent and meaning of
this subchapter has been wrongfully interpreted by the authorized
representative; the time allowed for compliance with any order of the
authorized representative is too short; or that conditions peculiar to a
particular premises make it unreasonably difficult to meet the literal
requirements prescribed by this subchapter, the owner may file a written notice
of appeal with the City Clerk/Treasurer within ten days after the decision or
order of the authorized representative has been made. The Mayor and City
Council shall hear all appeals and shall have the power and authority, when
appealed to, to modify the decision or order of the authorized representative.
The decision shall be final, subject only to any remedy which the aggrieved
party may have at law or equity.
   (B)   Appeals shall be in writing and shall state the reason for the appeal.
(1973 Code, § 3-129) (Ord. 691, passed 1-7-1999)
§ 51.41 VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   The city or its authorized representative shall deny or discontinue
the water service to any premises or any consumer wherein any backflow
prevention device required by this subchapter is not installed, tested, and
maintained in a manner acceptable to the city or its authorized representative,
or if it is found that the backflow prevention device has been removed or
bypassed, or if an unprotected cross-connection exists.
   (B)   Water service to the premises shall not be restored until the consumer
is in compliance with this subchapter to the satisfaction of the city or its
authorized representative.
   (C)   Noncompliance by the consumer with this subchapter or orders issued
under these sections shall constitute an infraction under this code and subject
the consumer to the penalties set forth herein.
(1973 Code, § 3-130) (Ord. 691, passed 1-7-1999) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.42 LIABILITY CLAIMS.
   The authorized representative shall be relieved from personal liability. The
city shall hold harmless the authorized representative when acting in good
faith and without malice, from all personal liability for any damage that may
occur to any person or property as a result of any act or omission of the
authorized representative in the discharge of his or her duties hereunder.
(1973 Code, § 3-131) (Ord. 691, passed 1-7-1999)
§ 51.43 CUSTOMER INSTALLATION, MAINTENANCE, AND TESTING.
   (A)   A cross-connection control officer shall be appointed by the City
Council to oversee the enforcement of this section. This person shall be
responsible for reviewing the surveys submitted by the customers of the City
Water Department and determining if a backflow prevention device is required to
comply with Title 179, NAC 2, Regulations Governing Public Water Supply
Systems.
   (B)   All customers of the City Water Department shall be required to report
to the cross-connection control officer any potential cross-connections which
may be on their premises. This report shall he or she made at least every five
years.
   (C)   A customer or the City Water Department may be required by the cross-
connection control officer to install and maintain a properly located backflow
prevention device at the customer's expense appropriate to the potential hazard
as set forth in Title 179, NAC 2, Regulations Governing Public Water Supply
Systems, and approved by the cross-connection control officer.
      (1)   The customer shall make application to the cross-connection control
officer to install a required back flow prevention device on a form provided by
the city. The application shall contain at a minimum the name and address of
the applicant, the type of backflow prevention device to be installed,
including make and model number, and the location of the proposed installation.
      (2)   The cross-connection control officer shall approve or disapprove
the application based on whether the installation will protect the city water
distribution system from potential backflow and backsiphonage hazards.
      (3)   When a testable back flow prevention device shall be required, the
customer shall also certify to the city at least one time annually that the
back flow prevention device has been tested by a State Health and Human
Services System Grade VI certified water operator. The certification shall be
made on a form in available at the office of the City Clerk/Treasurer.
      (4)   Any decision of the cross-connection control officer may be
appealed to the City Council of the city, whose decision shall be final.
   (D)   Any customer refusing to report on possible cross-connections on their
premises, refusing to install the necessary backflow prevention device, or
failing to have a testable backflow prevention device tested at least annually
shall be in violation of this section and may have their water service
discontinued. Any customer who has had their service discontinued for violation
of this section shall be subject to a $100 reconnect fee to have the service
reinstated alter supplying proof that the potential cross-connection has been
eliminated or properly protected.
(1973 Code, § 3-132) (Ord. 740, passed 2-10-2005)
DROUGHT EMERGENCY CONTINGENCY PLAN
§ 51.55 ADOPTION.
   (A)   Generally. The city shall address any short-term water shortage
problems through a series of stages based on conditions of supply and demand
with accompanying triggers, goals, and actions. Each stage is more stringent in
water use than the previous stage since there will be greater deterioration in
water supply conditions. The Mayor is hereby authorized to implement the
appropriate conservation measures as set forth in this section, when any of the
conditions have been reached which would qualify for any of the specific
stages. The Mayor is given discretion to declare each particular stage as
deemed appropriate by the Mayor by reviewing the severity of the trigger
conditions and other additional information, and is further authorized to
implement conservation measures within the guidelines provided for each
particular stage.
   (B)   Stage One, water watch.
      (1)   Triggers. This stage is triggered by any one of the following
conditions:
         (a)   Ground water levels have fallen five feet below normal seasonal
levels; or
         (b)   System pressure falls below 35 pounds per square inch.
      (2)   Goals. The goals of this stage are to heighten awareness of the
public of the water conditions and to maintain the integrity of the system.
      (3)   Management actions.
         (a)   Leaks will be repaired within 48 hours of detection.
         (b)   The city will monitor its use of water and will curtail
activities such as hydrant flushing and street cleaning.
      (4)   Regulation actions. The public will be informed through the local
media of the water watch and be asked to voluntarily reduce outdoor water use
and to efficiently use water for indoor purposes, for example, washing full
loads of clothing and/or dishes, limiting the length and frequency of showers,
checking for water leaks and dripping of faucets, to prevent any unnecessary
use of water.
   (C)   Stage Two, water warning.
      (1)   Triggers. This stage is triggered by any one of the following
conditions:
         (a)   Ground water levels have fallen ten feet below normal seasonal
levels;
         (b)   System pressure falls below 35 pounds per square inch; or
         (c)   Plant operations are at 80% capacity for more than three
consecutive days.
      (2)   Goals. The goals of this stage are to reduce peak demands by 20%
and to reduce overall weekly consumption by 10%.
      (3)   Management actions.
         (a)   Water supply will be monitored daily.
         (b)   Leaks will be repaired within 24 hours of detection.
         (c)   Pumpage at wells will be reduced to decrease drawdown and to
maintain water levels over well screens.
         (d)   City will curtail its water usage, including watering of city
grounds and washing of vehicles.
      (4)   Regulation actions. In addition to the regulation actions under
Stage One, the following regulatory authority may be exercised by the Mayor.
         (a)   An odd/even lawn watering system will be imposed on city
residents. Residents with odd-numbered houses will water on odd days, even-
numbered houses, on even days.
         (b)   Outdoor water use, including lawn watering and car washing will
be restricted to before 10:00 a.m. and after 9:00 p.m.
         (c)   Refilling of swimming pools will be limited to one day a week
after sunset.
         (d)   Excess water use charges for usage of water over the amount used
in the winter will be imposed at a rate twice the normal rate for water usage.
         (e)   Waste of water will be prohibited.
   (D)   Stage Three, water emergency.
      (1)   Triggers. This stage is triggered by any one of the following
conditions:
         (a)   Ground water levels have fallen 15 feet below normal seasonal
levels;
         (b)   System pressure falls below 35 pounds per square inch;
         (c)   Pumping lowers water levels to within five feet of the top of
the well screens; or
         (d)   Plant operations are at 90% capacity for more that three
consecutive days.
      (2)   Goals. The goals of this stage are to reduce peak demands by 50%
and to reduce overall consumption by 25%.
      (3)   Education actions.
         (a)   The city will make news releases to local media describing
current conditions and indicate the water supply outlook for the city.
         (b)   The city will hold public meeting(s) to discuss the emergency,
the status of the water supply, and further actions which need to be taken.
      (4)   Management actions.
         (a)   The city water supplies will be monitored daily.
         (b)   Leaks will be repaired within 24 hours of detection.
         (c)   Standby wells will be activated for contingency operation.
         (d)   Pumpage at wells will be reduced to decrease drawdown and to
maintain water levels over well screens.
         (e)   The city will seek additional emergency supplies from other
users, the state, or federal government.
      (5)   Regulation actions. In addition to the regulation actions available
under Stage Two, the following regulatory authority may be exercised by the
Mayor:
         (a)   Outdoor water use will be banned, except for businesses which
require outdoor water use to operate; and
         (b)   Waste of water will be prohibited.
      (6)   Enforcement. In the event that any water consumer fails to comply
with the regulatory action taken by the city, then the Mayor may direct the
immediate discontinuation of water service to the location which is not in
compliance with the restrictions imposed. Water service may be resumed upon the
Mayor being provided adequate evidence to show that compliance has been
instituted and that compliance will continue under the restrictions imposed.
(1973 Code, § 3-133) (Ord. 751, passed 6-8-2006)
APPENDIX A: WATER AND WASTEWATER RATES
   (A)   Water rates - flat rate schedule.  
      (1)   Effective on the billing date on or after October 1, 2016, to be
made to users of water supplied by the City Water Department, the rates charged
by the City Water Department shall be as follows:
         (a)   Customer charge. All residential and
commercial            $40.40/month
         (b)   Usage, per 100 gallons                        $.28
      (2)   Customer's partial month of usage pro-rated for base charge. Users
of water supplied by the city base charge shall be charged on a pro-rated
system of equal amounts per day of each month that the property is hooked up
and in service. At no time shall this amount exceed the maximum base rate per
month and the minimum shall be $5.
   (B)   Wastewater rates - flat rate schedule. Effective on the billing dates
indicated below, users of wastewater supplied by the City Wastewater
Department, the rates charged by the City Wastewater Department shall be as
follows:
Type Rate - 10/1/2019
Type                                                      Rate - 10/1/2019
Residential customers                                     $26.36
Apartment complex, less than 3 apartments                 $46.97
Apartment complex, 3 or more apartments, but less than 7  $139.85
Apartment complex, 7 or more apartments, but less than 10 $196.36
Apartment complex, 10 or more apartments                  $227.94
Bar and/or restaurant                                     $36.38
Community center                                          $110.60
Concrete plant                                            $174.23
Courthouse                                                $174.23
Fertilizer plant                                          $57.58
Grocery store                                             $36.38
Hotel or motel                                            $89.37
Laundromat or car wash                                    $68.58
Nursing home or hospital, 20 beds or less                 $110.58
Nursing home or hospital, 21 beds or more                 $269.66
Roads Department, using process water                     $59.65
School                                                    $215.57
Service station, with fertilizer                          $36.38
Service station, with gas and public restrooms            $46.97
All other business not identified above                   $26.36
 
(Ord. 783, passed 11-6-2008; Ord. 794, passed 6-11-2009; Ord. 808, passed 9-16-
2010; Ord. 809, passed 9-16-2010; Ord. 858, passed 11-8-2012; Ord. 859, passed
12-15-2012; Ord. 888, passed 10-28-2014; Ord. 897, passed 9-29-2015; Ord. 945,
passed 10-11-2018)
CHAPTER 52: SEWERS
Section
Sewer Department; Generally
   
52.001   Operation and funding
   
52.002   Sewer contract
   
52.003   Mandatory hook-up
   
52.004   Direct connections
   
52.005   Installation procedure
   
52.006   Installation expense
   
52.007   Sewer tap permit; fee
   
52.008   Repairs and maintenance
   
52.009   Classification
   
52.010   Rate setting
   
52.011   Old house sewers
   
52.012   Prohibited discharges; stormwater, surface water, groundwater, cooling
water, and process water
   
52.013   Special equipment
   
52.014   Manholes
   
52.015   Lien
   
52.016   Definitions
   
52.017   Operation, Maintenance, and Replacement Fund
   
52.018   Rates and charges; classified
   
52.019   Surcharge; when required
Public Sewers Required
   
52.030   Unlawful deposit of wastes
   
52.031   Unlawful discharge of untreated sewage
   
52.032   Cesspools, privies, and septic tanks prohibited
   
52.033   Mandatory hook-up
Private Sewage Disposal
   
52.045   When applicable
   
52.046   Permit required; fee
   
52.047   Permit; when effective; inspections
   
52.048   Specifications
   
52.049   Maintenance
   
52.050   Additional requirements
Building Sewer Installation
   
52.065   Permit required
   
52.066   Classification; permit application; fee
   
52.067   Expense
   
52.068   Single premise
   
52.069   Use of existing sewers
   
52.070   Construction codes
   
52.071   Unlawful connection
   
52.072   Inspections
   
52.073   Excavations
Hazardous and Prohibited Discharges
   
52.085   Flammable, toxic, corrosive, and obstructive substances; preliminary
treatment
   
52.086   Specific prohibitions as determined by Director of Public Works
   
52.087   Rejection, pretreatment, control of discharge rate, or use fee
surcharge
General Provisions
   
52.100   Grease, oil, and sand interceptors; when required
   
52.101   Preliminary treatment or flow-equalizing facilities; maintenance by
owner
   
52.102   Control manholes/sampling stations; when required; installation and
maintenance
   
52.103   Control manholes/sampling stations; method
   
52.104   Sanitary supply system; destruction of property
   
52.105   Hazardous and prohibited substances; special exceptions permitted; use
fee surcharge
   
52.106   Compliance with this chapter
   
52.107   Violations; notice and liability
   
52.108   Sewage disposal; rates
 
   
52.999   Penalty
SEWER DEPARTMENT; GENERALLY
§ 52.001 OPERATION AND FUNDING.
   The city owns and operates the city sewer system through the Director of
Public Works. The City Council, for the purpose of defraying the cost of the
management and maintenance of the city sewer system may each year levy a tax
not exceeding the maximum limit prescribed by state law on the actual valuation
of all real estate and personal property within the corporate limits that is
subject to taxation. The revenue from the tax shall be known as the Sewer
Maintenance Fund. The Director of Public Works shall have the direct management
and control of the Sewer Department and shall faithfully carry out the duties
of his or her office. He or she shall have the authority to adopt rules and
regulations for the sanitary and efficient management of the Department subject
to the supervision and review of the City Council.
(Neb. RS 17-149 and 17-925.01) (1973 Code, § 3-201)
§ 52.002 SEWER CONTRACT.
   The city, through the City Sewer Department, shall furnish sewer services to
persons within its corporate limits whose premises abut a street or alley in
which a commercial main is now or may hereafter be laid. The city may also
furnish sewer service to persons whose premises are situated outside the
corporate limits of the city, as and when, according to law, the City Council
may see fit to do so. The rules, regulations, and sewer rental rates
hereinafter named in this chapter, shall be considered a part of every
application hereafter made for sewer service and shall be considered a part of
the contract between every customer now or hereafter served. Without further
formality, the making of the application on the part of any applicant or the
use of sewer service by present customers thereof shall constitute a contract
between the customer and the city to which the contract both parties are bound.
If the customer shall violate any of the provisions of the contract or any
reasonable rules and regulations that the City Council may hereafter adopt, the
Director of Public Works, or his or her agent, may cut off or disconnect the
sewer service from the building or premise of the violation. No further
connection for sewer service to the building or premise shall again be made
save or except by order of the Director of Public Works or his or her agent.
(Neb. RS 17-901 and 17-902) (1973 Code, § 3-202)
§ 52.003 MANDATORY HOOK-UP.
   The property owner, occupant or lessee of any premise that abuts a sewer
main that is now or may hereafter be laid shall without delay, cause the said
building to be connected with sewer system and equipped with inside sewerage
facilities. Every building hereafter erected shall be connected with the sewer
system at the time of its construction. In the event that any property owner,
occupant or lessee shall neglect, fail or refuse within a period of ten days
after notice has been given to him or her to do so by registered mail or by
publication in a newspaper in or of general circulation in the municipality to
make such connection, the governing body shall have the power to cause the same
to be done, to assess the cost thereof against the property and to collect the
assessment thus made in the manner provided for collection of other special
taxes and assessments.
(Neb. RS 17-149 and 17-149.01) (1973 Code, § 3-203) (Ord. 513, passed 6-15-
1981; Ord. 812, passed 10-14-2010) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.004 DIRECT CONNECTIONS.
   Each and every building must make a direct connection with the main sewer
line. Under no circumstances will two or more houses be allowed to make the
connections through one pipe.
(Neb. RS 18-503) (1973 Code, § 3-204) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.005 INSTALLATION PROCEDURE.
   In making excavations in streets, alleys, or sidewalks for the purpose of
installing pipe, or making repairs, the paving, stones, and earth must be
removed and deposited in a manner that will occasion the least inconvenience to
the public and provide for adequate drainage. No person shall leave an
excavation made in the street, alley, or sidewalk open at any time without a
barricade, and during the night, warning lights. After the house sewer is laid,
the public ways and property shall be restored to good condition. If the
excavation in the public ways and property is left open or unfinished for a
period of 24 hours or more, the Director of Public Works shall have the duty to
finish or correct the work, and all expenses so incurred shall be charged to
the owner, occupant, or lessee of the property. All installations or repairs of
pipes require two inspections by the Director of Public Works. The first
inspection shall be made when connections or repairs are complete and before
the pipes are covered. The second inspection shall be made after the dirt work
is completed and the service restored. It is the customers responsibility to
notify the Director of Public Works at the time the work is ready for each
inspection. All installation shall be done under the supervision and strictly
in accordance with the rules, regulations, and specifications for the
installation prescribed by the Director of Public Works; provided, that the
rules, regulations, and specifications have been reviewed and approved by the
City Council.
(Neb. RS 18-503) (1973 Code, § 3-205) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.006 INSTALLATION EXPENSE.
   The customer, upon approval of his or her application for sewer service,
shall pay to the Director of Public Works a tap fee which shall compensate the
city for the expense of processing his or her application. The Director of
Public Works, in his or her discretion, may direct the customer to hire a
bonded plumber to tap the main. The customer shall then be required to pay the
expense of procuring the materials required as well as the services of a bonded
plumber and shall pay all other costs of installation.
(Neb. RS 18-503) (1973 Code, § 3-206)
§ 52.007 SEWER TAP PERMIT; FEE.
   Before a sewer tap or water tap permit shall issue, the owner of the
premises from which the connection is to be made shall pay to the City Clerk/
Treasurer a fee as provided in §
52.006. If the premises abut a street or alley in which the sewer line or water
line is situated; the premises have not been included within a district, if
any, created for the purpose of construction of the sewer or water line; no
part of the cost of construction of the sewer line or the water line has been
paid by the owner or previous owners, as such, of the premises (otherwise than,
possibly by furnishing the right-of-way or by payment of general taxes or sewer
or water service charges); and the cost, or a part thereof, has been paid by
the city, no permit to tap the sewer or water line shall be issued until the
owner of the premises shall pay to the City Clerk/Treasurer or make arrangement
for payment of the fees by agreement with the city, in addition, a fee in an
amount equal to $9 per each running foot of the premises abutting the street or
alley, or part thereof, in which the sewer is situated, and a fee in an amount
of $9 per each running foot of the premises abutting the street or alley, or
party thereof, in which a sewer tap or water tap is issued as well as all other
premises owned by the applicant abutting the street or alley or part thereof in
which the sewer line or water line is situated. In determining the total
distance the width of the lot on which the water or sewer tap is applied for
shall be added to the width of any adjacent lots lowed by the person or persons
applying for the water or sewer tap and which have not had the water or sewer
lines assessed to them. The amounts shall be placed in the sewer or water fund
of the city and shall not be subject to refund.
(1973 Code, § 3-206.1) (Ord. 512, passed 6-15-1981; Ord. 535, passed 8-11-1983;
Ord. 555, passed 2-7-1985; Ord. 734, passed 8-5-2004)
§ 52.008 REPAIRS AND MAINTENANCE.
   The city shall repair or replace, as the case may be, all pipe constituting
major sewer mains. It shall be the responsibility of the customer to repair or
replace all other sewer pipe and appurtenances from the main to and including
the customer’s property. All replacements and repairs made by the customer
shall be done in the manner and with the materials approved by the Director of
Public Works; provided, that the same have been previously approved by the City
Council.
(1973 Code, § 3-207) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.009 CLASSIFICATION.
   The City Council may classify for the purpose of rental fees the customers
of the City Sewer Department; provided, that the classifications are reasonable
and do not discriminate unlawfully against any consumer or group of consumers.
(Neb. RS 17-925.02) (1973 Code, § 3-208)
§ 52.010 RATE SETTING.
   Customers of the City Sewer Department shall be charged a rate for the use
of sewer service. Rates shall be set by ordinance and shall be on file at the
office of the City Clerk/Treasurer for public inspection at any reasonable
time.
(1973 Code, § 3-209)
§ 52.011 OLD HOUSE SEWERS.
   Old house sewers and drains may be used in connection with new buildings or
new plumbing only when they are found, on examination by the Director of Public
Works, to conform in all respects to the requirements governing new sewers and
drains. If the old work is found defective or otherwise unsatisfactory, he or
she shall notify the owner to make the necessary changes to conform with the
provisions of this code.
(1973 Code, § 3-211) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.012 PROHIBITED DISCHARGES; STORMWATER, SURFACE WATER, GROUNDWATER, COOLING
WATER, AND PROCESS WATER.
   (A)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any stormwater,
surface water, groundwater, roof runoff, subsurface drainage, including
interior and exterior foundation drains, uncontaminated cooling water, or
unpolluted industrial waters to any sanitary sewer.
   (B)   Stormwater and all other unpolluted drainage shall be discharged to
the sewers as are specifically designated as combined sewers or storm sewers,
or to a natural outlet approved by the Director of Public Works. Industrial
cooling water or unpolluted process water may be discharged, on approval of the
Director of Public Works, to a storm sewer, combined sewer, or natural outlet.
(1973 Code, § 3-212) (Ord. 544, passed 11-10-1983) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.013 SPECIAL EQUIPMENT.
   In the event a customer of the City Sewer Department discharges an unusually
large amount of waste daily, an unusually large amount of grease or oil, or
waste with an unusually high biochemical oxygen demand the Chief Sewer Official
may require the customer to install interceptors or other preliminary treatment
equipment to reduce the objectionable characteristics of the waste to within
the maximum limits as he or she shall prescribe subject to the review of the
City Council. All preliminary treatment facilities shall be purchased and
maintained continuously in satisfactory and efficient operation at the
customer's expense. Nothing herein shall be construed to prohibit a special
agreement or arrangement between the City Council and an industrial concern
whereby an industrial waste of unusual strength or character may be accepted by
the city for treatment subject to additional rental fees or other charges.
(1973 Code, § 3-213)
§ 52.014 MANHOLES.
   Entrance into a manhole or opening for any purpose except by authorized
persons is hereby prohibited. It shall be unlawful to deposit or cause to be
deposited in any receptacle connected with the sewer system any substance which
is not the usual and natural waste carried by the sewer system.
(1973 Code, § 3-214) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.015 LIEN.
   In addition to all other remedies, if a customer shall for any reason remain
indebted to the city for sewer service furnished, the amount due, together with
any rents and charges in arrears shall be considered a delinquent sewer rent
which is hereby declared to be a lien upon the real estate for which the same
was furnished. The City Clerk/Treasurer shall notify in writing or cause to be
notified in writing, all owners of premises or their agents whenever their
tenants or lessees are 60 days or more delinquent in the payment of sewer rent.
It shall be the duty of the Director of Public Works on June 1 of each year to
report to the City Council a list of all unpaid accounts due for sewer service
together with a description of the premise served. The report shall be
examined, and if approved by the City Council, shall be certified by the City
Clerk/Treasurer to the County Clerk to be collected as a special tax in the
manner provided by law.
(Neb. RS 17-925.01) (1973 Code, § 3-215)
§ 52.016 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BOD (BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND). The quantity of oxygen utilized in the
biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory procedure in
five days at 20°C, expressed in milligrams per liter.
   BUILDING DRAIN. The part of the lowest horizontal piping of a drainage
system which receives the discharge from soil, waste, or other drainage pipes
inside the walls of the building and conveys it to the building sewer,
beginning five feet (one and one-half meters) outside the inner face of the
building wall.
   BUILDING SEWER. The extension from the building drain to the public sewer or
other place of disposal.
   COMBINED SEWER. A sewer receiving both surface runoff and sewage.
   GARBAGE. Solid wastes from the domestic and commercial preparation, cooking,
and dispensing of food, and from the handling, storage, and sale of produce.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTES. The liquid wastes from industrial manufacturing
processes, trade, or business as distinct from sanitary sewage.
   NATURAL OUTLET. Any outlet into a watercourse, pond, ditch, lake, or other
body of surface or groundwater.
   NORMAL DOMESTIC WASTEWATER. Wastewater that has a BOD concentration of not
more than 250 mg/l and a suspended solids concentration of not more than 250
mg/l.
   OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE. All expenditures during the useful life of the
treatment works for materials, labor, utilities, and other items which are
necessary for managing and maintaining the sewage works to achieve the capacity
and performance for which the works were designed and constructed.
   PERSON. Any individual, firm, company, association, society, corporation, or
group.
   pH. The logarithm of the reciprocal of the weight of hydrogen ions in grams
per liter of solution.
   PROPERLY SHREDDED GARBAGE. The wastes from the preparation, cooking, and
dispensing of food that have been shredded to such a degree that all particles
will be carried freely under the flow conditions normally prevailing in public
sewers, with no particle greater than one-half inch (one and twenty-seven
hundredths centimeters) in any dimension.
   PUBLIC SEWER. A sewer in which all owners of abutting properties have equal
rights, and is controlled by public authority.
   REPLACEMENT. Expenditures for obtaining and installing equipment,
accessories, or appurtenances which are necessary during the useful life of the
treatment works to maintain the capacity and performance for which the works
were designed and constructed. The term OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE includes
replacement.
   RESIDENTIAL CONTRIBUTOR. Any contributor to the city's treatment works whose
lot, parcel of real estate, or building is used for domestic dwelling purposes
only.
   SANITARY SEWER. A sewer which carries sewage and to which storm, surface,
and ground waters are not intentionally admitted.
   SEWAGE. A combination of the water-carried wastes from residences, business
buildings, institutions, and industrial establishments together with the
ground, surface, and storm waters as may be present.
   SEWAGE TREATMENT PLANT. Any arrangement of devices and structures used for
treating sewage.
   SEWAGE WORKS. All facilities for collecting, pumping, treating, and
disposing of sewage.
   SEWER. A pipe or conduit for carrying sewage.
   SHALL. Is mandatory; MAY is permissive.
   SLUG. Any discharge of water, sewage, or industrial waste which in
concentration of any given constituent or in quantity of flow exceeds for any
period of duration longer than 15 minutes more than five times the average 24-
hour concentration or flows during normal operation.
   SS (SUSPENDED SOLIDS). Solids that either float on the surface of or are in
suspension in water, sewage, or other liquids and which are removable by
laboratory filtering.
   STORM DRAIN. Sometimes termed STORM SEWER, shall mean a drain or sewer for
conveying water, groundwater, subsurface water, or unpolluted water from any
source.
   TREATMENT WORKS. Any devices and systems for the storage, treatment,
recycling, and reclamation of city sewage, domestic sewage, or liquid
industrial wastes. These include intercepting sewers, outfall sewers, sewage
collection systems, individual systems, pumping, power, and other equipment and
their appurtenances; extensions improvement, remodeling, additions and
alterations thereof; elements essential to provide a reliable recycled supply
such as standby treatment units and clear well facilities; and any works,
including site acquisition of the land that will be an integral part of the
treatment process or is used for ultimate disposal of residues resulting from
the treatment including land used for the storage of treated wastewater in land
treatment systems before land application; or any other method of system for
preventing, abating, reducing, storing, treating, separating, or disposing of
city waste or industrial waste, including waste in combined storm water and
sanitary sewer systems.
   USEFUL LIFE. The estimated period during which a treatment works will be
operated.
   USER CHARGE. The portion of the total wastewater service charge which is
levied in a proportional and adequate manner for the cost of operation,
maintenance, and replacement of the wastewater treatment works.
   WATER METER. A volume measuring and recording device, furnished and/or
installed by the city and furnished and/or installed by a user and approved by
the city.
   WATERCOURSE. A channel in which a flow of water occurs, either continuously
or intermittently.
(1973 Code, § 3-217) (Ord. 543, passed 11-10-1983; Ord. 544, passed 11-10-1983)
§ 52.017 OPERATION, MAINTENANCE, AND REPLACEMENT FUND.
   (A)   It is determined and declared to be necessary and conducive to the
protection of the public health, safety, welfare, and convenience of the city
to collect charges from all users who contribute wastewater to the city's
treatment works. The proceeds of the charges so derived will be used for the
purpose of operating and maintaining the public wastewater treatment works.
   (B)   The user charge system shall generate adequate annual revenues to pay
costs of annual operation and maintenance including replacement which the city
may by ordinance designate to be paid by the user charge system. The portion of
the total user charge which is designated for operation and maintenance,
including replacement of the treatment works, shall be established by this
subchapter.
   (C)   The city will review the charge system at least every two years, and
revise user charge rates as necessary to ensure that the system generates
adequate revenues to pay the costs of operation and maintenance including
replacement and that the system continues to provide for the proportional
distribution of operation and maintenance including replacement costs users and
user classes.
   (D)   The city will notify each user at least annually, in conjunction with
a regular bill, of the rate being charged for operation, maintenance including
replacement of the treatment works.
   (E)   The portion of the total user charge collected which is designated for
operation and maintenance including replacement purposes as established in §
52.018 shall be deposited in a separate non-lapsing fund known as the
Operation, Maintenance, and Replacement Fund and will be kept in two primary
accounts as follows:
      (1)   An account designated for the specific purpose of defraying
operation and maintenance costs (excluding replacement) of the treatment works
(Operation and Maintenance Account); and
      (2)   An account designated for the specific purpose of ensuring
replacement needs over the useful life of the treatment works (Replacement
Account). Deposits in the Replacement Account shall be made at least annually,
the operation, maintenance and replacement revenue in the amount of $1,250
annually.
   (F)   Fiscal year-end balances in the Operation and Maintenance Account and
the Replacement Account shall be carried over to the same accounts in the
subsequent fiscal year, and shall be used for no other purposes than those
designated for these accounts. Monies which have been transferred from other
sources to meet temporary shortages in the Operation, Maintenance, and
Replacement Fund shall be returned to their respective accounts upon
appropriate adjustment of the user charge rates for operation, maintenance, and
replacement. The user charge rate(s) shall be adjusted such that the
transferred monies will be returned to their respective accounts within the
fiscal year following the fiscal year in which the moneys were borrowed.
(1973 Code, § 3-218) (Ord. 543, passed 11-10-1983; Ord. 547, passed 3-8-1984)
§ 52.018 RATES AND CHARGES; CLASSIFIED.
   See charges in
Chapter 51, Appendix A.
§ 52.019 SURCHARGE; WHEN REQUIRED.
   Any user which discharges any toxic pollutants which cause an increase in
the cost of managing the effluent or the sludge from the city's treatment
works, or any user which singly or by interaction with other substances causes
identifiable increases in the cost of operation, maintenance, or replacement of
the treatment works, shall pay for the increased costs. The charge to each user
will be as determined by a responsible party and approved by the Board.
(1973 Code, § 3-220) (Ord. 543, passed 11-10-1983)
PUBLIC SEWERS REQUIRED
§ 52.030 UNLAWFUL DEPOSIT OF WASTES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, deposit, or permit to be
deposited in any unsanitary manner on public or private property within the
city, or in any area under the jurisdiction of the city, any human or animal
excrement, garbage, or other objectionable waste.
(1973 Code, § 3-221) (Ord. 544, passed 11-10-1983) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.031 UNLAWFUL DISCHARGE OF UNTREATED SEWAGE.
   It shall be unlawful to discharge to any natural outlet within the city, or
in any area under the jurisdiction of the city, sewage or other polluted
waters, except where suitable treatment has been provided in accordance with
subsequent provisions of this chapter.
(1973 Code, § 3-222) (Ord. 544, passed 11-10-1983) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.032 CESSPOOLS, PRIVIES, AND SEPTIC TANKS PROHIBITED.
   Except as hereinafter provided, it shall be unlawful to construct or
maintain any privy, privy vault, septic tank, cesspool, or other facility
intended or used for the disposal of sewage.
(1973 Code, § 3-223) (Ord. 544, passed 11-10-1983) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.033 MANDATORY HOOK-UP.
   The owner of all houses, buildings, or properties used for human employment,
recreation, or other purposes, situated within the city and abutting on any
street, alley, or right-of-way in which there is now located or may in the
future be located a public sanitary of the city, is hereby required at his or
her expense to install suitable toilet facilities therein, and to connect the
facilities directly with the proper public sewer in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter within 90 days after date of official notice to do
so; provided, that the public sewer is within 100 feet (30.5 meters) of the
property line.
(1973 Code, § 3-224) (Ord. 544, passed 11-10-1983) Penalty, see §
52.999
PRIVATE SEWAGE DISPOSAL
§ 52.045 WHEN APPLICABLE.
   Where a public sanitary or combined sewer is not available under the
provisions of §
52.033, the building sewer shall be connected to a private sewage disposal
system complying with the provisions of this chapter.
(1973 Code, § 3-225) (Ord. 544, passed 11-10-1983) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.046 PERMIT REQUIRED; FEE.
   Before commencement of construction of a private sewage disposal system, the
owner shall first obtain a written permit signed by the Director of Public
Works. The application for the permit shall be made on a form furnished by the
city, which the applicant shall supplement by any plans, specifications, and
other information as are deemed necessary by the Director of Public Works.
(1973 Code, § 3-226) (Ord. 544, passed 11-10-1983) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.047 PERMIT; WHEN EFFECTIVE; INSPECTIONS.
   A permit for a private sewage disposal system shall not become effective
until the installation is completed to the satisfaction of the Director of
Public Works. He or she shall be allowed to inspect the work at any stage of
construction and, in any event, the applicant for the permit shall notify the
Director of Public Works when the work is ready for final inspection, and
before any underground portions are covered. The inspection shall be made
within 24 hours of the receipt of notice by the Director of Public Works.
(1973 Code, § 3-227) (Ord. 544, passed 11-10-1983)
§ 52.048 SPECIFICATIONS.
   (A)   The type, capacities, location, and layout of a private sewage
disposal system shall comply with all recommendations of the State Department
of Public Health. No permit shall be issued for any private sewage disposal
system employing subsurface soil absorption facilities when the area of the lot
is less than one-half acre (21,780 square feet). No septic tank or cesspool
shall be permitted to discharge to any natural outlet.
   (B)   At the time as a public sewer becomes available to a property served
by a private sewage disposal system, as provided in §
52.033, a direct connection shall be made to the public sewer in compliance
with this chapter, and any septic tanks, cesspools, and similar private sewage
disposal facilities shall be abandoned and filled with clean bankrun gravel or
dirt.
(1973 Code, § 3-228) (Ord. 544, passed 11-10-1983) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.049 MAINTENANCE.
   The owner shall operate and maintain the private sewage disposal facilities
in a sanitary manner at all times, at no expense to the city.
(1973 Code, § 3-229) (Ord. 544, passed 11-10-1983) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.050 ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   No statement contained in this chapter shall be construed to interfere
with any additional requirements that may be imposed by the Health Officer.
   (B)   When a public sewer becomes available, the building sewer shall be
connected to the sewer within 60 days and the private sewage disposal system
shall be cleaned of sludge and filled with clean bankrun gravel or dirt.
(1973 Code, § 3-230) (Ord. 544, passed 11-10-1983)
BUILDING SEWER INSTALLATION
§ 52.065 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   No unauthorized person shall uncover, make any connections with or opening
into, use, alter, or disturb any public sewer or appurtenance thereof without
first obtaining a written permit from the Director of Public Works.
(1973 Code, § 3-231) (Ord. 544, passed 11-10-1983) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.066 CLASSIFICATION; PERMIT APPLICATION; FEE.
   There shall be two classes of building sewer permits: for residential and
commercial service, and for service to establishments producing industrial
wastes. In either case, the owner or his or her agent shall make application on
a special form furnished by the city. The permit application shall be
supplemented by any plans, specifications, or other information considered
pertinent in the judgment of the Director of Public Works.
(1973 Code, § 3-232) (Ord. 544, passed 11-10-1983)
§ 52.067 EXPENSE.
   (A)   All costs and expense incidental to the installation and connection of
the building sewer shall be borne by the owner.
   (B)   The owner shall indemnify the city from any loss or damage that may
directly or indirectly be occasioned by the installation of the building sewer.
(1973 Code, § 3-233) (Ord. 544, passed 11-10-1983)
§ 52.068 SINGLE PREMISE.
   A separate and independent building sewer shall be provided for every
building; except where one building stands at the rear of another on an
interior lot and no private sewer is available or can be constructed to the
rear building through an adjoining alley, court, yard, or driveway, the
building sewer from the front building may be extended to the rear building and
the whole considered as one building sewer.
(1973 Code, § 3-234) (Ord. 544, passed 11-10-1983)
§ 52.069 USE OF EXISTING SEWERS.
   Old building sewers may be used in connection with new buildings only when
they are found, on examination and test by the Director of Public Works, to
meet all requirements of this chapter.
(1973 Code, § 3-235) (Ord. 544, passed 11-10-1983) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.070 CONSTRUCTION CODES.
   (A)   The size, slope, alignment, materials of construction of a building
sewer, and the methods to be used in excavating, placing of the pipe, jointing,
testing, and backfilling the trench shall all conform to the requirements of
the building and plumbing code or other applicable rules and regulations of the
city. In the absence of code provisions or in amplification thereof, the
materials and procedures set forth in appropriate specifications of the
A.S.T.M. and W.P.C.F. Manual of Practice No. 9 shall apply.
   (B)   Whenever possible, the building sewer shall be brought to the building
at an elevation below the basement floor. In all buildings in which any
building drain is too low to permit gravity flow to the public sewer, sanitary
sewage carried by the building drain shall be lifted by an approved means and
discharged to the building sewer.
   (C)   The connection of the building sewer into the public sewer shall
conform to the requirements of the building and plumbing code or other
applicable rules and regulations of the city, or the procedures set forth in
appropriate specifications of the A.S.T.M. and the W.P.C.F. Manual of Practice
No. 9. All the connections shall be made gastight and watertight, and verified
by proper testing. Any deviation from the prescribed procedures and materials
must be approved by the Director of Public Works before installation.
(1973 Code, § 3-236) (Ord. 544, passed 11-10-1983) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.071 UNLAWFUL CONNECTION.
   No person shall make connection of roof downspouts, interior and exterior
foundation drains, areaway drains, or other sources of surface runoff or
groundwater to a building sewer or building drain which in turn is connected
directly or indirectly to a public sanitary sewer.
(1973 Code, § 3-237) (Ord. 544, passed 11-10-1983) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.072 INSPECTIONS.
   The applicant for the building sewer permit shall notify the Director of
Public Works when the building sewer is ready for inspection and connection to
the public sewer.
(1973 Code, § 3-238) (Ord. 544, passed 11-10-1983)
§ 52.073 EXCAVATIONS.
   All excavations for building sewer installation shall be adequately guarded
with barricades and lights so as to protect the public from hazard. Streets,
sidewalks, parkways, and other public property disturbed in the course of the
work shall be restored in a manner satisfactory to the city.
(1973 Code, § 3-239) (Ord. 544, passed 11-10-1983) Penalty, see §
52.999
HAZARDOUS AND PROHIBITED DISCHARGES
§ 52.085 FLAMMABLE, TOXIC, CORROSIVE, AND OBSTRUCTIVE SUBSTANCES; PRELIMINARY
TREATMENT.
   (A)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any of the
following described waters or wastes to any public sewers:
      (1)   Any gasoline, benzene, naphtha, fuel oil, or other flammable or
explosive liquid, solid, or gas;
      (2)   Any waters or wastes containing toxic or poisonous solids, liquids,
or gases in sufficient quantity, either singly or by interaction with other
wastes, to injure or interfere with any waste treatment process, constitute a
hazard to humans or animals, create a public nuisance, or create any hazard in
the receiving waters of the wastewater treatment plant;
      (3)   Any waters or wastes having a pH lower than five and one-half, or
having any other corrosive property capable of causing damage or hazard to
structures, equipment, and personnel of the sewage works;
      (4)   Solid or viscous substances in quantities or of the size capable of
causing obstruction to the flow in sewers, or other interference with the
proper operation of the sewage facilities such as, but not limited to, ashes,
cinders, sand, mud, straw, shavings, metal, glass, rags, feathers, tar,
plastics, wood, unground garbage, whole blood, paunch manure, hair and
fleshings, entrails and paper dishes, cups, milk containers, and the like,
either whole or ground by garbage grinders; and/or
      (5)   Any waters or wastes having:
         (a)   A five-day BOD greater than 300 parts per million by weight;
         (b)   Containing more than 350 parts per million by weight of
suspended solids; or
         (c)   Having an average daily flow greater than 2% of the average
sewage flow of the city.
   (B)   Where necessary in the opinion of the Director of Public Works, the
owner shall provide, at his or her expense, any preliminary treatment as may be
necessary to:
      (1)   Reduce the biochemical oxygen demand to 300 parts per million by
weight;
      (2)   Reduce the suspended solids to 350 parts per million by weight; or
      (3)   Control the quantities and rates of discharge of the waters or
wastes.
   (C)   Plans, specifications, and other pertinent information relating to
proposed preliminary treatment facilities shall be submitted for the approval
of the Director of Public Works and no construction of the facilities shall be
commenced until the approvals are obtained in writing.
(1973 Code, § 3-240) (Ord. 544, passed 11-10-1983) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.086 SPECIFIC PROHIBITIONS AS DETERMINED BY DIRECTOR OF PUBLIC WORKS.
   (A)   No person shall discharge, or cause to be discharged, the following
described substances, materials, waters, or wastes if it appears likely, in the
opinion of the Director of Public Works, that the wastes can harm either the
sewers, sewage treatment process, or equipment, have an adverse effect on the
receiving stream, or can otherwise endanger life, limb, public property, or
constitute a nuisance. In forming his or her opinion as to the acceptability of
these wastes, the Director of Public Works will give consideration to the
factors as the quantities of subject wastes in relation to flows and velocities
in the sewers, materials of construction of the sewers, nature of the sewage
treatment process, capacity of the sewage treatment plant, and other pertinent
factors.
   (B)   The substances prohibited are:
      (1)   Any liquid or vapor having a temperature higher than 150°F (65°C);
      (2)   Any water or waste containing fats, wax, grease, or oils, whether
emulsified or not, in excess of 100 mg/l or containing substances which may
solidify or become viscous at temperatures between 32°F and 150°F (0°C and
65°C);
      (3)   Any garbage that has not been properly shredded. The installation
and operation of any garbage grinder equipped with a motor three-fourths
horsepower (seventy-six hundredths horsepower metric) or greater shall be
subject to the review and approval of the Director of Public Works;
      (4)   Any waters or wastes containing strong acid iron pickling wastes,
or concentrated plating solutions, whether neutralized or not;
      (5)   Any water or wastes containing iron, chromium, copper, zinc, and
similar objectionable or toxic substances; or wastes exerting an excessive
chlorine requirement, to the degree that any such material received in the
composite sewage at the sewage treatment works exceeds the limits established
by the Director of Public Works for the materials;
      (6)   Any waters or wastes containing phenols or other taste- or odor-
producing substances, in the concentrations exceeding limits which may be
established by the Director of Public Works as necessary, after treatment of
the composite sewage, to meet the requirements of state, federal, or other
public agencies of jurisdiction for the discharge to the receiving waters;
      (7)   Any radioactive wastes or isotopes of the half-life or
concentration as may exceed limits established by the Director of Public Works
in compliance with applicable state or federal regulations;
      (8)   Any waters or wastes having a pH in excess of nine and one-half;
      (9)   Materials which exert or cause:
         (a)   Unusual concentrations of inert suspended solids (such as, but
not limited to, Fuller’s earth, lime slurries, and lime residues) or of
dissolved solids (such as, but not limited to, sodium chloride or sodium
sulfate);
         (b)   Excessive discoloration (such as, but not limited to, dye wastes
and vegetable tanning solutions);
         (c)   Unusual BOD, chemical oxygen demand, or chlorine requirements in
the quantities as to constitute a significant load on the sewage treatment
works; and/or
         (d)   Unusual volume of flow or concentration of wastes constituting
“slugs,” as defined herein.
      (10)   Waters or wastes containing substances which are not amenable to
treatment or reduction by the sewage treatment processes employed, or are
amenable to treatment only to the degree that the sewage treatment plant
effluent cannot meet the requirements of other agencies having jurisdiction
over discharge to the receiving waters.
(1973 Code, § 3-241) (Ord. 544, passed 11-10-1983) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.087 REJECTION, PRETREATMENT, CONTROL OF DISCHARGE RATE, OR USE FEE
SURCHARGE.
   (A)   If any waters or wastes are discharged, or are proposed to be
discharged to the public sewers, which waters contain the substances or possess
the characteristics enumerated in §
52.086, and which, in the judgment of the Director of Public Works, may have a
deleterious effect upon the sewage works, processes, equipment, or receiving
waters, or which otherwise create a hazard to life to constitute a public
nuisance, the Director of Public Works may:
      (1)   Reject the wastes;
      (2)   Require pretreatment to an acceptable condition for discharge to
the public sewers;
      (3)   Require control over the quantities and rates of discharge; and/or
      (4)   Require payment to cover the added cost of handling and treating
the wastes not covered by existing taxes or sewer charges under the provisions
of §
52.105.
   (B)   If the Director of Public Works permits the pretreatment or
equalization of waste flows, the design and installation of the plants and
equipment shall be subject to the review and approval of the Director of Public
Works, and subject to the requirements of all applicable codes, ordinances, and
laws.
(1973 Code, § 3-242) (Ord. 544, passed 11-10-1983)
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 52.100 GREASE, OIL, AND SAND INTERCEPTORS; WHEN REQUIRED.
   Grease, oil, and sand interceptors shall be provided when, in the opinion of
the Director of Public Works, they are necessary for the proper handling of
liquid wastes containing grease in excessive amounts, or any flammable wastes,
sand, or other harmful ingredients; except that the interceptors shall not be
required for private living quarters or dwelling units. All interceptors shall
be of a type and capacity approved by the Director of Public Works and shall be
located as to be readily and easily accessible for cleaning and inspection.
(1973 Code, § 3-243) (Ord. 544, passed 11-10-1983) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.101 PRELIMINARY TREATMENT OR FLOW-EQUALIZING FACILITIES; MAINTENANCE BY
OWNER.
   Where preliminary treatment or flow-equalizing facilities are provided for
any waters or wastes, they shall be maintained continuously in satisfactory and
effective operation by the owner at his or her expense.
(1973 Code, § 3-244) (Ord. 544, passed 11-10-1983) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.102 CONTROL MANHOLES/SAMPLING STATIONS; WHEN REQUIRED; INSTALLATION AND
MAINTENANCE.
   When required by the Director of Public Works, the owner of any property
serviced by a building sewer carrying industrial wastes shall install a
suitable control manhole, together with any necessary meters and other
appurtenances, in the building sewer to facilitate observation, sampling, and
measurement of the wastes. The manhole, when required, shall be accessibly and
safely located, and shall be constructed in accordance with plans approved by
the Director of Public Works. The manhole shall be installed by the owner at
his or her expense, and shall be maintained by him or her so as to be safe and
accessible at all times.
(1973 Code, § 3-245) (Ord. 544, passed 11-10-1983) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.103 CONTROL MANHOLES/SAMPLING STATIONS; METHOD.
   All measurements, tests, and analyses of the characteristics of waters and
wastes to which reference is made in this chapter shall be determined in
accordance with the latest edition of Standard Methods for the Examination of
Water and Wastewater, published by the American Public Health Association, and
shall be determined at the control manhole provided, or upon suitable samples
taken at the control manhole. In the event no special manhole has been
required, the control manhole shall be considered to be the nearest downstream
manhole in the public sewer to the point at which the building sewer is
connected. Sampling shall be carried out by customarily accepted methods to
reflect the effect of constituents upon the sewage works and to determine the
existence of hazards to life, limb, and property. The particular analyses
involved will determine whether a 24-hour composite of all outfalls of a
premise is appropriate or whether a grab sample or samples should be taken.
Normally, but not always, BOD and suspended solids analyses are obtained from
24-hour composites of all outfalls, whereas pHs are determined from periodic
grab samples.
(1973 Code, § 3-246) (Ord. 544, passed 11-10-1983) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.104 SANITARY SUPPLY SYSTEM; DESTRUCTION OF PROPERTY.
   No person or persons shall maliciously, willfully, or negligently break,
damage, destroy, uncover, deface, or tamper with any structure, appurtenance,
or equipment which is part of the wastewater facilities. Any person or persons
violating this provision shall be subject to immediate arrest under charge of
disorderly conduct.
(1973 Code, § 3-247) (Ord. 544, passed 11-10-1983) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.105 HAZARDOUS AND PROHIBITED SUBSTANCES; SPECIAL EXCEPTIONS PERMITTED; USE
FEE SURCHARGE.
   No statement contained in this chapter shall be constructed as preventing
any special agreement or arrangement between the city and any industrial
concern whereby an industrial waste of unusual strength or character may be
accepted by the city for treatment, subject to payment therefor, by the
industrial concern.
(1973 Code, § 3-248) (Ord. 544, passed 11-10-1983) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.106 COMPLIANCE WITH THIS CHAPTER.
   (A)   Inspections; generally. The Director of Public Works, and other duly
authorized employees of the city bearing proper credentials and identification,
shall be permitted to enter all properties for the purposes of inspection,
observation, measurement, sampling, and testing systems in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter. The Director of Public Works, or his or her
representatives, shall have no authority to inquire into any processes,
including metallurgical, chemical, oil, refining, ceramic, paper, or other
industries, beyond that point having a direct bearing on the kind and source of
discharge to the sewers or waterways or facilities for waste treatment.
(1973 Code, § 3-249)
   (B)   Inspections; injury liability. While performing the necessary work on
private properties referred to in division (A) above, the Director of Public
Works, or duly authorized employees of the city, shall observe all safety rules
applicable to the premises established by the company, and the company shall be
held harmless for injury or death to the city employees and the city shall
indemnify the company against loss or damage to its property by city employees
and against liability claims and demands for personal injury or property damage
asserted against the company and growing out of the gauging and sampling
operation, except as such may be caused by negligence or failure of the company
to maintain safe conditions as required in §
52.102.
(1973 Code, § 3-250)
   (C)   Inspections; easements.
      (1)   The Director of Public Works, and other duly authorized employees
of the city bearing proper credentials and identification, shall be permitted
to enter all private properties through which the city holds a duly negotiated
easement for the purposes of, but not limited to, inspection, observation,
measurement, sampling, repair, and maintenance of any portion of the sewage
works lying within the easement.
      (2)   All entry and subsequent work, if any, on the easement, shall be
done in full accordance with the terms of the duly negotiated easement
pertaining to the private property involved.
(1973 Code, § 3-251)
(Ord. 544, passed 11-10-1983) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.107 VIOLATIONS; NOTICE AND LIABILITY.
   Any person found to be violating any provision of this chapter, except §
52.104, shall be served by the city with written notice stating the nature of
the violation and providing a reasonable time limit for the satisfactory
correction thereof. The offender shall, within the period of time stated in the
notice, permanently cease all violations.
(1973 Code, § 3-252) (Ord. 544, passed 11-10-1983) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.108 SEWAGE DISPOSAL; RATES.
   Any person or entity desiring to dump sewage at the Bridgeport Lagoon owned
by the city shall first pay the City Clerk/Treasurer a dump fee, in advance, at
the following rates:
   (A)   Five dollars for 500 or less gallons; and
   (B)   One dollar per hundred gallons for any excess over 500 gallons.
(1973 Code, § 3-255) (Ord. 639, passed 9-9-1993) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.999 PENALTY.
   Any person who shall continue any violation beyond the time limit provided
in §
52.107, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, and on conviction thereof shall be
fined in the amount not exceeding $100 for each violation. Each 24-hour period
in which any such violation shall continue shall be deemed a separate offense.
(1973 Code, § 3-254) (Ord. 544, passed 11-10-1983)
CHAPTER 53: ELECTRICAL SYSTEM
Section
General Provisions
   
53.01   Ownership
   
53.02   Contracts and terms
   
53.03   Consumer's deposit
   
53.04   Licensed electrician
   
53.05   Installation expense
   
53.06   Meters
   
53.07   Minimum rates
   
53.08   Service deposit fund
   
53.09   Restricted use
   
53.10   Construction and landscaping
   
53.11   Trimming trees
   
53.12   Rates
   
53.13   Inspections
   
53.14   Destruction of property
Cogeneration
   
53.30   Purpose
   
53.31   Definitions
   
53.32   Interconnections with qualifying facilities
   
53.33   Rates for sales of electric energy to qualifying facilities
   
53.34   Rates for purchases of electric energy from qualifying facilities
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 53.01 OWNERSHIP.
   The city owns and operates the city electrical system through the Director
of Public Works. The City Council, for the purpose of defraying the cost of the
care, management, and maintenance of the city electrical system, may each year
levy a tax not exceeding the maximum limit prescribed by state law, on the
actual valuation of all real estate and personal property within the corporate
limits that is subject to taxation. The revenue from the tax shall be known as
the Electrical Fund and shall remain in the custody of the City Clerk/
Treasurer. The Director of Public Works shall have the direct management and
control of the city electrical system and shall faithfully carry out the duties
of his or her office. He or she shall have the authority to adopt rules and
regulations for the safe and efficient management of the electrical system
subject to the supervision and review of the City Council. The City Council
shall by resolution set the rates to be charged for services rendered and shall
file the same in the office of the City Clerk/Treasurer for public inspection
at any reasonable time.
(Neb. RS 17-902 through 17-904, 17-906, and 17-909) (1973 Code, § 3-1001)
§ 53.02 CONTRACTS AND TERMS.
   The city, through its Electrical Department, shall furnish electric current
for light and power purposes to persons whose premises abut on any supply wire
of the distribution system and may furnish electric current to any other
persons within or without its corporate limits, as and when, according to law,
the City Council may see fit to do so. The rules, regulations, and rates for
electric service, hereinafter named, in this chapter, shall be considered a
part of every application hereafter made for electric service and shall be
considered a part of the contract between every consumer now served by the
Electrical Department. Without further formality, the making of application on
the part of any applicant or the use or consumption of electric energy by
present customers and the furnishing of electric service to the applicant or
customer shall constitute a contract between applicant or customer and the
city, to which both parties are bound. If customer should violate any of the
provisions of the contract or any reasonable rules and regulations that the
City Council may hereafter adopt, the Director of Public Works, or his or her
agent, shall cut off or disconnect the electric service from the building or
place of the violation and no further connection of electric service for the
building or place shall again be made save or except by order of the Director
of Public Works or his or her agent.
(1973 Code, § 3-1002)
§ 53.03 CONSUMER'S DEPOSIT.
   (A)   Every person or persons desiring electrical service may be required to
make a service deposit in the amount as has been set by the City Council and on
file at the office of the City Clerk/Treasurer. Electricity may not be supplied
to any house or building except upon the order of the Director of Public Works.
The system shall not supply to any person outside the corporate limits
electrical service without special permission from the City Council; provided,
that the entire cost of wire, installation, and other expenses shall be paid by
the consumer.
   (B)   Nothing herein shall be construed to obligate the city to supply
electrical service to nonresidents.
(Neb. RS 17-902, 19-2,701) (1973 Code, § 3-1003)
§ 53.04 LICENSED ELECTRICIAN.
   Under no circumstances shall connections be made between the wires of the
electrical distribution system of this city and the meter of the consumer,
except by an employee of the city or a bonded electrician authorized to do so
by the Director of Public Works. The consumer may have wiring done by any
competent licensed electrician from the meter to the points of distribution.
All wiring, equipment, and apparatus shall be installed according to the
electrical code duly adopted by the city. All installation shall be done under
the supervision and strictly in accordance with the rules, regulations, and
specifications for the installation prescribed by the Director of Public Works;
provided, that the rules, regulations, and specifications have been reviewed
and approved by the City Council.
(Neb. RS 17-902) (1973 Code, § 3-1004) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 53.05 INSTALLATION EXPENSE.
   (A)   The expense of the electrical meter shall be paid by the city.
   (B)   All other expenses associated with the electrical system other than
the electric meter shall be the responsibility of the consumer.
   (C)   Maintenance and replacement expense shall be apportioned in the same
manner.
(Neb. RS 17-902) (1973 Code, § 3-1005) (Ord. 965, passed 5-14-2020)
§ 53.06 METERS.
   All electrical meters shall be read at least one time each month during
which electrical service is used on the day/time as prescribed by the Director
of Public Works. In the event a meter is broken or otherwise fails to register
accurately the use of electricity by any consumer, the six-month average of the
season one year previous to the breakage shall be used for billing purposes.
(1973 Code, § 3-1006) (Ord. 757, passed 1-11-2007; Ord. 964, passed 3-12-2020;
Ord. 965, passed 5- 14-2020)
§ 53.07 MINIMUM RATES.
   All electrical consumers shall be liable for the minimum rate provided by
resolution unless and until the consumer shall, by written order, direct the
Director of Public Works to shut off the electricity in which case he or she
shall not be liable thereafter for electrical service until the electricity is
turned on again.
(Neb. RS 17-902) (1973 Code, § 3-1007)
§ 53.08 SERVICE DEPOSIT FUND.
   The service deposit required for electrical service shall be promptly paid
upon demand by all customers of the electrical system. From the deposit shall
be deducted all delinquent electrical charges. The service deposit shall be
collected by the City Clerk/Treasurer who shall keep the fees in a trust fund
for the customers of the electrical system. The fund shall be put out at
interest separate and apart from other funds. Interest arising therefrom shall
be expended solely for the repair of equipment and property of the city
electrical system.
(1973 Code, § 3-1008) (Ord. 965, passed 5-14-2020)
§ 53.09 RESTRICTED USE.
   The city electrical system does not guarantee the delivery of electric
current over the lines of the distribution system, except when it has
sufficient power, current, equipment, and machinery to do so. The Director of
Public Works has the power and authority to disconnect or discontinue the
service for any good and sufficient reason without liability. The city shall
use due care and reasonable diligence to provide and supply uninterrupted
service to consumers, but shall not be liable for damages resulting from
interruption of service due to causes over which the city has no control and
the city expressly reserves the right to discontinue or disconnect any
consumer’s service without preliminary notice.
(Neb. RS 17-902) (1973 Code, § 3-1010)
§ 53.10 CONSTRUCTION AND LANDSCAPING.
   No person shall commence any construction, landscape, or other project
without first giving the City Clerk/Treasurer an advance 48-hour minimum notice
excluding Saturday, Sunday, and legal holidays, and without first having called
the Nebraska Diggers Hotline or state-designated alternative type hotline. In
the event any person or persons shall cause damage to any city utility line
without giving the city the aforesaid notice, that person shall be charged the
actual cost of any repairs to the damaged lines, by the city, including labor.
(1973 Code, § 3-1011) (Ord. 558, passed 4-18-1985; Ord. 965, passed 5-14-2020)
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 53.11 TRIMMING TREES.
   Any person desiring to cut or remove trees or branches thereof in close
proximity to the lines of the city electrical system shall, before doing the
work, give reasonable written notice to the Director of Public Works and shall
follow any and all rules and regulations which he or she may prescribe for
doing the work. It shall be unlawful for any person felling or removing the
trees or branches to disrupt or damage the lines without first giving proper
notice and receiving permission in writing to do so. Whenever it becomes
necessary to protect the lines or property of the electrical system, the City
Council shall have the power to order cut and removed any overhanging branches
or limbs of trees so that the lines will be free and safe.
(1973 Code, § 3-1012) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 53.12 RATES.
   Rates for electric service for energy to be delivered by the city, through
its city electric distribution system, are hereby established, as follows:
   (A)   Schedule 1, Residential Electric Service.
      (1)   Applicable. To single-family residences and individually metered
apartments for all domestic purposes, including space heating, when all service
is supplied through a single meter;
      (2)   Character of service. 60 cycle, AC, single-phase, 120 volt, two
wires; or 120/240 volt three wire (optional with the system):
 
                Effective May 1, 2025
                Summer       Winter
Customer charge $35.00/month $35.00/month
First 600 kWh   11.80¢/kWh  10.46¢/kWh
Balance         10.80¢/kWh  8.50¢/kWh
 
      (3)   Minimum bill. The customer charge;
      (4)   Fuel adjustment. At the option of the city, the above rates and
bills may be adjusted from month to month for production cost adjustments
charged by the city’s supplier(s);
      (5)   Seasons. Summer season covers usage in the months of June through
September. Winter season covers usage in the months of October through May; and
      (6)   Terms and conditions. In case of bi-monthly billing, the minimum
and the kilowatt-hour blocks will be doubled for billing purposes. Service will
be furnished under the city’s general terms and conditions.
   (B)   Schedule 2, General Service Electric Service.
      (1)   Applicable. To any non-residential customer served by the utility
for lighting, heating and power purposes where the customer does not qualify
for service under another rate offered by the utility. Not applicable to
resale, supplemental, auxiliary or shared service;
      (2)   Character of service. The single-phase, or three-phase if
available, alternating current electric service will be supplied at the systems
standard voltages when all service at one location is measured by one meter:
 
                Effective May 1, 2025
                Summer       Winter
Customer charge $45.00/month $45.00/month
First 500 kWh   11.80¢/kWh  11.80¢/kWh
Next 2,500 kWh  11.05¢/kWh  10.05¢/kWh
Balance         11.05¢/kWh  9.00¢/kWh
 
      (3)   Minimum bill. The customer charge;
      (4)   Terms and conditions. Service will be furnished under the city’s
general terms and conditions for service under this schedule; and
      (5)   Fuel adjustment. At the option of the city, the above rates and
bills may be adjusted from month to month for production cost adjustments
charged by the city’s supplier(s).
   (C)   Schedule 3, Municipal Water Pumping Services.
      (1)   Applicable. To municipallyowned water pumps:
 
 
                Effective May 1, 2025
                Summer       Winter
Customer charge $45.00/month $45.00/month
First 1,500 kWh 11.05¢/kWh  9.50¢/kWh
Next 1,500 kWh  11.05¢/kWh  9.50¢/kWh
Balance         11.05¢/kWh  9.50¢/kWh
 
      (2)   Minimum bill. Customer charge.
   (D)   Schedule 4, Irrigation Service.
      (1)   Applicable. To wells, pumps, center-pivot irrigation systems, the
primary purpose of which is agricultural irrigation;
      (2)   Character of service. The single-phase, or three-phase if
available, alternating current electric service will be supplied at the systems
standard voltages when all service at one location is measured by one meter:
 
                                  Effective May 1, 2025
3 days per week of direct control $50.00 per connected HP
Winter energy rate                10.20¢/kWh
Summer energy rate                13.00¢/kWh
 
      (3)   Minimum bill. The connected HP charge.
      (4)   Terms and conditions. Service will be furnished under the city’s
general terms and conditions for service under this schedule;
      (5)   Fuel adjustment. At the option of the city, the above rates and
bills may be adjusted from month to month for production cost adjustments
charged by the city’s supplier(s); and
      (6)   Other terms. Customer agrees to pay annual hookup charge prior to
May 1.
   (E)   Schedule 5, General Service Demand Electric Service.
      (1)   Applicable. To any non-residential customer for lighting, heating
and power purposes where the customer's electrical energy usage exceeds 30,000
kWh per billing period for three consecutive billing periods, or customer's
electrical demand exceeds 100 kW for three consecutive billing periods. Not
applicable to resale, supplemental, auxiliary or shared service;
      (2)   Character of service. The single-phase, or three-phase if
available, alternating current, electric service will be supplied at the
systems standard voltages when all service at one location is measured by one
meter:
 
               Effective May 1, 2025
                Summer        Winter
Customer charge $100.00/month $100.00/month
Demand charge   $15.35/kWh    $12.00/kWh
Energy charge   6.75¢/kWh    5.40¢/kWh
 
      (3)   Minimum bill. The customer charge plus the demand charge;
      (4)   Minimum billing demand. The minimum billing demand shall be the
maximum integrated 15-minute kilowatt load occurring during the billing period
but not less than 80% of the highest demand established during the summer
period of the preceding 11 months. A demand register meter may be installed by
the utility if a customer has an electric service capable of exceeding 100 kW
of electric demand, or when monthly usage exceeds 25,000 kWh;
      (5)   Removal from general service demand rate. Once a customer is deemed
to have met the qualifications to be placed on the general service demand rate
schedule, it shall remain on the general service demand rate for a period of at
least 12 months. If the customer's energy and demand usage fall below the
threshold for inclusion in the general service demand for 12 consecutive
months, the customer will be moved to the general service rate schedule for
subsequent billing periods;
      (6)   Terms and conditions. Service will be furnished under the city's
general terms and conditions for service under this schedule; and
      (7)   Fuel adjustment. At the option of the city, the above rates and
bills may be adjusted from month to month for production cost adjustments
charged by the city's supplier(s).
   (F)   Late payment penalty. Bills are due and payable on the tenth day of
each month. All customers who have unpaid bills on the eleventh day of each
month shall be assessed a penalty of 10% of their total utility bill.
(1973 Code, § 3-1013) (Ord. 518, passed 3-11-1982; Ord. 545, passed 2-9-1984;
Ord. 548, passed 6-7-1984; Ord. 575, passed 8-6-1986; Ord. 599, passed 7-7-
1988; Ord. 608, passed 3-8-1990; Ord. 609, passed 4-5-1990; Ord. 617, passed
11-7-1991; Ord. 715, passed 10-11-2001; Ord. 724, passed 10-9-2003; Ord. 746,
passed 10-6-2005; Ord. 769, passed 11-16-2007; Ord. 803, passed 2-11-2010; Ord.
807, passed 9-16-2010; Ord. 855, passed 8-9-2012; Ord. 874, passed 5-9-2013;
Ord. 889, passed 3-17-2015; Ord. 912, passed 10-13-2016; Ord. 1017, passed 3-
13-2025)
§ 53.13 INSPECTIONS.
   The Director of Public Works, or his or her duly authorized agents, shall
have free access at any reasonable time to each premise and building to or in
which electricity is supplied; provided, that in the event of an emergency, the
inspections may take place at any time.
(Neb. RS 17-902) (1973 Code, § 3-1014)
§ 53.14 DESTRUCTION OF PROPERTY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to willfully or carelessly break,
injure, or deface any building, machinery, apparatus, fixture, attachment, or
appurtenance of the city electrical system.
(Neb. RS 28-512) (1973 Code, § 3-1015) Penalty, see §
10.99
COGENERATION
§ 53.30 PURPOSE.
   In order to comply with §§ 201 and 210 of the Public Utility Regulatory
Policies Act of 1978 and with the rules and regulations of the Federal Energy
Regulatory Commission pertaining thereto, the following policies relating to
interconnections of the electric system of the city with cogeneration and small
power production facilities, rates for sales of electric energy to the
facilities, and rates for purchases of electric energy from the facilities are
hereby established.
(1973 Code, § 3-1016) (Ord. 511, passed 5-7-1981)
§ 53.31 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AVOIDED COSTS. The incremental costs to an electric utility of electric
energy or capacity or both which, but for the purchase from qualifying
facilities, the utility would generate itself or purchase from another source.
   COGENERATION FACILITY. A facility which produces electric energy and steam
or other forms of useful energy (such as heat) which are used for industrial,
commercial, heating, or cooling purposes.
   INTERCONNECTION COSTS. The reasonable costs of connection, switching,
metering, transmission, distribution, safety provisions, and administrative
costs incurred by the electric utility directly related to the installation and
maintenance of the physical facilities necessary to permit interconnected
operations with a qualifying facility, to the extent the costs are in excess of
the corresponding costs which the electric utility would have incurred if it
had not engaged in interconnected operations, but instead generated an
equivalent amount of electric energy itself or purchased an equivalent amount
of electric energy or capacity from other sources. (INTERCONNECTION COSTS do
not include any costs involved in the calculation of avoided costs.)
   QUALIFYING COGENERATION FACILITY. A cogeneration facility that meets the
requirements of the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission regarding ownership,
fuel use, and operating and efficiency standards.
   QUALIFYING SMALL POWER PRODUCTION FACILITY. A small power production
facility that meets the requirements of the Federal Energy Regulatory
Commission regarding ownership, fuel use, fuel efficiency, and reliability.
   SMALL POWER PRODUCTION FACILITY. A facility which produces electric energy
solely by the use, as a primary energy source, of biomass, waste, renewable
resources, or any combination thereof totaling not greater than 80 megawatts at
one site.
(1973 Code, § 3-1017) (Ord. 511, passed 5-7-1981)
§ 53.32 INTERCONNECTIONS WITH QUALIFYING FACILITIES.
   (A)   Qualifying facilities desiring to interconnect with the electric
system of the city shall make application to the Department of Utilities for
the interconnection. Applicants shall use the forms as are prescribed by the
city and shall furnish all information requested.
   (B)   The city shall establish reasonable standards to be met by qualifying
facilities to ensure system safety and reliability of interconnected
operations. The standards may include, but shall not be limited to, the
following areas: power factor; voltage regulations; fault, overcurrent, and
over-under voltage protection; harmonics; synchronization; and isolation.
   (C)   Interconnection costs associated with the interconnection with a
qualifying facility shall be paid for by the qualifying facility. Qualifying
facilities shall be required to execute contractural agreements with the city
before any interconnection is established.
(1973 Code, § 3-1018) (Ord. 511, passed 5-7-1981) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 53.33 RATES FOR SALES OF ELECTRIC ENERGY TO QUALIFYING FACILITIES.
   Rates for sales of electric energy to qualifying facilities shall be those
current standard rates adopted from time to time by resolution of the Mayor and
City Council which apply to other customers of the utility in the same
classification(s) of electric service.
(1973 Code, § 3-1019) (Ord. 511, passed 5-7-1981)
§ 53.34 RATES FOR PURCHASES OF ELECTRIC ENERGY FROM QUALIFYING FACILITIES.
   (A)   Rates for purchases of electric energy from qualifying facilities
shall be established by resolution of the Mayor and City Council.
   (B)   The rates shall be just and reasonable to the electric consumer of the
utility and in the public interest, shall not discriminate against qualifying
cogeneration and small power production facilities, and shall be related to
avoided costs; however, in no case is the utility required to pay more than the
avoided costs.
   (C)   Standard rates shall be established for purchases from qualifying
facilities with a design capacity of 100 kilowatts or less. Rates for purchases
from qualifying facilities with a design capacity over 100 kilowatts may be
standard rates or may be by individual contracts, the terms of which are fair
and reasonable.
(1973 Code, § 3-1020) (Ord. 511, passed 5-7-1981)
CHAPTER 54: SOLID WASTE
Section
Garbage Disposal
   
54.01   Definitions
   
54.02   Garbage and trash
   
54.03   Dead animals
   
54.04   Landfill; usage; fee
   
54.05   Solid waste collection service; rates
   
54.06   Solid waste disposal; prohibitions on disposal; vegetative matter
Dumping Grounds
   
54.20   Operation and funding
   
54.21   State regulations
 
   
54.99   Penalty
GARBAGE DISPOSAL
§ 54.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   GARBAGE. All vegetable refuse from kitchens, all household waste from that
which has been prepared for use as a food, or table refuse, or offal, and every
accumulation of animal, vegetable, or other matter that attend the preparation,
consumption, decay, dealing in, or storage of meats, fish, fowl, and
vegetables.
   TRASH. Tree and shrubbery trimming, waste paper, scrap lumber, packing
boxes, crates, paper or paste board boxes, cartons, excelsior, hay, straw,
ashes, and other combustible packing materials and refuse, broken glass, tin
cans, and containers, and all other waste articles, substances and materials
not included in the foregoing definition of GARBAGE.
(1973 Code, § 4-301) (Ord. 527, passed 10-7-1982)
§ 54.02 GARBAGE AND TRASH.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to keep in, on, or about any dwelling,
building, or premise, or any other place in the city, decayed vegetable or
animal substance, garbage, or refuse matter of any kind that may be injurious
to the public health or offensive to the residents of the city unless the same
is kept in closed receptacles, which receptacles shall either be anchored to
the ground or constructed in such a manner as not to be subject to tipping. It
shall be unlawful to throw or sweep into the streets, alleys, parks, or other
public grounds any dirt, paper, nails, pieces of glass, refuse, waste, or
rubbish of any kind. No person may permit garbage, rubbish, waste, or refuse to
collect and all persons shall cause the contents of their garbage receptacles
to be removed at least once a week.
(1973 Code, § 4-302) (Ord. 527, passed 10-7-1982) Penalty, see §
54.99
§ 54.03 DEAD ANIMALS.
   All dead animals shall be immediately removed and buried by the owner of the
animals; and if the owner of the animal cannot be found within two hours after
discovering the same, then the animal shall be removed by and at the expense of
the city. Dead animals shall not be buried within the corporate limits of the
city, nor within one mile thereof, nor in or above the course of ground water
that is used for drinking purposes by the city or its inhabitants. The animals
may, however, be buried in the city dumping ground.
(Neb. RS 17-114, 17-123, and 17-207) (1973 Code, § 4-303) (Ord. 527, passed 10-
7-1982) Penalty, see §
54.99
§ 54.04 LANDFILL; USAGE; FEE.
   (A)   The regulatory agencies have mandated that the landfill owned by the
city be closed in the near future and that all solid waste be placed in
approved facilities at a considerable increase in cost to the city. It has
become necessary to regulate the use of and charge for the use of the landfill.
   (B)   The city shall charge a fee of $2 per month to each electric user
located within the city limits of the city. Any commercial hauling entity
hauling solid waste from entities or persons not being located within the city
limits shall assess their customers $2 per month and the same shall be remitted
to the city. Any entity or individual using the landfill owned by the city
shall be assessed a fee of $5 per pickup load or $10 per farm truck load.
   (C)   The city shall further charge fees in addition to the above charges
for all tires brought to the landfill at the following rates:
 
Tires less than 17 inches                       $1 per tire
Tires 17 inches through 24.5 inches             $2 per tire
Tires larger than 24.5 inches and tires on rims $3 per tire
 
   (D)   The monthly charge created herein shall be added to the sewer charge
on the monthly billing by the city. Nothing in this section shall be taken to
authorize the use of the landfill by any entity or individual not already
entitled to use the same.
(1973 Code, § 4-305) (Ord. 527, passed 10-7-1982; Ord. 625, passed 10-8-1992)
§ 54.05 SOLID WASTE COLLECTION SERVICE; RATES.
   (A)   Generally. Effective on the billing date on or after November 1, 2024,
the rates charged for trash removal for residents of the city shall be as
follows.
   (B)   Rate Schedule. Trash removal effective on the billing payable on or
after November 1, 2024:
 
Residential Rate          Monthly Rate
Residential Service       $17.00
Residential Yard Waste    $2.00
Single Dwelling, 1.5-Yard $31.85
Single Dwelling, 3-Yard   $58.25
 
 
Commercial Rates   Removed Once Per Week Removed Twice Per Removed Three Times
                   (1X)                  Week (2X)         Per Week (3X)
3-yard container
(sharing with 2 or $17.00                $25.95            $33.53
more)
1.5-yard container $17.00                $25.95            $33.53
(sharing with one)
3-yard container   $28.90                $43.40            $58.25
(sharing with one)
3-yard container   $58.25                $100.60           $143.50
 
2- to 3-yard container $115.25 $201.00 $287.25
3- to 3-yard container $172.20 $301.35 $430.50
2-yard container       $31.85  $43.40  $54.55
 
   (C)   Service charge. Each customer shall be charged an additional $3 per
month to cover the cost of billing services.
(1973 Code, § 4-306) (Ord. 527, passed 10-7-1982; Ord. 636, passed 8-5-1993;
Ord. 711, passed 7-21-2001; Ord. 720, passed 10-10-2002; Ord. 725, passed 10-9-
2003; Ord. 887, passed 10-28-2014; Ord. 896, passed 9-29-2015; Ord. 911, passed
10-13-2016; Ord. 927, passed 9-14-2017; Ord. 944, passed 9-13-2018; Ord. 956,
passed 9-12-2019; Ord. 978, passed 9-9-2021; Ord. 982, passed 9-15- 2022; Ord.
1011, passed 10-10-2024)
§ 54.06 SOLID WASTE DISPOSAL; PROHIBITIONS ON DISPOSAL; VEGETATIVE MATTER.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to place vegetative matter
generated from yards or gardens, tires, auto batteries, construction debris,
large appliances and waste oil in any trash receptacle not specifically set
aside for the purpose within the city limits.
   (B)   Vegetative matter generated from yards or gardens shall include, but
not be limited to, grass clippings, leaves, branches, trees, or garden plants.
(1973 Code, § 4-307) (Ord. 527, passed 10-7-1982; Ord. 649, passed 8-15-1994)
Penalty, see §
54.99
DUMPING GROUNDS
§ 54.20 OPERATION AND FUNDING.
   The city owns and operates the city dumping grounds through the Dump
Caretaker. The City Council, for the purpose of defraying the cost of the care,
management, and maintenance of the city dumping grounds, may each year levy a
tax not to exceed the maximum limit prescribed by state law, on the actual
valuation of all real estate and personal property within the corporate limits
that is subject to taxation. The revenue from the tax shall be known as the
Dump Fund and shall remain in the custody of the City Clerk/Treasurer. The Dump
Caretaker shall have the direct management and control of the city dump and
shall faithfully carry out the duties of his or her position. The City Council
shall provide by ordinance for the management and operation of the dumping
grounds and shall set the rates to be charged for services rendered by
resolution and file the same in the office of the City Clerk/Treasurer for
public inspection at any reasonable time.
(Neb. RS 19-2,101 through 19-2,106) (1973 Code, § 3-901)
§ 54.21 STATE REGULATIONS.
   (A)   The city shall each year apply for a license to operate the city
dumping grounds.
   (B)   Application shall be made to the Department of Environmental Control
on forms provided by the Department.
   (C)   No fee shall be charged for the licensing.
   (D)   Each license so issued shall expire on October 1, following the date
of issuance. It shall be the duty of the Dump Caretaker to comply with the
rules and regulations prescribed by the Department of Environmental Control for
the use and operation of the city dumping grounds.
(1973 Code, § 3-902)
§ 54.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person violating §
54.06 shall be subject to a fine of up to $100.
(1973 Code, § 4-307)
(Ord. 527, passed 10-7-1982; Ord. 649, passed 8-15-1994)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
      Chapter
         
70.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
         
71.   TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
         
72.   PARKING REGULATIONS
         
73.   SNOW EMERGENCIES
         
74.   TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
         
75.   PARKING SCHEDULES
CHAPTER 70: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
70.01   Definitions
Operator and Vehicle Qualifications
   
70.15   Registration; operator and vehicle license
   
70.16   Registration; trailer
   
70.17   License plates
   
70.18   Vehicles; equipment and maintenance
   
70.19   Vehicles; unobstructed view
   
70.20   Vehicles; muffler
   
70.21   Loads; projecting
   
70.22   Loads; spilling
Bicycles
   
70.35   Operation
   
70.36   Clinging to motor vehicle
Prohibitions and Enforcement
   
70.50   Passing; hindrance
   
70.51   Driving abreast
   
70.52   Following; distance
   
70.53   Following; fire apparatus
   
70.54   Funeral processions
   
70.55   Littering
   
70.56   Glass; pointed objects
   
70.57   Signs
   
70.58   Crowding; front seat
   
70.59   Dragging; rope; chain
   
70.60   Riding; outside vehicle
   
70.61   Quiet zones; unnecessary noise
   
70.62   Drunken driving
   
70.63   Reckless driving
   
70.64   Negligent driving
   
70.65   Unnecessary tire noise
   
70.66   Accident; driver's duty
   
70.67   Emergency; regulations
   
70.68   Police
   
70.69   Traffic citations
   
70.70   Summons; destruction
   
70.71   Newly laid pavement
   
70.72   Sound apparatus; advertising
   
70.73   Railroad crossing watchperson
   
70.74   Garage keeper
   
70.75   Use of engine brakes unlawful within city limits
   
70.76   Snowmobiles; regulation of use within city
All-Terrain Vehicles and Utility-Type Vehicles
   
70.80   Definitions
   
70.81   Operation of all-terrain vehicles and utility-type vehicles
 
   
70.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 70.01 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   The words and phrases used in this title pertaining to motor vehicles
and traffic regulations shall be construed as defined in Neb. RS Ch. 39 and 60,
as now existing or hereafter amended. If not defined in the designated statute,
the word or phrase shall have its common meaning.
   (B)   For the purpose of this title, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      CONGESTED DISTRICT. Shall mean and include the following portions of
streets and alleys in the city: Main Street or M Street from Ninth Street to
the right-of-way of the Chicago, Burlington, and Quincy Railroad Company.
(1973 Code, § 5-101)
OPERATOR AND VEHICLE QUALIFICATIONS
§ 70.15 REGISTRATION; OPERATOR AND VEHICLE LICENSE.
   No person shall operate a motor vehicle upon any street or public highway
without having first registered the same, and without first having obtained a
motor vehicle operator's license as provided by the laws of the state, and the
vehicle shall have the registration number plates, furnished by the state or
county, displayed upon the vehicle in the manner and place provided by the laws
of the state. It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a motor vehicle
upon any street or alley during the period that his or her operator's license
has been revoked or canceled.
(Neb. RS 60-302 and 60-6,213,) (1973 Code, § 5-301) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.16 REGISTRATION; TRAILER.
   When any trailer shall be attached to any motor vehicle in use upon the city
streets, the trailer shall carry a registration number and rear lights as
required of any other motor vehicle.
(Neb. RS 60-302) (1973 Code, § 5-302) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.17 LICENSE PLATES.
   The license plates required on every motor vehicle by laws of the state, or
by laws of any other state, while the vehicle is operated within the corporate
limits, shall be kept clear and free from grease, dust, or other blurring
matter so they will be plainly visible at all times, and shall be attached in
the manner as to be clearly readable at a distance of 100 feet and under no
circumstances shall they be obstructed by any portion of the vehicle.
(Neb. RS 60-324 and 60-325) (1973 Code, § 5-303) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.18 VEHICLES; EQUIPMENT AND MAINTENANCE.
   Every motor vehicle, while in use on the streets, alleys, or public highways
of the city, shall be equipped with efficient brakes adequate to control the
movement of, to stop, and to hold the vehicle, including two separate means of
applying the brakes, and shall be further equipped with a good and sufficient
horn in good working order, or other efficient signal devices, and shall have
from one-half hour after sunset until one-half hour before sunrise, two or more
whitish lights on the front thereof, and one on each side, which lights and all
other lighting devices, including tail lights, shall be in compliance with the
laws of the state. No person shall operate any vehicle which is equipped with
an electric light or lights that confuse travelers or pedestrians on streets or
crosswalks within the corporate limits. Every motor vehicle having a width of
80 inches or more shall display clearance lights as required by the laws of the
state. All vehicle brakes shall be maintained in good working order; provided,
motorcycles need only be equipped with one brake. All horns on motor vehicles
shall be capable of emitting sound audible under normal conditions from a
distance of not less than 200 feet; provided, no vehicle, except herein
provided, shall be equipped with; nor shall any person use upon a vehicle, any
siren, or horn otherwise than as a reasonable warning; nor shall any person use
any horn or warning device upon a vehicle to make any unnecessary, loud, or
harsh sound; and provided further that, every Police Department, Fire
Department, and fire patrol vehicle, ambulance, or other authorized emergency
vehicle used for emergency calls shall be equipped with a bell, siren, or
whistle of the type approved by the City Council.
(Neb. RS 60-6,219, 60-6,220, 60-6,224, 60-6,235, 60-6,244, and 60-6,285) (1973
Code, § 5-304) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.19 VEHICLES; UNOBSTRUCTED VIEW.
   (A)   No person shall drive on a street any motor vehicle constructed or
loaded in such a way as to prevent the driver from obtaining a view of the
street to the rear unless the vehicle is equipped with a mirror so located as
to reflect to the driver a view of the street for a distance of at least 200
feet to the rear of the vehicle.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to drive upon a street, any
vehicle with a sign, poster, or other nontransparent material upon the front
windshield, side windows, or rear windows of the motor vehicle other than a
certificate, or paper required to be so displayed by law.
   (C)   Every windshield on a motor vehicle shall be equipped with a device
for removing rain, snow, or other moisture from the windshield, which device
shall be so constructed as to be operated by the driver within the vehicle.
(Neb. RS 60-6,241, 60-6,255, and 60-6,256) (1973 Code, § 5-305) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.20 VEHICLES; MUFFLER.
   (A)   Every motor vehicle operated within this city shall be provided with a
muffler in good working order to prevent excessive or unusual noise or smoke.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to use a "muffler cut-out" on any motor vehicle
upon any streets; provided, the provisions of this section shall not apply to
authorized emergency vehicles.
(Neb. RS 60-6,286) (1973 Code, § 5-306) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.21 LOADS; PROJECTING.
   When any vehicle shall be loaded in such a manner that any portion of the
load extends more than four feet beyond the rear of the bed or the body of the
vehicle, a red flag shall be carried by day, and red light after sunset at the
extreme rear end of the load.
(Neb. RS 60-6,243) (1973 Code, § 5-307) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.22 LOADS; SPILLING.
   All vehicles used for carrying coal, earth, cinders, sand, gravel, rock,
asphalt, tar, or any similar substance shall be so constructed as to prevent
the sifting or spilling of any of the contents.
(Neb. RS 60-6,286 and 60-6,304) (1973 Code, § 5-308) Penalty, see §
70.99
BICYCLES
§ 70.35 OPERATION.
   (A)   No person shall ride or propel a bicycle on a street or other public
highway of this city with another person on the handlebars or in any position
in front of the operator.
   (B)   No bicycle shall be ridden faster than is reasonable and proper, but
every bicycle shall be operated with reasonable regard to the safety of the
operator and any other persons upon the streets and public highways.
   (C)   Persons riding bicycles shall observe all traffic signs and stop at
all stop signs.
   (D)   No bicycle shall be permitted on any street or other public highway
from one-half hour after sunset and one-half hour before sunrise without a
headlight, visible under normal atmospheric conditions, from the front thereof
for not less than 500 feet indicating the approach or presence of the bicycle,
firmly attached to the bicycle, and properly lighted, or without a yellow, or
red light reflector attached to, and visible 500 feet from the rear thereof.
The headlight shall give a clear, white light.
   (E)   No person shall ride or propel a bicycle upon any street or other
public highway abreast of more than one other person riding or propelling a
bicycle.
   (F)   Every person riding or propelling a bicycle upon any street or other
public highway shall observe all traffic rules and regulations applicable
thereto, and shall turn only at intersections, signal for all turns, ride at
the right-hand side of the street or highway, pass to the left when passing
overtaken vehicles and individuals that are slower moving, and shall pass
vehicles to the right when meeting. Where the City Council has provided for
bicycle stands, it shall be unlawful for any person to fail to park a bicycle
in such a stand.
   (G)   No person shall ride any bicycle on any sidewalk or in any sidewalk
space in the congested district. In all other areas, bicycles may be operated
on the sidewalks when done in a prudent and careful manner.
(Neb. RS 60-6,315, 60-6,317, and 60-6,318) (1973 Code, § 5-501) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.36 CLINGING TO MOTOR VEHICLE.
   No person riding upon any bicycle or roller skates shall attach the same or
himself or herself to any moving vehicle upon any roadway, and it shall be
unlawful for the driver of any vehicle to suffer or permit any person traveling
upon any bicycle or roller skates to cling to or attach himself or herself or
his or her bicycle, or roller skates, to the vehicle so driven and operated by
him or her.
(Neb. RS 60-6,316) (1973 Code, § 5-502) Penalty, see §
70.99
PROHIBITIONS AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 70.50 PASSING; HINDRANCE.
   The driver of a vehicle about to be overtaken and passed by another vehicle
shall not increase the speed of his or her vehicle until completely passed by
the overtaking vehicle.
(Neb. RS 60-6,133) (1973 Code, § 5-601) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.51 DRIVING ABREAST.
   Two or more vehicles shall not be driven abreast except when passing, or
when traversing a multi-lane or one-way street; provided, motorcycles may be
driven no more than two abreast in a single lane.
(Neb. RS 60-6,139 and 60-6,308) (1973 Code, § 5-602) (Ord. 393, passed 2-7-
1974) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.52 FOLLOWING; DISTANCE.
   The operator of a vehicle shall not follow another vehicle more closely than
is reasonable and prudent having due regard for the speed of the vehicles, and
the traffic and condition of the street.
(Neb. RS 60-6,140) (1973 Code, § 5-603) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.53 FOLLOWING; FIRE APPARATUS.
   The driver of any vehicle shall not follow any fire apparatus traveling in
response to a fire alarm closer than 500 feet, or drive into, or park the
vehicle within the block where fire apparatus has stopped in answer to a fire
alarm.
(Neb. RS 60-6,183) (1973 Code, § 5-604) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.54 FUNERAL PROCESSIONS.
   No vehicle, except police vehicles, Fire Department vehicles, when
responding to emergency calls or orders in their several departments,
ambulances responding to emergency calls, or vehicles carrying United States
mails shall be driven through a funeral procession or cortege except with the
permission of a police officer.
(Neb. RS 60-6,140 and 60-680) (1973 Code, § 5-605) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.55 LITTERING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to drop, or cause to be left, upon any
city highway, street, or alley, except at places designated by the City
Council, any rubbish, debris, or waste.
(Neb. RS 39-311) (1973 Code, § 5-606) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.56 GLASS; POINTED OBJECTS.
   No person shall throw, cast, lay, or place upon any street any thorns,
nails, tacks, glass, bottles, window glass, or other articles made of, or
containing, glass, and in case of an accident causing the breaking of any glass
upon any street, the owner or person in charge of the glass, or the person
responsible for the breakage, shall at once remove, or cause the same to be
removed, from the street.
(Neb. RS 39-311) (1973 Code, § 5-607) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.57 SIGNS.
   (A)   Defacing or interfering with. It shall be unlawful for any person to
willfully deface, injure, remove, obstruct, or interfere with any official
traffic sign or signal.
(Neb. RS 60-6,129) (1973 Code, § 5-608)
   (B)   Unauthorized display.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to maintain or display upon, or
in view of any street, any unofficial sign, signal, or device which purports to
be, is an imitation of, or resembles an official traffic sign or signal which
attempts to direct the movement of traffic, or which hides from view, or
interferes with the effectiveness of any official sign or signal.
      (2)   Every prohibited sign, signal, or device is hereby declared to be a
public nuisance, and any police officer is hereby empowered to remove the same,
or cause it to be removed, without notice.
(Neb. RS 60-6,127) (1973 Code, § 5-609)
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.58 CROWDING; FRONT SEAT.
   No person shall drive a motor vehicle when it is so loaded, or when there is
in the front seat such a number of persons, exceeding three, as to obstruct the
view of the driver to the front or sides of the vehicle or to interfere with
the driver's control over the driving mechanism of the vehicle.
(Neb. RS60-6,179) (1973 Code, § 5-610) (Ord. 451, passed 12-1-1977) Penalty,
see §
70.99
§ 70.59 DRAGGING; ROPE; CHAIN.
   No person shall permit any rope, strap, chain, or other article to drop
behind any vehicle while in use on the streets, except persons operating
vehicles transporting gasoline, benzene, or other flammable materials.
(Neb. RS 60-680) (1973 Code, § 5-611) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.60 RIDING; OUTSIDE VEHICLE.
   No person shall permit any other person to ride on the running board, hood,
top, or fenders of any motor vehicle. Nor shall any person ride on the running
board, hood, top, or fenders of any motor vehicle.
(Neb. RS 60-680 and 60-6,179) (1973 Code, § 5-612) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.61 QUIET ZONES; UNNECESSARY NOISE.
   All streets, or portions thereof, lying within 300 feet of any hospital,
nursing home, or school, and which have been declared to be "quiet zones" by
the City Council shall be respected as such by all drivers, and no driver of
any vehicle shall within the zones, make any unnecessary noise or sound the
horn, or other warning device, of the vehicle except in an emergency. It shall
be unlawful for any person in any part of the city to make, or cause to be
made, any unnecessary noise with any signal device, or to use the same except
as a road signal.
(Neb. RS 60-680) (1973 Code, § 5-613) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.62 DRUNKEN DRIVING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate, or be in actual physical
control of, any motor vehicle while under the influence of alcoholic liquor, or
of any drug. Any person who shall operate or be in actual physical control of
any motor vehicle while under the influence of alcoholic liquor, or of any
drug, shall be deemed guilty of a crime, and upon conviction thereof, the
person shall be punished as provided by state law. For purposes of this
section, the determination of whether an individual is under the influence of
either alcohol or drugs shall be as prescribed in the statutes of the state.
(Neb. RS 60-6,196 through 60-6,203) (1973 Code, § 5-615) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.63 RECKLESS DRIVING.
   (A)   Any person who drives a motor vehicle in such a manner as to indicate
an indifferent or wanton disregard for the safety of persons or property shall
be deemed to be guilty of reckless driving.
(Neb. RS 60-4,182, 60-6,213, 60-6,215) (1973 Code, § 5-616)
   (B)   Any person who drives a motor vehicle in such a manner as to indicate
a willful disregard for the safety of persons, or property shall be deemed to
be guilty of willful, reckless driving.
(Neb. RS 60-6,214 through 60-6,218) (1973 Code, § 5-617)
(Ord. 407, passed 12-5-1974) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.64 NEGLIGENT DRIVING.
   Any person who operates a motor vehicle in such a manner as to indicate a
want of ordinary care and caution that a person of ordinary prudence would use
under like circumstances shall be deemed guilty of negligent driving.
(Neb. RS 60-4,182) (1973 Code, § 5-618) (Ord. 407, passed 12-5-1974) Penalty,
see §
70.99
§ 70.65 UNNECESSARY TIRE NOISE.
   Any person who drives, uses, operates, parks, or stops any motor vehicle in
such a manner as to cause unnecessary tire noise shall be deemed guilty of
causing unnecessary tire noise.
(1973 Code, § 5-619) (Ord. 407, passed 12-5-1974) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.66 ACCIDENT; DRIVER'S DUTY.
   (A)   The driver of any vehicle involved in an accident upon a public
highway, private road, or private drive, resulting in injury or death to any
person, shall:
      (1)   Immediately stop the vehicle at the scene of the accident;
      (2)   Give his or her name, address, and the registration number of his
or her vehicle, and exhibit his or her operator's, or chauffeur's license, to
the person struck, or the driver, or occupants, of any vehicle collided with;
and
      (3)   Render to any person injured in the accident reasonable assistance,
including the carrying of the person to a physician or surgeon for medical or
surgical treatment if it is apparent that the treatment is necessary, or is
requested by the injured person.
   (B)   The driver of any vehicle involved in an accident, whether upon the
public highway, private road, or private drive, resulting in damage to
property, shall:
      (1)   Immediately stop the vehicle at the scene of the accident; and
      (2)   Give his or her name, address, and the registration number of his
or her vehicle, and exhibit his or her operator's, or chauffeur's license to
the owner of the property struck, or the driver, or occupants of any other
vehicle involved in the collision.
(Neb. RS 60-680) (1973 Code, § 5-620) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.67 EMERGENCY; REGULATIONS.
   The Police Chief is hereby empowered to make and enforce temporary traffic
regulations to cover emergencies.
(Neb. RS 81-2,005) (1973 Code, § 5-621) (Ord. 419, passed 3-4-1976)
§ 70.68 POLICE.
   (A)   Enforcement. The city police are hereby authorized, empowered, and
ordered to exercise all powers and duties, with relation to the management of
street traffic, and to direct, control, stop, restrict, regulate, and, when
necessary, temporarily divert, or exclude, in the interest of public safety,
health, and convenience the movement of pedestrian, animal, and vehicular
traffic of every kind in streets, parks, and on bridges. The driver of any
vehicle shall stop upon the signal of any police officer.
(Neb. RS 60-683) (1973 Code, § 5-622)
   (B)   Refusal to obey. It shall be unlawful for any person to refuse, or
fail to comply with, any lawful order, signal, or direction of a police
officer.
(Neb. RS 60-680) (1973 Code, § 5-623)
   (C)   Traffic officers. The City Council or the city police may at any time
detail officers, to be known as "traffic officers," at street intersections.
All traffic officers shall be vested with the authority to regulate and control
traffic at the intersections to which they are assigned. It shall be their duty
to direct the movement of traffic and prevent congestion and accidents. It
shall be unlawful for any person to violate any order, or signal, of any such
traffic officer notwithstanding the directive of a stop sign, or signal device,
which may have been placed at any such intersection.
(Neb. RS 60-680, 60-683, and 60-6,222) (1973 Code, § 5-624)
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.69 TRAFFIC CITATIONS.
   (A)   Disposition. The city police, upon issuing a traffic citation to an
alleged violator of any provision of this title, shall deposit the original
traffic citation with the City Attorney, who shall at his or her discretion
file a complaint in the appropriate court.
(1973 Code, § 5-625)
   (B)   Illegal cancellation. Any person who cancels, or solicits the
cancellation of, any traffic citation in any manner other than as provided
herein shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
(Neb. RS 60-680) (1973 Code, § 5-626)
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.70 SUMMONS; DESTRUCTION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to tear up, or destroy, a parking tag
placed upon any vehicle by the city police, or to disregard the summons
contained on the tag, and fail to appear in court as directed by the tag.
(Neb. RS 60-680) (1973 Code, § 5-627) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.71 NEWLY LAID PAVEMENT.
   No person shall ride or drive any vehicle over or across any pavement newly
laid or repaired, across or around which there has been placed a barrier, or at
or near which there is an officer, person, or sign warning persons against
riding or driving over the pavement.
(1973 Code, § 5-628) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.72 SOUND APPARATUS; ADVERTISING.
   No person shall operate or permit to be operated any sound-producing or
sound-amplifying apparatus for amplifying the human voice within the limits of
any street or public place in the city, or in or upon any vehicle while parked
or stopped therein. No motor vehicle shall have any poster, sign, picture, or
advertising material on the windshield or glass of the side or rear window
thereof; and no person shall, by himself or herself or through his or her
agent, place or post any poster, sign, picture, or advertising material on the
windshield or glass of either his or her own motor vehicle or that of any other
person.
(1973 Code, § 5-629) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.73 RAILROAD CROSSING WATCHPERSON.
   (A)   Each watchperson, trainperson, or other agent of any railroad or
railway company, if and when stationed at a railway crossing within the
corporate limits of the city, shall be vested with authority to regulate and
control traffic of vehicles at the railway crossing where he or she is so
stationed.
   (B)   It shall be his or her duty to direct the movement of traffic at the
railway crossing in such a manner as will facilitate the movement of traffic,
prevent congestion and accidents, and to stop all movement of vehicles at the
railway crossing, when any engine, car, or conveyance of the railway company
approaches the railway crossing upon the tracks, by arm signals or by holding a
stop signal in his or her hand extended straight out from his or her shoulder
while facing the street.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person to violate any order or signal of
any watchperson.
(1973 Code, § 5-630) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.74 GARAGE KEEPER.
   (A)   Report damaged vehicles. The person in charge of any garage or repair
shop in the city to which is brought any vehicle which shows evidence of having
been struck by a bullet, or having been recently involved in an accident, shall
report to the Police Chief of the city as soon as the vehicle is received
giving the engine number, manufacturer's serial number, registration plate
number, and the name and address of the owner or operator of the vehicle.
(1973 Code, § 5-631)
   (B)   Report abandoned vehicles. The person in charge of any garage or
repair shop at which has been left a motor vehicle of unknown ownership for a
period of 15 consecutive days without being removed by its owner or any other
person duly authorized to remove the same shall report to the Police Chief of
the city giving the name, engine number, manufacturer's serial number,
registration plate number, and the name and address of the person abandoning
the vehicle, if known.
(1973 Code, § 5-632)
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.75 USE OF ENGINE BRAKES UNLAWFUL WITHIN CITY LIMITS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to use engine brakes, commonly known as
"Jake Brakes," on trucks within the city limits.
(1973 Code, § 5-634) (Ord. 624, passed 8-13-1992)
§ 70.76 SNOWMOBILES; REGULATION OF USE WITHIN CITY.
   No person shall operate a snowmobile on any street, alley, or any city
property located within or without the corporate limits of the city, except:
   (A)   The Police Chief may, in parades and in an emergency, prescribe the
manner, time, and areas in which, and the minimum age of persons by which, a
snowmobile may be operated; and
   (B)   The City Council, whenever it shall by resolution determine that the
public safety, convenience, or welfare require or warrant, may permit operation
of snowmobiles on particular streets, alleys, or city property or parts
thereof.
(1973 Code, § 5-635) (Ord. 770, passed 1-10-2008) Penalty, see §
70.99
ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLES AND UTILITY-TYPE VEHICLES
 
 
§ 70.80 DEFINITIONS.
   For purposes of this subchapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLE. Any motorized off-highway vehicle which is:
      (1)   Fifty inches or less in width;
      (2)   Has a dry weight of 900 pounds or less;
      (3)   Travels on four or more low-pressure tires;
      (4)   Is designed for operator use only with no passengers or is
specifically designed by the original manufacturer for the operator and one
passenger;
      (5)   Has a seat designed to be straddled by the operator, and has
handlebars or any other steering assembly for steering control.
(Neb. RS 60-6,355)
   STREET or HIGHWAY. The entire width between the boundary limits of any
street, road, avenue, boulevard, alley or way, which is publicly maintained
when any part thereof is open to the use of the public for purposes of
vehicular travel.
(Neb. RS 60-624)
   UTILITY-TYPE VEHICLE. Any motorized off-highway vehicle which:
      (1)   Is not less than 48 inches nor more than 74 inches in width;
      (2)   Is not more than 135 inches, including the bumper, in length;
      (3)   Has a dry weight of not less than 900 pounds nor more than 2,000
pounds;
      (4)   Travels on four or more low-pressure tires;
      (5)   Is equipped with a steering wheel and bench or bucket-type seating
designed for at least two people to sit side-by-side; and
      (6)   Is capable of traveling at a top speed of no less than 15 miles per
hour.
(Neb. RS 60-6,355) (Ord. 804, passed 4-8-2010; Ord. 813, passed 11-10-2010;
Ord. 950, passed 2-14- 2019)
§ 70.81 OPERATION OF ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLES AND UTILITY-TYPE VEHICLES.
   (A)   An all-terrain vehicle and/or an utility-type vehicle may be operated
on the streets within the corporate limits, other than Main Street, but only if
the operator and the vehicle comply with the provisions of this section.
   (B)   No person shall operate an all-terrain vehicle or utility-type vehicle
within the city limits of the city at any time other than between the hours of
sunrise and sunset and shall not operate said vehicle at a speed in excess of
the posted speed limit but in no event in excess of 30 miles per hour and
during operation the operator shall be in a seated position straddling the
vehicle with one leg on each side. No passengers are permitted to ride on an
all-terrain vehicle or an utility-type vehicle operated by another, unless the
all-terrain vehicle or utility-type vehicle is specifically designed by the
original manufacturer for the operator and one or more passengers. No operator
shall permit another to be a passenger while operating an all-terrain vehicle
or utility-type vehicle on the streets of the city, unless the all-terrain
vehicle or utility-type vehicle is specifically designed by the original
manufacturer for the operator and one or more passengers. No person shall be
permitted to ride, be pulled, pushed or propelled by an all-terrain vehicle or
utility-type vehicle or on any object attached to the all-terrain vehicle or
utility-type vehicle.
   (C)   No person will operate an all-terrain vehicle and/or utility-type
vehicle on the streets of the city unless the operator shall have:
      (1)   A valid Class O operator's license, or a farm permit as provided in
Neb. RS 60-4,126; and
      (2)   Liability insurance coverage for the all-terrain vehicle or
utility-type vehicle being operated. The person operating the all-terrain
vehicle or utility-type vehicle shall exhibit their license and provide proof
of such insurance coverage to the peace officer requesting same at the time of
investigation but the operator may provide proof of insurance to the Police
Department within five days.
   (D)   No person will operate an all-terrain vehicle or aft utility-type
vehicle on the streets of the city unless the vehicle is equipped with at least
four wheels and with a headlight and taillight which shall be on at all times
when operated on said streets and highways and with a bicycle safety flag,
triangular in shape with an area of not less than 30 square inches and day-glow
in color, which extends not less than five feet above the ground and is
attached to the rear of such vehicle. Whenever an all-terrain vehicle or
utility-type vehicle is moving all cargo must be securely attached to the
vehicle in such a manner that the cargo will remain secured without any
assistance of the operator.
   (E)   No person shall operate an all-terrain vehicle or aft utility-type
vehicle on the streets of the city until the owner has demonstrated proof of
insurance to the Police Department or acting law enforcement agency for the
City of Bridgeport and obtained an insurance decal for the current year. The
Police Department or acting law enforcement agency for the City of Bridgeport
will issue a decal for the current year which shall be affixed to the all-
terrain vehicle or utility-type vehicle in a conspicuous place. All insurance
decals will expire on December 31 in the year of issuance and must be renewed
on or before January 1 of each year. The city will charge a fee of $25 for the
issuance of such insurance decal.
   (F)   All-terrain vehicles or utility-type vehicles may be operated without
complying with divisions (C), (D) and (E) hereof on streets and highways in
parades which have been authorized by the state or any department, board,
commission or political subdivision of the state. The Police Department or
acting law enforcement agency for the City of Bridgeport is to be notified of
operation pursuant to this provision at least two days in advance of the
parade.
   (G)   No person shall operate an all-terrain vehicle or an utility-type
vehicle on Main Street.
   (H)   No person shall cross Main Street, Fifth Street, or any other highway
including on an all-terrain vehicle or utility-type vehicle without complying
with divisions (C), (D), (E) and (F) hereof except if:
      (1)   The crossing is made at an angle of approximately 90 degrees to the
direction of the highway and at a place where no obstruction permits a quick
and safe crossing;
      (2)   The vehicle is brought to a complete stop before crossing the
shoulder or roadway of the highway;
      (3)   The operator yields the right-of-way to all on-coming traffic that
constitutes an immediate potential hazard;
      (4)   In crossing a divided highway, the crossing is made only at a
crossing intersection; and
      (5)   Both headlight and taillight of the vehicle are on when the
crossing is made.
   (I)   No person shall operate an all-terrain vehicle or utility-type vehicle
in the city unless the same is equipped with:
      (1)   A brake system and muffler system both maintained in good operating
condition;
      (2)   A United States Forest Service qualified spark arrester.
   (J)   No person shall:
      (1)   Equip the exhaust system of an all-terrain vehicle or utility-type
vehicle with a cutout, bypass or similar device;
      (2)   Operate an all-terrain vehicle or utility-type vehicle with an
exhaust system so modified; or
      (3)   Operate an all-terrain vehicle or utility-type vehicle with the
spark arrester removed or modified except for use in closed-course competition
events with the exemption that prior to the event, the all-terrain vehicle
participating in a competitive event may be exempted by the Director of the
Nebraska Department of Motor Vehicles.
   (K)   Every all-terrain vehicle (ATV) or utility-type vehicle (UTV) as
defined by the Statutes of Nebraska or the Bridgeport Municipal Code, which is
operated within the jurisdiction of the city, is hereby declared to be a motor
vehicle and subject to all of the motor vehicle rules of the road and traffic
laws as defined in either the Nebraska Revised Statutes or the Bridgeport
Municipal Code.
(Ord. 804, passed 4-8-2010; Ord. 813, passed 11-10-2010; Ord. 951, passed 4-11-
2019) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person violating §
70.55 shall be guilty of littering and shall be fined not less than $25 nor
more than $100.
(Neb. RS 39-311) (1973 Code, § 5-606)
   (C)   Any person who shall violate or refuse to comply with the enforcement
of §
70.76 shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor, punishable by a fine of $25.
(1973 Code, § 5-635) (Ord. 770, passed 1-10-2008)
   (D)   Any person who violates any provisions of §
70.81 shall be fined in any amount not less than $100 and no more than $200 for
each violation.
(Ord. 804, passed 4-8-2010; Ord. 813, passed 11-10-2010)
CHAPTER 71: TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
Section
   
71.01   Truck routes
   
71.02   Traffic lanes; designation
   
71.03   Turning
   
71.04   Right-of-way
   
71.05   Position of vehicle on highway
   
71.06   Backing
   
71.07   Driving in sidewalk space
   
71.08   Stops; mandatory
   
71.09   Crosswalks
   
71.10   Stop signs
§ 71.01 TRUCK ROUTES.
   The City Council may, by resolution, designate certain streets in the city
that trucks shall travel upon, and it shall be unlawful for persons operating
those trucks to travel on other streets than those designated for trucks,
unless to pick up or deliver goods, wares, or merchandise, and in that event,
the operator of the truck shall return to the truck routes as soon as possible
in traveling through or about the city. The City Council shall cause notices to
be posted or shall erect signs indicating the streets so designated as truck
routes.
(Neb. RS 60-6,681) (1973 Code, § 5-201) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 71.02 TRAFFIC LANES; DESIGNATION.
   The City Council may, by resolution, mark lanes for traffic on street
pavements at any places as it may deem advisable.
(Neb. RS 60-680) (1973 Code, § 5-203)
§ 71.03 TURNING.
   (A)   Hand signals. A signal of intention to turn right or left shall be
given continuously during not less than the last 50 feet traveled by the
vehicle before turning. The signals herein required shall be given either by
means of the hand and arm, or by a signal device of a type approved by the
Department of Roads. The hand and arm signals herein required shall be given
from the left side of the vehicle in the following manner: STOP or decreased
speed, hand and arm extended downward; LEFT TURN, hand and arm extended
horizontally; RIGHT TURN, hand and arm extended upward.
(Neb. RS 60-6,161 through 60-6,163) (1973 Code, § 5-205)
   (B)   Generally. Vehicles turning to the right into an intersecting street
shall approach the intersection in the lane of traffic nearest to the right-
hand side of the highway and must turn the corner as near the right-hand curb
as possible to keep between the curb to the right and the center of the
intersection of the two streets. The driver of a vehicle intending to turn to
the left shall approach the center line of the highway, and in turning shall
pass as near as possible to the center of the intersection, passing as closely
as practicable to the right thereof before turning the vehicle to the left. For
the purposes of this division (B), the center of the intersection shall mean
the meeting point of the medial lines of the highways intersecting one another.
(Neb. RS 60-6,159) (1973 Code, § 5-206)
   (C)   Cautious. The operator of a vehicle shall, before stopping, turning,
or changing the course of the vehicle, see that there is sufficient space to
make the movement in safety. If any pedestrian might be affected by the
movement, the operator shall give a clearly audible signal by sounding the
horn, and whenever the operation of any other vehicle may be affected by the
movement, he or she shall give some unmistakable signal to the driver of all
other vehicles of his or her intention to make the movement.
(Neb. RS 60-6,109, 60-6,161, and 60-680) (1973 Code, § 5-207)
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 71.04 RIGHT-OF-WAY.
   (A)   Generally. When two vehicles approach or enter an intersection at
approximately the same time, the driver of the vehicle on the left shall yield
the right-of-way to the vehicle on the right when the paths of the vehicles
intersect and there is danger of a collision, unless otherwise directed by a
city police officer stationed at the intersection. The driver of a vehicle
intending to turn to the left within an intersection, or into an alley, private
road, or driveway shall yield the right-of-way to any vehicle approaching from
the opposite direction which is within the intersection or so close thereto as
to constitute an immediate hazard. The driver of a vehicle on any street shall
yield the right-of-way to a pedestrian crossing the street within any clearly
marked crosswalk, or at any regular pedestrian crossing at the end of a block
where the movement of traffic is being regulated by traffic officers or traffic
direction devices. Every pedestrian crossing a street at any point other than a
pedestrian crossing, crosswalk, or intersection shall yield the right-of-way to
vehicles upon the street. The driver of a vehicle entering a city street from a
private road, or drive shall yield the right-of-way to all vehicles approaching
on the streets. The driver of a vehicle upon a street shall yield the right-of-
way to authorized emergency vehicles when the latter are operated upon official
business and the drivers thereof sound audible signal by bell, siren, or
whistle.
(Neb. RS 60-6,146 through 60-6,148) (1973 Code, § 5-208)
   (B)   Overtaking vehicles. The driver of a vehicle about to be overtaken and
passed by another vehicle approaching from the rear shall give way to the right
in favor of the overtaking vehicle.
(Neb. RS 60-6,133) (1973 Code, § 5-209)
   (C)   Emergency vehicles. Upon the approach of any authorized emergency
vehicle, every vehicle within one block of the route of the emergency vehicle
shall immediately stop, except at the time they are on or crossing a street
intersection, in which event, the vehicle shall drive clear of the street
intersection and then stop. Every vehicle along the route of the emergency
vehicle shall immediately move to a position as near the right-hand curb as
possible and remain there until the authorized emergency vehicle or vehicles
have passed; provided, the vehicles are operated on official business and the
drivers thereof sound audible signal by bell, siren, or whistle.
(Neb. RS 60-6,151) (1973 Code, § 5-210)
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 71.05 POSITION OF VEHICLE ON HIGHWAY.
   (A)   Generally. Upon all highways of sufficient width, one-way streets
excepted, the driver of a vehicle shall drive the same on the right half of the
roadway. In passing or meeting other vehicles, drivers shall give each other at
least one-half of the main traveled portion of the roadway.
(Neb. RS 60-6,131) (1973 Code, § 5-211)
   (B)   Street center line. A vehicle shall not be driven to the left of the
center line of the highway in overtaking or passing another vehicle proceeding
in the same direction, unless the left side is clearly visible and free from
oncoming traffic for a sufficient distance to permit the overtaking and passing
to be made in safety.
(Neb. RS 60-6,136) (1973 Code, § 5-212)
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 71.06 BACKING.
   Before backing, ample warning shall be given and, while backing, unceasing
vigilance must be exercised not to injure those behind. The driver of a parked
vehicle about to back shall give moving vehicles the right-of-way.
(Neb. RS 60-6,169, 60-680) (1973 Code, § 5-213) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 71.07 DRIVING IN SIDEWALK SPACE.
   No vehicle shall be driven within any sidewalk space, except a permanent or
temporary driveway.
(1973 Code, § 5-214) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 71.08 STOPS; MANDATORY.
   All vehicles, before crossing a sidewalk or emerging from a garage, alley,
filling station, or other place within the fire limits, shall come to a
complete stop and, after giving sufficient warning, shall proceed slowly and
with extreme caution while crossing the sidewalk, or leaving the garage, alley,
filling station, or other place. The term SLOWLY shall be construed to mean the
rate of speed as is reasonable and proper under the circumstances and the
condition of the street and traffic thereon.
(Neb. RS 60-6,149) (1973 Code, § 5-215) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 71.09 CROSSWALKS.
   The City Council may, by resolution, establish and maintain, by appropriate
devices, markers, or lines upon the streets, crosswalks at intersections where
there is particular danger to pedestrians crossing the street, and at any other
places as it may deem necessary.
(Neb. RS 60-680) (1973 Code, § 5-216)
§ 71.10 STOP SIGNS.
   Every person operating any vehicle shall, upon approaching any stop sign
erected in accordance with the provisions prescribed heretofore, cause the
vehicle to come to a complete stop as near the right-of-way line as possible
before entering or crossing any street, highway, or railroad crossing. Every
person operating any vehicle shall obey all other signs, signals, standards, or
devices erected for the purpose of regulating or prohibiting traffic.
(Neb. RS 60-6,119 through 60-6,121 and 60-680) (1973 Code, § 5-218) Penalty,
see §
10.99
CHAPTER 72: PARKING REGULATIONS
Section
   
72.01   Vehicles; unattended
   
72.02   Parking; generally
   
72.03   Obstructing alley
   
72.04   Alleys
   
72.05   Unloading; freight vehicles
   
72.06   Fire hydrants
   
72.07   Schools; theaters
   
72.08   Street intersections
   
72.09   Obstructing traffic
   
72.10   Curb
   
72.11   Curbs; painted
   
72.12   Display or repair
   
72.13   Current license
   
72.14   Emergency vehicles
   
72.15   Removal of illegally parked vehicles
   
72.16   Handicapped or disabled persons; permits; period valid; renewal; fee
   
72.17   Parking or storage on city streets, alleys and roadways
 
   
72.99   Penalty
§ 72.01 VEHICLES; UNATTENDED.
   No person having control or charge of a motor vehicle shall allow the
vehicle to stand unattended without first effectively setting the brakes
thereon and, when standing upon any grade, without turning the front wheels of
the vehicle to the curb or side of the street. The driver of a motor vehicle,
when traveling upon a down grade upon any street, shall not coast with the
gears of the vehicle in neutral.
(Neb. RS 60-6,168) (1973 Code, § 5-401) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 72.02 PARKING; GENERALLY.
   No person shall park any vehicle, or approach the curb with a vehicle,
except when headed in the direction of the traffic. Vehicles, when parked,
shall stand parallel with and adjacent to the curb. The City Council may, by
resolution, designate areas for angle parking. All vehicles parked at an angle
shall stand with the right front wheel at the curb. No person shall park a
vehicle so as to obstruct a private driveway, or drive, for any period of time.
No person shall park a vehicle, or permit it to stand within 15 feet in either
direction from the entrance of any fire station.
(1973 Code, § 5-402) (Ord. 667, passed 5-8-1997) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 72.03 OBSTRUCTING ALLEY.
   No vehicle, while parked, shall have any portion thereof projecting into any
alley entrance.
(Neb. RS 60-680) (1973 Code, § 5-404) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 72.04 ALLEYS.
   No vehicle shall be parked in any alley, except for the purpose of loading
or unloading during the time necessary to load or unload, which shall not
exceed the maximum limit of one-half hour. Every vehicle while loading or
unloading in any alley shall be parked in the manner as will cause the least
obstruction possible to traffic in the alley.
(Neb. RS 60-680) (1973 Code, § 5-405) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 72.05 UNLOADING; FREIGHT VEHICLES.
   Vehicles of an overall length of less than 18 feet, including load, while
discharging freight may back to the curb, but shall occupy as little of the
street as possible.
(Neb. RS 60-680) (1973 Code, § 5-406) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 72.06 FIRE HYDRANTS.
   No vehicle shall be parked within 15 feet in either direction of any fire
hydrant. The curb space within the area of 15 feet in either direction of the
fire hydrant shall be painted red to indicate the prohibition.
(Neb. RS 60-6,166) (1973 Code, § 5-408) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 72.07 SCHOOLS; THEATERS.
   The City Council may, by resolution, prohibit the parking or stopping of
vehicles at the curb on streets directly in front of any entrance to a school
house, school building, or theater, and any curbs adjacent to the entrance of
the school house, school building, or theater shall be painted red to indicate
the prohibition.
(Neb. RS 60-680) (1973 Code, § 5-409)
§ 72.08 STREET INTERSECTIONS.
    No vehicle shall be parked or left standing for any purpose within 25 feet
of the intersection or curb lines, nor where the curb lines are painted red to
indicate the prohibition. Where there are no curbs, parking shall be prohibited
within 15 feet of the intersection of property lines at a street intersection.
(Neb. RS 60-6,166) (1973 Code, § 5-410) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 72.09 OBSTRUCTING TRAFFIC.
   No vehicle shall, except in case of an accident or emergency, stop within
any street intersection, alley entrance, or any such location as to obstruct
any street, crosswalk, or alley entrance.
(Neb. RS 60-680) (1973 Code, § 5-411) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 72.10 CURB.
   No vehicle shall park on any street with its left side to the curb, unless
the street has been designated to be a "one-way" street by the City Council.
Vehicles must not be parked at any curb in such a position as to prevent
another vehicle already parked at the curb from moving away.
(Neb. RS 60-6,167) (1973 Code, § 5-412) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 72.11 CURBS; PAINTED.
   It shall be the duty of the Director of Public Works to cause the curb space
to be painted and keep the same painted as provided in this chapter. No person,
firm, or corporation shall paint the curb of any street, or in any manner set
aside, or attempt to prevent the parking of vehicles in any street, or part
thereof, except at the places where the parking of vehicles is prohibited by
the provisions of this chapter. The marking or designating of portions of
streets or alleys where the parking of vehicles is prohibited or limited shall
be done only by the city through its proper officers, at the direction of the
City Council.
(Neb. RS 60-680) (1973 Code, § 5-413) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 72.12 DISPLAY OR REPAIR.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to park upon any street, alley, or
public place within this city any vehicle displayed for sale. No person shall
adjust or repair any automobile or motorcycle, or race the motor of same, while
standing on the public streets or alleys of this city, excepting in case of
breakdown or other emergency requiring same. No person or employee connected
with a garage or repair shop shall use sidewalks, streets, or alleys in the
vicinity of the garage or shop for the purpose of working on automobiles or
vehicles of any description.
(Neb. RS 60-680) (1973 Code, § 5-414) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 72.13 CURRENT LICENSE.
   It shall be unlawful to park or place on the streets, alleys, or other
public property any motor vehicle without first securing a current license as
provided by law.
(Neb. RS 60-323) (1973 Code, § 5-415) (Ord. 669, passed 5-8-1997) Penalty, see
§
10.99
§ 72.14 EMERGENCY VEHICLES.
   The provisions of this chapter regulating the movement, parking, and
standing of vehicles shall not apply to authorized emergency vehicles, as
defined in this chapter, while the driver of the vehicle is operating the same
in an emergency in the necessary performance of public duties.
(1973 Code, § 5-418)
§ 72.15 REMOVAL OF ILLEGALLY PARKED VEHICLES.
   (A)   Whenever any police officer shall find a vehicle standing upon a
street or alley in violation of any of the provisions of this chapter, the
individual may remove or have the vehicle removed, or require the driver or
other person in charge of the vehicle to move the vehicle, to a position off
the roadway of the street or alley or from the street or alley.
   (B)   The owner or other person lawfully entitled to the possession of any
vehicle towed or stored shall be charged with the reasonable cost of towing and
storage fees. Any such towing or storage fee shall be a lien upon the vehicle
prior to all other claims. Any person towing or storing a vehicle shall be
entitled to retain possession of the vehicle until the charges are paid. The
lien provided for in this section shall not apply to the contents of any
vehicles.
(Neb. RS 60-680 and 60-6,165) (1973 Code, § 5-419) (Ord. 602, passed 2-9-1989)
§ 72.16 HANDICAPPED OR DISABLED PERSONS; PERMITS; PERIOD VALID; RENEWAL; FEE.
   (A)   All permits authorized under this chapter for handicapped or disabled
parking shall be issued for a period of three years from the date of issuance.
All temporarily handicapped or disabled parking permits authorized under this
chapter shall be issued for a period ending 90 days from the date of issuance
but may be renewed for up to three additional 90-day periods. For each
additional 90-day renewal period, there shall be submitted an additional
application with proof of a handicap or disability and the required permit fee.
   (B)   A permit fee of $3 shall be charged for each permit, $2.50 of which
shall be retained by the City Clerk/Treasurer and $.50 shall be forwarded on a
quarterly basis to the Department of Motor Vehicles.
(Neb. RS 18-1,740) (1973 Code, § 5-421) (Ord. 648, passed 5-5-1994)
§ 72.17 PARKING OR STORAGE ON CITY STREETS, ALLEYS AND ROADWAYS.
   (A)   Recreation vehicles shall be defined as trailers, camper trailers,
trailers with boats, motor homes, jet skis and associated trailers and any
other similar-type recreational vessels. Recreation vehicles are not allowed to
park within five feet of any driveway or 30 feet from any corner.
   (B)   Recreation vehicles shall be no wider than eight and one-half feet.
   (C)   Recreation vehicles must have tires that are fully inflated with air
and the vehicle must be usable and properly licensed. All nonmotorized vehicles
must have reflectors at least three feet above the ground on the street or left
side of the trailer.
   (D)   Recreation vehicles cannot be parked on the street to store junk,
unusable items, or items defined as nuisances. Any recreation vehicle with
sharp, dangerous, or protruding objects cannot be parked on the street at any
time. This includes any objects that protrude from the trailer bed, frame, and
any objects the trailer is designed to carry.
   (E)   Recreation vehicles, authorized to park along the street, must be
parked in such manner so as not to in any way imped the flow of traffic and to
park on the street only within the lot lines of property where the owners of
the vehicles live.
   (F)   Recreation vehicles as described herein shall only be parked along
streets within the city from the period beginning April 1 and ending October 1.
   (G)   A non-recreation vehicle shall be defined as any vehicle, vessel,
machine or implement other than a registered, licensed and operational
automobile. Non-recreation vehicles specifically include, but are not limited
to, tractors, trailers, machinery, implements of farm husbandry, tractor-
trailers, commercial trailers and any other similar-type vehicle, vessel,
machine or implement.
   (H)   Non-recreation vehicles shall not be parked along streets, roads or
alleys within the city at any time.
   (I)   Non-recreation vehicles may be parked along streets, roads or alleys
within the city, for a limited time not to exceed five days, or as long
thereafter as deemed necessary by the City Administrator, for the purpose of
construction and/or contracting activities and other similarly associated
activities, or when being utilized by the owner or occupant of the property to
permanently relocate to another property.
   (J)   In the event non-recreation vehicles must be parked along streets,
roads or alleys within the city for the performance of said activities, said
vehicles shall be parked directly in front of the residence, business or
structure where the activity is taking place and parked in such a manner as to
minimize neighborhood and traffic-flow disruption.
   (K)   Non-recreation vehicles necessary for the performance of public safety
functions shall be exempt from the provisions herein.
   (L)   The acting law enforcement body for the city shall be responsible for
enforcing the provisions herein.
(1973 Code, § 5-423) (Ord. 747, passed 3-9-2006; Ord. 929, passed 11-14-2017)
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.99 PENALTY.
   Any person violating §
72.17 shall be fined $100 for each violation for a first violation. The fine
for a second violation shall be $250. The fine for a third or subsequent
violation shall be $500. A new violation shall be deemed to have been committed
every 24 hours of failure to comply with the provisions of this code.
(Ord. 929, passed 11-4-2017)
CHAPTER 73: SNOW EMERGENCIES
Section
   
73.01   Establishment of snow emergency routes
   
73.02   Declaration of emergency; prohibition of parking on snow emergency
routes
   
73.03   Prohibition of parking on downtown commercial areas during snow
emergency
   
73.04   Prohibition of parking in community center parking lot during snow
emergency
   
73.05   Movement of snow from private property
   
73.06   Operation of motor vehicles on snow emergency routes
   
73.07   Emergency declarations of the City Administrator
   
73.08   Provisions temporarily effective to take precedence
   
73.09   Removal of stalled or parked vehicles
   
73.10   Violations
   
73.11   Effective date
§ 73.01 ESTABLISHMENT OF SNOW EMERGENCY ROUTES.
   (A)   The following streets are declared to be snow emergency routes within
the city. The City Administrator (or someone designated by him or her, but
always referred to herein as the City Administrator) shall, at his or her
discretion, place appropriate signs or other traffic-control devices indicating
the existence of snow emergency routes. A designation of any street, avenue,
road, or highway, or portion thereof, as a snow emergency route shall in no way
affect any previous designation of that street, avenue, road, or highway for
any other purposes, but shall be in addition thereto.
   (B)   The following streets are designated as emergency snow arterial
streets:
      (1)   Highway 92, from Recreation Road to Main Street;
      (2)   Highway 385, from Main Street to South Railroad Avenue;
      (3)   Highway 385, from 5th Street to Platte River Bridge;
      (4)   3rd Street, from Recreation Road to H Street;
      (5)   4th Street, from H Street to Main Street;
      (6)   5th Street, from Main Street to P Street;
      (7)   7th Street, from P Street to Q Street;
      (8)   8th Street, from Railroad Avenue to P Street
      (9)   9th Street, from Q Street to R Street;
      (10)   11th Street, from Main Street to R Street;
      (11)   13th Street, from R Street to S Street;
      (12)   Recreation Road, from 5th Street to the entrance of Bridgeport
State Lakes;
      (13)   South Railroad Avenue, from Junction Highway 88 to Junction
Highway 385;
      (14)   H Street, from 3rd Street to 4th Street;
      (15)   L Street, from 8th Street to 10th Street;
      (16)   P Street, from 5th Street to 7th Street;
      (17)   Q Street, from 7th Street to Junction Highway 385;
      (18)   R Street, from 11th Street to 13th Street;
      (19)   S Street, from 9th Street to Junction Highway 385;
      (20)   9th Street, from Main Street to S Street.
(Ord. 777, passed 8-8-2008; Ord. 989, passed 2-9-2023)
§ 73.02 DECLARATION OF EMERGENCY; PROHIBITION OF PARKING ON SNOW EMERGENCY
ROUTES.
   Whenever the City Administrator shall determine, on the basis of the falling
snow, sleet, or freezing rain, or on the basis of an official forecast by the
National Weather Service of snow, sleet, or freezing rain, that imminent
weather conditions will make it necessary that parking on snow emergency
routes, as designated in §
73.01, be prohibited or restricted for snow plowing and other purposes, the
City Administrator may place into effect a parking prohibition on all snow
emergency routes by declaring that the emergency conditions exist. In the
declaration of emergency conditions, the City Administrator shall state the
time that the emergency shall become effective. From the time so designated,
all parking of vehicles on snow emergency routes shall be and the same hereby
is prohibited. While the prohibition is in effect, no person shall park or
allow to remain parked any vehicle on any portion of a snow emergency route.
Once the emergency is in effect, the parking prohibition imposed by this
section shall remain in effect until terminated by declaration of the City
Administrator. However, nothing in this section shall be construed to permit
parking at any time or place where it is forbidden by any other provision of
law.
(Ord. 777, passed 8-8-2008) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 73.03 PROHIBITION OF PARKING ON DOWNTOWN COMMERCIAL AREAS DURING SNOW
EMERGENCY.
   (A)   Upon declaration of snow emergency, the declaration may include or may
later be expanded to include a prohibition of parking on downtown commercial
areas. The declaration shall include a statement of the hours during which
parking shall be prohibited for the purpose of snow removal from the downtown
commercial area. The prohibition shall not extend beyond the time reasonably
required for the snow removal.
   (B)   The areas included are:
      (1)   Main Street, from 5th Street to 11th Street; and
      (2)   10th Street, from L Street to Main Street.
(Ord. 777, passed 8-8-2008) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 73.04 PROHIBITION OF PARKING IN COMMUNITY CENTER PARKING LOT DURING SNOW
EMERGENCY.
   Upon declaration of snow emergency, no parking will be permitted from 12:00
a.m. (midnight) until 5:00 a.m. in the parking lot at Prairie Winds Community
Center.
(Ord. 777, passed 8-8-2008) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 73.05 MOVEMENT OF SNOW FROM PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, business, association,
corporation, or organization of any kind, who owns, occupies, leases, or
controls any property within the corporate city limits upon which a sidewalk
has been constructed to allow an accumulation of snow or ice on the sidewalk at
any time. In the event of a snow or ice storm, the sidewalks shall be cleaned
of snow and ice 24 hours after the city completes snow removal of the street
adjacent to the sidewalk. Placing snow removed from sidewalks and/or driveways
onto the paved or graveled portion of any city street is prohibited.
   (B)   If, after proper notice is given, the tenant or property owner,
whichever is applicable, fails to remove the snow or ice, the city shall cause
the removal of snow or ice within three days of the property being posted or
within five days of the notice being mailed. The tenant or property owner will
be billed for the costs incurred to remove the snow or ice. If the costs are
not paid within two months, the City Clerk/Treasurer shall cause a lien to be
placed upon the property in the form of a special assessment.
(Ord. 777, passed 8-8-2008) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 73.06 OPERATION OF MOTOR VEHICLES ON SNOW EMERGENCY ROUTES.
   (A)   Whenever an emergency has been declared pursuant to §
73.01, no person operating a motor vehicle on a snow emergency route shall
allow the vehicle to become stalled or stuck so that it remains in such a
position longer than momentarily.
   (B)   No person operating a motor vehicle on a snow emergency route during
the declaration of emergency snow conditions shall allow the vehicle to become
stalled because the motor fuel supply is exhausted or the battery has become
inoperative.
   (C)   Whenever a motor vehicle becomes stalled for any reason, whether or
not in violation of this chapter on any snow emergency route on which there is
a parking prohibition in effect, the person operating the vehicle shall take
immediate action to have the vehicle towed or pushed off the roadway of the
snow emergency route. No person shall abandon or leave his or her vehicle in
the roadway of a snow emergency route, except for the purpose of securing
assistance for removal.
(Ord. 777, passed 8-8-2008) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 73.07 EMERGENCY DECLARATIONS OF THE CITY ADMINISTRATOR.
   (A)   The City Administrator shall cause each declaration of a snow
emergency which shall be made by him or her, pursuant to this chapter, to be
publicly announced by means of broadcast or telecast from broadcasting stations
with a normal operating range covering the city, and he or she may, in
addition, cause the declaration to be announced in newspapers of general
circulation within the city when feasible, and may also activate the city's
emergency telephone notification system to announce the emergency. Each
announcement shall describe the action taken by the City Administrator,
including the time the emergency became or will become effective. The
announcement shall specify the streets or areas affected. The City
Administrator shall make or cause to be made a record of each time and date
when an emergency declaration is announced to the public by issuing an
executive order as soon after the declaration of any emergency as is feasible.
   (B)   Whenever the City Administrator shall find that some or all of the
conditions which gave rise to a parking prohibition placed in effect pursuant
to the provisions of this chapter no longer exist, he or she shall declare the
prohibition terminated, in whole or in part, effective immediately upon
announcement or at a later specified time.
(Ord. 777, passed 8-8-2008)
§ 73.08 PROVISIONS TEMPORARILY EFFECTIVE TO TAKE PRECEDENCE.
   Any provision of this chapter which becomes effective by declaration of the
City Administrator upon the occurrence of a snow emergency, while temporarily
in effect, takes precedence over other conflicting provisions of law, except
that it shall not take precedence over provisions of law relating to traffic
accidents, emergency travel of authorized emergency vehicles, or emergency
traffic directions by a police officer.
(Ord. 777, passed 8-8-2008)
§ 73.09 REMOVAL OF STALLED OR PARKED VEHICLES.
   (A)   Members of the Police Department are hereby authorized to remove or
cause to be removed a vehicle from a street or private property to another
place or location on a street or to a lot, garage, storage yard, or other
similar facility designated by the Police Department when:
      (1)   The vehicle is parked on a snow emergency route on which a parking
prohibition is in effect;
      (2)   The vehicle is stalled on a snow emergency route on which there is
a parking prohibition in effect and the person who is operating the vehicle
does not appear to be removing it in accordance with the provisions of this
chapter; and
      (3)   The vehicle is parked on any street in violation of any parking
prohibition or provision of law contained in this chapter.
   (B)   The vehicle removal may be made by towing to a private lot, garage,
storage yard, or other similar facility. Any stored vehicle shall not be
released from storage except upon payment by the owner of the vehicle to the
person or persons in charge of the lot, garage, storage yard, or other similar
facility of the cost of towing and storage, which fees shall be established
from time to time by the City Administrator. A receipt for the fees shall be
issued to the owner of the vehicle.
   (C)   It shall be the duty of the person or persons in charge of the lot,
garage, storage yard, or other similar facility designated by the Police
Department for storage to keep a record of the name of the owner of all
vehicles towed in under these provisions, together with the registration number
of each vehicle, and the nature and circumstances of the violation, and the
amount of fees collected hereunder and to deliver a report of each day's
transactions to the Police Chief not later than one day following the day for
which the report is made.
(Ord. 777, passed 8-8-2008)
§ 73.10 VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   Whenever any police officer, city employee, or person contracted to
assist with the removing snow and/or ice from the streets shall find a vehicle
in violation of this chapter, the individual may remove or have the vehicle
removed, or require the driver or other person in charge of the vehicle to move
the vehicle, to a position of the roadway of the street or from the street.
   (B)   The owner or other person lawfully entitled to the possession of any
vehicle towed or stores shall be charged with the reasonable cost of towing and
storage fees, plus a fine of $25. Any such towing or storage fee shall be a
lien upon the vehicle prior to all other claims. Any person towing or storing a
vehicle shall be entitled to retain possession of the vehicle until the charges
are paid. The lien provided for in this section shall not apply to the contents
of any vehicles.
(Ord. 777, passed 8-8-2008)
§ 73.11 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This chapter shall be in full force and effect from and after its passage,
approval, and publication according to law.
(Ord. 777, passed 8-8-2008)
CHAPTER 74: TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
Schedule
   
I.   U-turns; right hand turns
   
II.   Stop signs
   
III.   Speed limits
SCHEDULE I. U-TURNS; RIGHT HAND TURNS.
   (A)   U-turns. 
      (1)   No vehicle shall be turned so as to proceed in the opposite
direction, except at a street intersection.
      (2)   No vehicle shall be turned so as to proceed in the opposite
direction at the intersections of the following streets:
         (a)   Main Street or M Street and 4th Street;
         (b)   Main Street or M Street and 5th Street;
         (c)   Main Street or M Street and 6th Street;
         (d)   Main Street or M Street and 7th Street;
         (e)   Main Street or M Street and 8th Street;
         (f)   Main Street or M Street and 9th Street;
         (g)   Main Street or M Street and 10th Street;
         (h)   Main Street or M Street and 11th Street; and
         (i)   All intersections hereafter designated by resolution by the City
Council.
   (B)   Right hand turns. A restriction against right-hand turns is hereby
created in order to facilitate possible traffic flow, ease congestion and
ensure the safety of persons and/or property that may be occupying the portion
of L Street north of the service station located north of West 5th Street
between Main Street and L Street. No motorized or non-motorized vehicles of any
type shall be permitted to turn right when traveling westbound through the
northwest exist of the service station located north of West 5th Street between
Main Street and L Street.
(Neb. RS 60-680 and 60-6,160) (1973 Code, § 5-204) (Ord. 802, passed 2-11-2010;
Ord. 933, passed 2-8-2018) Penalty, see §
10.99
SCHEDULE II. STOP SIGNS.
   (A)   Stop signs shall be placed at the intersections of the following
streets:
2nd Street and Recreation Road to stop traffic from the west
3rd Street and Recreation Road to stop traffic from the south
3rd Street and C Street to stop traffic from the west
F Street and Recreation Road to stop traffic from the south
5th Street and N Street to stop traffic from the north and south
6th Street and L Street to stop traffic from the north and south
7th Street and L Street to stop traffic from the east and the west
7th Street and K Street to stop traffic from the north and south
7th Street and Q Street to stop traffic from the north
7th Street and O Street to stop traffic from the east and west
7th Street and P Street to stop traffic from the east and west
8th Street and L Street to stop traffic from the east and west
8th Street and Q Street to stop traffic from the east and west
8th Street and Q Street to stop traffic from the south
9th Street and L Street to stop traffic from the east and west
9th Street and N Street to stop traffic from the north and south
9th Street and O Street to stop traffic from the north and south
9th Street and P Street to stop traffic from the north and south
9th Street and Q Street to stop traffic from the north, south, east and west
9th Street and R Street to stop traffic from the north
9th Street and S Street to stop traffic from the south
10th Street, L Street, and Railroad Avenue to stop traffic entering either 10th
Street or L Street from the southeast
10th Street and N Street to stop traffic from the north and south
11th Street and N Street to stop traffic from the north and south
11th Street and O Street to stop traffic from the north and south
11th Street and P Street to stop traffic from the north and south
11th Street and Q Street to stop traffic from the north and south
11th Street and R Street to stop traffic from the north and south
11th Street and S Street to stop traffic from the north and south
12th Street and R Street to stop traffic from the east and west
 
   (B)   The City Council may, by resolution, provide for the placing of stop
signs, or other signs, signals, standards, or mechanical devices, in any street
or alley for the purpose of regulating or prohibiting traffic thereon. The
resolution shall describe the portion of the street or alley wherein traffic is
to be regulated or prohibited; the regulation or prohibition; the location
where the sign, signal, standard, or mechanical device shall be placed; and the
hours when the regulation or prohibition shall be effective. It shall be
unlawful for any person to fail, neglect, or refuse to comply with the
regulation or prohibition.
(Neb. RS 60-680 and 60-6,119 through 60-6,121) (1973 Code, § 5-217) (Ord. 934,
passed 3-8- 2018; Ord. 962, passed 3-12-2020) Penalty, see §
10.99
SCHEDULE III. SPEED LIMITS.
   (A)   Basic rule. No person shall drive a vehicle on any street, alley, or
other place within the corporate limits at a speed greater than is reasonable
and prudent under the conditions and having regard to the actual and potential
hazards then existing. A person shall drive at a safe and appropriate speed
when approaching and crossing an intersection or railroad grade crossing, when
approaching and going around a curve, when traveling upon any narrow or winding
roadway, and when special hazards exist with respect to pedestrians or other
traffic or by reason of weather or road conditions.
   (B)   Maximum limits. Except when a special hazard exists as listed in
division (A) above, no person shall operate a motor vehicle on any street,
alley, or other place within the corporate limits at a speed in excess of the
following maximum limits:
      (1)   On 5th Street:
         (a)   Between the western city limits and I Street, a limit of 40 mph;
and
         (b)   Between I Street and M (Main) Street, a limit of 35 mph.
      (2)   On M (Main) Street:
         (a)   Between 4th Street and the junction of US-385, –88, and Railroad
Avenue, a limit of 30 mph; and
         (b)   Between the junction of US-385, –88, and Railroad Avenue and the
southern city limits at County Road CR-12, a limit of 40 mph.
      (3)   On US-385/N-92:
         (a)   Between the junction of N-88 and Railroad Avenue to 100 feet
west of O Street, a limit of 30 mph;
         (b)   Between 100 feet west of O Street to 100 feet east of Q Street,
a limit of 40 mph; and
         (c)   Between 100 feet east of Q Street to the southeastern city
limits at the junction of County Road 92, a limit of 50 mph.
      (4)   On 7th Street: between Q Street and S Street, a limit of 15 mph;
      (5)   On 9th Street: between Q Street and S Street, a limit of 15 mph;
      (6)   On Q Street: between 7th Street and 9th Street, a limit of 15 mph;
      (7)   On all other highways and streets in the city, a limit of 25 mph;
and
      (8)   On S Street between 13th and 14th Streets and R Street between 13th
and 14th Streets and 13th Street between R and S Streets and 14th Street
between R and S Streets, a limit of 15 mph; and
      (9)   On the road commonly known as “Recreation Road,” a limit of 30 mph.
(1973 Code, § 5-614) (Ord. 391, passed 9-3-1973; Ord. 442, passed 9-8-1977;
Ord. 448, passed 11-3-1977; Ord. 551, passed 9-6-1984; Ord. 647, passed 4-7-
1994; Ord. 758, passed 1-11-2007; Ord. 925, passed 7-26-2017; Ord. 932, passed
1-11-2018; Ord. 1009, passed 8-13-2024) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 75: PARKING SCHEDULES
Schedule
   
I.   Parking prohibited
   
II.   Truck parking and un-loading
   
III.   Time limit
   
IV.   Specialty parking
SCHEDULE I. PARKING PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Parking of motor vehicles and other vehicles is prohibited as follows:
      (1)   On the south side of 10th Street between N and R Streets;
      (2)   On both sides of 11th Street between N and U Streets, but parking
is restricted to only allow cars, pickup trucks, and motorcycles to park (no
oversized vehicles, including, but not limited to, semi-trailers, farm
equipment, trailers, boats, motor homes, and recreation vehicles, will be
allowed to park in the restricted area);
      (3)   On the south side of 9th Street between Q Street and the alley
between M and N Streets;
      (4)   On the north side of 8th Street between N and Q Streets;
      (5)   On the south side of 6th Street between N and O Streets;
      (6)   On the north side of 7th Street between N and Q Streets;
      (7)   The north side of 5th Street lying west of the intersection of 5th
Street and I Street west to the corporate limits and the south side of 5th
Street from Railroad Avenue to the corporate limits;
      (8)   West 25 feet of the east 90 feet of the north 200 feet of Lots 2
and 3 of the 15th Addition; the parking restriction shall include the entire
west 25 foot area set forth herein and no motorized or non-motorized vehicles
of any type shall be permitted to park in this designated area, including but
not limited to, semi-trailers, farm equipment, trailers, boats, motor homes and
recreation vehicles;
      (9)   North side of 14th Street extending from what was formerly known as
R Street to S Street; no motorized or non-motorized vehicles of any type shall
be permitted to park in the designated area, including but not limited to,
oversized vehicles, semi-trailers, farm equipment, trailers, boats, motor homes
and recreation vehicles;
      (10)   Those portions of L Street which extend 220 feet north of 5th
Street; no motorized or non-motorized vehicles of any type shall be permitted
to park in this designated area, including, but not limited to, oversized
vehicles, semi-trailers, farm equipment, trailers, boats, motor homes and
recreation vehicles;
      (11)   An area on the west side of Main Street that begins at a point
aligning with the south boundary of the building located at 1021 N. Main Street
and spanning north from said point a distance of 38 feet;
      (12)   On the east side of Recreation Road beginning at 2nd Street to the
entrance of the Bridgeport State Lakes; and
      (13)   On the south side of 2nd Street from Recreation Road to D Street.
   (B)   (1)   The City Council may, by resolution, provide truck parking areas
adjoining, or adjacent to, the no truck parking areas for all parking purposes,
set aside any street, alley, public way, or portion thereof where the parking
of a particular kind or class of vehicle shall be prohibited, or where the
parking of any vehicle shall be prohibited.
      (2)   No vehicle prohibited from parking thereon shall stand or be parked
adjacent to the curb of the street, alley, public way, or portion thereof,
longer than a period of time necessary to load and unload freight or
passengers.
(Neb. RS 60-680) (1973 Code, § 5-403) (Ord. 667, passed 5-8-1997; Ord. 709,
passed 9-9-1999; Ord. 781, passed 11-6-2008; Ord. 913, passed 11-10-2016; Ord.
922, passed 5-11-2017; Ord. 928, passed 10-16-2017; Ord. 998, passed 10-12-
2023; Ord. 1018, passed 4-10-2025) Penalty, see §
10.99
SCHEDULE II. TRUCK PARKING AND UN-LOADING.
   (A)   The following is designated as the no truck parking area: Main Street
or M Street from 4th Street to the right-of-way of the BN Railroad Company.
   (B)   TRUCK shall be defined as any motor vehicle commonly known as a semi-
tractor being a motor vehicle capable of pulling a trailer with a total
allowable gross vehicle weight in excess of 26,000 pounds.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any truck to stop, park, or
unload any such vehicle on a street which the City Council has designated to be
a no truck parking area, unless loading or unloading in an alley is impossible
and the vehicles may stop, stand, or unload for a maximum time of 30 minutes.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any truck to park the vehicle
within a street intersection, on a crosswalk, in front of a private driveway,
or on a sidewalk.
   (E)   The City Council may, by resolution, provide truck parking areas
adjoining, or adjacent to, the no truck parking area for all parking purposes.
No truck connected to a trailer shall park or stop for any period of time,
within the limits of any street or alley outside the no truck parking area
except for the purpose of loading, or unloading, the cargo thereof in the
ordinary course of business except in the area, or areas, provided for by the
City Council by resolution.
(1973 Code, § 5-407) (Ord. 670, passed 7-10-1997; Ord. 793, passed 6-11-2009;
Ord. 802, passed 2-11-2010) Penalty, see §
10.99
SCHEDULE III. TIME LIMIT.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person:
      (1)   To park any vehicle on any day except Sunday for a longer period of
time than 15 minutes on 10th Street in the west half of the block between M and
L Streets between the hours of 8:00 a.m. and 6:00 p.m. on the north side of the
street; and between the hours of 8:00 a.m. and 1:00 p.m. on the south side of
the street;
      (2)   To park or stand any vehicle for any period of time along a curb
painted red, or for longer than 15 minutes along a curb painted yellow; or
      (3)   To park longer than 15 minutes on that part of the south side of
5th Street lying west of the intersection of 5th Street and I Street to
Railroad Avenue.
   (B)   The City Council may, hereafter by resolution, entirely prohibit, or
fix a time limit for, the parking and stopping of vehicles on any other street,
streets, or district designated by the resolution, and the parking, or
stopping, of any vehicle in any such street, streets, or district, for a period
of time longer than fixed herein or in the resolution shall constitute a
violation of this title. Any vehicle found in violation of these provisions may
be towed by the city police to the police station or some suitable place for
storage, and the owner thereof may have the vehicle returned to him or her upon
payment of the towing charge and storage charge, if any.
(Neb. RS 60-680) (1973 Code, § 5-416) (Ord. 696, passed 9-9-1999; Ord. 802,
passed 2-11-2009) Penalty, see §
10.99
SCHEDULE IV. SPECIALTY PARKING.
   (A)   Parking spaces shall be reserved for handicapped persons at the
following locations:
      (1)   Beginning at the end of the street radius at the intersection of
10th and L Street on the east side of L Street for a distance of 30 feet; and
      (2)   Beginning ten feet from the end of the street radius at the
intersection of 8th and Main Street on the north side of 8th Street and running
for a distance of 30 feet.
   (B)   Parking shall be reserved for patient parking at designated medical,
dental, eye, and other similar and/or related healthcare services during
business hours at the following locations:
      (1)   Twenty-five (25) feet in length and located as marked along Lot 9,
Block 6, Original Township or commonly known as 917 Main Street, commencing
from a point 75 feet north of the northwest intersection of 10th and Main and
continuing north 25 feet.
      (2)   Thirty (30) feet in length and located as marked along Lot 16,
Block 10, commencing from a point 50 feet south of the southeast interaction of
10th and Main and continuing south 30 feet.
   (C)   The Director of Public Works shall mark the curbs with the appropriate
colors, those being blue for handicapped parking and white for patient parking,
and cause to be erected signs designating the above specialty parking areas.
   (D)   The City Council may, by resolution, add additional specialty parking
locations at any places and/or locations as it may deem advisable.
   (E)   Interested parties may make application to the City Council for the
creation of a specialty parking location in the same manner as that set forth
for a building permit.
(1973 Code, § 5-420) (Ord. 614, passed 5-9-1991; Ord. 981, passed 12-16-2021)
Penalty, see §
10.99
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
      Chapter
         
90.   ANIMALS
         
91.   HEALTH AND SANITATION; NUISANCES
         
92.   FIRE PREVENTION AND PROTECTION
         
93.   PARKS AND RECREATION
         
94.   PUBLIC WAYS AND PROPERTY
CHAPTER 90: ANIMALS
Section
General Provisions
   
90.01   Animals banned from city
   
90.02   Animal cruelty
   
90.03   Fowls banned from city
   
90.04   Breeding
   
90.05   Abandonment, neglect and mistreatment
   
90.06   Pitting
Dogs and Cats
   
90.15   License and tax required; exemption; tags
   
90.16   License fees
   
90.17   Wrongful licensing
   
90.18   Owner defined
   
90.19   Proclamation
   
90.20   Unlicensed
   
90.21   Capture impossible
   
90.22   Liability of owner
   
90.23   Removal of tags
   
90.24   Making noise and offensive behavior
   
90.25   Running at large
   
90.26   Confinement of dogs
Dangerous Dogs
   
90.40   Definitions
   
90.41   Identification by city; notice; procedure to dispute
   
90.42   Dangerous dog registration
   
90.43   Liability insurance required
   
90.44   Restraint required
   
90.45   Confinement required; warning sign
   
90.46   Dangerous dog at large
   
90.47   Prohibited acts
   
90.48   Bites unlawful
   
90.49   Confiscation; when; costs
   
90.50   Disposal by court order
   
90.51   Violations; destruction of dog
 
   
90.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 90.01 ANIMALS BANNED FROM CITY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to keep or maintain within the corporate
limits any horse, mule, sheep, cow, goat, swine, or other livestock or any
livestock except varieties of the animals normally kept as pets and housebroken
so as to be commonly allowed inside of family residences.
(Neb. RS 17-123 and 17-207) (1973 Code, § 6-201) (Ord. 616, passed 11-7-1991)
Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.02 ANIMAL CRUELTY.
   No person shall cruelly or unnecessarily beat, overwork, or insufficiently
shelter or feed any animal within the city.
(1973 Code, § 6-202) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.03 FOWLS BANNED FROM CITY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to keep or maintain within the corporate
limits any poultry, chickens, turkeys, geese, or any other fowls except for
those maintained as pets and/or showing animals.
(1973 Code, § 6-203) (Ord. 616, passed 11-7-1991) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.04 BREEDING.
   It shall be unlawful for any residence to keep or maintain within the
corporate limits more than six fowls as pets and/or showing animals.
(1973 Code, § 6-203) (Ord. 616, passed 11-7-1991; Ord. 890, passed 4-9-2015)
Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.05 ABANDONMENT, NEGLECT AND MISTREATMENT.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this chapter, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      ABANDON.  To leave any animal in one's care, whether as owner or
custodian, for any length of time without making effective provision for its
food, water, or other care as is reasonably necessary for the animal's health.
      ANIMAL. Any vertebrate member of the animal kingdom. i does not include
an uncaptured wild creature or a livestock animal as defined in this section.
      BOVINE. A cow, an ox, or a bison.
      CRUELLY MISTREAT. To knowingly and intentionally kill, maim, disfigure,
torture, beat, mutilate, burn, scald, or otherwise inflict harm upon any
animal.
      CRUELLY NEGLECT. To fail to provide any animal in one's care, whether as
owner or custodian, with food, water, or other care as is reasonably necessary
for the animal's health.
      HUMANE KILLING. The destruction of an animal by a method which causes the
animal a minimum of pain and suffering.
      LAW ENFORCEMENT OFFICER. Any member of the Nebraska State Patrol, any
county or deputy sheriff, any member of the police force of the municipality or
any other city or village, or any other public official authorized by the
municipality or any other city or village to enforce state or local animal
control laws, rules, regulations, or ordinances.
      LIVESTOCK ANIMAL. Any bovine, equine, swine, sheep, goats, domesticated
cervine animals, ratite birds, or poultry.
(Neb. RS 28-1008)
   (B) Enforcement powers; immunity.
      (1)   Any law enforcement officer who has reason to believe that an
animal has been abandoned or is being cruelly neglected or cruelly mistreated
may seek a warrant authorizing entry upon private property to inspect, care
for, or impound the animal.
      (2)   Any law enforcement officer who has reason to believe that an
animal has been abandoned or is being cruelly neglected or cruelly mistreated
may issue a citation to the owner as prescribed in Neb. RS 29-422 to 29-429.
      (3)   Any law enforcement officer acting under this section shall not be
liable for damage to property if such damage is not the result of the officer's
negligence.
(Neb. RS 28-1012)
   (C) Violation. A person who intentionally, knowingly, or recklessly
abandons, cruelly neglects, or cruelly mistreats an animal is guilty of an
offense.
(Neb. RS 28-1009)
§ 90.06 PITTING.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      BEARBAITING. The pitting of any animal against a bear.
      COCKFIGHTING. The pitting of a fowl against another fowl.
      DOGFIGHTING. The pitting of a dog against another dog.
      PITTING. Bringing animals together in combat.
(Neb. RS 28-1004)
   (B)   (1)   No person shall knowingly:
         (a)   Promote, engage in, or be employed at dogfighting, cockfighting,
bearbaiting, or pitting an animal against another;
         (b)   Receive money for the admission of another person to a place
kept for such purpose;
         (c)   Own, use, train, sell, or possess an animal for such purpose; or
         (d)   Permit any act as described in this division (B)(1) to occur on
any premises owned or controlled by him or her.
      (2)   No person shall knowingly and willingly be present at and witness
as a spectator dogfighting, cockfighting, bearbaiting, or the pitting of an
animal against another as prohibited in division (B)(1) of this section.
(Neb. RS 28-1005)
   (C)   (1)   No person shall knowingly or intentionally own or possess animal
fighting paraphernalia with the intent to commit a violation of this section.
      (2)   (a)   For purposes of this section, except as provided in
subdivision (C)(2)(b) of this subsection, ANIMAL FIGHTING PARAPHERNALIA means
equipment, products, and materials of any kind that are used, intended for use,
or designed for use in the training, preparation, conditioning, or furtherance
of the pitting of an animal against another as defined in division (A) of this
section. ANIMAL FIGHTING PARAPHERNALIA includes, but is not limited to, the
following:
            1.   A breaking stick, which means a device designed for insertion
behind the molars of a dog for the purpose of breaking the dog's grip on
another animal or object;
            2.   A cat mill, which means a device that rotates around a central
support with one arm designed to secure a dog and one arm designed to secure a
cat, rabbit, or other small animal beyond the grasp of the dog;
            3.   A treadmill, which means an exercise device consisting of an
endless belt on which the animal walks or runs without changing place;
            4.   A fighting pit, which means a walled area designed to contain
an animal fight;
            5,   A springpole, which means a biting surface attached to a
stretchable device, suspended at a height sufficient to prevent a dog from
reaching the biting surface while touching the ground;
            6.   A heel, which means any edged or pointed instrument designed
to be attached to the leg of a fowl;
            7.   A boxing glove or muff, which means a fitted protective
covering for the spurs of a fowl; and
            8.   Any other instrument commonly used in the furtherance of
pitting an animal against another.
      (b)   ANIMAL FIGHTING PARAPHERNALIA does not include equipment, products,
or materials of any kind used by a veterinarian licensed to practice veterinary
medicine and surgery in this state.
   (3)   Any person violating division (C)(1) of this section is guilty of a
Class I misdemeanor.
(Neb. RS 28-1005.04)
DOGS AND CATS
§ 90.15 LICENSE AND TAX REQUIRED; EXEMPTION; TAGS.
   (A)   Any owner of a dog over the age of six months within the municipality
shall, within 30 days after acquisition of the dog, acquire a license for the
dog annually by or before January 1 of each year. Licenses shall be issued by
the Municipal Clerk upon payment of a license tax in the amount established by
the Governing Body, plus the $1.25 fee required under Neb. RS 54-603(3). It
shall be unlawful for the owner of a dog to wrongfully and knowingly license an
unspayed female dog as a male or spayed female dog if the Governing Body has
established different license taxes for such dogs.
   (B)   The tax shall be delinquent from and after January 10. The owner of
any dog brought into or harbored within the corporate limits subsequent to
January 1 of any year shall be liable for payment of the dog tax, and such tax
shall be delinquent if not paid within ten days thereafter. The license shall
not be transferable, and no refund will be allowed in case of death, sale, or
other disposition of the licensed dog.
   (C)   The owner shall state, at the time the application is made and upon
printed forms provided for such purpose, his or her name and address and the
name, breed, color, and sex of each dog owned by him or her. A certificate of
rabies vaccination, effective for the ensuing year of the license, shall be
presented when application for a license is made, and no license or tag shall
be issued until the certificate is shown.
   (D)   Every service animal shall be licensed as required by this section,
but no license tax shall be charged. Upon the retirement or discontinuance of
the animal as a service animal, the owner of the animal shall be liable for the
payment of the required license tax.
(Neb. RS 54-603)
   (E)   (1)   Upon the payment of the license tax, the Clerk shall issue to
the owner of the dog a license certificate and a metallic tag, which shall be
valid until December 30 following such licensing. The Clerk shall issue tags of
a suitable design that are different in appearance each year.
      (2)   The metallic tag and the rabies tag shall be properly attached to
the collar or harness of the dog. It shall be unlawful for the owner of any dog
to permit or allow such dog to wear any licensing identification other than the
metallic tag issued by the Clerk.
      (3)   If a license tag is lost, upon satisfactory evidence that the
original tag was issued in accordance with the provisions of this section, the
Clerk shall issue a duplicate or new tag for the balance of the year for which
the license tax has been paid and shall charge and collect a fee established by
the Governing Body for each duplicate or new tag so issued.
   (F)   All license taxes, fees, and other collections shall be credited to
the general fund of the municipality, except as otherwise provided by Neb. RS
54-603.
(1973 Code, § 6-101) (Ord. 705, passed 4-5-2001; Ord. 900, passed 12-10-2015)
Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.16 LICENSE FEES.
   Licenses shall be issued upon the payment of a license fee of $5 for each
spayed or neutered dog or cat and $20 for each unspayed or unneutered dog or
cat, plus any additional fees as provided in §
90.15.
(Ord. 705, passed 4-5-2001)
§ 90.17 WRONGFUL LICENSING.
   It shall be unlawful for the owner, keeper, or harborer of any dog or cat to
permit or allow the dog or cat to wear any license, metallic tag or other city
identification than that issued by the city police or a veterinarian for dogs
or cats, nor shall the owner, keeper, or harborer wrongfully and knowingly
license an unspayed female dog or cat with a license prescribed for a male or
spayed female dog or cat.
(Neb. RS 17-526 and 54-603) (1973 Code, § 6-103) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.18 OWNER DEFINED.
   Any person who shall harbor or permit any dog, cat or lawful fowl to be for
ten days or more in or about his or her house, store, or enclosure, or to
remain to be fed, shall be deemed the OWNER and possessor of the dog, cat, or
lawful fowl and shall be deemed to be liable for all penalties herein
prescribed.
(Neb. RS 54-606 and 71-4,401) (1973 Code, § 6-104) (Ord. 890, passed 4-9-2015)
§ 90.19 PROCLAMATION.
   It shall be the duty of the City Council whenever in its opinion the danger
to the public safety from rabid dogs and cats is great or imminent, to issue a
proclamation ordering all persons owning, keeping, or harboring any dog or cat
to muzzle the same, or to confine it for a period of not less than 30 days or
more than 90 days from the date of the proclamation, or until the danger is
passed. The dogs or cats may be harbored by any good and sufficient means in a
house, garage, or yard on the premise wherein the owner may reside. Upon
issuing the proclamation it shall be the duty of all persons owning, keeping,
or harboring any dog or cat to confine the same as herein provided.
(Neb. RS 17-526) (1973 Code, § 6-105)
§ 90.20 UNLICENSED.
   (A)   All dogs found running at large upon the streets and public grounds of
the city without a collar or harness with the metal tag affixed as aforesaid,
are hereby declared a public nuisance. Unlicensed dogs found running at large
shall be impounded at a designated veterinary clinic for a minimum of three
days. If the owner has not claimed the animal and paid the impoundment fees
within the three days the dog may be humanely destroyed at the direction of the
City Police Department.
   (B)   All cats found running at large without a collar or harness with the
metal tag affixed as aforesaid, for which the owner can be identified, shall be
addressed pursuant to §§
90.24 and or
90.25, whichever may be applicable.
   (C)   All cats found running at large upon the streets and public grounds of
the city without collar or harness with the metal tag affixed as aforesaid, for
which the owner cannot be identified, are hereby declared a public nuisance.
Unlicensed cats for which the owner cannot be identified found running at large
shall be addressed as deemed appropriate by the acting law enforcement agency
for the city, and/or animal control authority designated by the city.
(Neb. RS 17-526 and 71-4,408) (1973 Code, § 6-106) (Ord. 704, passed 4-5-2001;
Ord. 987, passed 2- 9-2023) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.21 CAPTURE IMPOSSIBLE.
   The city police shall have the authority to kill any animals showing vicious
tendencies, or characteristics of rabies which make capture impossible because
of the danger involved.
(Neb. RS 17-526) (1973 Code, § 6-107)
§ 90.22 LIABILITY OF OWNER.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to allow a dog, cat, or lawful
fowl owned, kept, or harbored by him or her, or under his or her charge or
control, to injure or destroy any real or personal property of any description
belonging to another person.
   (B)   The owner or possessor of any such dog, cat, or lawful fowl, in
addition to the usual judgment upon conviction, may be made to be liable to the
persons so injured in an amount equal to the value of the damage so sustained.
(Neb. RS 54-601 and 54-602) (1973 Code, § 6-108) (Ord. 890, passed 4-9-2015)
Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.23 REMOVAL OF TAGS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to remove or cause to be removed, the
collar, harness, or metallic tag from any licensed dog or cat without the
consent of the owner, keeper, or possessor thereof.
(Neb. RS 17-526) (1973 Code, § 6-109) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.24 MAKING NOISE AND OFFENSIVE BEHAVIOR.
   (A)   (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to own, keep, or harbor any
dog, cat, or lawful fowl which by loud, continued, or frequent making of noise
shall annoy or disturb any neighborhood, or person, or which habitually makes
noise at or chases pedestrians, drivers, or owners of vehicles while they are
on any public sidewalks, streets, or alleys in the city.
      (2)   Upon the written complaint of an affected person filed with the
City Police Department that any dog, cat, or lawful fowl owned by the person
named in the complaint is an annoyance or disturbance, or otherwise violates
the provisions of this section, the city police shall investigate the complaint
and, if in their opinion the situation warrants, shall notify the owner to
silence and restrain the dog, cat, or lawful fowl.
   (B)   If the owner fails to silence and restrain the dog, cat, or lawful
fowl after being warned by the City Police Department, the owner may be cited
with an infraction.
(Neb. RS 17-526) (1973 Code, § 6-110) (Ord. 463, passed 9-7-1978; Ord. 706,
passed 4-5-2001; Ord. 890, passed 4-9-2015) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.25 RUNNING AT LARGE.
   It shall be unlawful for the owner of any dog, cat, or lawful fowl to allow
the animal to run at large within the city. RUNNING AT LARGE shall mean any
dog, cat, or lawful fowl found off the premise of the owner, and not under
control of the owner or a responsible person, either by leash, cord, chain,
wire, rope, cage or other suitable means of physical restraint.
(Neb. RS 17-526 and 54-607) (1973 Code, § 6-111) (Ord. 603, passed 2-9-1989;
Ord. 890, passed 4-9-2015) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.26 CONFINEMENT OF DOGS.
   (A)   (1)   In order to harbor dogs in the city, all dogs shall be confined
indoors, in a fenced-in yard with a fence height appropriate to the size of the
dog, or in an anti-escape locked pen or structure suitably designed to prevent
the entry of young children and to prevent the dog from escaping.
      (2)   Further, it shall be prohibited for any dog to be tied to any
object with a rope, chain, leash, or other device and left unattended for any
period of time longer than one hour.
   (B)   This section shall be in full force and effect from 120 days after its
passage, approval, and publication in pamphlet form according to law.
(Ord. 788, passed 2-5-2009) Penalty, see §
90.99
DANGEROUS DOGS
§ 90.40 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DANGEROUS DOG.
      (1)   Any dog which meets one of the following criteria:
         (a)   Is owned or harbored primarily or in part for the purpose of dog
fighting;
         (b)   Is trained for dog fighting;
         (c)   According to the records of the city has:
            1.   Killed or inflicted severe injury on a human being on public
or private property;
            2.   Killed a domestic animal without provocation while the dog was
off the owner’s property; or
            3.   Been previously determined to be a potentially dangerous dog
by the city in accordance with procedures established elsewhere in this
subchapter and the owner has received notice of the determination and the dog
again aggressively bites, attacks, or endangers the safety of humans or
domestic animals; or
         (d)   The dog has been recognized by another municipality, whether in
the State of Nebraska or any other state, and labeled as a dangerous dog or any
other labeling in similarity to those defined in divisions (a), (b), or (c)
above.
      (2)   Notwithstanding the foregoing, a dog shall not be defined as a
DANGEROUS DOG if:
         (a)   The threat, any injury that is not a severe injury, or the
damage was sustained by a person who:
            1.   At the time, was committing a willful trespass as defined in
the statutes of the state or any other tort upon the property of the owner of
the dog;
            2.   At the time was tormenting, abusing, or assaulting the dog;
            3.   Who has in the past been observed or reported to have
tormented, abused, or assaulted the dog; or
            4.   At the time was committing or attempting to commit a crime.
         (b)   The dog is a trained dog assisting a police officer engaged in
law enforcement duties.
      (3)   Any dog that has been recognized by another municipality, whether
in the State of Nebraska or any other state, and labeled as a DANGEROUS DOG or
any other labeling in similarity to those defined in this section will not be
allowed any residency within the city jurisdictional boundaries; this includes
any dog labeled or identified by the city that is moved out of the city and
attempts to move back in through the same, or a change, of ownership.
   OWNER. In addition to the definition given the word elsewhere in this
chapter, shall include a person temporarily in possession of the dog at the
request of the owner of the dog.
   POTENTIALLY DANGEROUS DOG.
      (1)   Any dog that, when unprovoked:
         (a)   Inflicts a nonsevere injury on a human or injures a domestic
animal either on public or private property; or
         (b)   Chases or approaches a person upon streets, sidewalks, or any
public grounds in a menacing fashion or apparent attitude of attack.
      (2)   Any specific dog with a known propensity, tendency, or disposition
to attack when unprovoked, to cause injury, or to threaten the safety of humans
or domestic animals.
      (3) Any dog labeled or identified by any other municipality as a
POTENTIALLY DANGEROUS DOG will not be allowed any residency within the city
jurisdictional boundaries; this includes any dog labeled or identified by the
city that is moved out of the city and attempts to move back in through the
same, or a change, of ownership.
   SEVERE INJURY. Any physical injury that results in disfiguring lacerations
requiring multiple sutures or cosmetic surgery or one or more broken bones or
that creates a potential danger to the life or health of the victim.
(1973 Code, § 6-112) (Ord. 708, passed 5-10-2001; 853, passed 7-12-2012; Ord.
882, passed 5-8-2014)
§ 90.41 IDENTIFICATION BY CITY; NOTICE; PROCEDURE TO DISPUTE.
   (A)   A determination that a specific dog is a potentially dangerous dog
shall be made by the City Prosecutor who is principally charged with the
responsibility of filing complaints against persons charged with the violation
of any ordinance of the city. The owner of the dog shall be given written
notice of the determination. The written notice shall inform the owner that if
the dog again aggressively bites, attacks, or endangers the safety of humans or
domestic animals the city may determine the dog to be a dangerous dog and
require it to be restrained as provided in this code.
   (B)   The city, in its discretion, may determine that any dog which
satisfies the definition of a dangerous dog, as defined in §
90.40, or any dog which has been determined to be potentially dangerous and
such dog again aggressively bites, attacks, or endangers the safety of humans
or domestic animals is a dangerous dog. The determination shall be made by the
City Prosecutor who is principally charged with the responsibility of filing
complaints against persons charged with the violation of any ordinance of the
city. The owner of the dog shall be given written notice of the determination.
The notice shall be in writing and shall inform the owner that:
      (1)   The dog has been determined to be dangerous;
      (2)   The dog is required to be restrained and confined as described in
this subchapter;
      (3)   If the owner disputes the identification of the dog as a dangerous
dog, he or she may submit a written request for a hearing to the Mayor within
five working days after receipt of the written notification; and
      (4)   If no hearing is requested, that the identification of the dog as a
dangerous dog shall be final and not subject to further review.
   (C)   The timely request for a hearing under this section shall stay the
determination of the dog as a dangerous dog until a final decision is made by
the Mayor. The hearing shall be held before the Mayor. The burden of going
forward with the evidence shall be on the city to demonstrate that the dog
meets one of the criteria defined in this section. After the hearing the Mayor
shall have the authority to affirm, reverse, or modify the identification of
the dog as a dangerous dog. The failure of the owner to request such a hearing
shall result in the dog being declared a dangerous dog.
(1973 Code, § 6-113) (Ord. 708, passed 5-10-2001)
§ 90.42 DANGEROUS DOG REGISTRATION.
   (A) The owner of a dangerous dog or a potentially dangerous dog shall
register said dog with the city. Such registrations shall be completed within:
      (1)   Thirty days of enactment of this ordinance for dogs previously
determined to be dangerous dogs or potentially dangerous dogs; or
      (2)   Thirty days of the determination that a dog is a dangerous dog or
is a potentially dangerous dog.
   (B)   Such registration shall include:
      (1)   The name of the current owner of the dog;
      (2)   The address where the dog is harbored;
      (3)   A description of the dog, including name, breed, sex, and coloring;
      (4)   A photograph of the dog;
      (5)   The current license number for the dog; and
      (6)   The carrier and policy number for the liability insurance required
in §
90.43.
(Ord. 882, passed 5-8-2014)
§ 90.43 LIABILITY INSURANCE REQUIRED.
   No person shall own, license, or possess any dog designated as a dangerous
dog or a potentially dangerous dog without having evidence of a current and
effective minimum $250,000 public liability insurance policy to be maintained
for the duration of the license, residency, or life of the dog.
(Ord. 882, passed 5-8-2014)
§ 90.44 RESTRAINT REQUIRED.
   No owner of a dangerous dog shall permit the dog to go beyond the property
of the owner unless the dog is:
      (A)   Properly muzzled to reasonably prevent the dog from biting;
      (B)   Restrained with a harness and a chain having a minimum tensile
strength of 300 pounds and not exceeding three feet in length; and
      (C)   Under the control of a person 19 years of ago or older.
(1973 Code, § 6-114) (Ord. 708, passed 5-10-2001; Ord. 882, passed 5-8-2014)
Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.45 CONFINEMENT REQUIRED; WARNING SIGN.
   (A)   An owner of a dangerous dog shall not permit such dog to go unconfined
on the premises of such person. A dangerous dog is unconfined as the term is
used in this section if such dog is not:
      (1)   Confined indoors; or
      (2)   Confined outdoors in an enclosed and locked pen or structure upon
the premises of the person described above; provided the existence of such a
pen or structure is permitted by zoning regulations. Maintenance of a dangerous
dog is not permitted in areas where such structures or pens are not authorized
by zoning regulations. If permitted, such pen or structure shall be:
         (a)   Constructed with chain link fencing for all four sides and the
top. If the pen or structure has no bottom secured to the sides, the sides must
be embedded in the ground no less than one foot, or have a concrete pad for the
bottom;
         (b)   Set back at least ten feet from all property lines;
         (c)   Designed to protect the dog from the elements; and
         (d)   Suitably designed to prevent the entry of young children and to
prevent the dog from escaping.
   (B)   Any property wherein a dangerous dog is confined shall be posted with
warning signs visible from all areas of public access. All warning signs shall:
      (1)   Be no less than 10 inches by 12 inches; and
      (2)   Contain the terms "Warning" and "Dangerous Dog" in high contrast
lettering, no less than three inches high, in English.
(1973 Code, § 6-115) (Ord. 708, passed 5-10-2001; Ord. 882, passed 5-8-2014)
Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.46 DANGEROUS DOG AT LARGE.
   (A)   In the event an dog identified as a dangerous dog is found running at
large and unattended upon public property, park property, or a public right-of-
way or upon the property of someone other than its owner, thereby creating a
hazard to person or property, such dog may, in the discretion of the Chief of
Police or authorized designee, be destroyed if it cannot be confined or
captured. The city shall be under no duty to attempt the confinement or capture
of a dangerous dog found at large. The city shall be under no duty to notify
the owner of such dog prior to its destruction.
   (B)   For purposes of this section RUNNING AT LARGE, shall mean a dangerous
dog not restrained as required in §
90.44 or confined as required in §
90.45.
(Ord. 882, passed 5-8-2014)
§ 90.47 PROHIBITED ACTS.
   No person shall:
   (A)   Own or harbor any dog for the purpose of dog fighting, or train,
torment, badger, bait, or use any dog for the purpose or causing or encouraging
that dog to unprovoked attacks upon human beings or domestic animals; and/or
   (B)   Possess with the intent to sell, offer for sale, breed, or buy or
attempt to buy, within the city any dangerous dog.
(1973 Code, § 6-116) (Ord. 708, passed 5-10-2001; Ord. 882, passed 5-8-2014)
Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.48 BITES UNLAWFUL.
   It shall be unlawful for the owner of any dangerous or potentially dangerous
dog to permit or allow such dog to kill, bite, chase, attack, injure, wound or
endanger in such a way that the dog may be considered either a dangerous dog or
potentially dangerous dog.
(Ord. 882, passed 5-8-2014)
§ 90.49 CONFISCATION; WHEN; COSTS.
   Any dangerous dog may be immediately confiscated by a police officer if the
owner is in violation of this subchapter. Any dangerous dog may also be
confiscated if, within two weeks immediately preceding the date of
confiscation, it was observed in a condition when it was not properly confined
or restrained as provided in this subchapter. The owner shall be responsible
for the reasonable costs incurred by the city for the care of a dangerous dog
confiscated by a police officer or for the destruction of any dangerous dog if
the action by the city is pursuant to law and if the owner violated this
subchapter. Any such dog shall be retained by the city pending the order of an
appropriate court.
(1973 Code, § 6-117) (Ord. 701, passed 5-10-2001; Ord. 882, passed 5-8-2014)
§ 90.50 DISPOSAL BY COURT ORDER.
   In addition to any other penalty, a court may order the city to dispose of a
dangerous dog in an expeditious and humane manner.
(1973 Code, § 6-118) (Ord. 701, passed 5-10-2001; Ord. 882, passed 5-8-2014)
§ 90.51 VIOLATIONS; DESTRUCTION OF DOG.
   The violation of any provision of this subchapter is a violation subject to
fines. If the person convicted has been previously convicted of a violation of
this subchapter, or of any comparable city ordinance or city code provision in
effect prior to the adoption of this subchapter, the dog involved in the
subsequent violation shall be immediately confiscated by the city, and
thereafter destroyed in a humane and expeditious manner.
(1973 Code, § 6-119) (Ord. 701, passed 5-10-2001; Ord. 882, passed 5-8-2014)
§ 90.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Generally. Any person violating any provision of this chapter for
which no specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Section
90.25. Any owner of the animal shall be subject to the following fines for the
animal to be found “running at large.” For the first offense, a fine of $35,
plus court costs. For a second offense, occurring within a two-year period, a
fine of $70, plus court costs. For a third and all subsequent offenses,
occurring within a two-year period, a fine of $140, plus court costs. In
addition, if the animal must be impounded, owner shall be responsible for all
charges incurred from impound facility. This division (B) shall be in full
force and effect from and after its passage, approval, and publication in
pamphlet form according to law.
(Ord. 782, passed 11-6-2008)
   (C)   Section
90.26. For any dog owner in violation of §
90.26, a fine of $25, plus all applicable court costs, shall be imposed for
each seven-day period in violation of §
90.26.
   (D)   Section
90.42. For any dog owner in violation of §
90.42, a fine of $100 for the first violation, $250 for the second violation,
and $500 for the third and subsequent violations. A new violation shall be
deemed to have been committed every 24 hours of failure to comply with the
provisions of §
90.42.
   (E)   Section
90.44. For any dog owner in violation of §
90.44, a fine of $100 for the first violation, $250 for the second violation,
and $500 for the third and subsequent violations of §
90.44.
   (F)   Section
90.45. For any dog owner in violation of §
90.45, a fine of $100 for the first violation, $250 for the second violation,
and $500 for the third and subsequent violations. A new violation shall be
deemed to have been committed every 24 hours of failure to comply with the
provisions of §
90.45.
   (G)   Section
90.47. For any dog owner in violation of §
90.47, a fine of $100 for the first violation, $250 for the second violation,
and $500 for the third and subsequent violations of §
90.47.
   (H)   Section
90.48. For any dog owner in violation of §
90.48, a fine of $100 for the first violation, $250 for the second violation,
and $500 for the third and subsequent violations of §
90.48.
(Ord. 788, passed 2-5-2009; Ord. 882, passed 5-8-2014; Ord. 936, passed 4-12-
2018)
CHAPTER 91: HEALTH AND SANITATION; NUISANCES
Section
General Provisions
   
91.01   Health regulations
   
91.02   County Health Board
Noise
   
91.15   Disturbing noises from compressed air
Contagious Diseases; Food
   
91.30   Disease; spreading contagion
   
91.31   Food; sterilization of dishes
   
91.32   Food; physical examination
Nuisances
   
91.45   Definitions
   
91.46   Nuisances declared
   
91.47   Litter prohibited; public nuisance
   
91.48   Approved methods of disposal
   
91.49   Removal; duty of owner
   
91.50   Abatement of nuisances
 
   
91.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 91.01 HEALTH REGULATIONS.
   For the purposes of promoting the health and safety of the residents of the
city, the Board of Health shall, from time to time, adopt any rules and
regulations relative thereto and shall make any inspections, prescribe any
penalties, and make any reports as may be necessary toward that purpose.
(Neb. RS 17-121) (1973 Code, § 4-101)
§ 91.02 COUNTY HEALTH BOARD.
   It shall be the duty of the Board of Health to work closely with the County
Health Board in protecting the health and welfare of the residents of the city.
(1973 Code, § 4-102)
NOISE
§ 91.15 DISTURBING NOISES FROM COMPRESSED AIR.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person in any part of the city to make,
or cause to be made, loud or disturbing noises with any mechanical devices
operated by compressed air and used for purposes of assisting braking on any
semi-tractor, commonly referred to as "Jake Braking." The City Administrator
shall cause notices to be posted, or erect signs, indicating the prohibition.
   (B)   This section shall be in full force and effect from and after its
passage, approval, and publication in pamphlet form according to law.
(Ord. 786, passed 12-11-2008) Penalty, see §
91.99
CONTAGIOUS DISEASES; FOOD
§ 91.30 DISEASE; SPREADING CONTAGION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to spread disease willfully or
negligently, or to cause the spread of the same.
(1973 Code, § 4-201) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.31 FOOD; STERILIZATION OF DISHES.
   Any person serving food or drinks to the public shall sterilize all glasses,
dishes, or other receptacles employed or used in connection with the business
before serving food or drink to patrons with the same.
(1973 Code, § 4-202) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.32 FOOD; PHYSICAL EXAMINATION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person who handles milk, meat products, or
other products used, sold, or offered for sale as food for human consumption,
or who shall work or be employed in any barber shop, beauty parlor, soda
fountain, restaurant, hotel, beer tavern, or other business, place, or activity
affecting the public health, to refuse or neglect to submit to a physical
examination by a duly-licensed physician for the purpose of determining if the
person is infected with syphilis, venereal disease, tuberculosis, or other
infectious disease when required to do so by the Board of Health. Thereafter,
until the person shall provide a certificate from a physician that he or she is
free from or is not a carrier of the infectious disease to such an extent as
not to be adverse to the public health, it shall be unlawful for the person to
handle or be employed in any shop, plant, or place of business herein
mentioned. All physical examinations herein prescribed shall include laboratory
tests and the results of which shall be made a part of the certificate. One
copy shall be delivered to the Board of Health, who shall consider and hold the
same as confidential and privileged information, except to the employer of the
person if he or she is employed; provided, in any prosecution hereafter brought
for violation of this section, the health certificate shall be admissible in
evidence as in the case of other public records. Any physician who shall have
made the physical examination leading to the issuance of the health certificate
shall be called as a witness in any prosecution brought hereunder to give
competent testimony as to the facts, case history, and conclusions of his or
her examination. It shall be unlawful for any employer to continue to employ
any person who refuses to apply for or fails to meet the health requirements of
a health certificate.
(Neb. RS 17-114 and 17-123) (1973 Code, § 4-203) Penalty, see §
91.99
NUISANCES
§ 91.45 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   APPROVED BACKYARD COMPOSTING SITE. One which uses only composting materials
as defined herein.
   COMPOST. The end product of an aerobic degradation process of yard and
garden waste.
   CONSTRUCTION AND DEMOLITION WASTE. Waste which results from land clearing,
and the demolition or movement of buildings, roads, or other structures,
including, but not limited to, beneficial fill materials, wood (including
painted and treated wood), land clearing debris other than yard waste, wall
coverings (including wallpaper, paneling, and tile), drywall, plaster, non-
asbestos insulation, roofing shingles and other roof coverings, plumbing
fixtures, glass, plastic, carpeting, electrical wiring, pipe, and metals. The
waste shall also include the above-listed types of waste that result from
construction projects. CONSTRUCTION AND DEMOLITION WASTE shall not include
friable asbestos waste, special waste, liquid waste, hazardous waste and waste
that contains polychlorinated biphenyl (PCB), putrescible waste, household
waste, industrial solid waste, corrugated cardboard, appliances, tires, drums,
and fuel tanks.
   DEAD ANIMALS. All small animals, such as cats, dogs, and rabbits, which die
from any cause. The term shall in no way mean large animals, such as goats,
horses, mules, and cows, which may die from any cause.
   GARBAGE. Includes every accumulation of animal, fruit, or vegetable waste
generated by or resulting from the decay, deterioration, storage, preparation,
or handling of any animal and vegetable matter in any place or at any point
where food is prepared for human consumption, including all kitchen and dining
room refuse produced by households, hotels, restaurants, lunch rooms, clubs,
hospitals, schools, stores, warehouses, cold storage plants, creameries,
bakeries, or any other source whatsoever existing in the city.
   LITTER. Includes, but is not limited to:
      (1)   Trash, rubbish, refuse, garbage, paper, rags, and ashes;
      (2)   Wood, plaster, cement, brick, or stone building rubble;
      (3)   Grass, leaves, and worthless vegetation;
      (4)   Offal or dead animals; and
      (5)   Any machine or machines, vehicle or vehicles, or parts of a machine
or vehicle which have lost their identity, character, utility, or
serviceability as such through deterioration, dismantling, or the ravages of
time, are inoperative or unable to perform their intended function, or are cast
off, discarded, or thrown away or left as waste, wreckage, or junk.
   REFUSE. Includes the waste material from normal households or living
conditions and business operations other than garbage, but shall not include
waste materials from building construction or repair, factory wastes, or refuse
from industrial plants or any character. In general, the kinds of materials
classified as REFUSE are paper, rags, bottles, tin cans, bottle caps,
cardboard, worn-out clothing or furniture, household appliances, excelsior,
garden or tree trimmings, and similar materials.
   SPECIAL WASTE. A solid waste, except waste which is regulated as a hazardous
waste, which possesses physical, chemical, or biological characteristics that
make it different from general household or construction and demolition waste
and which requires special handling, treatments, or disposal methodologies in
order to protect public health, safety, and the environment.
   WASTE MATERIAL. Includes all items, objects, or material not included within
the definition of garbage, litter, dead animals, yard waste, or refuse as well
as petroleum oils, greases, solvents, fuels, insecticides, herbicides, chemical
waste, hazardous materials, or any materials similar to those listed herein.
   YARD WASTE. Grass and leaves and shall not include other yard debris such as
tree limbs and brush.
(1973 Code, § 4-401) (Ord. 709, passed 6-7-2001)
§ 91.46 NUISANCES DECLARED.
   (A)   Generally. The maintaining, using, placing, depositing, leaving, or
permitting of any of the following specific acts, omissions, places,
conditions, and things are hereby declared to be nuisances:
   (B)   Specifically.
      (1)   Any odorous, putrid, unsound, or unwholesome grain, meat, hides,
skins, feathers, vegetable matter, or the whole or any part of any dead animal,
fish, or fowl;
      (2)   Filthy, littered, or trash-covered cellars, houseyards, barnyards,
stable yards, factory yards, mill yards, vacant areas in rear of stores,
granaries, vacant lots, houses, buildings, or premises;
      (3)   Trash, litter, packing materials, scrap metal and lumber, junk
automobiles and parts, materials creating conditions that are a fire hazard,
and other unsightly or unsanitary conditions that would depreciate the value of
property in the vicinity thereof or which would constitute a menace to public
health, safety, or welfare;
      (4)   Any unsightly building, billboard, or other structure, or any old,
abandoned, or partially destroyed building or structure or any building or
structure commenced and left unfinished, which the buildings, billboards, or
other structures are either a fire hazard, a menace to the public health or
safety, or are so unsightly as to depreciate the value of property in the
vicinity thereof;
      (5)   All places used as junk yards, dumping grounds, or for the storage
of worn-out vehicles or machinery of any kind, or of any of the parts thereof;
      (6)   Stockyards, granaries, mills, pig pens, cattle pens, chicken pens,
or any other place, building, or enclosure, in which animals or fowl of any
kind are confined or on which are stored manure tankage or any other animal or
vegetable matter, or on which any animal or vegetable matter including grain is
being processed, when the places in which the animals are confined, or the
premises on which the vegetable or animal matter is located, are maintained and
kept in such a manner that foul and noxious odors are permitted to emanate
therefrom, to the annoyance of inhabitants of the city, or are maintained and
kept in such a manner as to be injurious to the public health, safety, or
welfare; and
      (7)   All other nuisances specifically designated elsewhere in this code
or recognized at law or equity.
(1973 Code, § 4-402) (Ord. 709, passed 6-7-2001) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.47 LITTER PROHIBITED; PUBLIC NUISANCE.
   It shall be unlawful and hereby declared a public nuisance to litter or
cause litter to be deposited or remain on any lot or piece of ground within the
city of within one mile of the corporate limit of the city except in approved
dumpsters.
(1973 Code, § 4-403) (Ord. 709, passed 6-7-2001) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.48 APPROVED METHODS OF DISPOSAL.
   (A)   Approved methods of disposal for garbage, litter, refuse, and waste
materials are as follows:
      (1)   By disposal of garbage into an approved dumpster provided by
garbage franchisee; and
      (2)   By hauling to the sanitary landfill transfer station and dispensing
there as directed by the person in charge.
   (B)   Approved methods of disposal for yard waste are as follows:
      (1)   By utilizing the yard waste in an approved backyard composting
site; and
      (2)   By hauling to the city provided dumpster specifically maintained
for yard waste and by dumping into the same.
(1973 Code, § 4-404) (Ord. 709, passed 6-7-2001) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.49 REMOVAL; DUTY OF OWNER.
   It shall be the duty of every owner and person in possession, charge, or in
control of any dwelling, flat, rooming house, apartment house, hospital,
school, hotel, club, restaurant, boarding house, or eating place, or in
possession, in charge, or in control of any shop, place of business, or
manufacturing establishment, where garbage, litter, refuse, yard waste, or
other waste material is created, or accumulated, to remove or cause to be
removed from the premises where accumulated the garbage, litter, refuse, yard
waste, or waste material. It shall be unlawful to place garbage, litter,
refuse, yard waste, or waste material in any alley, easement, property, or
public place.
(1973 Code, § 4-405) (Ord. 709, passed 6-7-2001) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.50 ABATEMENT OF NUISANCES.
   (A)   If the owner, occupant, or agent in charge of any lot, building, or
other premises, or the person responsible for the maintenance of a nuisance,
fails to abate the nuisance ten days after a notice to abate has been mailed by
ordinary first-class mail and certified mail, return receipt requested, to the
last known address of the person or persons, the City Attorney's office may,
with consent of the Mayor, bring legal action to obtain abatement of the
nuisance.
   (B)   In the event legal action to abate a nuisance is commenced on behalf
of the city, the City Attorney shall request that the court enter the order as
is appropriate to expeditiously and completely abate the nuisance and that the
order be of a continuing nature, permanently enjoining the defendant from
continuing, maintaining, renewing, or restoring a judgment against the
defendant(s) for the cost incurred by the city in abating the nuisance
conditions.
(1973 Code, § 4-406) (Ord. 449, passed 12-1-1977; Ord. 693, passed 7-8-1999;
Ord. 709, passed 6-7-2001)
§ 91.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   The penalty for violation of §
91.15 shall be a fine of $25 per offense, plus all applicable court costs.
(Ord. 786, passed 12-11-2008)
CHAPTER 92: FIRE PREVENTION AND PROTECTION
Section
Fire Department
   
92.01   Operation and funding
   
92.02   Membership
   
92.03   Fires
   
92.04   Preservation of property
   
92.05   Mandatory assistance
   
92.06   Power of arrest
   
92.07   Fire investigation
Fires; Generally
   
92.20   Preservation of property
   
92.21   Disorderly spectator
   
92.22   Equipment
   
92.23   Interference
   
92.24   Obstruction
   
92.25   Assistance
   
92.26   Driving over hose
   
92.27   Traffic
   
92.28   False alarm
   
92.29   Pedestrians
Fire Prevention
   
92.40   Life Safety Code
   
92.41   Fire code enforcement
   
92.42   Lawful entry
   
92.43   Violation notice
   
92.44   Fire limits defined
   
92.45   Fire limits building permit
   
92.46   Fire limits materials
   
92.47   Ironclads prohibited
   
92.48   Removal required
   
92.49   Lumber yards
   
92.50   Prohibited stoves
   
92.51   Fire prohibited
   
92.52   Burning prohibited
   
92.53   Open burning ban; waiver
   
92.54   Recreational burning devices
Flammable Gases
   
92.65   Petroleum gas transports
Explosives and Fireworks
   
92.80   Blasting permits
   
92.81   Permissible fireworks
   
92.82   Times for discharge
FIRE DEPARTMENT
§ 92.01 OPERATION AND FUNDING.
   The city operates the City Fire Department through the City Fire Chief. The
City Council, for the purpose of defraying the cost of the management,
maintenance, and improvement of the Fire Department, may each year levy a tax,
not exceeding the maximum limits prescribed by state law, on the actual
valuation of all real estate and personal property within the city that is
subject to taxation. The revenue from the tax shall be known as the Fire
Department Fund. The Fund shall be at all times in the possession of the City
Clerk/Treasurer. The Fire Chief shall manage the Fire Department and it shall
be his or her duty to inform the City Administrator when any of the fire
engines, hoses, ladders, or other apparatus needs repair. Upon the directive of
the City Administrator, the Fire Chief shall cause the repair, improvement, or
maintenance of the equipment and shall personally supervise and approve of the
same.
(Neb. RS 17-147, 17-718, and 17-953) (1973 Code, § 3-301) (Ord. 800, passed 9-
10-2009)
§ 92.02 MEMBERSHIP.
   The number of members in the Fire Department and the method of filling
vacancies on the list shall be set forth in bylaws created by the City Fire
Department and duly presented to and approved by the Mayor and City Council.
The members shall be considered to be employees of the city for the purpose of
providing them with workers' compensation and other benefits. Each member shall
be entitled to a term life insurance policy in the amount of at least $5,000
for death from any cause to age 65 and the policy shall, at the option of the
individual firefighter, be convertible to a permanent from of life insurance at
age 65; provided, that the firefighters covered are actively and faithfully
performing the duties of their position. The Fire Department shall consist of
so many members as may be decided by the City Council, provided all members
shall be confirmed and approved by the City Council. The members may organize
themselves in any way they may decide, subject to the review of the City
Council. The Fire Chief shall keep a record of all meetings and shall make a
report to the City Council, upon request, of all meetings and activities of the
Fire Department. The City Council may, for services rendered, compensate or
reward any member or members of the Fire Department in an amount set by
resolution. All members of the Fire Department shall be subject to the rules
and regulations, and shall perform the duties, as may be prescribed or required
of them by the Fire Chief, Mayor, City Administrator or the City Council.
(Neb. RS 33-139.01, 35-101 through 35-103, and 35-108) (1973 Code, § 3-302)
(Ord. 397, passed 2-7-1974; Ord. 607, passed 2-8-1990; Ord. 800, passed 9-10-
2009)
§ 92.03 FIRES.
   It shall be the duty of the Fire Department to use all proper means for the
extinguishment of fires; to protect property within the city; and to secure the
observance of all ordinances, laws, and other rules and regulations with
respect to fires and fire prevention.
(1973 Code, § 3-303)
§ 92.04 PRESERVATION OF PROPERTY.
   Any official of the City Fire Department shall have the power, during the
time of a fire, to cause the removal of any private or public property whenever
it shall become necessary to do so for the preservation of the property from
fire, to prevent the spreading of fire, or to protect adjoining property. The
officials may direct the city firefighters to remove any building, structure,
or fence for the purpose of checking the progress of any fire, and the official
in charge of the firefighting effort shall have the power to blow up, or cause
to be blown up, with powder or otherwise, any building or erection during the
progress of a fire for the purpose of extinguishing or checking the same.
(1973 Code, § 3-304)
§ 92.05 MANDATORY ASSISTANCE.
   Any official of the City Fire Department may command the assistance and
services of any person present at a fire to help in extinguishing the fire, or
in the removal and protection of property. In the event that a spectator
refuses, neglects, or fails to assist the Fire Department after a lawful order
to do so, he or she shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor.
(1973 Code, § 3-305) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.06 POWER OF ARREST.
   The City Fire Chief, or the Assistant Fire Chief, shall have the power,
during the time of a fire and for a period of 36 hours after its
extinguishment, to arrest any suspected arsonist or other person hindering or
resisting the firefighting effort, or any person who conducts himself or
herself in a noisy or disorderly manner. The officials shall be severally
vested with the usual powers and authority of city police officers to command
all persons to assist them in the performance of their duties.
(1973 Code, § 3-306)
§ 92.07 FIRE INVESTIGATION.
   It shall be the duty of the Fire Department to investigate, or cause to be
investigated, the cause, origin, and circumstances of every fire occurring in
the city in which property has been destroyed or damaged in excess of $50. All
fires of unknown origin shall be reported, and the officers shall especially
make an investigation and report as to whether the fire was the result of
carelessness, accident, or design. The investigation shall be begun within two
days of the occurrence of the fire and the State Fire Marshal shall have the
right to supervise and direct the investigation whenever he or she deems it
expedient or necessary. The officer making the investigation of fires occurring
within the city shall immediately notify the State Fire Marshal and shall,
within one week of the occurrence of the fire, furnish him or her with a
written statement of all the facts relating to the cause and origin of the
fire, and any further information as he or she may call for.
(Neb. RS 81-506) (1973 Code, § 3-307)
FIRES; GENERALLY
§ 92.20 PRESERVATION OF PROPERTY.
   The Fire Chief, or any officer in charge of the Fire Department, shall have
the authority and power to cause the removal of property whenever it shall
become necessary for the preservation of more valuable property, the protection
of human life, or to prevent the spreading of fire to adjoining property. The
Fire Chief may direct the city firefighters to remove any building, structure,
or fence for the purpose of checking the progress of any fire. The Fire Chief
shall have the authority to blow up, or cause to be blown up, with explosives
any building or structure during the progress of a fire for the purpose of
checking the progress of the same.
(1973 Code, § 7-101)
§ 92.21 DISORDERLY SPECTATOR.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, during the time of a fire and for a
period of 36 hours after its extinguishment, to hinder, resist, or refuse to
obey the City Fire Chief, or to act in a noisy or disorderly manner. The Fire
Chief and Assistant Fire Chief shall have the power and authority during that
time to arrest or command any such person to assist them in the performance of
their official duties.
(Neb. RS 28-908) (1973 Code, § 7-102) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.22 EQUIPMENT.
   It shall be unlawful for any person except the Fire Chief and the members of
the City Fire Department to molest, destroy, handle, or in any other way to
interfere with the use and storage of any of the fire trucks and other
apparatus belonging to the city.
(Neb. RS 28-519) (1973 Code, § 7-103) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.23 INTERFERENCE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to hinder or obstruct the
City Fire Chief or the members of the Fire Department in the performance of
their duty.
(Neb. RS 28-908) (1973 Code, § 7-104) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.24 OBSTRUCTION.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to obstruct the use of a fire
hydrant, or have or place any material within 15 feet of the hydrant.
   (B)   Any vehicle or material found as an obstruction may be immediately
removed by the Fire Chief or any member of the Fire Department, at the risk,
cost, and expense of the owner or claimant.
(Neb. RS 60-6,166) (1973 Code, § 7-105) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.25 ASSISTANCE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to refuse, after the command of the Fire
Chief or Assistant Fire Chief, to aid in extinguishing a fire or to assist in
the removal and protection of property.
(Neb. RS 28-908) (1973 Code, § 7-106) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.26 DRIVING OVER HOSE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, without the consent of the Fire Chief
or Assistant Fire Chief, to drive any vehicle over unprotected hose of the Fire
Department.
(Neb. RS 60-6,184) (1973 Code, § 7-107) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.27 TRAFFIC.
   Every vehicle already stationary when the fire alarm shall have been sounded
must remain so for a period of five minutes after the sounding of the fire
alarm. No vehicle, except by the specific direction of the Fire Chief or
Assistant Fire Chief, shall follow, approach, or park closer than 500 feet to
any fire vehicle, or to any fire hydrant to which a hose is connected. Nothing
herein shall be construed to apply to vehicles carrying doctors, members of the
Fire Department, or emergency vehicles.
(Neb. RS 60-6,183) (1973 Code, § 7-108) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.28 FALSE ALARM.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to intentionally, and without good and
reasonable cause, raise any false alarm of fire.
(Neb. RS 28-907 and 35-520) (1973 Code, § 7-109) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.29 PEDESTRIANS.
   It shall be unlawful for any pedestrian to enter or remain in any street
after a fire alarm shall have sounded until the fire trucks shall have
completely passed.
(Neb. RS 28-908) (1973 Code, § 7-110) Penalty, see §
10.99
FIRE PREVENTION
§ 92.40 LIFE SAFETY CODE.
   Incorporated by reference into this code are the standards recommended by
the National Fire Protection Association, known as the Life Safety Code, 1967
Edition. This Code shall have the same force and effect as if set out verbatim
herein. One copy of the Life Safety Code is on file with the City Clerk/
Treasurer and shall be available for public inspection at any reasonable time.
(Neb. RS 18-132, 19-902, 19-922, and 81-502) (1973 Code, § 7-201)
§ 92.41 FIRE CODE ENFORCEMENT.
   It shall be the duty of all city officials to enforce the incorporated fire
code provisions and all infractions shall be immediately brought to the
attention of the Fire Chief.
(1973 Code, § 7-202)
§ 92.42 LAWFUL ENTRY.
   It shall be the duty of the owner, lessee, or occupant of any building or
structure, except the interiors of private dwellings, to allow the Fire Chief
to inspect, or cause to be inspected, as often as necessary the structure for
the purpose of ascertaining and enumerating all conditions therein that are
likely to cause fire, or any other violations of the provisions of the city
ordinances affecting the hazard of fire.
(Neb. RS 81-512) (1973 Code, § 7-203) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.43 VIOLATION NOTICE.
   It shall be the duty of the owner, lessee, or occupant of any building or
structure that was lawfully inspected as hereinbefore prescribed, and who
receives written or verbal notice of a violation of any of the provisions of
the city ordinances to correct the condition that violates the ordinance or
ordinances within five days from the date of receipt of the notice.
(1973 Code, § 7-204) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.44 FIRE LIMITS DEFINED.
   The following described territory in the city shall be and constitute the
fire limits: Blocks 2, 3, 6, 7, 10, 11, and 12; that portion of Tax Lot 4 in
Section 32, Township 20, Range 50, Morrill County, Nebraska, lying north of 8th
Street and south of 5th Street between L Street and Main Street; and also that
portion of Tax Lot 4 in Section 33, Township 20, Range 50, Morrill County,
Nebraska, lying north of 8th Street and south of 5th Street between Main Street
and N Street, all as shown on the recorded maps of plats of the city.
(Neb. RS 17-550) (1973 Code, § 7-205)
§ 92.45 FIRE LIMITS BUILDING PERMIT.
   Prior to the moving or construction of any building in the fire limits,
application must be made to the City Council. Construction shall include the
enlarging or alteration of any building in the fire limits. The application
shall be furnished by the City Clerk/Treasurer and shall require any
information as the City Council deems necessary to determine whether or not to
grant a building permit.
(Neb. RS 17-550) (1973 Code, § 7-206) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.46 FIRE LIMITS MATERIALS.
   Within the aforesaid fire limits, no structure shall be built, altered,
moved, or enlarged unless the structure will be enclosed with walls constructed
wholly of stone, well-burned brick, terra cotta, concrete, or other such
noncombustible materials as will satisfy the Fire Chief that the structure will
be reasonably fireproof.
(Neb. RS 17-550) (1973 Code, § 7-207) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.47 IRONCLADS PROHIBITED.
   All buildings, sheds, and structures known as ironclads, which are
constructed of wood and covered with sheet iron or tin attached to the frame,
shall be considered and deemed to be constructed of combustible materials. Any
future construction of an ironclad building shall hereafter be prohibited.
(Neb. RS 17-550) (1973 Code, § 7-208) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.48 REMOVAL REQUIRED.
   In the event that any wooden or combustible building or structure, or any
noncombustible building which stands within the fire limits is damaged to the
extent of 50% or more of its value, exclusive of the foundation, it shall not
be repaired or rebuilt, but shall be taken down and removed within 60 days from
the date of the fire or other casualty.
(Neb. RS 17-550) (1973 Code, § 7-209) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.49 LUMBER YARDS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to locate, establish, or maintain any
lumber yard or place for the piling, storing, keeping, or selling any lumber,
or to keep any lime, lath, shingles, hay, straw, or other combustible materials
on any lot or parcel of ground within the fire limits, unless the same is
securely kept in a building constructed of brick, stone, concrete, or other
incombustible material; provided, the foregoing shall not apply to lumber yards
now built and in use.
(Neb. RS 17-549) (1973 Code, § 7-210) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.50 PROHIBITED STOVES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to permit or allow to be burned crank
case drainings, or to burn oil or other flammable substance in a home-made
stove.
(Neb. RS 17-549) (1973 Code, § 7-211) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.51 FIRE PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to set out a fire on the pavement, or
near any curb, now built or hereafter to be built, within the city.
(Neb. RS 17-556) (1973 Code, § 7-212) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.52 BURNING PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to burn any
garbage, rubbish, or trash, either in an open fire or in any container or
incinerator, within the city limits; except for those persons, firms, or
corporations with an approved burning permit on property located within the (A)
Agriculture District.
(1973 Code, § 7-213) (Ord. 765, passed 11-11-2007) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.53 OPEN BURNING BAN; WAIVER.
   (A)   There shall be an open burning ban on all bonfires, outdoor rubbish
fires, and fires for the purpose of clearing land.
   (B)   The Fire Chief may waive an open burning ban under division (A) of
this section for an area under the municipal Fire Department's jurisdiction by
issuing an open burning permit to a person requesting permission to conduct
open burning. The permit issued by the Fire Chief to a person desiring to
conduct open burning shall be in writing, signed by the Fire Chief, and on a
form provided by the State Fire Marshal.
   (C)   The Fire Chief may waive the open burning ban in the municipal Fire
Department's jurisdiction when conditions are acceptable to the Chief. Anyone
intending to burn in that jurisdiction when the open burning ban has been
waived shall notify the Fire Chief of his or her intention to burn prior to
starting the burn.
   (D)   The Fire Chief may adopt standards listing the conditions acceptable
for issuing a permit to conduct open burning under division (B) of this
section.
   (E)   The Fire Department may charge a fee not to exceed $10 for each such
permit issued. This fee shall be remitted to the governing body for inclusion
in the general funds allocated to the Fire Department. These funds shall not
reduce the tax requirements for the Fire Department. No such fee shall be
collected from any state or political subdivision to which such a permit is
issued to conduct open burning under division (B) of this section in the course
of that state's or political subdivision's official duties.
(Neb. RS 81-520.01) (Ord. 845, passed 3-8-2012)
§ 92.54 RECREATIONAL BURNING DEVICES.
   (A)   No person shall be permitted to engage in open burning in any form
within the city except for recreational fires contained in an appropriate patio
wood burning unit and the use of barbecue grills, smokers or other devices
designed specifically for cooking.
   (B)   PATIO WOOD BURNING UNIT shall be defined as:
      (1)   A commercially manufactured fire pit originally purchased from a
retail store and which is located a minimum of 15 feet from any building and is
located at least 10 feet from any property line;
      (2)   A self-constructed "in ground" fire pit for which a building permit
has first been obtained from the city and which is designed to include the
following:
         (a)   A metal fireproof screen of not more than one-inch mesh so as
not to permit the escape of burning paper or other substance;
         (b)   The fire pit shall be located at least 20 feet from any
building, and is located at least 10 feet from any property line;
         (c)   The fire pit shall be constructed of fireproof, noncombustible
materials such as steel, brick, or masonry and shall not exceed three feet in
diameter and shall be at least four inches in depth in the ground.
   (C)   All users of a patio wood burning unit shall be required to comply as
follows:
      (1)   Constantly attended and supervised by at least one responsible,
capable person who should be near the fire at all times;
      (2)   Have adjacent thereto a portable fire extinguisher or other
approved extinguishing equipment, such as a readily available garden hose;
      (3)   Not have a fire pile exceeding two feet in height;
      (4)   Not exceed three feet in diameter;
      (5)   Nor burn any material that is offensive or objectionable because of
smoke or odor omissions;
      (6)   Be subject to immediate extinguishment if a city official
determines that the burning of material in the fire pit creates or adds to a
hazardous or objectionable situation.
   (D)   Violation of this section shall be punishable pursuant to §
10.99. Fines for a first offense shall be no less than $100 and for each second
or subsequent offense shall be $250.
(Ord. 914, passed 3-9-2017)
FLAMMABLE GASES
§ 92.65 PETROLEUM GAS TRANSPORTS.
   No oil tanker, gasoline transport, or tank truck transporting inflammable
liquids shall park or stop for any period of time within the limits of any
street or alley of the city except to load or unload its cargo in a safe and
expeditious manner; provided, that drivers of the vehicles may stop or park the
vehicles one time while en route through the city on arterial streets or
highways therein for a period of time not more than 30 minutes for rest and
meals; and, provided further, in case of breakdown or mechanical stalling, the
stopping of the disabled vehicle for the reasonable time necessary to remove
that same to the next point where repairs can be made or to meet the emergency
shall not be a violation of this section. No oil tanker, gasoline transport, or
tank truck, whether containing any inflammable materials or not, shall park or
stop for any period of time on any private premise within the corporate limits
and be used and employed exclusively for the conduct of the wholesale or retail
petroleum business with ample facilities for parking oil tankers and gasoline
transports or tank trucks.
(1973 Code, § 7-301) Penalty, see §
10.99
EXPLOSIVES AND FIREWORKS
§ 92.80 BLASTING PERMITS.
   Any person wishing to discharge high explosives within the city must secure
a permit from the City Council and shall discharge those explosives in
conformance with its direction and under its supervision.
(1973 Code, § 7-401) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.81 PERMISSIBLE FIREWORKS.
   (A)   Permissible fireworks shall mean only those fireworks annually listed
and promulgated by the State Fire Marshal in Title 157, Chapter 8 of the
Nebraska Administrative Code.
   (B)   The provisions of this section shall not apply to any fireworks to be
used for purpose of public exhibitions or display under authorization of the
City Council or to fireworks furnished for agricultural purposes pursuant to
written authorization from the State Fire Marshal.
(Neb. RS 17-556, 28-1,241, 28-1,244, and 28-1,245) (1973 Code, § 7-402) (Ord.
604, passed 3-9-1989; Ord. 963, passed 5-14-2020 Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.82 TIMES FOR DISCHARGE.
   (A)   Permitted fireworks may be sold at retail, offered for sale at retail,
discharged, exploded, or used within the city, only from June 25 through and
including July 4 and from December 29 through and including December 31 of each
year; provided it shall be unlawful to discharge, explode or use permissible
fireworks on said dates before 9:00 a.m., and after 10:00 p.m., except on July
3 and 4 and December 31 when permissible fireworks may be lawfully discharged,
exploded or used between the hours of 9:00 a.m. and 12:00 midnight.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to discharge or sell any illegal fireworks, as
defined by state statutes, within the city.
   (C)   In the event of inclement weather and/or other circumstances which may
render the discharge of fireworks on July 4 impossible and/or impracticable,
the Mayor and/or City Administrator, and/or his/her designee, may authorize,
extend or otherwise modify the dates set forth in division (A) above as deemed
appropriate, provided that any said modification conforms to the parameters for
discharge promulgated by state statutes.
(1973 Code, § 7-404) (Ord. 761, passed 7-12-2007; Ord. 814, passed 11-10-2010;
Ord. 963, passed 5- 14-2020) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 93: PARKS AND RECREATION
Section
Parks
   
93.01   Operation and funding
   
93.02   Injury to property
Swimming Pool
   
93.15   Operation and funding
   
93.16   Admission charge
   
93.17   Rules and regulations
Library
   
93.30   Operation and funding
   
93.31   Books
   
93.32   Rules and regulations
   
93.33   Book removal
   
93.34   Money collected
Fishing Pond
   
93.40   Children's fishing hole
PARKS
§ 93.01 OPERATION AND FUNDING.
   The city owns and operates the city parks and other recreational areas
through the Board of Park Commissioners. The City Council, for the purpose of
defraying the cost of the care, management, and maintenance of the city park
may each year levy a tax not exceeding the maximum limit prescribed by state
law, on the actual valuation of all real estate and personal property within
the corporate limits that is subject to taxation. The revenue from the tax
shall be known as the Park Fund and shall remain in the custody of the City
Clerk/Treasurer. The Board shall have the authority to adopt rules and
regulations for the efficient management of the city parks and other
recreational areas of the city. The Board shall not enter into a contract of
any nature which involves an expenditure of funds, except for ordinary
operating expenses, unless the contract has been approved by resolution of the
majority of the members of the City Council prior to the contractual agreement.
(Neb. RS 17-948 through 17-952) (1973 Code, § 3-501)
§ 93.02 INJURY TO PROPERTY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to maliciously or willfully cut down,
injure, or destroy any tree, plant, or shrub. It shall be unlawful for any
person to injure or destroy any sodded or planted area, or injure or destroy
any building, structure, equipment, fence, bench, table, or any other property
of the city parks and recreational areas. No person shall commit any waste on
or litter the city parks or other public grounds.
(1973 Code, § 3-502) Penalty, see §
10.99
SWIMMING POOL
§ 93.15 OPERATION AND FUNDING.
   The city owns and manages the city swimming pool. The City Council, for the
purpose of defraying the cost of the management, maintenance, and improvements
of the swimming pool may each year levy a tax not exceeding the maximum limit
prescribed by state law, on the actual valuation of all real estate and
personal property within the city that is subject to taxation. The revenue from
the tax shall be known as the Swimming Pool Fund and shall include all gifts,
grants, deeds of conveyance, bequests, or other valuable income-producing
personal property and real estate from any source for the purpose of endowing
the swimming pool. The Swimming Pool Fund shall at all times be in the custody
of the City Clerk/Treasurer. The Board of Park Commissioners shall manage the
swimming pool. The Board shall have the power and authority to hire and
supervise the Swimming Pool Manager and any employees as it may deem necessary
and shall pass any rules and regulations for the operation of the swimming pool
as may be proper for its efficient operation. All actions by the Board shall be
under the supervision and control of the City Council.
(Neb. RS 17-948, 17-951, and 17-952) (1973 Code, § 3-601)
§ 93.16 ADMISSION CHARGE.
   The Board of Park Commissioners may, for the purpose of defraying the
expenses involved in maintaining, improving, managing, and beautifying the
swimming pool, make a reasonable admission charge for the use by any person of
the city swimming pool. The charges shall be on file at the office of the City
Clerk/Treasurer and shall also be posted in a conspicuous place at the city
swimming pool for public inspection. The rates may be structured for classes of
persons in a reasonable manner; provided, that nothing herein shall be
construed to permit or allow discrimination on the basis of race, creed, color,
or national origin in the classification of persons for admission charges.
(Neb. RS 17-949) (1973 Code, § 3-602)
§ 93.17 RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   The Board of Park Commissioners shall have the power and authority to enact
bylaws, rules, and regulations for the protection of those using the swimming
pool and for the efficient management thereof. They may provide suitable
penalties for the violation of the bylaws, rules, and regulations subject to
the review and supervision of the City Council.
(Neb. RS 17-949) (1973 Code, § 3-603)
LIBRARY
§ 93.30 OPERATION AND FUNDING.
   The city owns and manages the City Library through the Library Board. The
City Council, for the purpose of defraying the cost of the management,
purchases, improvements, and maintenance of the City Library may each year levy
a tax not exceeding the maximum limit prescribed by state law, on the actual
valuation of all real estate and personal property within the city that is
subject to taxation. The revenue from the tax shall be known as the Library
Fund and shall include all gifts, grants, deeds of conveyance, bequests, or
other valuable income-producing personal property and real estate from any
source for the purpose of endowing the City Library. The Library Fund shall at
all times be in the custody of the City Clerk/Treasurer. The Board shall have
the power and authority to appoint the Librarian and to hire any other
employees as they may deem necessary and may pass any other rules and
regulations for the operation of the City Library as may be proper for its
efficient operation. All actions by the Board shall be under the supervision
and control of the City Council.
(Neb. RS 51-201, 51-202, and 51-211) (1973 Code, § 3-701)
§ 93.31 BOOKS.
   (A)   The Library Board may authorize the sale, exchange, or disposal of any
surplus, damaged, defective, obsolete, or duplicate books in the City Library.
   (B)   Records shall be kept of any such surplus, damaged, defective,
obsolete, or duplicate books so disposed of.
(Neb. RS 51-207) (1973 Code, § 3-702)
§ 93.32 RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   The Library Board shall establish rules and regulations for the governing of
the City Library for the preservation and efficient management thereof. The
Board shall fix and impose by general rules, penalties, and forfeitures for
injury to the City Library grounds, rooms, books, or other property, or for
failure to return a book. All fees, penalties, and forfeitures may be collected
in civil action in the event of failure, neglect, or refusal to pay the
assessments.
(Neb. RS 51-205 and 51-214) (1973 Code, § 3-703)
§ 93.33 BOOK REMOVAL.
   It shall be unlawful for any person not authorized by the regulations made
by the Library Board to take a book from the City Library, without the consent
of the Librarian, or an authorized employee of the City Library. Any person
removing a book from the City Library without properly checking it out shall be
deemed to be guilty of a misdemeanor.
(Neb. RS 51-211) (1973 Code, § 3-704) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 93.34 MONEY COLLECTED.
   Any money collected by the City Library shall be turned over monthly by the
Librarian to the City Clerk/Treasurer, along with a report of the sources of
the revenue.
(Neb. RS 51-209) (1973 Code, § 3-705)
FISHING POND
§ 93.40 CHILDREN'S FISHING HOLE.
   The pond owned by the city located on part of TR5, 15th Addition to the City
of Bridgeport, Nebraska located behind Sonny's Grocery Store and formerly used
as a swimming pool shall be and hereby is designated as a fishing hole for
children, subject to the following terms and limitations:
   (A)   The pond shall be available for fishing by children ages 15 and under
from sunrise to sunset. No persons ages 16 and older shall fish in said pond
except for assisting an allowed child.
   (B)   No rafts, canoes, boats or other floating devises used to support
people shall be allowed on said pond.
   (C)   No swimming shall be allowed in said pond.
   (D)   All rules and regulations pertaining to fishing of the Nebraska Game
and Parks Division of the State of Nebraska shall be in full force and effect.
   (E)   Any person violating any of the above conditions shall be guilty of a
crime punishable by a fine up to $200.
(Ord. 806, passed 7-8-2010)
CHAPTER 94: PUBLIC WAYS AND PROPERTY
Section
City Property
   
94.01   Definition
   
94.02   Maintenance and control
   
94.03   Streets; trees
   
94.04   Obstructions
   
94.05   Permitted obstructions
   
94.06   Weeds, litter and stagnant water
   
94.07   Signs and canopies
   
94.08   Special improvement district; assessment and creation procedure
   
94.09   Improvement district; land adjacent
   
94.10   Public works involving architecture or engineering; requirements
Sidewalks
   
94.20   Overhanging branches
   
94.21   Kept clean
   
94.22   Beneath
   
94.23   Maintenance
   
94.24   Repair
   
94.25   Construction by owner
   
94.26   Municipal construction
   
94.27   Construction by petition
Streets
   
94.40   Names and numbers
   
94.41   Crossings
   
94.42   Widening or opening
   
94.43   Excavation
   
94.44   Driving stakes
   
94.45   Mixing concrete
   
94.46   Harmful liquids
   
94.47   Eave and gutter spouts
   
94.48   Heavy equipment
   
94.49   Pipe lines and wires
   
94.50   Construction assessment
   
94.51   Petition for improvements
   
94.52   Improvement districts; objections
   
94.53   Deferral from special assessments
   
94.54   Mailboxes
Curb and Gutter
   
94.65   Cutting curb
   
94.66   Installation required; assessment
CITY PROPERTY
§ 94.01 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   SIDEWALK SPACE. The portion of a street between curb lines and adjacent
property lines.
(1973 Code, § 8-101)
§ 94.02 MAINTENANCE AND CONTROL.
   The City Council shall have the care, supervision, and control of all public
highways, bridges, streets, alleys, public squares, and commons within the
city, and shall cause the same to be kept open and in repair and free from
nuisances.
(Neb. RS 17-567) (1973 Code, § 8-102)
§ 94.03 STREETS; TREES.
   No person, or persons, shall plant, or allow to grow, any tree within the
sidewalk space without first making a written, or verbal, application to, and
receiving a written permit from, the City Council. Any tree planted within the
sidewalk space after the adoption date of this section shall be deemed to be
unlawfully planted and growing and shall, at the discretion of the City
Council, be deemed to be a nuisance. When any such tree is declared to be a
nuisance, the City Council shall order, with proper notice, the tree removed at
the expense of the owner of the property adjacent to the street space upon
which the tree has been unlawfully planted. If the property owner fails, or
neglects, to remove, or cause to be removed, the tree, the City Council shall
order, with proper notice, the same removed and assess the expense of the
removal against the property adjacent to the sidewalk space wherein the tree is
planted and growing. No fee shall be charged for the permit, and nothing in
this section shall be construed to apply to any existing trees now growing
within the sidewalk space.
(Neb. RS 17-557.01 and 18-1,720) (1973 Code, § 8-103) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 94.04 OBSTRUCTIONS.
   Trees and shrubs, growing upon, or near, the lot line, or upon public ground
and interfering with the use, or construction of any public improvements shall
be deemed an obstruction under this subchapter. The roots may be removed by the
city at the expense of the owner of the property upon which the tree is located
should the owner fail, or neglect, after notice, to do so. It shall be unlawful
for any person, persons, firm, or corporation to obstruct, or encumber, by
fences, gates, buildings, structures, or otherwise, any of the streets, alleys,
or sidewalks. The public ways and property shall be considered to be obstructed
when the owner or occupant of the adjacent property shall permit or suffer to
remain on any premise owned or controlled by him or her any hedge, shrubbery,
bush, or similar growth within two feet adjacent to the lot line whether there
is a sidewalk abutting or adjoining the premise or not. It shall be the duty of
owners and occupants to at all times keep trimmed and pruned all the similar
growth. Whenever any such growth is allowed to grow within two feet of the lot
line contrary to the provisions of this subchapter, the City Council may pass a
resolution ordering the owner or occupant to remove the obstructions within
three days after having been served with a copy of the resolution by the city
stating that the city will do so and will charge the costs thereof to the owner
or occupant as a special assessment for improvements as herein provided, or
shall collect the same by civil suit brought in the name of the city against
the owner or occupant. It shall be the duty of an owner or occupant engaged in
construction of any building or improvement upon or near the public ways and
property to have all excavations or exposures of any kind protected and guarded
by suitable guards or barricades by day and by warning lights at night. In the
event of failure, neglect, or refusal to comply with the provisions of this
subchapter, it shall be the duty of the city to stop all work upon the
buildings and improvements until suitable guards are erected and kept in the
manner aforesaid. Trees and shrubs growing upon the lot line partially on
public ground and partially upon the abutting property, or wholly upon the
abutting property, but so close to the lot line as to interfere with the making
of any public improvement or so that the roots thereof interfere with any
utility wires or pipe shall be deemed an obstruction and the trees, shrubs, and
roots may be removed by the city pursuant to the procedure prescribed above.
(Neb. RS 17-557.01) (1973 Code, § 8-104) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 94.05 PERMITTED OBSTRUCTIONS.
   Persons engaged in the erection, construction, reconstruction, wrecking, or
repairing of any building, or the construction, or repair, of a sidewalk along
any street, may occupy the public street space with the building material and
equipment as long as is necessary if the persons shall make application to and
receive a permit in writing from the city official in charge of city streets to
do so; provided, no permit for the occupancy of the sidewalk space, and more
than one-third of the roadway of the public space adjacent to the real estate
on which the building is to be constructed, erected, reconstructed, wrecked, or
repaired shall be granted; and provided further, a suitable passageway for
pedestrians shall be maintained within the public space included in the permit
which shall be protected and lighted in the manner required by the official
issuing the permit.
(1973 Code, § 8-105) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 94.06 WEEDS, LITTER AND STAGNANT WATER.
   (A)   Lots or pieces of ground within the city or within the city's one-mile
zoning jurisdiction shall be drained or filled so as to prevent stagnant water
or any other nuisance accumulating thereon.
   (B)   The owner or occupant of any lot or piece of ground within the city or
within the city's one-mile zoning jurisdiction shall keep the lot or piece of
ground and the adjoining street and alleys free of any growth of eight inches
or inure in height of weeds, grasses, or worthless vegetation.
   (C)   The throwing, depositing, or accumulation of litter on any lot or
piece of ground within the city or within the city's one-mile zoning
jurisdiction is prohibited; provided, that grass, leaves, and worthless
vegetation maybe used as a ground mulch or in a compost pile.
   (D)   It is hereby declared to be a nuisance to permit or maintain any
growth of eight inches or more in height of weeds, grasses, or worthless
vegetation or to litter or cause litter to be deposited or remain thereon
except in proper receptacles.
   (E)   Any owner or occupant of a lot or piece of ground shall, upon
conviction of violating this section, be guilty of an offense.
   (F)   Notice to abate and remove such nuisance shall be given to each owner
or owner's duly authorized agent and to the occupant, if any, by certified mail
or in person by a duly authorized city official or police officer. Within five
days after receipt of such notice, the owner or occupant of the lot or piece of
ground may request a hearing with the city to appeal the decision to abate or
remove a nuisance by filing a written appeal with the office of the City Clerk.
A hearing on the appeal shall be held within 14 days after the filing of the
appeal and shall be conducted by the Mayor of the city, or if the may is
unavailable by the City Administrator of the city. The hearing officer shall
render a decision on the appeal within five business days after the conclusion
of the hearing. Within five days after receipt of such notice, if the owner or
occupant of the lot or piece of ground does not request a hearing with the city
or fails to comply with the decision to abate and remove the nuisance, the city
may have such work done. In the event that notice to abate and remove the
nuisance is attempted at the last known address of the owner(s) and/or occupant
(s), without success, or in the event that the owners of record cannot be found
in this state, or successfully served in another state, then official notice
under this section shall be achieved via the City Clerk's publication, in a
newspaper of general circulation in the city, such notice to abate and remove
the nuisance for two consecutive weeks. The costs and expenses of any such work
shall be paid by the owner. If unpaid for two months after such work is done,
the city may either:
      (1)   Levy and assess the costs and expenses of the work upon the lot or
piece of ground so benefitted in the same manner as other special taxes for
improvements are levied and assessed; or
      (2)   Recover in a civil action the costs and expenses of the work upon
the lot or piece of ground and the adjoining streets and alleys.
   (G)   In addition to assessing costs of abatement to the property owner, the
city may issue a citation.
   (H)   For purposes of this section the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      (1)   LITTER shall include, but not be limited to:
         (a)   Trash, rubbish, refuse, garbage, paper, rags, and ashes;
         (b)   Wood, plaster, cement, brick, or stone building rubble;
         (c)   Grass, leaves, and worthless vegetation;
         (d)   Offal and dead animals; and
         (e)   Any machine or machines, vehicle or vehicles, or parts of a
machine or vehicle which have lost their identity, character, utility, or
serviceability as such through deterioration, dismantling, or the ravages of
time, are inoperative or unable to perform their intended functions, or are
cast off, discarded, or thrown away or left as waste, wreckage, or junk.
      (2)   WEEDS shall include, but not be limited to, bindweed (convolvulus
arvensis), puncture vine (tribulus terrestris), leafy spurge (euphorbia esula),
Canada thistle(cirsium arvense), perennial peppergrass (lepidium draba),
Russian knapweed (centaurea picris), Johnson grass (sorghum halepense), nodding
or musk thistle (sonchus arvensis), quack grass (Agropyron repens), perennial
sow thistle (sonchus arvenis), horse nettle (solanum carolinense), bull thistle
(cirsium lanceolatum), buckthorn (rhamnum sp.) (tours); hemp plant (cannabis
sativa), and ragweed (ambrosiaceae). Weeds regardless of height, shall be
removed, sprayed, or treated so as to kill and/or retard the spread of the
same.
   (I)   Failure to remove, spray or treat shall be deemed a violation of this
section and subject owner or occupant to a fine per §
10.99 of this code.
(1973 Code, § 8-106) (Ord. 824, passed 6-9-2011; Ord. 898, passed 10-8-2016;
Ord. 916, passed 3-9-2017)
§ 94.07 SIGNS AND CANOPIES.
   No person, firm, or corporation shall erect, or maintain, any sign,
signboard, poster, or rigid canopy over any street, sidewalk, alley, or on
other public property without having first obtained a permit therefor. Permits
for signs, canopies, posters, and signboards shall be issued by the City Clerk/
Treasurer, subject to the approval of the Director of Public Works, upon the
payment of a fee set by resolution of the City Council. All signs and canopies
extending over any public sidewalk, street, alley, or other public place must
be securely fastened and constructed so that there will be no danger of the
same being dislodged by ordinary winds, or falling from other causes. No sign
or canopy shall be erected or maintained which extends over any public
sidewalk, street, alley, or other public place in such a location as to
obstruct the view of any traffic light, sign, or signal. Upon the written order
of the City Council, any person owning or occupying the premise where such a
sign, canopy, poster, or signboard is located, shall cause the same to be
removed within the time limit specified on the notice.
(1973 Code, § 8-107) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 94.08 SPECIAL IMPROVEMENT DISTRICT; ASSESSMENT AND CREATION PROCEDURE.
   (A)   The City Council may, by ordinance, create a special improvement
district for the purpose of replacing, reconstructing, or repairing an existing
street, alley, water line, sewer line, or any other such improvement.
   (B)   Except as provided in Neb. RS 19-2,428 through 19-2,431, the City
Council shall have power to assess, to the extent of the benefits, the costs of
the improvements upon the properties found especially benefitted thereby,
whether or not the properties were previously assessed for the same general
purpose. In creating the special improvement district, the City Council shall
follow procedures applicable to the creation and assessment of the same type of
improvement district as otherwise provided by law.
(Neb. RS 18-1,751) (1973 Code, § 8-108) (Ord. 586, passed 10-8-1987)
§ 94.09 IMPROVEMENT DISTRICT; LAND ADJACENT.
   Supplemental to any existing law on the subject, a city may include land
adjacent to the city when creating an improvement district, such as a sewer,
paving, water, water extension, or sanitary sewer extension district. The City
Council shall have power to assess, to the extent of special benefits, the
costs of the improvements upon the properties found especially benefitted
thereby, except as provided in §
94.53.
(Neb. RS 19-2,427) (1973 Code, § 8-109) (Ord. 586, passed 10-8-1987)
§ 94.10 PUBLIC WORKS INVOLVING ARCHITECTURE OR ENGINEERING; REQUIREMENTS.
      (A)   (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this section and Neb. RS 81-
3449 and 81-3453, the municipality shall not engage in the construction of any
public works involving architecture or engineering unless the plans,
specifications, and estimates have been prepared and the construction has been
observed by an architect, a professional engineer, or a person under the direct
supervision of an architect, professional engineer, or those under the direct
supervision of an architect or professional engineer.
      (2) This division (A) shall not apply to any public work in which the
contemplated expenditure for the complete project does not exceed $100,000 or
the adjusted dollar amount set by the Board of Engineers and Architects.
(Neb. RS 81-3445)
   (B)   The provisions of division (A) of this section regulating the practice
of architecture do not apply to the following activities or the other
activities specified in Neb. RS 81-3449:
      (1)   A public service provider who employs a design professional
performing professional services for itself;
      (2)   The practice of any other certified trade or legally recognized
profession;
      (3)   Earthmoving and related work associated with soil and water
conservation practices performed any land owned by the municipality that is not
subject to a permit from the Department of Natural Resources; and
      (4)   The work of employees and agents of the municipality performing, in
accordance with other requirements of law, their customary duties in the
administration and enforcement of codes, permit programs, and land-use
regulations and their customary duties in utility and public works
construction, operation, and maintenance.
(Neb. RS 81-3449)
   (C)   The provisions of division (A) of this section regulating the practice
of engineering do not apply to the following activities, the activities
specified in division (B) of this section, or the other activities specified in
Neb. RS 81-3453:
      (1)   Those services ordinarily performed by subordinates under direct
supervision of a professional engineer or those commonly designated as
locomotive, stationary, marine operating engineers, power plant operating
engineers, or manufacturers who supervise the operation of or operate machinery
or equipment or who supervise construction within their own plant; and
      (2)   The construction of water wells as defined in Neb. RS 46-1212, the
installation of pumps and pumping equipment into water wells, and the
decommissioning of water wells, unless such construction, installation, or
decommissioning is required by the municipality to be designed or supervised by
an engineer or unless legal requirements are imposed upon the municipality as a
part of a public water supply.
(Neb. RS 81-3453)
   (D)   For the purpose of this section, the municipality is considered a
public service provider if it appoints a Municipal Engineer or employs a full-
time person licensed under the Engineers and Architects Regulation Act who is
in responsible charge of architectural or engineering work.
(Neb. RS 81-3423)
(Ord. 847, passed 3-8-2012)
SIDEWALKS
§ 94.20 OVERHANGING BRANCHES.
   The owner or occupant of any lot, piece, or parcel of ground abutting or
adjacent to any street or sidewalk over which there extends the branches of
trees shall at all times keep the branches or limbs thereof trimmed to the
height of at least seven and one-half feet above the surface of the walk.
Whenever the limbs or branches of any tree or trees extend over sidewalks
contrary to the provisions herein so as to interfere with the lighting of the
street from street lights, or with the convenience of the public using the
sidewalk, the City Council at any regular or special meeting may pass a
resolution ordering the owner or occupant to cut or remove the obstructions
within five days after having received a copy thereof from the Director of
Public Works stating that the city will remove the branches and charge the
costs thereof to the owner or occupant as a special assessment for improvements
as herein provided, if the resolution is not complied with.
(Neb. RS 17-557.01) (1973 Code, § 8-201) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 94.21 KEPT CLEAN.
   It shall be unlawful for the occupant of any lot or lots or the owner of any
vacant lot or lots within the corporate limits to allow snow, sleet, mud, ice,
or other substance to accumulate on the sidewalks or to permit any snow, sleet,
ice, mud, or other substance to remain upon the sidewalk. All sidewalks within
the business district shall be cleaned within five hours after the cessation of
a storm, unless the storm or fall of snow shall have taken place during the
night, in which case the sidewalk shall be cleaned before 8:30 a.m. the
following day; provided, sidewalks within the residential areas of the city
shall be cleaned within 24 hours after the cessation of the storm.
(Neb. RS 17-557) (1973 Code, § 8-202) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 94.22 BENEATH.
   No person shall be allowed to keep or use the space beneath the sidewalk
lying between lot line and curb line unless a permit therefor shall have been
obtained from the City Council. Before any permit shall be granted, the
applicant for the permit shall submit plans and specifications of any present
or proposed construction to the City Engineer. Should the plans or
specifications be disapproved by him, no permit shall be granted therefor. All
permits hereafter granted shall continue only upon the condition that the party
receiving the same shall build, maintain, and keep in repair a sidewalk over
the space used or constructed to be used and pay all damages that may be
sustained by any person by reason of the use or by reason of the sidewalk being
defective or in a dangerous condition. As a condition precedent to the issuance
or continuance of any permit for the use of any space underneath the city
sidewalks as herein contemplated, the City Council may require applicant to
furnish a bond to the city as obligee for the benefit of any person or persons
who may suffer any damage or damages by reason of the use. The bond shall be in
the sum as the City Council, in its discretion, may designate.
(1973 Code, § 8-203) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 94.23 MAINTENANCE.
   Every owner of any lot, lots, or piece of land within the corporate limits
shall at all times keep and maintain the sidewalk along and contiguous to the
lot, lots, or pieces of land, as the case may be, in good and proper repair,
and in a condition reasonably safe for travel for all travelers thereon. In the
event that the owner or owners of any lot, lots, or lands, abutting on any
street, avenue, or part thereof shall fail to construct or repair any sidewalk
in front of his, her, or their lot, lots, or lands, within the time and in the
manner as directed and required herein after having received due notice to do
so, they shall be liable for all damages or injury occasioned by reason of the
defective or dangerous condition of any sidewalk, and the City Council shall
have power to cause any such sidewalks to be constructed or repaired and assess
the costs thereof against the property.
(Neb. RS 17-557.01) (1973 Code, § 8-204) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 94.24 REPAIR.
   The city official in charge of sidewalks may require sidewalks of the city
to be repaired. Notice to the owners of property upon which the sidewalks in
disrepair are located shall require within 48 hours from issuance of notice the
owners to make arrangements to have the sidewalk repaired. The repairs shall be
completed within 21 days after issuance of the notice. No special assessment
shall be levied against the property unless the owner shall neglect or refuse
to repair within the time prescribed and in the event that the owner fails to
repair, the city shall cause the repairs to be made and assess the property
owner the expense of the repairs.
(1973 Code, § 8-205)
§ 94.25 CONSTRUCTION BY OWNER.
   (A)   Any person desiring to construct, or cause to be constructed, any
sidewalk shall do so only as herein provided. It shall be unlawful for any
person to construct any sidewalk without first having obtained a permit.
   (B)   The owner shall make application in writing for a permit and file the
application in the office of the City Clerk/Treasurer. The permit shall give a
description of the lot, or piece of land along which the sidewalk is to be
constructed. The official in charge of sidewalks shall issue the desired permit
unless good cause shall appear why the permit should be denied; provided, if it
is desired to construct the sidewalk at any other than the regularly prescribed
location, grade, or elevation, the city official in charge of sidewalks shall
submit the application to the City Council who shall determine whether the
permit should be granted or denied. It shall be unlawful for any person to
construct, or cause to be constructed, the sidewalk at any other location,
grade, or elevation than so designated by the city. All sidewalks shall be
built and constructed on the established grade, or elevation, and if there is
no established grade, then on the grade or elevation indicated by the city
official in charge of sidewalks.
(1973 Code, § 8-206) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 94.26 MUNICIPAL CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   The City Council may, by resolution, order the construction of a
sidewalk on any lot or piece of ground within the city. Notice of the City
Council's intention to construct the sidewalk shall be given by the City Clerk/
Treasurer by publication of notice one time in a legal newspaper of general
circulation in the city.
   (B)   A copy of the notice shall be personally served upon the occupant in
possession of the property, or, when personal service is not possible, the
notice shall be posted upon the premise ten days prior to the commencement of
construction. The notice required in this section shall be prepared by the City
Attorney in accordance with the provisions of this section. The service shall
include a form of return evidencing personal service or posting as herein
required.
   (C)   The notice shall notify the owner of the premise of the passage of the
resolution ordering him or her to construct or cause to be constructed a
sidewalk within 30 days after the date of publication and further that if he or
she fails to construct the sidewalk or cause the same to be done within the
time allowed, the city will cause the sidewalk to be constructed and the cost
thereof shall be levied and assessed as a special tax against the premise;
provided, the notice shall contain the official estimate of the cost of the
construction and no special assessment in excess of this estimate shall be
assessed against the property.
(Neb. RS 17-522 and 17-523) (1973 Code, § 8-207)
§ 94.27 CONSTRUCTION BY PETITION.
   If the owners of the record title representing more than 60% of the front
footage of the directly abutting property, subject to assessment for sidewalk
improvements, petition the City Council to make the same, the City Council
shall proceed in all things as though the construction had been ordered by it.
Upon the petition of any freeholder who is an abutting owner in fee simple of
property subject to assessment for sidewalk improvements, the City Council may
order permanent sidewalks built in accordance with this subchapter upon the
freeholder making, executing, and delivering to the city an agreement to the
effect that the petitioning freeholder will pay the engineering service fee and
all other incidental construction costs until paid shall be a perpetual lien
upon the real estate along which the freeholder desires the sidewalk to be
constructed and that the petitioner gives and grants to the city the right to
assess and levy the costs of the construction against the freeholder's real
estate abutting the sidewalk improvement and promises to pay the costs with
interest. The total cost of the improvement shall be levied, allocated,
financed, and specially assessed as provided by law. In the event the property
owner is a nonresident of the county in which the property lies, the city
shall, before levying any special assessment against that property, send a copy
of any notice required by law to be published by means of certified mail,
return receipt requested to the last known address of the nonresident property
owner. The last known address shall be that address listed on the current tax
rolls at the time the required notice was first published.
(1973 Code, § 8-208) (Ord. 497, passed 5-8-1980)
STREETS
§ 94.40 NAMES AND NUMBERS.
   The City Council may at any time, by ordinance, rename any street or provide
a name for any new street. Buildings used for residence or business purposes
and located along the streets shall retain the numbers as the City Council may
require. It shall be the duty of the city official in charge of streets, upon
the erection of any new building or buildings to assign the proper numbers to
the building or buildings and give notice to the owner or owners and occupant
or occupants of the same.
(1973 Code, § 8-301)
§ 94.41 CROSSINGS.
   The City Council may order and cause to be constructed, under the
supervision of the city official in charge of streets, the street, avenue, and
alley crossings as the City Council shall deem necessary. When a petition for
the construction of any such crossings is filed by an interested resident in
the office of the City Clerk/Treasurer, the City Clerk/Treasurer shall refer
the application to the chief street official who shall investigate and make his
or her recommendation to the City Council. Action by the City Council on the
application, whether the application is approved or rejected, shall be
considered final.
(1973 Code, § 8-302)
§ 94.42 WIDENING OR OPENING.
   The City Council shall have the power to open or widen any street, alley, or
lane within the limits of the city; and to create, open, and improve any new
street, alley, or lane; provided, all damages sustained shall be ascertained in
the manner as shall be provided by ordinance.
(Neb. RS 17-558, 17-559, 76-704 through 76-724) (1973 Code, § 8-303)
§ 94.43 EXCAVATION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to make an excavation in any street or
streets for any purpose whatsoever unless a written permit is issued by the
chief city street official authorizing the excavations.
(Neb. RS 17-567) (1973 Code, § 8-304) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 94.44 DRIVING STAKES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to drive any peg or stake of any kind
into the pavement in any street or alley without first procuring the written
consent of the chief city street official.
(1973 Code, § 8-305) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 94.45 MIXING CONCRETE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to mix any concrete or plastering
material directly on the street pavement for any reason whatsoever.
(1973 Code, § 8-306) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 94.46 HARMFUL LIQUIDS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to place or permit to leak in the gutter
of any street, waste gasoline, kerosene, or high lubricating oils, which damage
or act as a solvent upon the streets.
(1973 Code, § 8-307) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 94.47 EAVE AND GUTTER SPOUTS.
   It is hereby declared unlawful for any person to erect or maintain any
dwelling house or business building within the limits of the city where the
dwelling or building abuts on any sidewalk or street without providing proper
guttering and eave spouts to receive the waste waters that collect on the
sidewalks and streets. All eave spouts erected on any dwelling house or
business building shall be constructed to drain into the alleys, or shall be
buried beneath the sidewalks and drain into the streets where it is found to be
impossible to drain the eave spouts into the alley.
(1973 Code, § 8-308) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 94.48 HEAVY EQUIPMENT.
   It shall hereafter be unlawful for any person or person to move or operate
heavy equipment across any curb, gutter, bridge, culvert, sidewalk, crosswalk,
or crossing on any unpaved street without first having protected the curb,
gutter, bridge, culvert, sidewalks, crosswalk, or crossing with heavy plank
sufficient in strength to warrant against the breaking or damaging of the curb,
gutter, bridge, culvert, sidewalk, crosswalk, or crossing. Hereafter, it shall
be unlawful to run, drive, move, operate, or convey over or across any paved
street a vehicle, machine, or implement with sharp discs or sharp wheels that
bear upon the pavement; with wheels having cutting edges; with wheels having
lugs, any protruding parts, or bolts thereon that extend beyond a plain tire so
as to cut, mark, mar, indent, or otherwise injure or damage any pavement,
gutter, or curb; provided, where heavy vehicles, structures, and machines move
along paved or unpaved streets the city police are hereby authorized and
empowered to choose the route over which the moving of the vehicles,
structures, or machines will be permitted and allowed. Nothing in this section
shall be construed to apply to pneumatic tires with metal or metal-type studs
not exceeding five-sixteenths of an inch in diameter inclusive of the stud-
casting with an average protrusion beyond the tread surface of not more than
seven sixty-fourths of an inch between October 1 and April 15; provided, that
school buses and emergency vehicles shall be permitted to use metal or metal-
type studs all year; it shall be permissible to use farm machinery with tires
having protuberances which will not injure the streets; and it shall be
permissible to use tire chains of reasonable proportions upon any vehicle when
required for safety because of snow, ice, or other condition tending to cause a
vehicle to slide or skid.
(Neb. RS 60-6,250) (1973 Code, § 8-309) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 94.49 PIPE LINES AND WIRES.
   Poles, wires, gas mains, pipe lines, and other appurtenances of public
service companies shall be located, or erected over, upon, or under the
streets, alleys, and common grounds of the city. Application for location of
the above shall be made to the City Council in writing. Approval by that body
shall be issued in writing. Any public service company granted a right-of-way
for the erection and maintenance of poles, conduits, gas mains, pipe lines, and
wires shall at all times erect and locate their poles, wires, gas mains, pipe
lines, and other appurtenances at the places and in the manner as shall be
designated by the City Council. The poles, wires, gas mains, pipe lines, and
other appurtenances, shall be removed or relocated by the companies at their
own expense when requested to do so by the City Council. Any such relocation
shall be ordered by resolution of the City Council and the City Clerk/Treasurer
shall notify any and all companies affected. The companies shall, within 24
hours after receiving notice, at their own expense, cause the poles, wires, gas
mains, pipe lines, or other appurtenances to be removed. The City Council shall
designate another location as closely as possible where the poles, wires, gas
mains, pipe lines, or other appurtenances, may be reset or placed. All poles,
wires, gas mains, pipe lines, or other appurtenances, shall be reset, placed,
or erected in such a manner that they will not interfere with the water system;
sewerage system; poles, wires, and mains of any public utility; adjacent
buildings; or with travel on the public ways and property. Whenever possible,
all pole lines, wires, gas mains, pipe lines, or appurtenances shall be
confined to the alleys of the city.
(1973 Code, § 8-310) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 94.50 CONSTRUCTION ASSESSMENT.
   To defray the costs and expenses of street improvements, as may be
authorized by law, the City Council shall have power and authority to levy and
collect special taxes and assessments upon the lots and pieces of ground
adjacent to, abutting upon, or especially benefitting from, the street, avenue,
alley, or sidewalk in whole or in part opened, widened, curbed, curbed and
guttered, graded, paved, repaired, graveled, macadamized, parked, extended,
constructed, or otherwise improved or repaired. The City Council, sitting as
the Board of Equalization, shall review all the improvements in accordance with
the procedure provided by law. All special assessments shall be made by the
City Council at a regular or special meeting by resolution, taking into account
the benefits derived or injuries sustained in consequence of the improvements
and the amount charged against same. The vote shall be recorded in the minutes.
Notice of the time of holding the meeting and the purpose for which it is to be
held shall be published in some legal newspaper published, or of general
circulation, in the city at least four weeks before the same shall be held. In
lieu of the aforementioned notice, personal service may be had upon the persons
owning or occupying the property to be assessed. The assessments shall be known
as "special assessments for improvements" and with the cost of notice shall be
levied and collected as a special tax in addition to the taxes for general
revenue purposes, subject to the same penalties and collected in like manner as
other city taxes and shall be certified to the County Clerk by the City Clerk/
Treasurer forthwith after the date of levy, for collection by the County
Treasurer unless otherwise specified. After it shall become delinquent, the
assessment shall draw interest at the legal interest rate per annum.
(Neb. RS 17-511 and 17-524) (1973 Code, § 8-311)
§ 94.51 PETITION FOR IMPROVEMENTS.
   Whenever a petition signed by the owners of record title representing more
than 60% of the front footage of the property directly abutting upon the
street, streets, alley, alleys, public way, or the public grounds proposed to
be improved, shall be presented and filed with the City Clerk/Treasurer,
petitioning therefor, the City Council shall by ordinance create a paving,
graveling, or other improvement district or districts, and shall cause the work
to be done or the improvement to be made, and shall contract therefor, and
shall levy assessments on the lots and parcels of land abutting on or adjacent
to the street, streets, alley, or alleys, especially benefitted thereby in the
district in proportion to the benefits, to pay the cost of the improvement.
(Neb. RS 17-510) (1973 Code, § 8-312) (Ord. 496, passed 5-8-1980)
§ 94.52 IMPROVEMENT DISTRICTS; OBJECTIONS.
   Whenever the City Council shall deem it necessary to make any improvements
allowed by statute, the City Council shall by ordinance create a paving,
graveling, or other improvement district or districts, and after the passage,
approval, and publication or posting of the ordinance, shall publish notice of
the creation of any such district or districts for six days in a legal
newspaper of the city, if a daily newspaper, or for two consecutive weeks, if
the same be a weekly newspaper. If the owners of the record title representing
more than 50% of the front footage of the property directly abutting on the
street, streets, alley, or alleys to be improved, shall file with the City
Clerk/Treasurer within 20 days after the first publication of the notice,
written objections to the creation of the district or districts, the
improvements shall not be made as provided in the ordinance; but the ordinance
shall be repealed. If the objections are not filed against the district in the
time and manner aforesaid, the City Council shall forthwith cause the work to
be done or the improvement to be made, and shall contract therefor, and shall
levy assessments on the lots and parcels of land abutting on or adjacent to the
street, streets, alley, or alleys especially benefitted thereby in the district
in proportion to the benefits, to pay the cost of the improvement.
(Neb. RS 17-511) (1973 Code, § 8-313) (Ord. 496, passed 5-8-1980)
§ 94.53 DEFERRAL FROM SPECIAL ASSESSMENTS.
   (A)   Whenever the City Council of a city creates an improvement district as
specified in §
94.09 which includes land adjacent to the city which is within an agricultural
use zone and is used exclusively for agricultural use, the owners of record
title of the adjacent land may apply for a deferral from special assessments.
For purposes of this section, the terms agricultural use and agricultural use
zone shall have the meaning specified in Neb. RS 77-1,343.
   (B)   Any owner of record title eligible for the deferral granted by this
section shall, to secure the assessment, make application to the City Council
of the city within 90 days after creation of an improvement district as
specified in §
94.08. Any owner of record title who makes application for the deferral
provided by this section shall notify the County Register of Deeds of the
application in writing prior to approval by the City Council. The City Council
shall approve the application of any owner of record title upon determination
that the property is within an agricultural use zone and is used exclusively
for agricultural use, and the owner has met the requirements of this section.
   (C)   The deferral provided for in this section shall be terminated upon any
of the following events:
      (1)   Notification by the owner of record title to the City Council to
remove the deferral;
      (2)   Sale or transfer to a new owner who does not make a new application
within 60 days of the sale or transfer, except as provided in division (C)(3)
below;
      (3)   Transfer by reason of death of a former owner to a new owner who
does not make application within 125 days of the transfer;
      (4)   The land is no longer being used as agricultural land; or
      (5)   Change of zoning to other than an agricultural zone.
   (D)   Whenever property which has received a deferral pursuant to this
section becomes disqualified for the deferral, the owner of record title of the
property shall pay to the city an amount equal to:
      (1)   The total amount of special assessments which would have been
assessed against the property, to the extent of special benefits, had the
deferral not been granted; and
      (2)   Interest upon the special assessments not paid each year at the
rate of 6% from the dates at which the assessments would have been payable if
no deferral had been granted.
   (E)   In cases where the deferral provided by this section is terminated as
a result of a sale or transfer described in divisions (C)(2) or (C)(3) above,
the lien for assessments and interest shall attach as of the day preceding the
sale or transfer.
(Neb. RS 19-2,428 through 19-2,431) (1973 Code, § 8-314) (Ord. 588, passed 10-
8-1987)
§ 94.54 MAILBOXES.
   (A)   Generally. It shall be unlawful to erect and maintain mailboxes along
the city streets under the following conditions.
   (B)   Specifically.
      (1)   The mailbox can only be erected along established rural mail
carrier routes or routes to be established by the United States Postal Service.
      (2)   A mailbox must be of standard size and mounted to conform to the
rules and regulations of the United States Postal Service, the state, and be
approved by the city.
      (3)   A mailbox may only be erected upon the curb of the street
immediately in front of the property owned by the person erecting the same,
unless the person desiring to erect the mailbox first obtains written
permission from the landowner who owns the property on which the mailbox is to
be erected. A copy of the written permission to erect the mailbox shall be
delivered to the City Clerk/Treasurer prior to erecting the same.
      (4)   A person desiring to erect a mailbox along any street within the
city limits shall, prior to erecting the same, execute a memorandum of
understanding at the office of the City Clerk/Treasurer wherein he or she shall
agree that he or she understands and agrees that in the event that any vehicle
is parked in front of the mailbox at the time the rural mail carrier passes the
same, the mail will not be delivered on that day and agree to hold the city
harmless from the lack of delivery. The person shall agree to hold the city
harmless for any damages caused by the placement of the mailbox. The person
shall further agree to maintain the mailbox in good repair and shall remove the
same immediately upon notice of the city to so remove. Upon execution of the
memorandum of understanding, the Director of Public Works shall go to the
premises and mark the location allowed for placement of the mailbox. In no
event shall any mailbox be placed so as to overhang or obstruct a sidewalk.
(1973 Code, § 8-315) (Ord. 674, passed 12-11-1997) Penalty, see §
10.99
CURB AND GUTTER
§ 94.65 CUTTING CURB.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to cut into any paving, curb, or
sidewalk for the purpose of constructing a driveway or any other purpose
whatsoever without first having obtained a written permit from the City Council
therefor. Before any person shall obtain a permit, he or she shall inform the
City Clerk/Treasurer of the place where the cutting is to be done, and it shall
be the chief street official's duty to inspect the place of entry into the
paving, sidewalk, or curb, before the same is cut. When cutting into any
paving, it shall be the duty of the party to cut the paving under the rules and
regulations as may be prescribed by the City Council or the City Engineer. When
the applicant is ready to close the opening made, he or she shall inform the
chief street official, who shall supervise and inspect the materials used and
the work done in closing the opening. It shall be discretionary with the City
Council to order the chief street official, under the supervision and
inspection of the City Engineer or the committee of the City Council on the
streets and alleys, to do the work of cutting and closing the paving and charge
the costs thereof to the party who obtained the permit. The City Council may
consent to the work of cutting and closing the paving to be done by the party
holding the permit. Before any permit is issued by the City Council, the
applicant for the permit shall deposit with the City Clerk/Treasurer a sum set
by resolution of the City Council for all paving, curb, or sidewalk to be cut.
The sum shall be set on a per square foot cost of construction basis. The
deposit shall be retained by the city for the purpose of replacing the paving,
curb, or sidewalk, in the event the work is done by the city. In the event the
city elects to require the applicant to replace the paving, curb, or sidewalk,
the deposit shall be retained by the city until the work is completed to the
satisfaction of the chief street official or of the committee of the City
Council on streets and alleys. In addition to making the deposit above set
forth, the applicant shall, before any permit is issued, execute a bond to the
city with a good and sufficient surety or sureties to be approved by the City
Council in a sum set by resolution of the City Council.
(1973 Code, § 8-401) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 94.66 INSTALLATION REQUIRED; ASSESSMENT.
   (A)   Upon the sale of any lot on any undeveloped block of Meadow View
Addition to the city, the city shall cause to be installed curb and gutter
completely around the block. The cost of the installation shall be assessed to
each platted lot and shall be due and payable upon the purchase of each lot by
the purchaser.
   (B)   On any lot within the city not located in Meadow View Addition and not
having curb and gutter in place, that prior to the issuance of any building
permit within the city for construction on any lot or lots for a project
costing $20,000 or more, the applicant shall agree to install at his or her
expense curb and gutter within the specifications set forth by the city prior
to the completion of the project for which the building permit is obtained.
(Neb. RS 17-567) (1973 Code, § 8-402) (Ord. 537, passed 9-8-1983; Ord. 622,
passed 6-11-1992; Ord. 627, passed 12-10-1992; Ord. 653, passed 12-8-1994)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
      Chapter
         
110.   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
         
111.   PUBLIC AMUSEMENTS
         
112.   BUSINESS ENTERPRISES
         
113.   OCCUPATION TAXES
         
114.   LOTTERY
CHAPTER 110: ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
Section
   
110.01   Definitions
   
110.02   License required
   
110.03   Location
   
110.04   Dwellings
   
110.05   License displayed
   
110.06   Licensee requirements
   
110.07   (Reserved)
   
110.08   Liquor license renewal
   
110.09   City powers and duties
   
110.10   Owner of premises
   
110.11   Employer
   
110.12   Clear view
   
110.13   Sale or gift to minor or mentally incompetent person prohibited
   
110.14   Credit sales prohibited
   
110.15   (Reserved)
   
110.16   Original package
   
110.17   Minor's presence
   
110.18   Hours of sale
   
110.19   Sanitary conditions
   
110.20   (Reserved)
   
110.21   Consumption in public places or places open to the public;
restrictions
   
110.22   Acquisition of alcoholic beverages
   
110.23   Removal of intoxicated persons from public property
   
110.24   Liquor application; notice; procedure
   
110.25   Retail licensing standards; binding recommendations
   
110.26   Catering licenses
§ 110.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For purposes of alcoholic liquor regulations in this code of ordinances, the
definitions found in Neb. RS 53-103.01 through 53-103.42 shall be used.
(1973 Code, § 10-101)
§ 110.02 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to manufacture for sale, sell, keep for
sale, or to barter any alcoholic liquors within the city unless the person
shall have in full force and effect a license as provided by the State Liquor
Control Act.
(1973 Code, § 10-102) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar state law, see Neb. RS 53-148.01
§ 110.03 LOCATION.
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided in division (B) of this section, no
license shall be issued for the sale at retail of any alcoholic liquor within
150 feet of any church, school, hospital, or home for aged or indigent persons
or for veterans, their wives or children. This prohibition does not apply to
any location within such distance of 150 feet:
      (1)   For which a license to sell alcoholic liquor at retail has been
granted by the Nebraska Liquor Control Commission for two years continuously
prior to making of application for license;
      (2)   To hotels offering restaurant service, to regularly organized
clubs, or to restaurants, food shops, or other places where sale of alcoholic
liquor is not the principal business carried on, if such place of business so
exempted was established for such purposes prior to May 24, 1935; or
      (3)   To a college or university in the state which is subject to Neb. RS
53-177.01.
   (B)   If a proposed location for the sale at retail of any alcoholic liquor
is within 150 feet of any church, a license may be issued if the Commission
gives notice to the affected church and holds a hearing as prescribed in Neb.
RS 53-133.
(Neb. RS 53-177)
   (C)   No alcoholic liquor, other than beer, shall be sold for consumption on
the premises within 300 feet from the campus of any college or university
within the municipality, except that this section:
      (1)   Does not prohibit a nonpublic college or university from
contracting with an individual or corporation holding a license to sell
alcoholic liquor at retail for the purpose of selling alcoholic liquor at
retail on the campus of such college or university at events sanctioned by such
college or university but does prohibit the sale of alcoholic liquor at retail
by such licensee on the campus of such nonpublic college or university at
student activities or events; and
      (2)   Does not prohibit sales of alcoholic liquor by a community college
culinary education program pursuant to Neb. RS 53-124.15.
(Neb. RS 53-177.01).
(1973 Code, § 10-103) (Ord. 837, passed 1-12-2012) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   State Commission may waive 300-foot requirement, see Neb. RS 53-177.01
§ 110.04 DWELLINGS.
   Except in the case of hotels and clubs, no alcoholic liquor shall be sold at
retail upon any premise which has any access which leads from the premise to
any other portion of the same building used for dwelling or lodging purposes,
and which is permitted to be used by the public. Nothing herein shall prevent
any connection with the premise, and any other portion of the building which is
used only by the licensee, his or her family, or personal guests.
(Neb. RS 53-178) (1973 Code, § 10-104) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 110.05 LICENSE DISPLAYED.
   Every licensee under the State Liquor Control Act shall cause his or her
license to be framed and hung in plain public view in a conspicuous place on
the licensed premise.
(Neb. RS 53-148) (1973 Code, § 10-105) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 110.06 LICENSEE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   No license shall be issued to:
      (1)   A person who is not a resident of this state, except in case of
railroad, airline, or boat licenses;
      (2)   A person who is not of good character and reputation in the
community in which he or she resides;
      (3)   A person who is not a citizen of the United States;
      (4)   A person who has been convicted of or has pleaded guilty to a
felony under the laws of this state, any other state, or the United States;
      (5)   A person who has been convicted of or has pleaded guilty to any
Class I misdemeanor pursuant Neb. RS Chapter 28, Art. 3, 4, 7, 8, 10, 11, or
12, or any similar offense under a prior criminal statute or in another state,
except that any additional requirements imposed by this division on May 18,
1983, shall not prevent any person holding a license on that date from
retaining or renewing that license if the conviction or plea occurred prior to
May 18, 1983;
      (6)   A person whose license issued under the Nebraska Liquor Control Act
has been revoked for cause;
      (7)   A person who at the time of application for renewal of any license
issued under the Act would not be eligible for that license upon initial
application;
      (8)   A partnership, unless one of the partners is a resident of this
state and unless all the members of that partnership are otherwise qualified to
obtain a license;
      (9)   A limited liability company, unless one of the members is a
resident of this state and unless all the members of that company are otherwise
qualified to obtain a license;
      (10)   A corporation, if any officer or director of the corporation or
any stockholder owning in the aggregate more than 25% of the stock of that
corporation would be ineligible to receive a license under this section for any
reason other than the reasons stated in divisions (A)(1) and (A)(3) of this
section, or if a manager of a corporate licensee would be ineligible to receive
a license under this section for any reason. This division shall not apply to
railroad licenses;
      (11)   A person whose place of business is conducted by a manager or
agent, unless that manager or agent possesses the same qualifications required
of the licensee;
      (12)   A person who does not own the premises for which a license is
sought or does not have a lease or combination of leases on the premises for
the full period for which the license is to be issued;
      (13)   Except as provided in this division, an applicant whose spouse is
ineligible under this section to receive and hold a liquor license. Such an
applicant shall become eligible for a liquor license only if the Nebraska
Liquor Control Commission finds from the evidence that the public interest will
not be infringed upon if the license is granted. It shall be prima facie
evidence that when a spouse is ineligible to receive a liquor license, the
applicant is also ineligible to receive a liquor license. This prima facie
evidence shall be overcome if it is shown to the satisfaction of the
Commission:
         (a)   The licensed business will be the sole property of the
applicant; and
         (b)   The licensed premises will be properly operated.
      (14)   A person seeking a license for premises which do not meet
standards for fire safety as established by the State Fire Marshal;
      (15)   A law enforcement officer, except that this division shall not
prohibit a law enforcement officer from holding membership in any nonprofit
organization holding a liquor license or from participating in any manner in
the management or administration of a nonprofit organization; or
      (16)   A person less than 21 years of age.
   (B)   When a trustee is the licensee, the beneficiary or beneficiaries of
the trust shall comply with the requirements of this section, but nothing in
this section shall prohibit any such beneficiary from being a minor or person
who is mentally incompetent.
(Neb. RS 53-125) (1973 Code, § 10-106) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 110.07 (RESERVED).
§ 110.08 LIQUOR LICENSE RENEWAL.
   Retail liquor licenses issued by the Commission and outstanding may be
automatically renewed in the absence of a request by the City Council to
require the licensee to issue an application for renewal. The City Clerk/
Treasurer, upon notice from the Commission, between January 10 and January 30
of each year, shall cause to be published in a legal newspaper in, or of
general circulation in the city, one time, a notice in the form prescribed by
law of the right of automatic renewal of each retail liquor and beer license
within the city; provided, Class C license renewal notices shall be published
between the dates of July 10 and July 30 of each year. The City Clerk/Treasurer
shall then file with the Commission proof of publication of the notice on or
before February 10 of each year or August 10 of each year for Class C licenses.
In the event that written protests are filed by three or more residents of the
city against the license renewal, the City Clerk/Treasurer shall deliver the
protests to the City Council who shall thereupon proceed to notify the
Commission that they are to require the licensee to submit an application.
(Neb. RS 53-135 and 53-135.01) (1973 Code, § 10-108) (Ord. 495, passed 5-8-
1980)
§ 110.09 CITY POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   The governing body is authorized to regulate by ordinance, not
inconsistent with the Nebraska Liquor Control Act, the business of all retail,
craft brewery, and microdistillery licensees carried on within the corporate
limits of the municipality.
(Neb. RS 53-134.03)
   (B)   During the period of 45 days after the date of receipt by mail or
electronic delivery from the Nebraska Liquor Control Commission notice and a
copy of an application for a new license to sell alcoholic liquor at retail, a
craft brewery license, or a microdistillery license, the governing body may
make and submit to the Commission recommendations relative to the granting or
refusal to grant the license to the applicant.
(Neb. RS 53-131)
   (C)   The governing body, with respect to licenses within the corporate
limits of the municipality, has the following powers, functions, and duties
with respect to retail, craft brewery, and microdistillery licenses:
      (1)   To cancel or revoke for cause retail, craft brewery, or
microdistillery licenses to sell or dispense alcoholic liquor issued to persons
for premises within its jurisdiction, subject to the right of appeal to the
Nebraska Liquor Control Commission;
      (2)   To enter or to authorize any law enforcement officer to enter at
any time upon any premises licensed under the Nebraska Liquor Control Act to
determine whether any provision of the Act, any rule or regulation adopted and
promulgated pursuant to the Act, or any ordinance, resolution, rule, or
regulation adopted by the governing body has been or is being violated, and at
that time examine the premises of the licensee in connection with such
determination. Any law enforcement officer who determines that any provision of
the Act, any rule or regulation adopted and promulgated pursuant to the Act, or
any ordinance, resolution, rule, or regulation adopted by the governing body
has been or is being violated shall report such violation in writing to the
Executive Director of the Commission:
         (a)   Within 30 days after determining that such violation has
occurred;
         (b)   Within 30 days after the conclusion of an ongoing police
investigation; or
         (c)   Within 30 days after the verdict in a prosecution related to
such an ongoing police investigation if the prosecuting attorney determines
that reporting such violation prior to the verdict would jeopardize such
prosecution, whichever is later;
      (3)   To receive a signed complaint from any citizen within its
jurisdiction that any provision of the Act, any rule or regulation adopted and
promulgated pursuant to the Act, or any ordinance, resolution, rule, or
regulation relating to alcoholic liquor has been or is being violated and to
act upon these complaints in the manner provided in the Act;
      (4)   To receive retail, craft brewery, and microdistillery license fees
as provided in Neb. RS 53-124 and 53-124.01 and pay the same, after the license
has been delivered to the applicant, to the Municipal Treasurer;
      (5)   To examine or cause to be examined any applicant or any retail,
craft brewery, or microdistillery licensee upon whom notice of cancellation or
revocation has been served as provided in the Act, to examine or cause to be
examined the books and records of any applicant or licensee, and to hear
testimony and to take proof for its information in the performance of its
duties. For purposes of obtaining any of the information desired, the governing
body may authorize its agent or attorney to act on its behalf;
      (6)   To cancel or revoke on its own motion any license if, upon the same
notice and hearing as provided for citizen complaints, it determines that the
licensee has violated any of the provisions of the Nebraska Liquor Control Act
or any valid and subsisting ordinance, resolution, rule, or regulation duly
enacted, adopted, and promulgated relating to alcoholic liquor. The order of
cancellation or revocation may be appealed to the Commission within 30 days
after the date of the order by filing a notice of appeal with the Commission.
The Commission shall handle the appeal in the manner provided for hearing on an
application in Neb. RS 53-133; and
      (7)   Upon receipt from the Commission of the notice and copy of
application as provided in Neb. RS 53-131, to fix a time and place for a
hearing at which the governing body shall receive evidence, either orally or by
affidavit from the applicant and any other person, bearing upon the propriety
of the issuance of a license. Notice of the time and place of the hearing shall
be published in a legal newspaper in or of general circulation in the
municipality, one time not less than seven and not more than 14 days before the
time of the hearing. The notice shall include, but not be limited to, a
statement that all persons desiring to give evidence before the governing body
in support of or in protest against the issuance of the license may do so at
the time of the hearing. The hearing shall be held not more than 45 days after
the date of receipt of the notice from the Commission, and after the hearing
the governing body shall cause to be recorded in the minute record of its
proceedings a resolution recommending either issuance or refusal of the
license. The Municipal Clerk shall mail to the Commission by first class mail,
postage prepaid, a copy of the resolution which shall state the cost of the
published notice, except that failure to comply with this provision shall not
void any license issued by the Commission. If the Commission refuses to issue
such a license, the cost of publication of notice shall be paid by the
Commission from the security for costs.
(Neb. RS 53-134)
   (D)   (1)   When the Nebraska Liquor Control Commission mails or delivers to
the Municipal Clerk a retail, craft brewery, or microdistillery license issued
or renewed by the Commission, the Clerk shall deliver the license to the
licensee upon receipt from the licensee of proof of payment of:
         (a)   The license fee if by the terms of Neb. RS 53-124 the fee is
payable to the Municipal Treasurer;
         (b)   Any fee for publication of notice of hearing before the
governing body upon the application for the license;
         (c)   The fee for publication of notice of renewal, if applicable, as
provided in Neb. RS 53-135.01; and
         (d)   Occupation taxes, if any, imposed by the municipality.
      (2)   Notwithstanding any ordinance or charter power to the contrary, the
municipality shall not impose an occupation tax on the business of any person,
firm, or corporation licensed under the Nebraska Liquor Control Act and doing
business within the corporate limits of the municipality in any sum which
exceeds two times the amount of the license fee required to be paid under the
Act to obtain that license.
(Neb. RS 53-132)
(1973 Code, § 10-109) (Ord. 838, passed 2-9-2012)
§ 110.10 OWNER OF PREMISES.
   The owner of any premise used for the sale at retail of alcoholic beverages
shall be deemed guilty of a violation of these laws to the same extent as the
licensee if the owner shall knowingly permit the licensee to use the licensed
premise in violation of any city code section or state statute.
(Neb. RS 53-1,101) (1973 Code, § 10-110) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 110.11 EMPLOYER.
   The employer of any officer, director, manager, or employees working in a
retail liquor establishment shall be held to be liable and guilty of any act or
omission or violation of any law or ordinance, if the act is committed or
omission made with the authorization, knowledge or approval of the employer or
licensee, and each such act or omission shall be deemed and held to be the act
of the employer, and will be punishable in the same manner as if the act or
omission had been committed by him or her personally.
(Neb. RS 53-1,102) (1973 Code, § 10-111) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 110.12 CLEAR VIEW.
   It shall be unlawful to use any screen, blind, curtain, partition, article,
or other device in the windows or upon the doors of any retail liquor
establishment, other than restaurants, hotels, and clubs, which will have the
effect of preventing a clear view into the interior of the licensed premise
from the street, road, or sidewalk at all times. All licensed premises shall be
continuously lighted during business hours by natural or artificial white
lights to ensure the clear visibility into the establishment. Any licensee who
willfully violates the provisions of this section shall be subject to a
revocation of his or her license by the city as provided herein.
(1973 Code, § 10-112) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 110.13 SALE OR GIFT TO MINOR OR MENTALLY INCOMPETENT PERSON PROHIBITED.
   No person shall sell, furnish, give away, dispose of, exchange, or deliver,
or permit the sale, gift, or procuring of any alcoholic liquors, to or for any
minor or to any person who is mentally incompetent.
(Neb. RS 53-180) (1973 Code, § 10-113) (Ord. 834, passed 1-12-2012) Penalty,
see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority, see Neb. RS 17-135
§ 110.14 CREDIT SALES PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person shall sell or furnish alcoholic liquor at retail to any
person on credit, on a passbook, on an order on a store, in exchange for any
goods, wares, or merchandise, or in payment for any services rendered, and if
any person extends credit for any such purpose, the debt thereby attempted to
be created shall not be recoverable at law.
   (B)   Nothing in this section shall prevent the following:
      (1)   Any club holding a Class C license from permitting checks or
statements for alcoholic liquor to be signed by members or bona fide guests of
members and charged to the account of such members or guests in accordance with
the bylaws of such club;
      (2)   Any hotel or restaurant holding a retail license from permitting
checks or statements for liquor to be signed by regular guests residing at such
hotel or eating at such restaurant and charged to the accounts of such guests;
or
      (3)   Any licensed retailer engaged in the sale of wine from issuing
wine-tasting cards to customers.
(Neb. RS 53-183) (1973 Code, § 10-114) (Ord. 836, passed 1-12-2012) Penalty,
see §
10.99
§ 110.15 (RESERVED).
§ 110.16 ORIGINAL PACKAGE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons who own, manage, or lease any
premise in which the sale of alcoholic beverages is licensed, to have in their
possession for sale at retail any alcoholic liquors contained in bottles,
casks, or other containers except in the original package.
(Neb. RS 53-184) (1973 Code, § 10-116) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 110.17 MINOR'S PRESENCE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons who own, manage, or lease an
establishment selling alcoholic beverages at retail to allow any minor under
the age of 18 years to frequent or otherwise remain in the establishment unless
the minor is accompanied by his or her parent or legal guardian, and unless the
minor remains seated with, and under the immediate control of, the parent or
legal guardian.
(1973 Code, § 10-117) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 110.18 HOURS OF SALE.
   (A)   No person or persons shall sell at retail or dispense any alcoholic
liquor, including beer, on any day between 2:00 a.m. and 6:00 a.m. for
consumption on the premises.
   (B)   No person or persons shall sell at retail or dispense any alcoholic
liquor, including beer, on any day between 1:00 a.m. and 6:00 a.m. for
consumption off the premises.
   (C)   No person or persons shall consume any alcoholic beverages on licensed
premises for a period of time longer than 15 minutes after the time fixed
herein for stopping the sale of alcoholic beverages on the premises.
(1973 Code, § 10-118) (Ord. 414, passed 9-4-1975; Ord. 429, passed 8-5-1976;
Ord. 554, passed 12-6-1984; Ord. 629, passed 4-20-1993; Ord. 466, passed 12-4-
1995; Ord. 815, passed 12-8-2010; Ord. 816, passed 1-6-2011; Ord. 819, passed
4-7-2011; Ord. 990, passed 3-9-2023) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 110.19 SANITARY CONDITIONS.
   It shall be unlawful to open for public use any retail liquor establishment
that is not in a clean and sanitary condition. Toilet facilities shall be
adequate and convenient for customers and patrons and the licensed premise
shall be subject to any health inspections the City Council or the city police
may make, or cause to be made. All applications for liquor licenses shall be
viewed in part from the standpoint of the sanitary conditions, and a report
concerning the sanitary conditions shall be made at all hearings concerning the
application for, or renewal of, a liquor license.
(Neb. RS 53-118) (1973 Code, § 10-119) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 110.20 (RESERVED).
§ 110.21 CONSUMPTION IN PUBLIC PLACES OR PLACES OPEN TO THE PUBLIC;
RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   Except when the Nebraska Liquor Control Commission has issued a
license as provided in Neb. RS 53-186(2) or as provided in Neb. RS 60-6,211.08,
it is unlawful for any person to consume alcoholic liquor upon property owned
or controlled by the state or any governmental subdivision thereof unless
authorized by the governing bodies having jurisdiction over such property.
(Neb. RS 53-186)
   (B)   It is unlawful for any person owning, operating, managing, or
conducting any dance hall, restaurant, café, or club or any place open to the
general public to permit or allow any person to consume alcoholic liquor upon
the premises except as permitted by a license issued for such premises pursuant
to the Nebraska Liquor Control Act. It is unlawful for any person to consume
alcoholic liquor in any dance hall, restaurant, café, or club or any place open
to the general public except as permitted by a license issued for such premises
pursuant to the Act. This division does not apply to a retail licensee while
lawfully engaged in the catering of alcoholic beverages or to limousines or
buses operated under Neb. RS 60-6,211.08.
(Neb. RS 53-186.01)
(1973 Code, § 10-121) (Ord. 835, passed 1-12-2012) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 110.22 ACQUISITION OF ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to have possession of any alcoholic
liquors which shall have been acquired otherwise than from a licensee duly
licensed to sell same to the person under the provisions of the State Liquor
Control Act; providing, nothing herein shall prevent the possession of
alcoholic liquor for the personal use of the possessor, his or her family and
guests, nor prevent the making of wine, cider, or other alcoholic liquor by a
person from fruits, vegetables or grains, or the product thereof, by simple
fermentation and without distillation, if it is made solely for the use of the
maker, his or her family and his or her guests; provided further, that nothing
herein shall prevent any duly licensed practicing physician or dentist from
possessing or using alcoholic liquor in the strict practice of his or her
profession, or any hospital or institution caring for the sick and diseased
persons, from possessing any alcoholic liquor for the treatment of bona fide
patients of the hospital or other institution; provided further, that any drug
store employing a licensed pharmacist may possess and use alcoholic liquors in
the compounding of prescriptions of duly licensed physicians; and provided
further, that the possession and dispensation of wine by an authorized
representative of any church for the purpose of conducting any bona fide rite
or religious ceremony conducted by the church shall not be prohibited by this
section.
(1973 Code, § 10-122) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 110.23 REMOVAL OF INTOXICATED PERSONS FROM PUBLIC PROPERTY.
   (A)   Any law enforcement officer with the power to arrest for traffic
violations may take a person who is intoxicated and in the judgment of the
officer dangerous to himself, herself, or others, or who is otherwise
incapacitated, from any public property. An officer removing an intoxicated
person from public property shall make a reasonable effort to take the
intoxicated person to his or her home or to place the person in any hospital,
clinic, alcoholism center, or with a medical doctor as may be necessary to
preserve life or to prevent injury. If these measures are unsuccessful or are
not feasible, the officer may then place the intoxicated person in civil
protective custody, except that civil protective custody shall be used only as
long as is necessary to preserve life or to prevent injury, and under no
circumstances longer than 12 hours. The placement of the person in civil
protective custody shall be recorded at the facility or jail at which he or she
is delivered and communicated to his or her family or next of kin, if they can
be located, or to the person designated by the person taken into civil
protective custody.
   (B)   The law enforcement officer who acts in compliance with this section
shall be deemed to be acting in the course of his or her official duty and
shall not be criminally or civilly liable for the actions. The taking of an
individual into civil protective custody under this section shall not be
considered an arrest. No entry or other record shall be made to indicate that
the person has been arrested or charged with a crime.
   (C)   For purposes of this section, PUBLIC PROPERTY shall mean any public
right-of-way, street, highway, alley, park, or other state-, county-, or city-
owned property.
(Neb. RS 53-1,121) (1973 Code, § 10-123) (Ord. 479, passed 2-7-1980)
§ 110.24 LIQUOR APPLICATION; NOTICE; PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Notice. Notice of a hearing held pursuant to Neb. RS 53-134 shall be
given to the applicant by the City Clerk/Treasurer and shall contain the date,
time, and location of the hearing. Two or more proceedings which are legally or
factually related may be heard and considered together unless any party thereto
makes a showing sufficient to satisfy the City Council that prejudice would
result therefrom.
   (B)   Procedure.
      (1)   Hearings will be informal and conducted by the Mayor. The intent is
an inquiry into the facts, not an adversarial action. Each witness may present
his or her testimony in narrative fashion or by question and answer.
      (2)   The City Council or the applicant may order the hearing to be
recorded by the Clerk/Treasurer, at the expense of the applicant(s).
      (3)   The City Council and its representatives shall not be bound by the
strict rules of evidence, and shall have full authority to control the
procedures of the hearing including the admission or exclusion of testimony or
other evidence. The City Council may admit and give probative effect to
evidence which possesses probative value commonly accepted by reasonably
prudent individuals. The Mayor may limit testimony where it appears
incompetent, irrelevant, or unduly repetitious. If there is opposition to any
application and the opposition desires the opportunity to present arguments and
to cross-examine the applicant and any witnesses in favor of the application,
they shall choose a spokesperson to perform the function who shall notify the
Mayor of his or her representation prior to the start of the hearing.
      (4)   The order of the proceeding is as follows:
         (a)   Exhibits will be marked in advance by the Clerk/Treasurer and
presented to the Mayor during the presentation;
         (b)   Presentation of evidence, witnesses, and arguments by applicant;
         (c)   Testimony of any other citizens in favor of the proposed
license;
         (d)   Examination of applicant, witnesses, or citizens by the City
Council, or duly appointed agent;
         (e)   Cross-examination of applicant, witnesses, or citizens by
spokesperson for opposition, if any;
         (f)   Presentation of evidence and witnesses by opposition;
         (g)   Testimony of any other citizens in opposition to the proposed
license;
         (h)   Presentation of evidence by city and law enforcement personnel;
         (i)   Cross-examination by applicant;
         (j)   Rebuttal evidence by both parties, and by city administration
and agent; and
         (k)   Summation by applicant and opposition spokesperson, if any.
      (5)   In all cases, the burden of proof and persuasion shall be on the
party filing the application.
      (6)   Any member of the City Council and the City Attorney may question
any witness, call witnesses, or request information.
      (7)   All witnesses shall be sworn.
      (8)   The City Council may make further inquiry and investigation
following the hearing.
      (9)   The City Council or the applicant may order the hearing to be
recorded by the Clerk/Treasurer, at the expense of the applicant(s).
(Neb. RS 53-134) (1973 Code, § 10-124) (Ord. 571, passed 5-8-1986)
§ 110.25 RETAIL LICENSING STANDARDS; BINDING RECOMMENDATIONS.
   (A)   The City Council shall consider the following licensing standards and
criteria at the hearing and an evaluation of any applicant for a retail
alcoholic liquor license, for the upgrading of a license to sell alcoholic
liquor, or for the expansion or change in location of the premises, and for the
purpose of formulating a recommendation from the City Council to the State
Liquor Control Commission in accordance with the State Liquor Control Act:
      (1)   The adequacy of existing law enforcement resources and services in
the area;
      (2)   The recommendation of the Police Department or any other law
enforcement agency;
      (3)   Existing motor vehicle and pedestrian traffic flow in the vicinity
of the proposed licensed premises, potential traffic and parking problems, and
the proximity and availability of on-street and off-street parking;
      (4)   Zoning restrictions and the city's zoning and land-use policies;
      (5)   Sanitation or sanitary conditions on or about the proposed licensed
premises;
      (6)   The existence of a citizen's protest and any other evidence in
support of or in opposition to the application;
      (7)   The existing population, and projected growth, both city-wide and
within the area to be served;
      (8)   The existing liquor licenses, the class of the license, and the
distance and times of travel to the licenses;
      (9)   The nature and needs of the neighborhood or community where the
proposed premises are located as well as its projected growth;
      (10)   Whether the type of business or activity proposed to be operated
in conjunction with the proposed license is and will be consistent with the
public interest; and
      (11)   Other information and data that may reasonably be considered
pertinent to the issuance of the license.
   (B)   The preceding standards are not necessarily of equal value that can be
computed in a mathematical formula. Rather, they are standards which can be
weighed and cumulated positively and negatively. The burden of proof and
persuasion shall be on the party filing the application. When applicable, the
term APPLICANTS as used herein is synonymous with LICENSEE.
(Neb. RS 53-134) (1973 Code, § 10-125) (Ord. 573, passed 5-8-1986)
§ 110.26 CATERING LICENSES.
   (A)   The holder of a license to sell alcoholic liquor at retail issued
under Neb. RS 53-124, a craft brewery license, a microdistillery license, or a
farm winery license may obtain an annual catering license by filing an
application and license fee with the Nebraska Liquor Control Commission.
   (B)   Upon receipt from the Commission of the notice and a copy of the
application as provided in Neb. RS 53-124.12, the governing body shall process
the application in the same manner as provided for other alcoholic liquor
retail licenses.
   (C)   The governing body, with respect to catering licensees within its
corporate limits, may cancel a catering license for cause for the remainder of
the period for which that catering license is issued. Any person whose catering
license is canceled may appeal to the District Court.
   (D)   The governing body may impose an occupation tax on the business of a
catering licensee doing business within the liquor license jurisdiction of the
governing body. The tax may not exceed double the license fee for a catering
license.
(Neb. RS 53-124.12)
CHAPTER 111: PUBLIC AMUSEMENTS
Section
   
111.01   Motion picture theaters
§ 111.01 MOTION PICTURE THEATERS.
   (A)   Regulation. It shall be unlawful to give, present, or conduct any
motion picture or theatrical performance, for admission to which a fee is
charged, except performances given solely for the benefit of, and under the
supervision of a religious, educational, or charitable organization without
having first secured a license therefor as is herein provided. Application
shall be made to the City Clerk/Treasurer. The application form shall contain
any information and documents, or copies thereof, as the City Council deems
necessary to determine whether to grant or reject the application. Upon the
determination that the granting of the license would be proper and beneficial
to the city, the City Council shall immediately direct the City Clerk/Treasurer
to issue the license to the applicant upon the payment of a fee set by
resolution of the City Council. The license shall be subject to revocation at
any time for good and sufficient cause by the City Council upon the issuance of
proper notice, and a hearing if the licensee should make such a request. Any
person or persons so licensed shall be subject to any bond, fees, or other
rules and regulations as may be set by resolution of the City Council for the
benefit of the city.
(Neb. RS 17-134) (1973 Code, § 10-205)
   (B)   Operator's responsibility. It shall be unlawful for the owner or
operator of a motion picture theater to allow or permit any disturbance of the
peace, fighting, gambling, drinking of alcoholic beverages, drunkenness, or use
of profanity or obscene books and pictures. In no event shall the number of
admissions exceed the number of seats.
(Neb. RS 17-134) (1973 Code, § 10-206)
   (C)   Premise. It shall be unlawful to use any premise for the purpose of
presenting any public motion picture which does not have at least two
unobstructed exits, and is not properly ventilated during any performance or
presentation.
(Neb. RS 17-130) (1973 Code, § 10-207)
Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 112: BUSINESS ENTERPRISES
Section
   
112.01   Plumbers
   
112.02   Electricians
   
112.03   Gas fitters
   
112.04   Trailers
   
112.05   Junk yards
   
112.06   Railroad companies
   
112.07   Building moving
   
112.08   Fireworks vendor
§ 112.01 PLUMBERS.
   No person shall hereafter engage in or work at the business of a master
plumber or journeyman plumber in the city until he or she shall have registered
as a master plumber or journeyman plumber. Application for registration shall
be made in writing to the Utilities Superintendent, showing the name and
residence of the applicant, the business location of the applicant, and any
other information as may be required.
(Neb. RS 18-1,911) (1973 Code, § 10-301) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 112.02 ELECTRICIANS.
   (A)   Bond required. Before any electrician's license shall be issued by the
Board of Electrical Examiners, the applicant shall execute and file with the
City Clerk/Treasurer, a bond in a sum set by resolution of the City Council and
on file at the office of the Clerk/Treasurer to be approved by the City Council
and conditioned that the licensee shall indemnify and hold harmless the city
from all liability, caused by any negligent or intentional act arising from his
or her electrical work or violation of any city electrical codes or regulations
and shall pay all fines imposed upon him or her for any violation thereof. The
obligee of the bond shall be the city, and action may be maintained thereon by
anyone injured by a breach of its conditions for a period of one year after the
completion of any electrical work.
(Neb. RS 17-505) (1973 Code, § 10-302)
   (B)   Unlawful use. No registered electrician shall allow his or her name to
be used by another person, directly or indirectly, to obtain a permit for the
installation of any work, and if any registered electrician violates this
provision, the City Council shall forthwith revoke the certificate of
registration issued to the electrician. In addition to having his or her
certificate of registration revoked, the master electrician may be prosecuted
under §
10.99.
(Neb. RS 17-505) (1973 Code, § 10-303)
   (C)   Exceptions. The provisions of this section relating to electricians
shall not apply to any public utility company or companies serving the city and
its inhabitants under a franchise agreement with the city, or its agents and
employees, and shall not be construed as a limitation or restriction upon any
franchises heretofore granted by the city.
(Neb. RS 81-592) (1973 Code, § 10-304)
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 112.03 GAS FITTERS.
   (A)   Registration required. No person or firm shall hereafter engage in the
business of inspecting, cleaning, repairing, alteration, sale, or installation
of natural gas piping systems and appliances until he or she shall have
registered as a gas fitter as hereinafter provided. Application for
registration shall be made in writing at the office of the Utilities
Superintendent showing the name and residence of the applicant, the business
location of the applicant, and any other information as may be required.
(1973 Code, § 10-305)
   (B)   Bond. Each registered gas fitter, as a condition to the issuance of
each certificate, shall obtain and file with the City Clerk/Treasurer a
personal surety bond, in a sum set by resolution of the City Council and on
file at the office of the Clerk/Treasurer, signed by one or more sufficient
sureties, or a corporate surety doing business in the city to be approved by
the City Council conditioned that the licensee shall indemnify and hold
harmless the city from all accidents, damage, liability, claims, judgments,
costs, or expenses caused by the willful or negligent conduct of the gas
fitter. The obligee of the bond shall be the city, and action may be maintained
thereon by anyone injured by a breach of its condition. All bonds tendered by
gas fitters shall be approved in writing as to form and substance by the City
Attorney. In addition to the filing of the aforesaid bond, each registered gas
fitter shall obtain and file a certificate thereof with the City Clerk/
Treasurer, a general, public liability insurance policy for property damage,
and bodily injury in policy limits set by resolution of the City Council and on
file at the office of the Clerk/Treasurer. Action may be maintained thereon by
anyone injured by a breach of the conditions of the bond or the covenants
contained in the required endorsement on the policy of insurance for a period
of one year after the completion of any gas fitting work.
(1973 Code, § 10-306)
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 112.04 TRAILERS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      TRAILER COACH or TRAILER. Any vehicle or structure so designed and
constructed in the manner as will permit occupancy thereof as sleeping quarters
for one or more persons, or the conduct of any business or profession,
occupation or trade (or use as a selling or advertising device), and so
designed that it is or may be mounted on wheels and used as a conveyance on
highways or city streets, propelled or drawn by its own or other motive power,
excepting a device used exclusively upon stationary rails or tracks.
(1973 Code, § 10-307)
   (B)   Prohibited parking. It shall be unlawful for any person to park any
trailer coach, travel trailer, camper, or converted bus on any official street,
avenue, road, alley, or highway within the corporate limits for a period of
time in excess of two hours, and then only between the hours of sunrise and
sunset, and subject to any other and further prohibitions, regulations, or
limitations imposed by the traffic and parking regulations as any resolution of
the City Council may provide relating thereto. In addition to these temporary
parking restrictions, it shall hereafter be unlawful for any person, firm, or
corporation to park or install any trailer within the city except north of 5th
Street.
(1973 Code, § 10-308)
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 112.05 JUNK YARDS.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      JUNK. Scrap metals, scrap materials, whether they are liquids, solids, or
gases, branches of trees, and dismantled or wrecked automobiles, tractors, and
machinery or parts thereof.
      JUNK COLLECTOR. Any person going from place to place, or house to house,
collecting or buying iron, copper, brass and zinc scraps, rags, bottles, or old
paper, and selling the same to a junk dealer.
      JUNK DEALER. Any person engaged in the business of buying, selling,
receiving, collecting, or dealing in metal scraps, scrap iron, metals of any
kind and in any form, bottles, rags, and used tires; the dismantling or taking
apart of automobiles, other than for repair, or the wrecking of automobiles;
the storage of automobiles unfit for operation; the storage of automobile
bodies and parts thereof; the storage of automobiles or parts thereof kept for
salvage; the storage of scraps from automobiles; or the storage of iron,
metals, or junk.
      JUNK YARD. Any place in the city where or from which any person shall
conduct, engage in, or carry on the business of junk dealer as herein defined.
(1973 Code, § 10-309)
   (B)   Regulation. It shall be unlawful for any person to own, operate, or
hold open for public use any junk yard as herein defined without first
obtaining a license to do so from the city. Application for a license to own,
operate, or hold open for public use any junk yard shall be made in writing to
the City Clerk/Treasurer and shall require the information and documents, or
copies thereof, that the City Council deems necessary to determine whether to
grant or reject the application. Upon approval of the application, the City
Clerk/Treasurer shall issue the license upon the payment of a fee set by
resolution of the City Council. The licensee shall then be subject to any
occupation taxes, bond requirements, and other rules and regulations which the
City Council may determine to be beneficial to the city. Any such bond shall be
set by resolution of the City Council and will be conditioned upon the faithful
observance of the provisions of this code. The bond shall be held for the
benefit of any person who may suffer damage by the improper management of the
junk yard.
(Neb. RS 69-202) (1973 Code, § 10-310)
   (C)   Nuisance. Any junk yard that becomes a danger to the public health, or
is not operated in the manner herein provided, shall be deemed to be a public
nuisance after the 30-day period of grace. The City Council shall then request
the City Attorney to prosecute the owner, operator, director, or employee of
the nuisance for violation of the provisions of this section.
(Neb. RS 18-1,720) (1973 Code, § 10-311)
   (D)   Premise. Any area or parcel of land used as a junk yard shall not have
more than two entrances and two exits each of which shall not exceed 15 feet in
width at the perimeter of the premise. The premise or parcel of land shall be
enclosed with either a solid nontransparent wall or fence or link-weave steel
wire, or combination thereof, with a minimum height of seven feet from the
ground level, except for entrances and exits. The fence shall not contain any
poster or advertising of any kind except one sign of the licensee not exceeding
100 square feet.
(1973 Code, § 10-312)
   (E)   Rodents. Any person who owns, operates, directs, or is employed by a
junk yard shall make a diligent and continuous effort to exterminate all rats,
mice, and other harmful rodents frequenting the junk yard.
(Neb. RS 18-1,720) (1973 Code, § 10-313)
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 112.06 RAILROAD COMPANIES.
   (A)   Lighting. It shall be the duty of all railroad companies owning,
operating, and maintaining a railroad through the city to sufficiently light
all crossings and to install as many signal systems as the City Council shall
deem necessary at the expense of the company.
(Neb. RS 17-561) (1973 Code, § 10-314)
   (B)   Obstructing traffic. It shall be unlawful for any railroad company,
its employees, agents, or servants operating a railroad through the city to
obstruct traffic on any public street, except in the event of an emergency, for
a longer period at one time than five minutes.
(Neb. RS 17-552) (1973 Code, § 10-315)
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 112.07 BUILDING MOVING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to move any
building or structure within the city without written permit to do so.
Application may be made to the City Clerk/Treasurer, and shall include present
and future location of the building to be moved, the proposed route, the
equipment to be used, and any other information as the City Council may
require. The application shall be accompanied by a certificate issued by the
County Treasurer to the effect that all the provisions regulating the moving of
buildings have been complied with on the part of the owner of the real estate
upon which the building is presently located. The City Clerk/Treasurer shall
refer the application to the city police for approval of the proposed route
over which the building is to be moved. Upon approval of the City Council, the
City Clerk/Treasurer shall then issue the permit; provided, that a good and
sufficient corporate surety bond, check, or cash in an amount set by motion of
the City Council and conditioned upon moving the building without doing damage
to any private or city property is filed with the City Clerk/Treasurer prior to
the granting of any permit. No permit shall be required to move a building that
is ten feet wide, or less, and twenty feet long, or less, and when in a
position to move, 15 feet high or less. In the event it will be necessary for
any licensed building mover to interfere with the telephone or telegraph poles
and wires, or a gas line, the company or companies owning, using, or operating
the poles, wires or line shall upon proper notice of at least 24 hours, be
present and assist by disconnecting the poles, wires, or line relative to the
building moving operation. All expense of the disconnection, removal, or
related work shall be paid in advance by the licensee unless the disconnection
or work is furnished on different terms as provided in the company's franchise.
Whenever the moving of any building necessitates interference with a water
main, sewer main, pipes, or wire belonging to the city, notice in writing of
the time and route of the building moving operation shall be given to the
various city officials in charge of the city utility departments who shall
proceed in behalf of the city and at the expense of the mover to make the
disconnections and do the work as is necessary.
(Neb. RS 17-142) (1973 Code, § 10-316) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 112.08 FIREWORKS VENDOR.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to sell fireworks of any
description whatsoever, except sparklers, vesuvious fountains, spray fountains,
torches, color fire cones, star and comet type color aerial shells without
explosive charges for the purpose of making a noise. Color wheels, toy cap
pistols, and permissible caps may be sold at retail at all times; provided,
that all other fireworks named may be sold only between June 24 and July 5;
provided, that fireworks of any description are permissible for purposes of
public exhibitions or displays as authorized by the City Council; and further
provided that the vendor shall secure a license prior to the sales. Application
shall be filed with the City Clerk/Treasurer upon forms supplied by the city
and requesting the information and documents as the City Council may deem
necessary as to whether or not to grant the license. Upon the determination to
grant the license, the City Council shall direct the City Clerk/Treasurer to
collect the appropriate fee and issue the license. Any license so issued may be
revoked at any time by the City Council upon proper notice and hearing, if one
is requested by the licensee.
(Neb. RS 17-137) (1973 Code, § 10-317) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Fireworks regulations, see Neb. RS 28-1241 through 28-1252
CHAPTER 113: OCCUPATION TAXES
Section
   
113.01   Amounts
   
113.02   Fire insurance companies
   
113.03   Collection date
   
113.04   Certificates
   
113.05   Failure to pay
§ 113.01 AMOUNTS.
   (A)   For the purpose of raising revenue, an occupation tax is hereby levied
on the following businesses:
Business Tax
Business                                                                 Tax
Alcoholic beverages:
   Beer distributor, per year                                         $25
                                                                         2 times
                                                                         the
   Retailer of off-sale beer only, per year                           state
                                                                         license
                                                                         fee
                                                                         2 times
                                                                         the
   Retailer of alcoholic liquors, for on-sale and off-sale, per year  state
                                                                         license
                                                                         fee
                                                                         2 times
                                                                         the
   Retailer of alcoholic liquors, including beer off-sale, per year   state
                                                                         license
                                                                         fee
                                                                         2 times
                                                                         the
   Alcoholic liquors, for consumption on the premises                 state
                                                                         license
                                                                         fee
                                                                         2 times
   Beer and wine only, for consumption on the premises of restaurants the
only                                                                     state
                                                                         license
                                                                         fee
Electricians, per year                                                   $20
Farmers markets, per year                                                $25
Fire insurance companies, per year                                       $10
Gas fitters, per year                                                    $10
General contractor                                                       $20
HVAC repairperson/installer                                              $20
Plumbers, per year                                                       $20
Roofers, per year                                                        $25
Telephone companies, per year                                            $100
Tree trimmers                                                            $10
                                                                         $10 per
                                                                         day
Individual for-profit peddlers, door-to-door or stationary               $25 per
                                                                         week
                                                                         $50 per
                                                                         year
                                                                         $50 per
                                                                         week
Group of for-profit peddlers, door-to-door or stationary                 $100
                                                                         per
                                                                         year
 
   (B)   For purposes of this section the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      FARMERS MARKET. One or more individuals who collaborate in the formation
of a public market at which farmers and other similarly situated agricultural
produce vendors sell produce directly to consumers. The purpose of said
organization is for the facilitation of personal connections that create mutual
benefits for local farmers, shoppers, and the community. To be considered a
FARMERS MARKET for purposes of this category, the individual or group must
register as such at the time of the tax is paid, and in the case of a group,
submit a list of all members of said group that comprise the vendors of said
FARMERS MARKET.
(Neb. RS 17-525) (1973 Code, § 10-401) (Ord. 408, passed 12-5-1974; Ord. 475,
passed 11-8-1979; Ord. 589, passed 10-8-1987; Ord. 891, passed 4-9-2015; Ord.
903, passed 4-12-2016) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 113.02 FIRE INSURANCE COMPANIES.
   For the use, support, and maintenance of the City Fire Department, all
revenue realized from the occupation tax on fire insurance companies shall be
appropriated to the Fire Department Fund.
(Neb. RS 35-106) (1973 Code, § 10-402)
§ 113.03 COLLECTION DATE.
   (A)   All occupation taxes shall be due, and payable on May 1 of each year,
except in the event that the tax is levied daily, and upon the payment thereof
by any person or persons to the City Clerk/Treasurer, the Clerk/Treasurer shall
give a receipt, properly dated, and specifying the person paying the tax, and
the amount paid; provided, occupation taxes collected from Class C liquor
licensees shall be due and payable on November 1.
   (B)   The revenue collected shall then be immediately deposited into the
General Fund by the City Clerk/Treasurer. The City Clerk/Treasurer shall keep
an accurate account of all revenue turned over to him or her. All forms and
receipts herein mentioned shall be issued in duplicate. One copy shall then be
kept by each party in the transaction.
   (C)   Any occupation taxes that may be due and owing from any business or
vendor that have incurred the tax directly from an activity performed via
booked space from the Community Center, or any other city entity, shall be
collected by the Community Center or entity booking the space as a fee added to
the cost of the booking fee for the space, and remitted to the City Clerk/
Treasurer upon collection by the Community Center or other entity from which
the space is being booked.
(Neb. RS 17-525) (1973 Code, § 10-403) (Ord. 450, passed 12-1-1977; Ord. 976,
passed 7-15-2021)
§ 113.04 CERTIFICATES.
   The receipt issued after the payment of any occupation tax shall be the
occupation tax certificate. The certificate shall specify the amount of the tax
and the name of the person, and business that paid the tax. The occupation tax
certificate shall then be displayed in a prominent place, or carried in such a
way as to be easily accessible, while business is being conducted.
(Neb. RS 17-525) (1973 Code, § 10-404)
§ 113.05 FAILURE TO PAY.
   If any person, company, or corporation fails or neglects to pay the
occupation taxes as provided herein on the day it becomes due and payable, the
city shall then proceed by civil suit to collect the amount due. All delinquent
taxes shall bear interest at the rate of 1% per month until paid.
(Neb. RS 17-525) (1973 Code, § 10-405)
CHAPTER 114: LOTTERY
Section
   
114.01   Participation; restrictions
   
114.02   Location; requirements
§ 114.01 PARTICIPATION; RESTRICTIONS.
   No owner or officer of a lottery operator may play the lottery of the city
for whom they operate a lottery, no owner or officer of an authorized sales
outlet location may play its lottery, and no employee or agent of the city or a
lottery operator for the city or authorized sales outlet location of the city
may play the lottery during the time that the person is actually working at the
lottery or is on duty with the city.
(1973 Code, § 10-701) (Ord. 660, passed 2-8-1996) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 114.02 LOCATION; REQUIREMENTS.
   Any individual, partnership, or corporation seeking to become a location
where lottery tickets are sold or Keno is played within the city shall meet the
same requirements as those prescribed by law for an applicant for a liquor
license issued by the State Liquor Commission or shall be the holder of a
liquor license issued by the State Liquor Commission.
(1973 Code, § 10-702) (Ord. 661, passed 2-8-1996) Penalty, see §
10.99
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
      Chapter
         
130.   PROPERTY OFFENSES
         
131.   OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC ORDER
         
132.   OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC JUSTICE AND ADMINISTRATION
         
133.   OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC HEALTH AND SAFETY
         
134.   OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC MORALS
         
135.   CURFEW
CHAPTER 130: PROPERTY OFFENSES
Section
   
130.01   Criminal mischief
   
130.02   Criminal trespass
   
130.03   Electrical interference
   
130.04   Injury to trees
   
130.05   Posting
§ 130.01 CRIMINAL MISCHIEF.
   (A)   A person commits criminal mischief if he or she:
      (1)   Damages property of another intentionally or recklessly; or
      (2)   Intentionally tampers with property of another so as to endanger
person or property; or
      (3)   Intentionally or maliciously causes another to suffer pecuniary
loss by deception or threat.
   (B)   Criminal mischief is an offense:
      (1)   If the actor intentionally or maliciously causes pecuniary loss of
$200 or more but less than $1,500; or
      (2)   If the actor intentionally, maliciously, or recklessly causes
pecuniary loss in an amount of less than $200 or if his or her action results
in no pecuniary loss.
(Neb. RS 28-519) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.02 CRIMINAL TRESPASS.
   (A)   A person commits first degree criminal trespass if:
      (1)   He or she enters or secretly remains in any building or occupied
structure, or any separately secured or occupied portion thereof, knowing that
he or she is not licensed or privileged to do so; or
      (2)   He or she enters or remains in or on a public power infrastructure
facility knowing that he or she does not have the consent of a person who has
the right to give consent to be in or on the facility.
   (B)   First degree criminal trespass is a Class I misdemeanor.
   (C)   For purposes of this section, PUBLIC POWER INFRASTRUCTURE FACILITY
means a power plant, an electrical station or substation, or any other facility
which is used by a public power supplier as defined in Neb. RS 70-2103 to
support the generation, transmission, or distribution of electricity and which
is surrounded by a fence or is otherwise enclosed.
(Neb. RS 28-520)
   (B)   (1)   A person commits second degree criminal trespass if, knowing
that he or she is not licensed or privileged to do so, to enter or remain in
any place as to which notice against trespass is given by:
         (a)   Actual communication to the actor; or
         (b)   Posting in a manner prescribed by law or reasonably likely to
come to the attention of intruders; or
         (c)   Fencing or other enclosure manifestly designed to exclude
intruders, except as otherwise provided in division (A) of this section.
      (2)   Second degree criminal trespass is a Class III misdemeanor, except
as provided for in division (B)(3) of this section.
      (3)   Second degree criminal trespass is a Class II misdemeanor if the
offender defies an order to leave personally communicated to him or her by the
owner of the premises or other authorized person.
(Neb. RS 28-521) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.03 ELECTRICAL INTERFERENCE.
   Any person operating, or causing to be operated, any motor, sign, or other
electrical apparatus that is connected with the light and power system shall
equip the apparatus with proper filtering attachments to eliminate
interference, provided that the provisions herein shall not apply to the use of
necessary medical equipment or apparatus where electrical interference cannot
be reasonably and safely eliminated. Any person who so operates or causes to be
operated any such electrical apparatus that interferes habitually with radio
and television reception shall be deemed to be guilty of an offense.
Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Provisions on nuisances, see Neb. RS 18-1720 and 28-1321
§ 130.04 INJURY TO TREES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person purposely or carelessly and without
lawful authority to cut down, carry away, injure, break down, or destroy any
fruit, ornamental, shade, or other tree or trees standing or growing on any
land belonging to another person or persons or on any public land in the
corporate limits. Any public service company desiring to trim or cut down any
tree, except on property owned and controlled by it, shall make an application
to the City Council to do so, and the written permit of the City Council in
accordance with their decision to allow such an action shall constitute the
only lawful authority on the part of the company to do so.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.05 POSTING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to use the streets, sidewalks, or public
grounds of the city for signs, signposts, or the posting of handbills or
advertisements without written permission of the City Council.
Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 131: OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC ORDER
Section
   
131.01   Disorderly conduct
   
131.02   Street games
   
131.03   Obstruction of public ways
   
131.04   Obstructing water flow
   
131.05   Disturbing the peace
§ 131.01 DISORDERLY CONDUCT.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in conduct or behavior which
disturbs the peace and good order of the city by clamor or noise, intoxication,
drunkenness, fighting, or using obscene or profane language in the streets or
other public places or otherwise violating the public peace by indecent or
disorderly conduct or lewd or lascivious behavior.
Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority to prevent disorderly conduct, see Neb. RS 17-129
   Authority to regulate noise, riots, and routs, see Neb. RS 17-556
§ 131.02 STREET GAMES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to play catch, bat a ball, or kick or
throw a football, or to engage in any exercise or sport, upon the city streets
and sidewalks. Nothing herein shall be construed to prohibit or prevent the
City Council from ordering from time to time certain streets and public places
blocked off for the purpose of providing a safe area to engage in such exercise
and sport.
Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Additional authority, see Neb. RS 17-555 and 17-557
   Authority to regulate excavation and obstruction of streets, see Neb. RS 17-
142
§ 131.03 OBSTRUCTION OF PUBLIC WAYS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to erect, maintain, or suffer to remain
on any street or public sidewalk a stand, wagon, display, or other obstruction
inconvenient to or inconsistent with the public use of the same.
Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Additional authority, see Neb. RS 17-555 and 17-557
   Authority to regulate excavation and obstruction of streets, see Neb. RS 17-
142
   Penalties for injuring or obstructing roads, see Neb. RS 39-301 and 39-302
§ 131.04 OBSTRUCTING WATER FLOW.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to stop or obstruct the passage of water
in a street gutter, culvert, water pipe, or hydrant.
Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority to abate nuisances, see Neb. RS 17-555
   Authority to prevent water obstruction, see Neb. RS 17-920
§ 131.05 DISTURBING THE PEACE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person intentionally to disturb the peace and
quiet of any person, family, or neighborhood. Intentional noise after 10:00
p.m. and before 6:00 a.m. shall be considered violation of city quiet hours and
be prosecutable under this section.
(Neb. RS 28-1322) (Ord. 1000, passed 11-9-2023) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 132: OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC JUSTICE AND ADMINISTRATION
Section
   
132.01   Impersonating a public servant
   
132.02   Impersonating a peace officer
   
132.03   Refusing to aid a peace officer
   
132.04   Resisting arrest without the use of a deadly or dangerous weapon
   
132.05   Obstructing a peace officer
   
132.06   Interfering with firefighter
   
132.07   False reporting
§ 132.01 IMPERSONATING A PUBLIC SERVANT.
   It shall be unlawful for any person falsely to pretend to be a public
servant other than a peace officer and perform any act in that pretended
capacity. It is no defense that the office the actor pretended to hold did not
in fact exist.
(Neb. RS 28-609) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 132.02 IMPERSONATING A PEACE OFFICER.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to falsely pretend to be a peace officer
and perform any act in that pretended capacity.
(Neb. RS 28-610) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 132.03 REFUSING TO AID A PEACE OFFICER.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, upon a request by a person known to him
or her to be a peace officer, unreasonably to refuse or fail to aid the peace
officer in:
   (A)   Apprehending any person charged with or convicted of any offense
against any of the laws of this state or city; or
   (B)   Securing the offender when apprehended; or
   (C)   Conveying the offender to the jail of the county or this city.
(Neb. RS 28-903) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 132.04 RESISTING ARREST WITHOUT THE USE OF A DEADLY OR DANGEROUS WEAPON.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, without the use of a deadly or
dangerous weapon, while intentionally preventing or attempting to prevent a
peace officer, acting under color of his or her official authority, from
effecting an arrest of the actor or another, to:
      (1)   Use or threaten to use physical force or violence against the peace
officer or another;
      (2)   Use any other means which creates a substantial risk of causing
physical injury to the peace officer or another; or
      (3)   Employ means requiring substantial force to overcome resistance to
effecting the arrest.
   (B)   It is an affirmative defense to prosecution under this section if the
peace officer involved was out of uniform and did not identify himself or
herself as a peace officer by showing his or her credentials to the person
whose arrest is attempted.
(Neb. RS 28-904) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 132.05 OBSTRUCTING A PEACE OFFICER.
   (A)   A person commits the offense of obstructing a peace officer when, by
using or threatening to use violence, force, physical interference, or
obstacle, he or she intentionally obstructs, impairs, or hinders:
      (1)   The enforcement of the penal law or the preservation of the peace
by a peace officer or judge acting under color of his or her official
authority; or
      (2)   A police animal assisting a peace officer acting pursuant to the
peace officer's official authority.
   (B)   For purposes of this section, POLICE ANIMAL means a horse or dog owned
or controlled by the city or the state for the purpose of assisting a city law
enforcement officer or a state trooper acting pursuant to his or her official
authority.
(Neb. RS 28-906) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 132.06 INTERFERING WITH FIREFIGHTER.
   A person commits the offense of interfering with a firefighter if at any
time and place where any firefighter is discharging or attempting to discharge
any official duties, the person willfully:
   (A)   Resists or interferes with the lawful efforts of any firefighter in
the discharge or attempt to discharge an official duty;
   (B)   Disobeys the lawful orders given by any firefighter while performing
his or her duties;
   (C)   Engages in any disorderly conduct which delays or prevents a fire from
being extinguished within a reasonable time; or
   (D)   Forbids or prevents others from assisting or extinguishing a fire, or
exhorts another person, as to whom he or she has no legal right or obligation
to protect or control, not to assist in extinguishing a fire.
(Neb. RS 28-908) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 132.07 FALSE REPORTING.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to:
      (1)   Furnish material information he or she knows to be false to any
peace officer or other official with the intent to instigate an investigation
of an alleged criminal matter or impede the investigation of an actual criminal
matter;
      (2)   Furnish information he or she knows to be false alleging the
existence of the need for the assistance of an emergency medical service or
out-of-hospital emergency care provider or an emergency in which human life or
property are in jeopardy to any hospital, emergency medical service, or other
person or governmental agency;
      (3)   Furnish any information, or cause information to be furnished or
conveyed by electric, electronic, telephonic, or mechanical means, knowing the
same to be false concerning the need for assistance of a fire department or any
personnel or equipment of such a department;
      (4)   Furnish any information he or she knows to be false concerning the
location of any explosive in any building or other property to any person; or
      (5)   Furnish material information he or she knows to be false to any
governmental department or agency with the intent to instigate an investigation
or to impede an ongoing investigation and which actually results in causing or
impeding the investigation.
   (B)   A person who violates this section commits the offense of false
reporting.
(Neb. RS 28-907) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 133: OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC HEALTH AND SAFETY
Section
General Provisions
   
133.01   Maintaining a nuisance
   
133.02   Appliances in yard
   
133.03   Putting carcass or filthy substance into well, spring, brook, or
stream
   
133.04   Prohibited fences
   
133.05   Littering
   
133.06   Raising or producing stagnant water
Substance Offenses
   
133.20   Use of tobacco by minors
   
133.21   Sale of tobacco to minors
   
133.22   Misrepresentation by minor to obtain tobacco
   
133.23   Misrepresentation by minor to obtain alcohol
   
133.24   Minors; prohibited acts involving alcoholic liquor
   
133.25   Drinking on public property; open beverage container
Motor Vehicle and Highway Offenses
   
133.40   Abandoned automobiles
   
133.41   Unlicensed or inoperable vehicles
Weapons Offenses
   
133.60   Discharge of firearms
   
133.61   Slingshots, air guns, BB guns
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 133.01 MAINTAINING A NUISANCE.
   (A)   A person commits the offense of maintaining a nuisance if he or she
erects, keeps up or continues, and maintains any nuisance to the injury of any
part of the citizens of this city.
   (B)   The erecting, continuing, using, or maintaining of any building,
structure, or other place for the exercise of any trade, employment,
manufacture, or other business which, by occasioning noxious exhalations,
noisome or offensive smells, becomes injurious and dangerous to the health,
comfort, or property of individuals or the public; the obstructing or impeding,
without legal authority, of the passage of any navigable river, harbor, or
collection of water; or the corrupting or rendering unwholesome or impure of
any watercourse, stream, or water; or unlawfully diverting any such watercourse
from its natural course or state to the injury or prejudice of others; and the
obstructing or encumbering by fences, building, structures or otherwise of any
of the public highways or streets or alleys of the city, shall be deemed
nuisances.
   (C)   A person guilty of erecting, continuing, using, maintaining, or
causing any such nuisance shall be guilty of a violation of this section and in
every such case the offense shall be construed and held to have been committed
in any county whose inhabitants are or have been injured or aggrieved thereby.
   (D)   The court, in case of conviction of such offense, shall order every
such nuisance to be abated or removed.
(Neb. RS 28-1321) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 133.02 APPLIANCES IN YARD.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to permit a refrigerator, icebox,
freezer, or any other dangerous appliance to be in the open and accessible to
children whether on private or public property unless the person first removes
all doors and makes the same reasonably safe.
Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority to prohibit nuisances within zoning jurisdiction, see Neb. RS 18-
1720
§ 133.03 PUTTING CARCASS OR FILTHY SUBSTANCE INTO WELL, SPRING, BROOK, OR
STREAM.
   Whoever shall put any dead animal, carcass or part thereof, or other filthy
substance into any well, or into any spring, brook, or branch of running water,
of which use is made for domestic purposes, shall be guilty of an offense.
(Neb. RS 28-1304) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 133.04 PROHIBITED FENCES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to erect, or cause to be erected, and
maintain any barbed wire or electric fence within the corporate limits, where
the fence abuts a public sidewalk, street, or alley.
Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Restrictions on barbed wire fences, see Neb. RS 39-307
§ 133.05 LITTERING.
   (A)   Any person who deposits, throws, discards, or otherwise disposes of
any litter on any public or private property or in any waters commits the
offense of littering unless:
      (1)   The property is an area designated by law for the disposal of that
type of material and the person is authorized by the proper public authority to
so use the property; or
      (2)   The litter is placed in a receptacle or container installed on the
property for that purpose.
   (B)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      LITTER. Includes all waste material susceptible of being dropped,
deposited, discarded, or otherwise disposed of by any person upon any property
in the state, but does not include wastes of primary processes of farming or
manufacturing.
      WASTE MATERIAL. Any material appearing in a place or in a context not
associated with that material's function or origin.
   (C)   Whenever litter is thrown, deposited, dropped, or dumped from any
motor vehicle or watercraft in violation of this section, the operator of the
motor vehicle or watercraft commits the offense of littering.
(Neb. RS 28-523) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 133.06 RAISING OR PRODUCING STAGNANT WATER.
   Whoever shall build, erect, continue, or keep up any dam or other
obstruction in any river or stream of water in the city and thereby raise an
artificial pond, or produce stagnant waters, which shall be manifestly
injurious to the public health and safety shall be guilty of an offense and the
court shall, moreover, order every such nuisance to be abated or removed.
(Neb. RS 28-1303) Penalty, see §
10.99
SUBSTANCE OFFENSES
§ 133.20 USE OF TOBACCO BY MINORS.
   Whoever, being a minor under the age of 18, years shall smoke cigarettes or
cigars, or use tobacco in any form whatever in this city, shall be guilty of an
offense. Any minor so charged with the violation of this section may be free
from prosecution when he or she shall have furnished evidence for the
conviction of the person or persons selling or giving him or her the
cigarettes, cigars, or tobacco.
(Neb. RS 28-1418) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 133.21 SALE OF TOBACCO TO MINORS.
   Whoever shall sell, give, or furnish in any way any tobacco in any form
whatever, or any cigarettes or cigarette paper, to any minor under 18 years of
age shall be guilty of an offense.
(Neb. RS 28-1419) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 133.22 MISREPRESENTATION BY MINOR TO OBTAIN TOBACCO.
   Any person under the age of 18 years who shall obtain cigars, tobacco,
cigarettes, or cigarette material from a licensee hereunder by representing
that he or she is of the age of 18 years or over, shall be guilty of an
offense.
(Neb. RS 28-1427) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 133.23 MISREPRESENTATION BY MINOR TO OBTAIN ALCOHOL.
   No minor, as defined by Neb. RS 53-103, shall obtain, or attempt to obtain,
alcoholic liquor by misrepresentation of age, or by any other method, in any
tavern or other place where alcoholic liquor is sold.
(Neb. RS 53-180.01) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Penalty for manufacturing false identification intended for minors, see Neb.
RS 53-180.05
§ 133.24 MINORS; PROHIBITED ACTS INVOLVING ALCOHOLIC LIQUOR.
   (A)   For purposes of this section, the definitions found in Neb. RS 53-
103.01 through 53-103.42 shall apply, including, but not limited to, the
definitions of the terms "alcoholic liquor," "consume," "minor," "sale," and
"to sell."
   (B)   Except as provided in Neb. RS 53-168.06, no minor may sell, dispense,
consume, or have in his or her possession or physical control any alcoholic
liquor in any tavern or in any other place, including public streets, alleys,
roads, or highways, upon property owned by the state or any subdivision
thereof, or inside any vehicle while in or on any other place, including, but
not limited to, the public streets, alleys, roads, or highways, or upon
property owned by the state or any subdivision thereof, except that a minor may
consume, possess, or have physical control of alcoholic liquor as a part of a
bona fide religious rite, ritual, or ceremony or in his or her permanent place
of residence.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person under 21 years of age to
transport, consume, or knowingly possess or have under his or her control beer
or other alcoholic liquor in or transported by any motor vehicle.
(Neb. RS 53-180.02) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Minor Alcoholic Liquor Liability Act, see Neb. RS 53-401 through 53-409
§ 133.25 DRINKING ON PUBLIC PROPERTY; OPEN BEVERAGE CONTAINER.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE.
         (a)   Beer, ale, porter, stout, and other similar fermented beverages,
including sake or similar products, of any name or description, containing 0.5%
or more of alcohol by volume, brewed or produced from malt, wholly or in part,
or from any substitute therefore;
         (b)   Wine of not less than 0.5% alcohol by volume; or
         (c)   Distilled spirits, which is that substance known as ethyl
alcohol, ethanol, or spirits of wine in any form, including all dilutions and
mixtures thereof from whatever source or by whatever process produced.
         (d)   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE does not include trace amounts not readily
consumable as a beverage.
      HIGHWAY. A road or street including the entire area within the right-of-
way.
      LIMOUSINE. A luxury vehicle used to provide prearranged passenger
transportation on a dedicated basis at a premium fare that has a seating
capacity of at least five and no more than 14 persons behind the driver with a
physical partition separating the driver seat from the passenger compartment.
LIMOUSINE does not include taxicabs, hotel or airport buses or shuttles, or
buses.
      OPEN ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE CONTAINER. Except as provided in Neb. RS 53-
123.04(3) and 53-123.11(1)(c), any bottle, can, or other receptacle:
         (a)   That contains any amount of alcoholic beverage; and
         (b)   1.   That is open or has a broken seal; or
            2.   The contents of which are partially removed.
      PASSENGER AREA. The area designed to seat the driver and passengers while
the motor vehicle is in operation and any area that is readily accessible to
the driver or a passenger while in their seating positions, including any
compartments in the area. PASSENGER AREA does not include the area behind the
last upright seat of the motor vehicle if the area is not normally occupied by
the driver or a passenger and the motor vehicle is not equipped with a trunk.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this section, it is unlawful for any
person in the passenger area of a motor vehicle to possess an open alcoholic
beverage container while the motor vehicle is located in a public parking area
or on any highway in this municipality.
   (C)   Except as provided in §
110.21 or division (D) of this section, it is unlawful for any person to
consume an alcoholic beverage:
      (1)   In a public parking area or on any highway in this municipality; or
      (2)   Inside a motor vehicle while in a public parking area or on any
highway in this municipality.
   (D)   This section does not apply to persons who are passengers of, but not
drivers of, a limousine or bus being used in a charter or special party service
as defined by rules and regulations adopted and promulgated by the state Public
Service Commission and subject to Neb. Admin. Code, Chapter 75, Article 3. Such
passengers may possess open alcoholic beverage containers and may consume
alcoholic beverages while such limousine or bus is in a public parking area or
on any highway in this municipality if:
      (1)   The driver of the limousine or bus is prohibited from consuming
alcoholic liquor; and
      (2)   Alcoholic liquor is not present in any area that is readily
accessible to the driver while in the driver's seat, including any compartments
in such area.
(Neb. RS 60-6,211.08)
(Ord. 846, passed 3-8-2012) Penalty, see §
10.99
MOTOR VEHICLE AND HIGHWAY OFFENSES
§ 133.40 ABANDONED AUTOMOBILES.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      ABANDONED VEHICLE.
         (a)   A motor vehicle is an  ABANDONED VEHICLE:
            1.   If left unattended, with no license plates or valid In Transit
stickers issued pursuant to the Motor Vehicle Registration Act affixed thereto,
for more than six hours on any public property;
            2.   If left unattended for more than 24 hours on any public
property, except a portion thereof on which parking is legally permitted;
            3.   If left unattended for more than 48 hours, after the parking
of such vehicle has become illegal, if left on a portion of any public property
on which parking is legally permitted;
            4.   If left unattended for more than seven days on private
property if left initially without permission of the owner, or after permission
of the owner is terminated;
            5.   If left for more than 30 days in the custody of a city law
enforcement agency after the agency has sent a letter to the last-registered
owner under division (D) of this section; or
            6.   If removed from private property by the city pursuant to a
city ordinance or this code.
         (b)   An all-terrain vehicle or minibike is an ABANDONED VEHICLE:
            1.   If left unattended for more than 24 hours on any public
property, except a portion thereof on which parking is legally permitted;
            2.   If left unattended for more than 48 hours, after the parking
of such vehicle has become illegal, if left on a portion of any public property
on which parking is legally permitted;
            3.   If left unattended for more than seven days on private
property if left initially without permission of the owner, or after permission
of the owner is terminated;
            4.   If left for more than 30 days in the custody of a city law
enforcement agency after the agency has sent a letter to the last-registered
owner under division (D) of this section; or
            5.   If removed from private property by the city pursuant to a
city ordinance or this code.
         (c)   No motor vehicle subject to forfeiture under Neb. RS 28-431
shall be an ABANDONED VEHICLE under this division (A).
      PRIVATE PROPERTY. Any privately owned property which is not included
within the definition of public property.
      PUBLIC PROPERTY. Any public right-of-way, street, highway, alley, or park
or other state, county, or city-owned property.
(Neb. RS 60-1901)
   (B)   If an abandoned vehicle, at the time of abandonment, has no license
plates of the current year or valid In Transit stickers issued pursuant to Neb.
RS 60-376 affixed and is of a wholesale value, taking into consideration the
condition of the vehicle, of $250 or less, title shall immediately vest in the
city. Any certificate of title issued under this division to the city shall be
issued at no cost to the city.
(Neb. RS 60-1902)
   (C)   (1)   Except for vehicles governed by division (B) of this section,
the city shall make an inquiry concerning the last-registered owner of such
vehicle as follows:
         (a)   Abandoned vehicle with license plates affixed, to the
jurisdiction which issued such license plates; or
         (b)   Abandoned vehicle with no license plates affixed, to the
Department of Motor Vehicles.
      (2)   The city shall notify the last-registered owner, if any, that the
vehicle in question has been determined to be an abandoned vehicle and that, if
unclaimed, either:
         (a)   It will be sold or will be offered at public auction after five
days from the date such notice was mailed; or
         (b)   Title will vest in the city 30 days after the date such notice
was mailed.
      (3)   If the agency described in division (C)(1)(a) or (b) of this
section also notifies the city that a lien or mortgage exists, such notice
shall also be sent to the lienholder or mortgagee. Any person claiming such
vehicle shall be required to pay the cost of removal and storage of such
vehicle.
      (4)   Title to an abandoned vehicle, if unclaimed, shall vest in the
city:
         (a)   Five days after the date the notice is mailed if the vehicle
will be sold or offered at public auction under division (C)(2)(a) of this
section;
         (b)   Thirty days after the date the notice is mailed if the city will
retain the vehicle; or
         (c)   If the last-registered owner cannot be ascertained, when notice
of such fact is received.
      (5)   After title to the abandoned vehicle vests pursuant to division (C)
(4) of this section, the city may retain for use, sell, or auction the
abandoned vehicle. If the city has determined that the vehicle should be
retained for use, the city shall, at the same time that the notice, if any, is
mailed, publish in a newspaper of general circulation in the jurisdiction an
announcement that the city intends to retain the abandoned vehicle for its use
and that title will vest in the city 30 days after the publication.
(Neb. RS 60-1903)
   (D)   (1)   If a city law enforcement agency has custody of a motor vehicle
for investigatory purposes and has no further need to keep it in custody, it
shall send a certified letter to each of the last-registered owners stating
that the vehicle is in the custody of the law enforcement agency, that the
vehicle is no longer needed for law enforcement purposes, and that after 30
days the agency will dispose of the vehicle.
      (2)   This division shall not apply to motor vehicles subject to
forfeiture under Neb. RS 28-431.
      (3)   No storage fees shall be assessed against the registered owner of a
motor vehicle held in custody for investigatory purposes under this division
(D) unless the registered owner or the person in possession of the vehicle when
it is taken into custody is charged with a felony or misdemeanor related to the
offense for which the law enforcement agency took the vehicle into custody. If
a registered owner or the person in possession of the vehicle when it is taken
into custody is charged with a felony or misdemeanor but is not convicted, the
registered owner shall be entitled to a refund of the storage fees.
(Neb. RS 60-1903.01)
   (E)   If a state agency caused an abandoned vehicle described in division
(A)(a)(5) or (A)(b)(4) of this section to be removed from public property in
this city, the state agency shall be entitled to custody of the vehicle. If a
state agency caused an abandoned vehicle described in division (A)(a)(1), (2),
(3), or (4) or (A)(b)(1), (2), or (3) of this section to be removed from public
property in this city, the state agency shall deliver the vehicle to the city
which shall have custody.
(Neb. RS 60-1904)
   (F)   Any proceeds from the sale of an abandoned vehicle in the city's
custody less any expenses incurred by the city shall be held by the city
without interest, for the benefit of the owner or lienholders of such vehicle
for a period of two years. If not claimed within such two-year period, the
proceeds shall be paid into the general fund of the city.
(Neb. RS 60-1905)
   (G)   Neither the owner, lessee, nor occupant of the premises from which any
abandoned vehicle is removed, nor the city, shall be liable for any loss or
damage to such vehicle which occurs during its removal or while in the
possession of the city or its contractual agent or as a result of any
subsequent disposition.
(Neb. RS 60-1906)
   (H)   No person shall cause any vehicle to be an abandoned vehicle as
described in division (A)(a)(1), (2), (3), or (4) or (A)(b)(1), (2), or (3) of
this section.
(Neb. RS 60-1907)
   (I)   No person other than one authorized by the city or appropriate state
agency shall destroy, deface, or remove any part of a vehicle which is left
unattended on a highway or other public place without license plates affixed or
which is abandoned. Anyone violating this division shall be guilty of an
offense.
(Neb. RS 60-1908)
   (J)   The last-registered owner of an abandoned vehicle shall be liable to
the city for the costs of removal and storage of such vehicle.
(Neb. RS 60-1909)
   (K)   Any person violating the provisions of this section shall be guilty of
an offense.
(Neb. RS 60-1911) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Motor Vehicle Registration Act, see Neb. RS 60-301
§ 133.41 UNLICENSED OR INOPERABLE VEHICLES.
   (A)   No person in charge or control of any property within the city, other
than city property, whether as owner, tenant, occupant, lessee, or otherwise,
shall allow any partially dismantled, inoperable, wrecked, junked, or discarded
vehicle to remain on that property longer than 30 days.
   (B)   No unlicensed vehicle shall be permitted to remain on any private or
public property for any length of time, provided that this section shall not
apply to the following:
      (1)   A vehicle bearing a valid "In Transit" sticker;
      (2)   A vehicle in an enclosed building;
      (3)   A vehicle on the premises of a business enterprise operated in a
lawful place and manner when the vehicle is necessary to the lawful operation
of the business; or
      (4)   A vehicle in an appropriate storage place or depository maintained
in a lawful place and manner by the city.
   (C)   Any vehicle allowed to remain on property in violation of this section
shall constitute a nuisance and shall be abated, and any person violating this
section shall be guilty of an offense.
Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   "In Transit" stickers, see Neb. RS 60-376
WEAPONS OFFENSES
§ 133.60 DISCHARGE OF FIREARMS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, except an officer of the law in the
discharge of official duty, to fire or discharge any gun, pistol, or other
fowling piece within the city, except that nothing in this section shall be
construed to apply to officially sanctioned public celebrations if the persons
so discharging firearms have written permission from the City Council.
Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority to regulate, see Neb. RS 17-556
§ 133.61 SLINGSHOTS, AIR GUNS, BB GUNS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to discharge a slingshot, air gun, BB
gun, or the like loaded with rock or other dangerous missiles at any time or
under any circumstances within the city.
Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 134: OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC MORALS
Section
   
134.01   Prostitution
   
134.02   Public indecency
   
134.03   Gambling
§ 134.01 PROSTITUTION.
   Any person who performs, offers, or agrees to perform any act of sexual
contact or sexual penetration, as those terms are defined in Neb. RS 28-318,
with any person not his or her spouse, in exchange for money or other thing of
value, commits the offense of prostitution.
(Neb. RS 28-801) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 134.02 PUBLIC INDECENCY.
   A person, 18 years of age or over, commits the offense of public indecency
if such person performs or procures, or assists any other person to perform, in
a public place and where the conduct may reasonably be expected to be viewed by
members of the public:
   (A)   An act of sexual penetration as defined in Neb. RS 28-318;
   (B)   An exposure of the genitals of the body done with intent to affront or
alarm any person; or
   (C)   A lewd fondling or caressing of the body of another person of the same
or opposite sex.
(Neb. RS 28-806) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 134.03 GAMBLING.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the definitions found in Neb. RS 28-
1101 shall be used.
   (B)   A person commits the offense of promoting gambling if he or she
knowingly:
      (1)   Advances or profits from any unlawful gambling activity by:
         (a)   Engaging in bookmaking;
         (b)   Receiving, in connection with any unlawful gambling scheme or
enterprise, any amount of money played in the scheme or enterprise in any one
day; or
         (c)   Betting something of value in an amount of $300 or more with one
or more persons in one day; or
(Neb. RS 28-1102 and 28-1103)
      (2)   Participates in unlawful gambling as a player by betting less than
$300 in any one day.
(Neb. RS 28-1104)
   (C)   (1)   A person commits the offense of possession of a gambling device
if he or she manufactures, sells, transports, places, possesses, or conducts or
negotiates any transaction affecting or designed to affect ownership, custody,
or use of any gambling device, knowing that it shall be used in the advancement
of unlawful gambling activity.
      (2)   This division shall not apply to any coin-operated mechanical
gaming device, computer gaming device, electronic gaming device, or video
gaming device which has the capability of awarding free games, which is
intended to be played and is in fact played for amusement only, and which may
allow the player the right to replay such gaming device at no additional cost,
which right to replay shall not be considered money or property, except that
such mechanical game:
         (a)   Can be discharged of accumulated free replays only by
reactivating the game for one additional play for each accumulated free replay;
and
         (b)   Makes no permanent record directly or indirectly of free replays
so awarded.
      (3)   Notwithstanding any other provisions of this division, any
mechanical game or device classified by the federal government as an illegal
gambling device and requiring a federal Gambling Device Tax Stamp as required
by the Internal Revenue Service in its administration of 26 U.S.C. §§ 4461 and
4462, amended July 1, 1965, by Public Law 89-44, are hereby declared to be
illegal and excluded from the exemption granted in this division.
(Neb. RS 28-1107)
   (D)   In any prosecution under this section, it shall be an affirmative
defense that the writing, paper, instrument, or article possessed by the
defendant was neither used nor intended to be used in the advancement of an
unlawful gambling activity.
(Neb. RS 28-1108)
   (E)   Proof of possession of any gambling device shall be prima facie
evidence of possession thereof with knowledge of its contents and character.
(Neb. RS 28-1109)
   (F)   It shall be no defense to a prosecution under any provision of this
section relating to gambling that the gambling is conducted outside this city
and is not in violation of the laws of the jurisdiction in which it is
conducted.
(Neb. RS 28-1110)
   (G)   Any gambling device or gambling record possessed in violation of any
provision of this section, or any money used as a bet or stake in gambling
activity in violation of any provision of this section, shall be forfeited to
the state.
(Neb. RS 28-1111)
   (H)   In any prosecution for an offense defined in this section, when the
defendant's status as a player constitutes an excusing condition, the fact that
the defendant was a player shall constitute an affirmative defense.
(Neb. RS 28-1112)
   (I)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to:
      (1)   Apply to or prohibit wagering on the results of horseraces by the
parimutuel or certificate method when conducted by licensees within the
racetrack enclosure at licensed horserace meetings; or
      (2)   Prohibit or punish the conducting or participating in any bingo,
lottery by the sale of pickle cards, lottery, raffle, or gift enterprise when
conducted in accordance with the Nebraska Bingo Act, the Nebraska County and
City Lottery Act, the Nebraska Lottery and Raffle Act, the Nebraska Pickle Card
Lottery Act, the Nebraska Small Lottery and Raffle Act, the State Lottery Act,
or Neb. RS 9-701.
(Neb. RS 28-1113)
   (J)   In any prosecution under this section in which it is necessary to
prove the occurrence of a sporting event, a published report of its occurrence
in any daily newspaper, magazine, or other periodically printed publication of
general circulation shall be admissible in evidence and shall constitute prima
facie evidence of the occurrence of the event.
(Neb. RS 28-1117) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 135: CURFEW
Section
   
135.01   Definitions
   
135.02   Offenses
   
135.03   Defense
   
135.04   Enforcement
 
   
135.99   Penalty
§ 135.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CURFEW HOURS. Ten o'clock p.m. on any Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday,
Friday, Saturday, and Sunday until 5:00 a.m. on the following day. Also from
the beginning of school hours until the end of school hours on any Monday,
Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday, and Friday.
   EMERGENCY. An unforeseen combination of circumstances or the resulting state
that calls for immediate action. The term includes, but is not limited to, a
fire, a natural disaster, an automobile accident, or any situation requiring
immediate action to prevent serious bodily injury or loss of life.
   ESTABLISHMENT. Any privately-owned place or business operated for a profit
to which the public is invited, including, but not limited to, any place of
amusement or entertainment.
   GUARDIAN. A person who, under court order, is the guardian of the person or
minor; or a public or private agency with whom a minor has been placed by a
court.
   PARENT. A person who is a natural parent, adoptive parent, or stepparent of
another person, or at least 19 years of age and authorized by a parent or
guardian to have the care and custody of a minor.
   PUBLIC PLACE. Any place to which the public or a substantial group of the
public has access and includes, but is not limited to, streets, highways, and
common areas of schools, hospitals, apartment houses, office buildings,
transport facilities, and shops.
   REMAIN. To linger or stay, or fail to leave a premises when requested to do
so by a police officer or the owner, operator, or other person in control of
the premises.
   SERIOUS BODILY INJURY. Bodily injury that creates a substantial risk of
death or that causes death, serious permanent disfigurement, or protracted loss
or impairment of the function of any bodily member or organ.
(1973 Code, § 6-501) (Ord. 762, passed 7-12-2007)
§ 135.02 OFFENSES.
   (A)   Any person 15 years of age or under commits an offense if he or she
remains in any public place or on the premises of any establishment within the
city during curfew hours.
   (B)   A parent or guardian of a minor 15 years of age or under commits an
offense if he or she knowingly permits, or by insufficient control allows the
minor to remain in any public place or on the premises of any establishment
within the city during curfew hours.
   (C)   The owner, operator, or any employee of an establishment commits an
offense if he or she knowingly allows any person 15 years of age or under, to
remain upon the premises of the establishment within the city during curfew
hours.
(1973 Code, § 6-502) (Ord. 762, passed 7-12-2007) Penalty, see §
135.99
§ 135.03 DEFENSE.
   (A)   It is a defense to prosecution under §
135.02 that the person 15 years of age or under was:
      (1)   A person 15 years of age or under accompanied by his or her parent
or guardian;
      (2)   In a motor vehicle involved in interstate travel;
      (3)   Engaged in an employment activity, or going to or returning home
from an employment activity, without any detour or stop;
      (4)   Involved in an emergency;
      (5)   A person 15 years of age or under on the sidewalk abutting their
residence or abutting the residence of a next-door neighbor if the neighbor did
not complain to the Police Department about the presence of the person 15 years
of age or under;
      (6)   Attending an official school, religious or other recreational
activity supervised by adults and sponsored by the city, a civic organization,
or another similar entity that takes responsibility for the minor, or going to
or returning home from, without any detour or stop, an official school,
religious, or other recreational activity supervised by adults and sponsored by
the city, a civic organization, or other similar entity that takes
responsibility for the person 15 years of age or under;
      (7)   Exercising First Amendment rights protected by the United States
Constitution, such as free exercise of religion, freedom of speech, and the
rights of assembly, by first delivering to the person designated by the city's
Police Chief to receive the information, a written communication, signed by the
person 15 years of age or under and countersigned, if practical, by a parent or
guardian of the juvenile with their home address and telephone number,
specifying when, where and in what manner the minor will be in a public place
during the hours when the ordinance is applicable to the person 15 years of age
or under in the exercise of the First Amendment rights specified in the
communication; and/or
      (8)   Married or had been married or had disabilities of minority removed
in accordance with law.
   (B)   It is a defense to prosecution under §
135.02 that the owner, operator, or employee of an establishment promptly
notified the Police Department that a person 15 years of age or under was
present on the premises of the establishment during the curfew hours and
refused to leave.
(1973 Code, § 6-503) (Ord. 762, passed 7-12-2007)
§ 135.04 ENFORCEMENT.
   Before taking any enforcement action under this chapter, a police officer
shall ask the apparent offender's age and reason for being in the public place.
The officer shall not issue a citation or make an arrest under this chapter
unless the officer reasonably believes that an offense has occurred and that,
based on any response and other circumstances, no defense in §
135.03 is present.
(1973 Code, § 6-504) (Ord. 762, passed 7-12-2007)
§ 135.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who violates a provision of this chapter is guilty of a separate
offense for each day or part of the day during which the violation is
committed, continued, or permitted. Any person violating this chapter shall be
deemed guilty of a Class 5 misdemeanor, punishable by a fine of $25.
(1973 Code, § 6-505) (Ord. 762, passed 7-12-2007)
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
      Chapter
         
150.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
         
151.   BUILDING REGULATIONS
         
152.   FLOOD PLAIN MANAGEMENT
         
153.   ZONING CODE
         
154.   COMPREHENSIVE PLAN
         
155.   STORMWATER MITIGATION REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 150: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
Additions and Plats
   
150.01   Municipal limits; defined
   
150.02   Original plats
   
150.03   New additions
   
150.04   Streets and alleys
ADDITIONS AND PLATS
§ 150.01 MUNICIPAL LIMITS; DEFINED.
   All additions, lots, lands, subdivisions, and parcels of ground included
within the Official City Map and plat on file at the office of the County
Register of Deeds, having been by act or ordinance of the City Council or by
law duly annexed to or made a part of this city, or having been by the act,
authority, acquiescence, consent, platting, and dedication of their respective
owners, created either as the original town site or as additions to the city
are hereby declared to be within the corporate limits of the city. Lawfully
constituted additions or changes in the city limits shall be indicated upon the
maps and plat by the City Engineer after the addition or change has been
completed in accordance with the ordinances of this city and the laws of the
state.
(Neb. RS 17-405 through 17-426, 17-1,002, and 17-1,003) (1973 Code, § 11-101)
§ 150.02 ORIGINAL PLATS.
   Each and all plats, lots, blocks, additions, subdivisions, outlots, and
parcels of ground included within the corporate limits of the city, and not
vacated of record prior to the enactment of this code, including the original
plat of the city, are hereby accepted, approved, and confirmed as valid, and
each and all of the lots, blocks, additions, subdivisions, and outlots as
heretofore platted and recorded in the office of the County Register of Deeds,
and not heretofore vacated, and all other parcels of ground, included within
the corporate limits, are hereby declared to be within the city and an integral
part thereof.
(Neb. RS 17-405 through 17-426, 17-1,002, and 17-1,003) (1973 Code, § 11-102)
§ 150.03 NEW ADDITIONS.
   The owner of any tract of land within the corporate limits of the city may
lay out the land into lots, blocks, streets, avenues, and alleys as an addition
to the city upon conformance to and compliance with the relevant state statutes
as now existing or as hereafter amended.
(Neb. RS 17-405, 17-426, 17-1,002, and 19-902) (1973 Code, § 11-103)
§ 150.04 STREETS AND ALLEYS.
   Streets and alleys laid out in any addition to the city shall be continuous
with and correspond in direction and width to the streets and alleys of the
city to which they are an addition.
(Neb. RS 17-405, 17-418, and 17-1,003) (1973 Code, § 11-104)
CHAPTER 151: BUILDING REGULATIONS
Section
Building Inspector
   
151.01   Power and authority
   
151.02   Right of entry
Adopted Codes
   
151.15   Building Code; adopted by reference
Unsafe or Substandard Buildings
   
151.30   Purpose
   
151.31   Enforcement
   
151.32   Definitions
   
151.33   Dwelling standards
   
151.34   Substandard buildings
   
151.35   Abatement
Wells and Other Underground Facilities
   
151.50   Drilling and operation without a permit unlawful
   
151.51   Procedure to obtain permit
   
151.52   Drilling or installation of other facilities within designated
distance from city water sources; prohibited
   
151.53   Violations and abatement procedure
   
151.54   Pre-existing sandpoint well requirements
Cross-reference:
   City Officials, see
Ch. 31
   Zoning Code, see
Ch. 153
BUILDING INSPECTOR
§ 151.01 POWER AND AUTHORITY.
   The Building Inspector shall be the city official who shall have the duty of
enforcing all building and housing regulations as herein prescribed. He or she
shall inspect all buildings repaired, altered, built, or moved in the city as
often as necessary to ensure compliance with all city ordinances. He or she
shall have the power and authority to order all work stopped on any
construction, alteration, or relocation which violates any provisions
prescribed herein. He or she shall issue permission to continue any
construction, alteration, or relocation when he or she is satisfied that no
provision will be violated. If the stop-order is an oral one, it shall be
followed by a written stop-order within one hour. The written order may be
served by any city police officer. In the event that the City Council fails to
appoint a Building Inspector, the Director of Public Works shall be the
Building Inspector ex officio.
(1973 Code, § 9-101)
§ 151.02 RIGHT OF ENTRY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to refuse to allow the Building
Inspector entry into any building or structure where the work of construction,
alteration, repair, or relocation is taking place for the purpose of making
official inspections at any reasonable hour.
(1973 Code, § 9-102) Penalty, see §
10.99
ADOPTED CODES
§ 151.15 BUILDING CODE; ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The International Building Code, most recent edition, as published by the
International Code Council, Inc., is hereby adopted as the Building Code of
this municipality for establishing the minimum regulations governing the
conditions and maintenance of all property, buildings, and structures,
providing the standards for supplied utilities and facilities and other
physical things and conditions essential to ensure that structures are safe,
sanitary and fit for occupation and use, and providing for the condemnation of
buildings and structures unfit for human occupancy and use and for the
demolition of such buildings and structures. Each and all of the regulations,
provisions, penalties, conditions, and terms of the Building Code are hereby
referred to, adopted, and made a part hereof, as if fully set out in this
section. The Building Code, printed in book or pamphlet form, is hereby
incorporated by reference in addition to all amended editions as though printed
in full herein insofar as such code does not conflict with the Statutes of the
State of Nebraska. One copy of the Building Code is on file at the office of
the City Clerk/Treasurer and is available for public inspection at any
reasonable time. The provisions of the Building Code shall be controlling
throughout the city and throughout its zoning jurisdiction.
Statutory reference:
    Authority, see Neb. RS 71-6403
UNSAFE OR SUBSTANDARD BUILDINGS
§ 151.30 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to provide minimum standards to safeguard
life or limb, health, property, and public welfare by regulating and
controlling the use of occupancy, location, and maintenance of all residential
and commercial buildings and structures within this jurisdiction.
(1973 Code, § 9-601) (Ord. 710, passed 6-7-2001)
§ 151.31 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Authority. The Building Official is hereby authorized and directed to
enforce all of the provisions of this subchapter. For the purposes, he or she
may have the assistance of the Police Chief.
   (B)   Right of entry. Whenever necessary to make an inspection to enforce
any of the provisions of this subchapter, or whenever the Building Official or
his or her authorized representative has reasonable cause to believe that there
exists in any building or upon any premises any condition or code violation
which makes the building or premises unsafe, dangerous, or hazardous, the
Building Official or his or her authorized representative may enter the
building or premises at all reasonable times to inspect the same or to perform
any duty imposed upon the Building Official by this subchapter, provided that
if the building or premises be occupied, he or she shall first present proper
credentials and request entry; provided that if the building or premises be
unoccupied, he or she shall first make reasonable effort to locate the owner or
other persons having charge or control to the building or premises and request
entry. If the entry is refused, the Building Official or his or her authorized
representative shall have recourse to every remedy provided by law to secure
entry.
   (C)   Responsibilities defined.
      (1)   Every owner remains liable for violation of duties imposed upon him
or her by this subchapter even though an obligation is also imposed on the
occupants of his or her building, and even though the owner has, by agreement,
imposed on the occupant the duty of furnishing required equipment or of
complying with this subchapter.
      (2)   All buildings and structures and all parts thereof shall be
maintained in a safe and sanitary condition. The owner or his or her designated
agent shall be responsible for the maintenance. To determine compliance with
this division (C)(2), the building may be reinspected.
      (3)   Every owner, or his or her agent, in addition to being responsible
for maintaining his or her building in a sound structural condition, shall be
responsible for keeping that part of the building or premises which he or she
occupies or controls in a clean, sanitary, and safe condition, including the
shared or public areas in a building containing two or more dwelling units.
      (4)   Every owner shall, where required by this subchapter or other
health official, furnish and maintain any approved sanitary facilities as
required, and shall furnish and maintain approved devices, equipment, or
facilities for the prevention of insect and rodent infestation, and where
infestation has taken place, shall be responsible for the extermination of any
insects, rodents, or other pests when the extermination is not specifically
made the responsibility of the occupant by law or ruling.
      (5)   Every occupant of a dwelling unit, in addition to being responsible
for keeping in a clean, sanitary, and safe condition that part of the dwelling
or dwelling unit or premises which he or she occupies and controls, shall
dispose of all his or her rubbish, garbage, and other organic waste in a manner
required by code.
      (6)   Every occupant shall, where required by this subchapter or
designated health officer, furnish and maintain approved devices, equipment or
facilities necessary to keep his or her premises safe and sanitary.
(1973 Code, § 9-602) (Ord. 710, passed 6-7-2001) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 151.32 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, certain terms, phrases, words, and their
derivatives shall be construed as specified in either this subchapter or as
specified in the Building Code. Where terms are not defined, they shall have
their ordinary accepted meanings within the context with which they are used.
Webster's New World Dictionary, Third College Edition, shall be considered as
providing ordinary accepted meanings.
   BUILDING CODE. The International Building Code, 2000 Edition, as adopted by
this jurisdiction.
   ELECTRICAL CODE. The National Electric Code (NEC), as adopted by this
jurisdiction.
   HOT WATER. Hot water supplied to plumbing fixtures at a temperature of not
less than 110°F.
   NUISANCE.
       (1)   Any public nuisance known at common law or in equity jurisprudence
or as defined elsewhere in this code;
       (2)   Any attractive nuisance which may prove detrimental to children
whether in a building, or the premises of a building, or upon an unoccupied
lot. This includes any abandoned wells, shafts, basements or excavations;
abandoned refrigerators and motor vehicles; or any structurally unsound fences
or structures; or any lumber, trash fences, debris, or vegetation which may
prove a hazard for inquisitive minors;
      (3)   Whatever is dangerous to human life or is detrimental to health, as
determined by the Building Official or his or her designee;
      (4)   Overcrowding a room with occupants;
      (5)   Insufficient ventilation or illumination;
      (6)   Inadequate or unsanitary sewage or plumbing facilities;
      (7)   Uncleanliness, as determined by the Building Official; and/or
      (8)   Whatever renders air, food, or drink unwholesome or detrimental to
the health of human beings, as determined by the Building Official.
(1973 Code, § 9-603) (Ord. 710, passed 6-7-2001)
§ 151.33 DWELLING STANDARDS.
   (A)   Bathroom. Every dwelling unit and every lodging house shall be
provided with a bathroom equipped with facilities consisting of a water closet,
lavatory, and either a bathtub or shower.
   (B)   Kitchen. Each dwelling unit shall be provided with a kitchen. Every
kitchen shall be provided with a kitchen sink. Wooden sinks or sinks of
similarly absorbent material shall not be permitted.
   (C)   Fixtures. All plumbing fixtures shall be connected to a sanitary
sewer. All plumbing fixtures shall be connected to an approved system of water
supply and provided with hot and cold running water necessary for its normal
operation. All plumbing fixtures shall be of an approved glazed earthenware
type of a similarly nonabsorbent material.
   (D)   Installation and maintenance. All sanitary facilities shall be
installed and maintained in a safe and sanitary condition and in accordance
with applicable requirements of the Building Code.
   (E)   Accumulation of rubbish or garbage. The interior of every structure
shall be free from any accumulation of litter, as defined in this code.
   (F)   Structural requirements. Buildings or structures may be of any type of
construction permitted by the Building Code and this code. Roofs, floors,
walls, foundations, and all other structural components of buildings shall be
capable of resisting any and all forces and loads to which they may be
subjected. All structural elements shall be proportioned and joined in
accordance with the stress limitations and design criteria as specified in the
appropriate sections of the Building Code. Buildings of every permitted type of
construction shall comply with the applicable requirements of the Building
Code. Every building shall be weather protected so as to provide shelter for
the occupants against the elements and to exclude dampness. All wood shall be
protected against termite damage and decay as provided in the Building Code.
(1973 Code, § 9-604) (Ord. 710, passed 6-7-2001) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 151.34 SUBSTANDARD BUILDINGS.
   (A)   Generally. Any building or portion thereof, including any dwelling
unit, or premises on which the same is located, in which there exists any of
the following listed conditions to an extent that endangers the life, limb,
health, property, safety, or welfare of the public, or the occupants thereof,
shall be deemed and hereby is, declared to be a substandard building. The
extent of danger of life, limb, health, property, safety, or welfare of the
public or the occupants thereof shall be determined by the Building Official
and upon request the Police Chief and/or the Fire Chief and/or the City
Engineer. All buildings or portions thereof which are determined to be
substandard as defined in this subchapter are hereby declared to be public
nuisances and shall be abated by repair, rehabilitation, demolition, or removal
in accordance with the procedure specified in this code;
   (B)   Inadequate sanitation.
      (1)   Lack of or improper water closet, lavatory, bathtub, or shower in a
dwelling unit;
      (2)   Lack of or improper kitchen sink in a dwelling unit;
      (3)   Lack of hot and cold running water in a dwelling unit;
      (4)   Lack of adequate heating facilities in a dwelling unit;
      (5)   Dampness of habitable rooms;
      (6)   Infestation of insects, vermin, or rodents, as determined by Health
Officer;
      (7)   General dilapidation or improper maintenance; and/or
      (8)   Lack of connection to required sewage disposal system.
   (C)   Structural hazards.
      (1)   Deteriorated or inadequate foundation;
      (2)   Defective or deteriorated flooring or floor supports; and/or
      (3)   Members of walls, partitions, ceilings, or other vertical or
horizontal members that sag, split, buckle, lean, and/or list due to defective
material or deterioration.
   (D)   Nuisance. Any nuisance as defined in this code;
   (E)   Hazardous wiring, plumbing, and mechanical equipment. Any electrical,
plumbing, or mechanical work done in violation of code requirements at the time
it was installed not installed in generally accepted construction practices;
   (F)   Faulty weather protection. Shall include, but not be limited to, the
following:
      (1)   Deteriorated, crumbling, or loose plaster;
      (2)   Deteriorated or ineffective waterproofing or exterior walls, roof,
foundations, or floors, including broken windows or doors;
      (3)   Defective or lack of weather protection for exterior wall
coverings, including lack of paint, or weathering due to lack of paint or other
approved protective covering; and/or
      (4)   Broken, rotten, split, or buckled exterior wall coverings or roof
coverings.
   (G)   Fire hazard. Any building or portion thereof, device, apparatus,
equipment, combustible waste or vegetation which, in the opinion of the Fire
Chief is in such a condition as to cause a fire or explosion or provide a ready
fuel to augment the spread and intensity of fire or explosion arising from any
cause; and
   (H)   Hazardous or unsanitary premises. Those premises on which an
accumulation of litter, weeds, vegetation, junk, dead organic matter, debris,
garbage, offal, rat harborages, stagnant water, combustible materials and
similar materials or conditions constitute fire, health, or safety hazards.
(1973 Code, § 9-605) (Ord. 710, passed 6-7-2001)
§ 151.35 ABATEMENT.
   (A)   Condemnation of unsafe buildings. Any building or other structure, or
any part thereof which is in part or in whole structurally unsafe, dilapidated,
defective, unhealthful, insufficient, or unsafe for the purposes for which it
is used, detrimental to the community for any just cause, or in violation of
this code or International Building Code, as amended and adopted, is hereby
determined to be dangerous and shall be made safe by the owner of record of the
property within the time set forth in written notice from the Building
Official. Where immediate action is deemed necessary to protect life, health,
or property, the Building Official may direct the building or other structure
or portion thereof to be vacated forthwith, closed and not used or occupied
until made safe as required by the Building Official. Any buildings or other
structures, or any part thereof which is determined after inspection by the
Building Official to be dangerous as defined above, are hereby declared to be
public nuisances and shall be abated by repair, alteration, rehabilitation,
demolition, or removal in accordance with this subchapter.
   (B)   Written notice; mailing; contents. Whenever the Building Inspector has
inspected any building or other structure, or any part thereof and determined
that the property is a dangerous, unsafe, or substandard building, he or she
shall send a written notice to the owner of record of the property by ordinary
first-class mail and by certified mail, return receipt requested, to the last
known address of the owner. The written notice shall contain the following
information:
      (1)   The street address and a legal description sufficient for
identification of the premises on which the dangerous property is located;
      (2)   A brief and concise description of the conditions found to render
the property dangerous, unsafe or substandard as defined by this subchapter;
      (3)   A brief and concise description of the action required to be taken
to render the property in compliance with this subchapter; and
      (4)   A brief and concise statement advising the owner of record that if
required repair, alteration, rehabilitation, demolition, or removal work is not
completed within the time specified, the Building Official may order the
dangerous property vacated and posted to prevent further occupancy until the
work is completed, and may request consent of the Mayor to have the City
Attorney file an action to abate the public nuisance and charge the costs
thereof against the real estate and the owner of record.
   (C)   Notice to vacate; posting. In the event the Building Official directs
any building or other structure or any portion thereof to be vacated, a copy of
a notice to vacate shall be served along with the written notice set forth
herein provided for and shall be posted at or upon each entrance to the
property in substantially the following form:
"NOTICE TO VACATE
DO NOT ENTER - UNSAFE TO OCCUPY
It is a misdemeanor to occupy
this property or to remove or
deface this notice to vacate.
Dated: _____________
CITY OF BRIDGEPORT, NEBRASKA
A city corporation
By: _________________
Building Official"
   (D)   Procedure for abatement of nuisances. If the owner of record of any
property declared to be a public nuisance, as described in this subchapter, by
the Building Official fails to abate the nuisance within the time specified in
the written notice herein provided for, the City Attorney may, at the written
request of the Building Official and Mayor, proceed to abate the public
nuisance pursuant to this code, and charge the costs thereof against the real
estate or the owner of record. In the event continuation of a public nuisance
might cause irreparable harm or poses a serious threat to public health,
safety, or welfare or the health, safety, or welfare of residents of the
property in violation, the written notice to abate shall not be required as a
condition precedent to commencing a legal action to obtain abatement of the
nuisance and the city, with the consent of the Mayor, may immediately file an
action requesting the temporary or permanent order as is appropriate to
expeditiously and permanently abate the nuisance and protect the public health,
safety, or welfare or the health, safety, or welfare of the residents of the
property in violation.
   (E)   Standards for repair and the like. The following standards shall be
observed or followed in determining whether a public nuisance shall be
repaired, altered, rehabilitated, demolished, or removed:
      (1)   If the building or other structure or any part thereof can
reasonably be repaired, altered, or rehabilitated so that it will no longer
exist in violation of this code or International Building Code as amended and
adopted, it shall be ordered repaired, altered, or rehabilitated;
      (2)   If the building or the structure or any part thereof is in the
condition that is cannot reasonably be repaired so that it will no longer exist
in violation of this code or International Building Code, as amended and
adopted, it shall be ordered demolished or removed;
      (3)   In any case where a building or other structure or any part thereof
is 50% damaged, decayed, or deteriorated from its original value or structure,
it shall be demolished or removed; and
      (4)   In any case where a building or other structure or any part thereof
is a fire hazard existing in violation of this code or International Building
Code, as amended and adopted, or the statutes of the state, including, but not
limited to, the Life Safety Code, it shall be demolished or removed.
(1973 Code, § 9-606) (Ord. 710, passed 6-7-2001) Penalty, see §
10.99
WELLS AND OTHER UNDERGROUND FACILITIES
§ 151.50 DRILLING AND OPERATION WITHOUT A PERMIT UNLAWFUL.
   From and after the effective date of this subchapter, it shall be unlawful
for any person, corporation, or other legal entity to drill and/or operate any
of the following facilities within the corporate city limits of the city
without first having obtained the proper permit from the City Council of the
city; potable water well, any other well; sewage lagoon; absorption or disposal
field for water; cesspool; dumping grounds; feedlots; livestock pasture or
corral; chemical product storage facility; petroleum product storage facility;
pit toilet; sanitary landfill; septic tank; sewage treatment plant; and sewage
wet well.
(1973 Code, § 9-701) (Ord. 729, passed 2-5-2004) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 151.51 PROCEDURE TO OBTAIN PERMIT.
   (A)   In order to obtain a permit to drill and/or operate any of the
facilities listed in §
151.50, the owner of the property on which the proposed facility is to be
located must make application on the proper form provided by the City Council.
   (B)   The application must be presented the City Council at any regular or
special meeting. After reviewing the application of any person desiring to
drill or operate any of the above-described facilities, the City Council shall
approve or deny the permit.
   (C)   Effective October 12, 2011, no permits will be issued for the drilling
of any water well, potable or other within the city limits of the city. Sump
pumps within buildings and sandpoint wells used to dewater buildings are exempt
from this section, but not from state statutes, regulations and/or rules.
   (D)   (1)   The following type of geothermal wells will be allowed within
the city so long as they comply with all State of Nebraska well statutes,
regulations and rules at the time of their installation:
         (a)   Heat pump; and
         (b)   Closed loop.
      (2)   Any other type of a geothermal well must have been in place prior
to the passage of Ordinance 830 on October 6, 2011. Any new geothermal well
must apply for a permit through the appropriate State of Nebraska agency and
pay their appropriate fee. The property owner must then bring the state's
approval or permit to the city and submit the $25 well permit fee and well
permit application to the city.
(1973 Code, § 9-702) (Ord. 729, passed 2-5-2004; Ord. 865, passed 2-14-2013;
Ord. 867, passed 2-14-2013)
§ 151.52 DRILLING OR INSTALLATION OF OTHER FACILITIES WITHIN DESIGNATED
DISTANCE FROM CITY WATER SOURCES; PROHIBITED.
   Under no circumstances shall the City Council approve any permit to drill or
operate any of the below-described facilities with the indicated number of feet
from any city's water well:
Category Distance
Category                                     Distance
Chemical or petroleum products storage       500 feet
Corral                                       500 feet
Feedlot or feedlot runoff                    1,000 feet
Land application of municipal or             1,000 feet
industrial waste material
Pit toilet/vault toilet                      500 feet
Sanitary landfill/dump                       500 feet
Sanitary sewer connection                    100 feet
Sanitary sewer line (permanently watertight) 50 feet
Sanitary sewer manhole                       100 feet
Sewage treatment plant                       500 feet
Sewage wet well                              500 feet
Underground disposal system                  500 feet
(septic system, cesspool, etc.)
Wastewater holding tanks                     500 feet
Water well                                   1,000 feet
 
(1973 Code, § 9-703) (Ord. 729, passed 2-5-2004; Ord. 865, passed 2-14-2013)
§ 151.53 VIOLATIONS AND ABATEMENT PROCEDURE.
   In the event any of the above-described facilities are installed or operated
without first having obtained a permit from the city and/or within the
designated number of feet from any city water supply, then the facilities shall
be deemed a nuisance and the City Council shall abate the facility as a public
nuisance. In addition thereto, any person violating any of the terms of this
subchapter is hereby determined to be guilty of a Class 3 misdemeanor, as the
same is defined by state statute. The penalty for the violation shall be that
as defined by state law for the violation of a Class 3 misdemeanor.
   (B)   If in the event any well discovered or reported to city officials, it
shall be there duty to investigate the report and determine if it is an illegal
well. If it is an illegal well by city standards, set forth in this section,
then the well shall be resolved according to division (A) above. If the
installation of such well may have not complied with state law at the time of
installation, then the investigating city official shall report it as soon as
possible to the State of Nebraska appropriate authorities for enforcement
purposes.
(1973 Code, § 9-704) (Ord. 729, passed 2-5-2004; Ord. 867, passed 2-14-2013)
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 151.54 PRE-EXISTING SANDPOINT WELL REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Illegal well defined. Any well that does not comply with the State of
Nebraska's regulations regarding well drilling at the time of installation, or
any well drilled after October 6, 2011 within the city boundaries at the time
of installation, or any well that has not complied with the requirements set
forth in division (B) below.
   (B)   "Grandfathered in" or pre-existing sandpoint wells prior to October 6,
2011. Any owner or operator to use a pre-existing sandpoint well shall ensure
the sandpoint well meets the following criteria, at the owner or operator's
expense, or it will be considered an illegal well:
      (1)   The existing sandpoint well must be in compliance with the State of
Nebraska regulations regarding location and construction which were in effect
at the time the sandpoint was installed, including registration of the well
with the Nebraska Department of Natural Resources if it was installed on or
after September 1, 1993.
      (2)   The well must be sealed at the upper terminus to prevent the
introduction of contaminants into the well which may pollute the groundwater;
the method of sealing must meet the regulatory requirements which were in place
at the time of construction and must be inspected by the Public Works Director
or his/her designee. If the sandpoint well is part of a stand-alone irrigation
system (is in no way connected to the premises water system), a check valve
must be installed to prevent the backflow of contaminants into the well through
the irrigation system.
      (3)   In order to protect the city public water system from contamination
as a result of potential backflow, any premises which receives water from the
city public water system and where a sandpoint well exists which is connected
in any way to the premises water system must have a reduced pressure (RP)
backflow prevention assembly installed on the service line from the city
distribution system to the premises being served. If the sandpoint well is not
connected to the premises water system, permanently mounted frost-proof hose
bib vacuum breakers (backflow preventers) must be installed on all outside hose
bibs at the premises.
      (4)   All testable backflow prevention assemblies (a RP is testable) must
be tested as required by state regulations (at least once annually by a
licensed Grade 6 Water System operator). The test results for testable
assemblies and documentation of any repairs to any backflow preventer must be
reported to the city in writing within 30 days following the test/repair.
      (5)   All sandpoint wells must be reported to the city regarding its
existence no later than 4:30 p.m. on April 1, 2013.
      (6)   If land is annexed into the city corporate boundaries and it
contains a well or sandpoint well, the property owner or operator will have 60
days to report the location of the well(s) and comply with the above
requirements for sandpoint wells if they are a sandpoint well, otherwise they
shall be considered an illegal well.
   (C)   Any violation of this section shall be enforced according to §
151.53 of this code.
(Ord. 865, passed 2-14-2013)
CHAPTER 152: FLOOD PLAIN MANAGEMENT
Section
   
152.01   Enforcement official
   
152.02   Enforcement official; appointment
   
152.03   Map
   
152.04   Permits required
   
152.05   Permits
   
152.06   Permit review
   
152.07   Findings of fact
   
152.08   New water and sewer
   
152.09   Cooperation and notification
   
152.10   Precedence of this chapter
   
152.11   Definitions
Cross-reference:
   Building Regulations, see
Ch. 151
   Zoning Code, see
Ch. 153
§ 152.01 ENFORCEMENT OFFICIAL.
   The Director of Public Works hereby has these added responsibilities and is
authorized and directed to enforce all the provisions of this chapter and all
other ordinances of the city now in force or hereafter adopted, related to
zoning, subdivision, or building codes.
(1973 Code, § 11-501) (Ord. 556, passed 2-7-1985; Ord. 557, passed 3-7-1985;
Ord. 579, passed 5-8-1987)
§ 152.02 ENFORCEMENT OFFICIAL; APPOINTMENT.
   The Director of Public Works shall be appointed to these additional
responsibilities by resolution of the City Council and his or her appointment
shall continue during good behavior and satisfactory service. During temporary
absence or disability of the Director of Public Works, the City Council shall
designate an acting enforcement official.
(1973 Code, § 11-502) (Ord. 556, passed 2-7-1985; Ord. 557, passed 3-7-1985;
Ord. 579, passed 5-8-1987)
§ 152.03 MAP.
   The City Council hereby designates the current Flood Hazard Boundary Map/
Flood Insurance Rate Map, and amendments, as the official map to be used in
determining those areas of special flood hazard.
(1973 Code, § 11-503) (Ord. 556, passed 2-7-1985; Ord. 557, passed 3-7-1985;
Ord. 579, passed 5-8-1987)
§ 152.04 PERMITS REQUIRED.
   No person, firm, or corporation shall erect, construct, enlarge, or improve
any building or structure in the city or cause the same to be done without
first obtaining a separate development permit for each building or structure.
   (A)   Within Zone(s) A on the official map, separate development permits are
required for all new construction, substantial improvements and other
developments, including the placement of manufactured homes.
   (B)   To obtain a permit, the applicant shall first file an application
therefor in writing on a form furnished for the purpose. Every application
shall:
      (1)   Identify and describe the work to be covered by the permit for
which application is made;
      (2)   Describe the land on which the proposed work is to be done by lot,
block, tract and house and street address, or similar description that will
readily identify and definitely locate the proposed building or work;
      (3)   Indicate the use or occupancy for which the proposed work is
intended;
      (4)   Be accompanied by plans and specifications for proposed
construction;
      (5)   Be signed by the permittee or his or her authorized agent who may
be required to submit evidence to indicate the authority;
      (6)   Within designated flood prone areas, be accompanied by elevations
(in relation to mean sea level) of the lowest floor (including basement) or in
the case of floodproofed nonresidential structures, the elevation to which it
has been floodproofed. Documentation or certification of the elevations will be
maintained by the Director of Public Works; and
      (7)   Give any other information as reasonably may be required by the
Director of Public Works.
(1973 Code, § 11-504) (Ord. 556, passed 2-7-1985; Ord. 557, passed 3-7-1985;
Ord. 579, passed 5-8-1987) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 152.05 PERMITS.
   The Director of Public Works shall review all development permit
applications to determine if the site of the proposed development is reasonably
safe from flooding and that all necessary permits have been received as
required by federal or state law.
(1973 Code, § 11-505) (Ord. 556, passed 2-7-1985; Ord. 557, passed 3-7-1985;
Ord. 579, passed 5-8-1987)
§ 152.06 PERMIT REVIEW.
   The Director of Public Works, in reviewing all applications for new
construction, substantial improvements, prefabricated buildings, placement of
manufactured homes, and other development(s) (as defined in §
152.11) will:
   (A)   Obtain, review, and reasonably utilize, if available any regulatory
flood elevation data from federal, state, or other sources, until the other
data is provided by the Federal Insurance Administration in a Flood Insurance
Study; and require within areas designated as Zone A on the official map that
the following performance standards be met.
      (1)   Residential construction. New construction or substantial
improvement of any residential structure shall have the lowest floor, including
basement, elevated one foot above the base flood elevation.
      (2)   Nonresidential construction. New construction or substantial
improvement of any commercial, industrial, or other nonresidential structure
shall either have the lowest floor, including basement, elevated one foot above
the level of the base flood elevation or, together with attendant utility and
sanitary facilities, be flood proofed so that below such a level the structure
is watertight with walls substantially impermeable to the passage of water and
with structure components having the capability of resisting hydrostatic and
hydrodynamic loads and effects of buoyancy. A registered professional engineer
or architect shall certify that the standards of this division (A)(2) are
satisfied. The certification shall be provided to the local enforcement
official.
      (3)   Require for all new construction and substantial improvements.
Fully enclosed areas below the lowest floor that are subject to flooding shall
be designed to automatically equalize hydrostatic flood forces on exterior
walls by allowing for the entry and exit of floodwaters. Designs for meeting
this requirement must either be certified by a registered professional engineer
or architect or meet or exceed the following minimum criteria. A minimum of two
openings having a total net area of not less than one square inch for every
square foot of enclosed area subject to flooding shall be provided. The bottom
of all openings shall be no higher than one foot above grade. Openings may be
equipped with screens, louvers, valves, or other coverings or devices provided
that they permit the automatic entry and exit of floodwaters.
   (B)   Require the use of construction materials that are resistant to flood
damage;
   (C)   Require the use of construction methods and practices that will
minimize flood damage;
   (D)   Require that new structures be designed (or modified) and adequately
anchored to prevent flotation, collapse, or lateral movement of the structure
resulting from hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads, including the effects of
buoyance;
   (E)   New structures be constructed with electrical, heating, ventilation,
plumbing, and air conditioning equipment and other service facilities that are
designed and/or located so as to prevent water from entering or accumulating
within the components during conditions of flooding;
   (F)   Assure that all manufactured homes shall be anchored to resist
flotation, collapse, or lateral movement. Manufactured homes must be anchored
in accordance with state laws, local building codes, and FEMA guidelines. In
the event that over-the-top frame ties to ground anchors are used, the
following specific requirements (or their equivalent) shall be met:
      (1)   Over-the-top ties be provided at each of the four corners of the
manufactured home with two additional ties per side at the intermediate
locations and manufactured homes less than 50 feet long requiring one
additional tie per side;
      (2)   Frame ties be provided at each corner of the home with five
additional ties per side at intermediate points and manufactured homes less
than 50 feet long requiring four additional ties per side;
      (3)   All components of the anchoring system be capable of carrying a
force of 4,800 pounds; and
      (4)   Any additions to manufactured homes be similarly anchored.
   (G)   Require that all manufactured homes to be placed within Zones A1-30,
AH, and AE on the community's FIRM be elevated on a permanent foundation such
that the lowest floor of the manufactured homes is one foot above the base
flood elevation; and be securely anchored to an adequately anchored foundation
system in accordance with the provisions of division (F) above.
(1973 Code, § 11-506) (Ord. 556, passed 2-7-1985; Ord. 557, passed 3-7-1985;
Ord. 579, passed 5-8-1987)
§ 152.07 FINDINGS OF FACT.
   The City Council shall review all subdivision applications and other
proposed new developments, including manufactured home parks or subdivisions,
and shall make findings of fact and assure that:
   (A)   All the proposed developments are consistent with the need to minimize
flood damage;
   (B)   Subdivision proposals and other proposed new development greater than
five acres or 50-foot lots, whichever is lesser, include within the proposals
regulatory flood elevation data in areas designated Zone A;
   (C)   Adequate drainage is provided so as to reduce exposure to flood
hazards; and
   (D)   All public utilities and facilities are located so as to minimize or
eliminate flood damage.
(1973 Code, § 11-507) (Ord. 556, passed 2-7-1985; Ord. 557, passed 3-7-1985;
Ord. 579, passed 5-8-1987)
§ 152.08 NEW WATER AND SEWER.
   New and replacement water and sewer systems shall be constructed to
eliminate or minimize infiltration by, or discharge into floodwaters. Moreover,
on-site waste disposal systems will be designed to avoid impairment or
contamination during flooding.
(1973 Code, § 11-508) (Ord. 556, passed 2-7-1985; Ord. 557, passed 3-7-1985;
Ord. 579, passed 5-8-1987) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 152.09 COOPERATION AND NOTIFICATION.
   The City Council will ensure that the flood carrying capacity within the
altered or relocated portion of any watercourse is maintained. The city will
notify, in riverine situations, adjacent communities and the State Coordinating
Office prior to any alteration or relocation of a watercourse, and submit
copies of the notifications to the Federal Emergency Management Agency.
Moreover, the city will work with appropriate state and federal agencies in
every way possible in complying with the National Flood Insurance Program in
accordance with the National Flood Disaster Protection Act of 1973.
(1973 Code, § 11-509) (Ord. 556, passed 2-7-1985; Ord. 557, passed 3-7-1985;
Ord. 579, passed 5-8-1987)
§ 152.10 PRECEDENCE OF THIS CHAPTER.
   This chapter shall take precedence over conflicting code provisions or
ordinances or parts of code provisions or ordinances. The City Council may,
from time to time, amend this chapter to reflect any and all changes in the
National Flood Disaster Protection Act of 1973. The regulations of this chapter
are in compliance with the National Flood Insurance Program Regulations as
published in 44 C.F.R.
(1973 Code, § 11-510) (Ord. 556, passed 2-7-1985; Ord. 557, passed 3-7-1985;
Ord. 579, passed 5-8-1987)
§ 152.11 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   100-YEAR FLOOD. The condition of flooding having a 1% chance of annual
occurrence.
   DEVELOPMENT. Any human-made change to improved or unimproved real estate,
including, but not limited to, buildings or other structures, mining, dredging,
filling, grading, paving, excavation, or drilling operations.
   FLOOD. A general and temporary condition of partial or complete inundation
of normally dry land areas from:
      (1)   The overflow of inland or tidal waters; and
      (2)   The unusual and rapid accumulation or runoff of surface water from
any source.
   FLOODPROOFING. Any combination of structural and nonstructural additions,
changes, or adjustments to structures, which reduce or eliminate flood damage
to real estate or improved real property, water and sanitary facilities,
structures, and their contents.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. A structure, transportable in one or more sections, which
is built on a permanent chassis and designed to be used with or without a
permanent foundation when connected to the required utilities. For flood plain
management purposes, the term MANUFACTURED HOME also includes park trailers,
travel trailers, and other similar vehicles placed on a site for greater than
180 consecutive days. For insurance purposes, the term MANUFACTURED HOME does
not include park trailers, travel trailers, and other similar vehicles.
   MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A parcel (or contiguous parcels) of
land divided into two or more manufactured home lots for rent or sale.
   REGULATORY FLOOD ELEVATION. The water surface elevation of the 100-year
flood.
   SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA. The land within a community, subject to a 1% or
greater chance of flooding in any given year. This land is identified as Zone A
on the official map.
   STRUCTURE. A walled and roofed building that is principally above the
ground, as well as a manufactured home, and a gas or liquid storage tank that
is principally above ground.
   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT. Any repair, reconstruction, or improvement of a
structure, the cost of which equals or exceeds 50% of the market value of the
structure either before the improvement is started, or if the structure has
been damaged and is being restored before the damage occurred. For the purposes
of this definition, SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT is considered to occur when the
first alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor, or other structural part of the
building commences whether or not that alteration affects the external
dimensions of the structure. The term does not however, include any alteration
to comply with existing state or local health sanitary, building or safety
codes or regulations as well as structures listed in National or State
Registers of Historic Places.
(1973 Code, § 11-511) (Ord. 556, passed 2-7-1985; Ord. 557, passed 3-7-1985;
Ord. 579, passed 5-8-1987)
CHAPTER 153: ZONING CODE
Section
General Provisions
   
153.001   Title
   
153.002   Jurisdiction
   
153.003   Zoning districts
   
153.004   Official Zoning Map
   
153.005   Rules where uncertainty may arise
   
153.006   Definitions
   
153.007   Effective date; publication
Authority
   
153.020   Application of regulations
   
153.021   Relationship to other codes
   
153.022   Overlapping or contradicting rules
   
153.023   Private agreements
   
153.024   Unlawful uses
Nonconforming Uses
   
153.035   Intent
   
153.036   Generally
   
153.037   Nonconforming lots of record
   
153.038   Nonconforming structures
   
153.039   Nonconforming uses
A Agricultural District
   
153.050   Intent
   
153.051   Permitted uses
   
153.052   Conditional uses
   
153.053   Height regulations
   
153.054   Lot regulations
   
153.055   Fences
R-1 Residential District
   
153.070   Intent
   
153.071   Permitted uses
   
153.072   Conditional uses
   
153.073   Intensity of use regulations
   
153.074   Height regulations
   
153.075   Foundations
   
153.076   Yard regulations
   
153.077   Accessory buildings
   
153.078   Fences
   
153.079   Development standards
R-2 Residential District
   
153.090   Intent
   
153.091   Permitted uses
   
153.092   Conditional uses
   
153.093   Intensity of use regulations
   
153.094   Height regulations
   
153.095   Yard regulations
   
153.096   Accessory buildings
   
153.097   Fences
   
153.098   Development standards
R-3 Residential District
   
153.110   Generally
HC Highway Commercial District
   
153.125   Intent
   
153.126   Permitted uses
   
153.127   Conditional uses
   
153.128   Intensity of use regulations
   
153.129   Height regulations
   
153.130   Setback regulations
   
153.131   Accessory buildings
   
153.132   Use limitations
CBD Commercial Business District
   
153.145   Intent
   
153.146   Permitted uses
   
153.147   Conditional uses
   
153.148   Intensity of use regulations
   
153.149   Height regulations
   
153.150   Yard regulations
   
153.151   Use limitations
   
153.152   Fences
I Industrial District
   
153.165   Intent
   
153.166   Permitted uses
   
153.167   Conditional uses
   
153.168   Height regulations
   
153.169   Yard regulations
   
153.170   Fences
P Park and Recreation District
   
153.185   Intent
   
153.186   Permitted uses
   
153.187   Conditional uses
   
153.188   Height regulations
   
153.189   Fences
Supplementary Regulations
   
153.200   Projections from buildings
   
153.201   General exceptions to building height limitations
   
153.202   Parking, storage, or use of major recreational equipment
   
153.203   Parking and storage of unlicensed vehicles
   
153.204   Nuisances
   
153.205   Signs
   
153.206   Home occupations
   
153.207   Temporary uses permitted
   
153.208   Determination of building setback (yard) line
   
153.209   Recreational vehicles
   
153.210   Feedlots
   
153.211   Communication towers
   
153.212   Prohibited structures
Mobile Home Park Regulations
   
153.225   Intent
   
153.226   Development standards
   
153.227   Livestock
Conditional Uses
   
153.240   Purpose
   
153.241   Procedure
   
153.242   Requirements
   
153.243   Additional requirements
Off-Street Parking Requirements
   
153.255   Off-street parking requirements
   
153.256   Interpretation
Planned Unit Development
   
153.270   Eligibility
   
153.271   Purposes
   
153.272   Required information
   
153.273   Use exceptions
   
153.274   Density of regulations
   
153.275   Designation of permanent open space
   
153.276   Minimum lot area in residential planned developments
   
153.277   Building permits
Administration
   
153.290   Zoning Administrator
   
153.291   Building permit required
   
153.292   Application for a building permit
   
153.293   Building permit approval
   
153.294   Certificate of occupancy
   
153.295   Enforcement by Zoning Administrator
Enforcement
   
153.310   Zoning violations
   
153.311   Enforcement procedure
Board of Adjustment
   
153.325   Board of Adjustment; generally
   
153.326   Appeals
   
153.327   Authority
   
153.328   Petitions
Amendments
   
153.340   Generally
   
153.341   Notification
Fees and Charges
   
153.355   Fee schedule
   
153.356   Unpaid fees
Alternative Energy Conversion Systems
   
153.360   Purpose
   
153.361   Net metering
   
153.362   Conditional use
   
153.363   Alternative energy structures
Recreational Vehicle (RV) Parks
   
153.370   Intent
   
153.371   Development standards
 
   
153.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 153.001 TITLE.
   This chapter, and any later amendments to it, shall be known and may be
cited and referred to as the "Bridgeport Zoning Ordinance."
(Ord. passed - -2000)
§ 153.002 JURISDICTION.
   This chapter shall apply to the incorporated area of the city, and that
portion of the area outside the city's incorporated boundary which is within
the one-mile area of planning and zoning jurisdiction set forth by state law,
as may be amended when necessary.
(Ord. passed - -2000)
§ 153.003 ZONING DISTRICTS.
   (A)   For the purposes of this chapter, the city and the area extending one
mile from the corporate limits is hereby divided into the following districts:
      (1)   A Agricultural District;
      (2)   R-1 Residential District;
      (3)   R-2 Residential District;
      (4)   R-3 Residential District;
      (5)   HC Highway Commercial District;
      (6)   CBD Commercial Business District;
      (7)   I Industrial District; and
      (8)   P Park and Recreation District.
   (B)   Any land annexed, or for any other reason is within the zoning
jurisdiction of the city, shall be classified A Agricultural District until
reclassified by amendment.
(Ord. passed - -2000)
§ 153.004 OFFICIAL ZONING MAP.
   (A)   The boundaries of these districts are hereby established as shown on
the Official Zoning Map which, together with all explanatory matter thereon, is
hereby adopted by reference and declared to be a part of this chapter.
   (B)   The Official Zoning Map shall be identified by the signature of the
Mayor, attested to by the City Clerk/Treasurer, and bearing the Seal of the
City under the following words: "This is to certify that this is the Official
Zoning Map referred to in Section 2 of Ordinance #____ of Bridgeport, NE.,"
together with the date of the adoption of this chapter.
   (C)   If, in accordance with the provisions of this chapter, changes are
made in district boundaries or other matter portrayed on the Official Zoning
Map, the changes shall be made on the Official Zoning Map promptly after the
amendment has been approved and adopted by the City Council.
   (D)   Regardless of the existence of purported copies of the Official Zoning
Map which may from time to time be made or published, the Official Zoning Map
which shall be located in the office of the City Clerk/Treasurer shall be the
final authority as to the current zoning status of land, water areas,
buildings, and other structures.
(Ord. passed - -2000)
§ 153.005 RULES WHERE UNCERTAINTY MAY ARISE.
   (A)   Generally. Where uncertainty exists as to the boundaries of districts
as shown on the Official Zoning Map, the following rules shall apply.
   (B)   Specifically.
      (1)   Boundaries indicated as approximately following the center lines or
right-of-way of streets, highways, or alleys shall be construed to follow the
center or right-of-way lines unless otherwise noted.
      (2)   Boundaries indicated as approximately following plotted lot lines
shall be construed as following the lot lines.
      (3)   Boundaries indicated as approximately following city limits shall
be construed as following city limits.
      (4)   Boundaries indicated as following railroad lines shall be construed
to be midway between the main tracks.
      (5)   Boundaries indicated as following shorelines shall be construed to
follow the shore lines, and in the event of a change in the shore line;
boundaries indicated as approximately following the center lines of streams,
rivers, canals, lakes, or other bodies of water shall be construed to follow
the center lines.
      (6)   Boundaries indicated as parallel to or extensions of features
indicated in the foregoing rules shall be so construed. Distances not
specifically indicated on the Official Zoning Map shall be determined by the
scale of the map.
      (7)   Where physical or cultural features existing on the ground are at
variance with those shown on the Official Zoning Map, or in other circumstances
not covered by the foregoing rules, the Board of Adjustment shall interpret the
district boundaries.
(Ord. passed - -2000)
§ 153.006 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACCESSORY BUILDING. A subordinate building which serves a function
customarily incidental to that of the main building. Customary ACCESSORY
BUILDINGS include, but are not limited to, garages, carports, and small storage
sheds.
   ACCESSORY USE. A subordinate use which serves a function customarily
incidental to the main building or use.
   AGRICULTURAL AND RANCHING ACTIVITIES. Activities including the growing of
field crops, sugar beets, fruit, vegetables, nursery stock, and other feed
grains; truck gardening; forest and forest products; horticulture; raising and
grazing of livestock and poultry; animal husbandry; dairy farms; animal
kennels; fur-bearing animal farms; processing and selling of products produced
on the premises, not including, however, the confined feeding of livestock
without the use of straw or other material for bedding, or packing and
rendering plants.
   ADJACENT. Near, close, or abutting; across a street or highway.
   BOARDING HOUSE. A building containing a single dwelling unit and provisions
for not more than five guests, where lodging is provided with or without meals.
   BUILDING. A structure designed or intended for the support, enclosure,
shelter, or protection of persons, animals, or property of any kind.
   BUILDING, HEIGHT OF. The vertical dimension from the average elevation of
the finished lot at the front of the building to:
      (1)   The highest point of a flat roof;
      (2)   The deck line of a mansard roof; or
      (3)   The average height between the eaves and ridge for gable, hip, and
gambrel roofs.
   CHILD CARE CENTER. A facility in the business of providing care to children
as defined by the State Department of Health and Human Services as a CHILD CARE
CENTER.
   COMMUNICATION TOWER. Any structure used to elevate a transmitter for radio,
television, telephone, or any other types of communication.
   COMPREHENSIVE DEVELOPMENT PLAN. A general plan for the improvement of the
city as adopted by the City Council.
   CONFINED LIVESTOCK FEEDING. The process and area used for the enclosing of
livestock whereby the feed provided is not grown within the confined area on
which the livestock are located and involves more than 30 head at a given time.
   DISTRICT. A zoning district established by this chapter.
   DUPLEX. Same as DWELLING, TWO-FAMILY.
   DWELLING. A building or portion thereof designed exclusively for residential
occupancy but not including recreational travel trailers or motor homes not
used as a permanent residence. Attached garages shall be considered part of the
dwelling unit.
   DWELLING, FARM. A dwelling located on a farm or ranch and occupied by the
owner, tenant, or employee of the farm or ranch.
   DWELLING, MULTIPLE-FAMILY. A building or portion thereof designed for
occupancy by three or more families living independent of each other, but under
one roof.
   DWELLING, SINGLE-FAMILY. A detached building designed exclusively for
occupancy by one family.
   DWELLING, TWO-FAMILY. A detached building designed exclusively for occupancy
by two families living independently of each under, under one roof.
   DWELLING UNIT. A group of rooms or a single room with kitchen facilities
occupied or intended for occupancy as separate living quarters by a family or
other group of persons living together, or by a person living alone.
   EXCEPTION. An exception is a use that would not be appropriate generally or
without restriction throughout the zoning district, but which, if controlled as
to number, area, location or relation to the neighborhood, would promote the
public health, safety, welfare, morals, order, comfort, convenience,
appearance, prosperity, or general welfare.
   FAMILY. One or more persons occupying a premises and living as a single
housekeeping unit, as distinguished from a group occupying a boarding house,
lodging house, or hotel.
   FAMILY DAY-CARE HOME. A private residence wherein children are cared for as
defined by the State Department of Health and Human Services as a family child
care home.
   FARM. A tract of land, including structures thereon, utilized for
agricultural purposes containing 20 acres or more which produces $1,000 or more
of farm products each year.
   FEED LOT. Same as CONFINED LIVESTOCK FEEDING.
   FENCE. A tangible barrier or obstruction of any material, or a line of
obstacles above the surface of the ground on each side thereof, interposed
along a line between two portions of land with the purpose or intent, or having
the effect of preventing passage or view across the fence line.
   FRONTAGE. The portion of a parcel of property which abuts a public right-of-
way.
   GROUP HOME. A facility licensed by the state in which persons who are
unrelated by blood, marriage, or adoption reside while receiving therapy,
training, or counseling for purposes of adaptation or rehabilitation.
   HOME OCCUPATION. A business, profession, service or trade conducted for gain
or support entirely within a residential building or its accessory structures.
   JUNK YARD. Any area where waste, junk, discarded, or salvaged materials are
bought, sold, stored, exchanged, baled or packed, disassembled, or handled,
including dismantling or "wrecking" of automobiles or other vehicles or
machinery, house wrecking, and structural steel materials and equipment.
   LOT. A parcel of land shown on a subdivision map or a record of survey map
or on a subdivision recorded in the office of the County Recorder, or a parcel
described by metes and bounds, or a building site in one ownership having an
area for each main building.
   KENNEL. Any place, other than a farm, where five or more animals of one
species or a total of eight or more animals of two or more species are kept or
maintained.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. A moveable or portable dwelling constructed to be towed
on its own chassis, connected to utilities and designed with or without a
permanent foundation for use year around living, which may consist of one or
more units that can be telescoped when towed and expanded later for additional
capacity, or of two or more units, separately towable but designed to be joined
into one integral unit.
   MOBILE HOME. See MANUFACTURED HOME.
   MOBILE HOME PARK. A parcel of land which has been planned and improved for
the placement of two or more mobile homes which conforms to this chapter.
   MODULAR HOME. A structure designed primarily for residential occupancy,
designed and is manufactured in one or more sections in a factory for
installation on a permanent foundation at its final location. Modular homes are
installed on a permanent, load bearing, perimeter support foundation, identical
to the foundations used by conventional, site-builders, designed not to be
moved once it is installed. A modular home does not contain any chassis.
   NONCONFORMING USE. Any use, whether of a building, other structure, lot, or
tract of land, which does not conform to the use regulations for the district
in which the nonconforming use is located, either at the effective date of this
chapter or as a result of subsequent amendments which may be incorporated into
this chapter.
   PARKING SPACE. An area, enclosed or unenclosed, sufficient in size to store
one automobile not less than nine feet wide and 20 feet long, together with a
driveway connecting the parking space with a street, road, or alley and
permitting ingress and egress of that automobile without the necessity of
moving another automobile.
   PERMANENT FOUNDATION. A foundation, constructed of concrete, concrete block,
or equivalent masonry material, extending below the frost line which is
designed to resist frost action and to safely support a building.
   PRE-BUILT HOME. A single-family residence constructed on a site other than
the location where it is to be permanently placed and which is designed for
transportation to the location of its permanent placement, which may be
designed to have a running gear and hitches or tongues removed upon placement
in its permanent position. A pre-built home includes the following, when used
in this section, unless the context clearly indicates otherwise:
      (1)   Manufactured or mobile homes;
      (2)   Modular homes;
      (3)   Pre-fabricated or pre-fab homes;
      (4)   Kit homes;
      (5)   Any home in whole or part that is assembled in a factory or yard
not on the location where it is to be placed either permanently, temporarily,
or must be transported to the development site.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE PARK. Any lot or parcel of land upon which two or more
recreational vehicle sites are located, established, or maintained for
occupancy by recreational vehicles of the general public as temporary living
quarters for recreation or vacation purposes.
   SANITARY LANDFILL. A type of operation in which garbage and refuse or
garbage or refuse is deposited by a plan on a specified portion of land, is
compacted by force applied by mechanical equipment, and then is covered by
compacted suitable covering material to a depth of at least six to 12 inches
over individual cells of garbage and refuse or garbage or refuse, which are
closed at the end of each day, and to a depth of at least 24 inches over the
finished landfill.
   SIGN. Any device containing elements or symbols, organized or related, which
is designed to inform or to attract the attention of persons not on the
premises on which the sign is located, provided, however, that mailbox numbers
or names, government flags or insignia, legal notices, governmental
identification, information or directional signs shall not be included in the
application of these regulations.
   SIGN, OFF-SITE. A sign other than an on-site sign and includes an outdoor
advertising sign, or device and billboard not relating in its subject matter to
the use or activity of the premises on which the sign is located.
   SIGN, ON-SITE. A sign relating in its subject matter to the premises on
which it is located, or to the products, accommodations, services, or
activities on the premises, or to the construction, sale, lease, or rental of
the premises. ON-SITE SIGNS do not include outdoor advertising signs or
billboards.
   STRUCTURAL ALTERATIONS. Any change in the supporting members of a building,
such as bearing walls or partitions, columns, beams, or girders, or any
complete rebuilding of the roof or the exterior walls. For the purpose of this
definition, the following shall not be considered a STRUCTURAL ALTERATION:
      (1)   Attachment of new facade where structural supports are not changed;
      (2)   Addition of fire escapes where structural supports are not changed;
      (3)   New windows; and/or
      (4)   Repair or replacement of nonstructural members.
   STRUCTURE. Anything constructed or erected with a fixed location on the
ground, or attached to something having a fixed location on the ground. Among
other things, STRUCTURES include buildings, mobile homes, and walls, but not
signs or fences as otherwise defined herein.
   TRAILER, TRAVEL. A vehicular, portable structure built on a chassis,
designed o be used as a temporary dwelling for travel, recreational, and
vacation use and is permanently identified TRAVEL TRAILER by the manufacturer
on the trailer. When factory-equipped for the road, it has a body width not
exceeding eight feet, and body length not exceeding 32 feet.
   YARD. A required open space which is unobstructed from the ground upward,
except as otherwise provided in this chapter.
   YARD, FRONT. An open space extending across the full width of the lot, the
depth of which is the distance between the street right-of-way and the front of
the primary building.
   YARD, REAR. An open extending across the full width of the lot, the depth of
which is the distance between a rear lot line and the rear of the primary
building.
   YARD, SIDE. An open space extending and including all open space between the
front yard and the rear yard.
(Ord. passed - -2000; Ord. 702, passed 3-8-2001; Ord. 721, passed 5-8-2003;
Ord. 849, passed 4-5-2012; Ord. 861, passed 12-13-2012)
§ 153.007 EFFECTIVE DATE; PUBLICATION.
   (A)   Effective date. This chapter shall be in full force and effect after
its passage, approval, and publication, as provided by law.
   (B)   Publication. Publication of this chapter shall be in pamphlet form.
(Ord. passed - -2000)
AUTHORITY
§ 153.020 APPLICATION OF REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Generally. The regulations set by this chapter within each district
shall be minimum regulations and shall apply uniformly to each class or kin of
structure or land, and particularly, except as hereinafter provided.
   (B)   Specifically.
      (1)   No building, structure, or land shall hereafter be used or
occupied, and no building or structure or part thereof shall hereafter be
erected, constructed, reconstructed, relocated, moved, or structurally altered
unless in conformity with all of the regulations herein specified for the
district in which it is located.
      (2)   No building or other structure shall hereafter be erected or
altered to exceed the height; to accommodate or house a greater number of
families; to occupy a greater percentage of lot area; or to have a narrower or
smaller rear yard, front yard, side yard, or other open space; than herein
required, or in any other manner contrary to the provisions of this chapter.
(3)   No part of a yard, or other open space, or off-street parking or loading
space required for or in connection with any building for the purpose of
complying with this chapter shall be included as part of a yard, open space, or
off-street parking or loading space similarly required for any other building.
      (4)   No yard or lot existing at the time of passage of this chapter
shall be reduced in dimension or area below the minimum requirements
established by this chapter.
      (5)   No water or sewer facility shall be constructed, altered,
connected, or used unless in conformity with all the regulations herein
specified.
(Ord. passed - -2000) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.021 RELATIONSHIP TO OTHER CODES.
   The requirements and regulations of this chapter are in addition to those
imposed in ordinances pertaining to building in the fire limits, and to those
imposed in uniform housing, plumbing, electrical, and fire codes, and shall in
no instance reduce or eliminate standards or requirements made by any other
ordinances.
(Ord. passed - -2000)
§ 153.022 OVERLAPPING OR CONTRADICTING RULES.
   Where the conditions imposed by any provision of these regulations upon the
use of land or structures are either more restrictive or less restrictive than
comparable conditions imposed by any other provision of these regulations or
any provision of any other law, ordinance, rule, or regulation of any kind, the
regulations which are more restrictive shall govern unless specifically
excepted.
(Ord. passed - -2000)
§ 153.023 PRIVATE AGREEMENTS.
   (A)   These regulations are not intended to abrogate, annul, or otherwise
interfere with any easement, covenant, or other private agreement or legal
relationship.
   (B)   Where the provisions of these regulations are more restrictive (or
impose higher standards or requirements) than the easements, covenants, or
other private agreements or legal relationships, the provisions of these
regulations shall govern.
(Ord. passed - -2000)
§ 153.024 UNLAWFUL USES.
   The adoption of these regulations shall not be interpreted as retroactively
legalizing a use or structure which was illegal under previous law.
(Ord. passed - -2000)
NONCONFORMING USES
§ 153.035 INTENT.
   (A)   Within the districts established by this chapter or amendments that
may later be adopted, there exists lots, structures, and uses of land and
structures which were lawful before this chapter was passed or amended, but
which would be prohibited, regulated, or restricted under the terms of this
chapter or future amendment.
   (B)   It is the intent of this chapter to permit these nonconformities to
continue until they are removed, but not to encourage their survival. The uses
are declared by this chapter to be incompatible with permitted uses in the
districts involved. It is further the intent of this chapter that
nonconformities shall not be enlarged upon, expanded, or extended, and not be
used as grounds for adding other structures or uses prohibited elsewhere in the
same district.
   (C)   A nonconforming use of a structure, a nonconforming use of land, or a
nonconforming use of a structure and land shall not be extended or enlarged
after passage of this chapter by attachment on a building or premises of
additional signs intended to be seen from off of the premises, or by the
addition of other uses of a nature which would be prohibited generally in the
district involved.
   (D)   To avoid undue hardship, nothing in this chapter shall be deemed to
require a change in the plans, construction, or designated use of any building
in which actual construction was lawfully begun prior to the effective date of
adoption or amendment of this chapter and upon which actual construction has
been diligently carried on. ACTUAL CONSTRUCTION is hereby defined to include
the placing of construction materials in permanent positions and fastened in a
permanent manner, except that where demolition or removal shall be deemed to be
actual construction, provided that work shall be diligently carried on until
completion of the building involved.
(Ord. passed - -2000) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.036 GENERALLY.
   Nonconforming uses are of three types:
   (A)   Nonconforming lot of record. A lot which is part of a recorded
subdivision or a parcel of land, the deed to which was recorded prior to the
adoption of these regulations, and the lot does not comply with the lot area or
width requirements of the district in which it is located;
   (B)   Nonconforming structure. A structure that existed prior to the
adoption of these regulations that does not comply with the lot coverage,
height, or yard requirements which are applicable to structures in the zoning
district in which it is located; and
   (C)   Nonconforming uses. A use of a structure or of land that lawfully
existed prior to the adoption of these regulations which does not comply with
the use regulations applicable in the zoning district in which it is located.
(Ord. passed - -2000)
§ 153.037 NONCONFORMING LOTS OF RECORD.
   The Zoning Board of Adjustment may issue a building permit for a
nonconforming lot of record, provided that:
   (A)   The lot is shown by a recorded plat or deed to have been owned
separately and individually from adjoining tracts of land at a time when the
creation of a lot of the size and width at that location would have been
prohibited by any zoning regulations;
   (B)   The lot has remained in separate and individual ownership from
adjoining tracts of land continuously during the entire time that the creation
of the lot has been prohibited by any zoning regulations;
   (C)   The lot can meet all yard regulations for the district in which it is
located; and
   (D)   The lot can meet minimum sanitation requirements by connecting a
sanitary sewer line.
(Ord. passed - -2000)
§ 153.038 NONCONFORMING STRUCTURES.
   (A)   Authority to continue. Any existing structure which does not comply
with the applicable intensity of use regulations and/or the applicable yard and
height regulations may be continued, so long as it remains otherwise lawful.
   (B)   Enlargement, repair, and alterations. Any nonconforming structure may
be enlarged, maintained, repaired, or remodeled, provided, however, that no
enlargement, maintenance, repair, or remodeling shall either create any
additional nonconformity or increase the degree of existing nonconformity of
all or any part of the structure. Notwithstanding the above, a porch which is
covered by a roof which extends into a front setback area may be enclosed but
not in excess of the area covered by the existing roof.
   (C)   Damage or destruction. In the event that any nonconforming structure
is damaged or destroyed, by any means, to the extent of more than 60% of its
replacement value, the structure shall not be restored unless it shall then
conform to the regulations for the zoning district in which it is located. When
a structure is damaged to the extent of 60% or less, no repairs or restoration
shall be made unless a building permit is obtained within six months and
restoration is actually begun one year after the date of the partial
destruction and is diligently pursued to completion.
   (D)   Moving. No nonconforming structure shall be moved in whole or in part
for any distance whatever, to any other location on the same or any other lot
unless the entire structure shall thereafter conform to the regulations of the
zoning district in which it is located after being moved.
(Ord. passed - -2000) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.039 NONCONFORMING USES.
   (A)   Authority to continue. Any lawfully existing use of part or all of a
structure or any lawfully existing use of land which existed prior to the
adoption of these regulations and does not comply with these requirements of
these regulations may be continued, so long as otherwise lawful and so long as
it is not specified to be terminated by these regulations.
   (B)   Ordinary repair and maintenance.
      (1)   Normal maintenance and incidental repair or replacement,
installation or relocation of non-bearing partitions, non-bearing walls,
fixtures, wiring, or plumbing, may be performed on any structure that is
devoted in whole or in part to a nonconforming use.
      (2)   Nothing in these regulations shall be deemed to prevent the
strengthening or restoring to a safe condition of a structure in accordance
with an order of a public official who is charged with protecting the public
safety and who declares the structure to be unsafe and orders its restoration
to a safe condition.
   (C)   Extension. A nonconforming use shall not be extended, expanded,
enlarged, or increased either in land area or floor area.
   (D)   Enlargement. No structure that is devoted in whole or in part to a
nonconforming use shall be enlarged or added to in any manner unless the use
shall then conform to the regulations of district in which it is located.
   (E)   Damage or destruction. In the event that any structure that is devoted
in whole or in part to a nonconforming use is damaged or destroyed, by any
means, to the extent of more than 60% of its replacement value, the structure
shall not be restored unless the structure and its use shall then conform to
all regulations of the zoning district in which it is located. When the damage
or destruction is 60% or less, no repairs or restoration shall be made unless a
building permit is obtained and restoration is actually begun within one year
after the date of the partial destruction and is diligently pursued to
completion.
   (F)   Moving. No structure that is devoted in whole or in part to a
nonconforming use and no nonconforming use of land shall be moved in whole or
in part for any distance whatever to any location on the same or any other lot,
unless the entire structure and its use and the use of the land shall then
conform to all regulations of the zoning district in which it is located after
being so moved. Manufactured homes and mobile homes may be replaced on an
existing utility hookup outside a manufactured home park.
   (G)   Change in use. If no external structural alterations are made which
will expand the area or change the dimensions of the existing structure, any
nonconforming use of a structure or premises may be changed to another
nonconforming use, provided that the City Council, after receiving the
recommendation of the Planning Commission, shall find that the proposed use is
as appropriate or more appropriate to the district than the existing
nonconforming use. In permitting a change, the City Council, after receiving
the recommendation of the Planning Commission, may require conditions and
safeguards to protect surrounding areas and properties. Once the use has
changed, it may no longer be returned to the original use or any other less
appropriate use.
   (H)   Nonconforming accessory uses. No use which is accessory to a principal
nonconforming use shall continue after the principal use shall cease or
terminate unless the accessory use is permitted in the district.
   (I)   Nonconforming residential uses. Any structure which is devoted to a
residential use and which is located in a HC or CBD District may be remodeled,
expanded, or enlarged. The structure shall not be used to accommodate a greater
number of dwelling or lodging units than the structure accommodated prior to
the work.
   (J)   Change of ownership. A nonconforming use may be continued, but not
increased, by a new owner of the property.
(Ord. passed - -2000) Penalty, see §
153.999
A AGRICULTURAL DISTRICT
§ 153.050 INTENT.
   The intent of this District is to serve the agricultural community, protect
farm land, protect land values, protect wellfields, and serve the needs of the
property owners in this District. It is the intention to only restrict in "A"
that which is necessary to protect the health, safety, and general welfare of
the city and its surrounding area.
(Ord. passed - -2000)
§ 153.051 PERMITTED USES.
   (A)   Generally. In District A, buildings, structures, land, and premises
shall hereafter be allowed to be erected, constructed, reconstructed, moved, or
altered as long as they are to be used for a permitted use.
   (B)   Specifically.
      (1)   Raising of field crops and horticulture, nurseries, and
greenhouses;
      (2)   The grazing of livestock;
      (3)   One single-family dwelling per legal lot;
      (4)   Church;
      (5)   Public park, playground, golf course, and other recreational uses;
      (6)   Home occupations in accordance with §
153.206;
      (7)   Cemeteries;
      (8)   Public utilities;
      (9)   Irrigation facilities;
      (10)   Accessory buildings and uses customarily incidental to the listed
permitted uses;
      (11)   Value-added agriculture facilities;
      (12)   Agriculture processing facilities;
      (13)   Two residential homes shall be allowed to be constructed on each
lot on real estate zoned as A Agricultural District; and
      (14)   Commercial or private storage in accordance with §§
153.200 through
153.211.
(Ord. passed - -2000; Ord. 766, passed 11-8-2007; Ord. 771, passed 1-10-2008;
Ord. 1014, passed 2-13-2025) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.052 CONDITIONAL USES.
   The following conditional uses may be permitted, subject to approval
procedures outlined in §§
153.240 through
153.243:
   (A)   Private country clubs, recreation areas, golf courses, tennis courts,
swimming pools, and accessory recreational uses;
   (B)   Kennels;
   (C)   Archery, trap, and skeet-shooting ranges;
   (D)   Solid waste, disposal, and processing sites which include
incinerators, compactors, transfer stations, recycling, and other similar
functions;
   (E)   Communication towers, in accordance with §
153.211;
   (F)   Mobile home parks, in accordance with §§
153.225 through
153.227; and
   (G)   Uses similar to the uses listed above as long as the use complies with
the general intent of the A Agricultural District.
(Ord. passed - -2000) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.053 HEIGHT REGULATIONS.
   Any building or structure hereafter erected or altered may be erected to any
height which is not in conflict with any other existing city ordinance, state,
or federal law.
(Ord. passed - -2000) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.054 LOT REGULATIONS.
   Minimum lot size shall be 20 acres.
(Ord. passed - -2000) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.055 FENCES.
   (A)   Generally. Except as otherwise specifically provided in other codes
and regulations, the following regulations shall apply to the construction of
fences.
   (B)   Specifically.
      (1)   No fence shall be constructed which will constitute a traffic
hazard.
      (2)   Fences may be constructed on the property line.
(Ord. passed - -2000) Penalty, see §
153.999
R-1 RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT
§ 153.070 INTENT.
   The intent of this District is to provide an area for development in
residential neighborhoods, including those uses which reinforce residential
neighborhoods.
(Ord. passed - -2000)
§ 153.071 PERMITTED USES.
   (A)   Generally. In District R-1, no building, structure, land, or premises
shall be used and no building or structure shall be hereafter erected,
constructed, reconstructed, moved, or altered, except for one or more of the
following uses:
   (B)   Specifically.
      (1)   One single-family dwelling unit per legal lot;
      (2)   Multi-family dwellings consisting of two or three units;
      (3)   Boarding houses;
      (4)   Churches and temples of worship;
      (5)   Schools and colleges;
      (6)   Family child care homes;
      (7)   Community Center buildings;
      (8)   Municipal utilities and buildings;
      (9)   Hospitals and nursing homes;
      (10)   Municipal recreation buildings, playgrounds, and parks;
      (11)   Public libraries;
      (12)   Home occupations, in accordance with §
153.206; and
      (13)   Accessory buildings and uses customarily incidental to the listed
permitted uses.
(Ord. passed - -2000) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.072 CONDITIONAL USES.
   (A)   Generally. The following conditional uses may be permitted, subject to
approval procedures outlined in §§
153.240 through
153.243 of this chapter.
   (B)   Specifically.
      (1)   Commercial or private storage in accordance with §§
153.200 through
153.211;
      (2)   Pre-built homes;
      (3)   Multi-family dwellings with four or more units;
      (4)   Child day-care centers;
      (5)   Public buildings or uses not listed as a permitted use;
      (6)   Group homes;
      (7)   Funeral homes; and
      (8)   Uses similar to the uses listed above, as long as the use complies
with the general intent of the R-1 District.
(Ord. passed - -2000; Ord. 861, passed 12-13-2012) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.073 INTENSITY OF USE REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Minimum lot area shall be 5,000 square feet.
   (B)   Minimum lot width shall be 50 feet.
(Ord. passed - -2000) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.074 HEIGHT REGULATIONS.
   Maximum structure height shall be 35 feet.
(Ord. passed - -2000) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.075 FOUNDATIONS.
   All dwellings shall be built on a permanent foundation.
(Ord. passed - -2000) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.076 YARD REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Front yard.
      (1)   The front yard shall not be less than 15 feet from the front lot
line.
      (2)   The front yard requirement shall be adjusted in the following
cases.
         (a)   If there are already two or more homes existing on a block with
the same street frontage, a new home can not have a front yard smaller than any
of the other aforementioned homes on that block.
         (b)   In case of corner lots with more than two street frontages,
street frontage setback requirements shall be subject to the following.
            1.   The front yard shall be a minimum of 25 feet from the front
yard lot line.
            2.   The side yard with street frontage shall be a minimum of five
feet from the side lot line, except that no street frontage side yard shall be
required when the following conditions are met:
               a.   No structures or accessory buildings may have egress, by
door, opening, or cargo door, onto the side yard; and
               b.   Any structures or buildings may not obstruct the view of
traffic as determined by the Director of Public Works.
         (c)   With regard to homes and/or other conforming or conditional use
structures with a front yard that is facing north or south, if there is already
one or more existing structures on a block with the same street frontage, a new
structure cannot have a front yard smaller than any of the other aforementioned
structures on that block.
   (B)   Side yard. Not less than five feet from lot line; and
   (C)   Rear yard. Not less than 25 feet between the primary structure and
rear lot line; however, accessory structures may be constructed on the rear lot
line.
(Ord. passed - -2000; Ord. 716, passed 11-8-2001; Ord. 755, passed 10-5-2006;
Ord. 873, passed 5-9-2013; Ord. 930, passed 11-14-2017; Ord. 941, passed 6-14-
2018) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.077 ACCESSORY BUILDINGS.
   (A)   No accessory uses, buildings, or structures shall be erected in any
required front or side yard.
   (B)   No accessory building shall be erected closer than five feet from any
other building.
   (C)   All accessory buildings on a lot collectively shall not cover more
than 50% of the required rear yard.
   (D)   No accessory building shall be constructed upon a lot until the
construction of the main building has been started.
   (E)   No accessory building shall be used for dwelling purposes.
   (F)   Accessory storage buildings shall be permanently anchored.
   (G)   Accessory buildings shall not exceed 18 feet in height.
(Ord. passed - -2000) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.078 FENCES.
   (A)   Generally. Except as otherwise specifically provided in other codes
and regulations, the following regulations shall apply to the construction of
fences.
   (B)   Specifically.
      (1)   No fence shall be constructed which will constitute a traffic
hazard.
      (2)   No fence shall be constructed in a manner or be of a design as to
be hazardous or dangerous to persons or animals.
      (3)   No person shall erect or maintain any fence which shall adversely
affect the public health, safety, and welfare.
      (4)   No fence shall exceed three and one-half feet in height in front
yards and no fence shall exceed six feet in height in side or rear yards.
      (5)   Fences may be constructed on the property line as long as the fence
complies with all street, utility, and other applicable easements.
      (6)   Any fence that falls into disrepair shall be either repaired or
moved within 30 days of notification by the city.
(Ord. passed - -2000) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.079 DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS.
   (A)   Generally. Any single-family dwelling allowed as a permitted use shall
comply to the following standards.
   (B)   Specifically.
      (1)   The dwelling shall have no less than 900 square feet of floor area.
      (2)   The dwelling shall have no less than an 18-foot exterior width.
      (3)   The roof shall be pitched with a minimum vertical rise of two and
one-half inches for each 12 inches of horizontal run.
      (4)   The exterior material shall be of a color, material, and scale
comparable with those existing in residential site-built, single-family
construction.
      (5)   The dwelling shall have a nonreflective roof material which is or
simulates asphalt or wood shingles, tile, or rock.
      (6)   No dwelling shall have wheels, axles, transporting lights, and
removable towing apparatus.
      (7)   All pre-built homes developed within this district must be built
with either a crawl space or basement beneath it, or any combination thereof.
The exterior walls of the pre-built house must be supporting walls and must be
permanently anchored to the exterior walls of the crawl space and/or basement.
It must meet the minimum standards set by the city adopted building codes at
the time of installation.
(Ord. 702, passed 3-8-2001; Ord. 862, passed 12-13-2012 ) Penalty, see §
153.999
R-2 RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT
§ 153.090 INTENT.
   The intent of this District is to provide an area for development in
residential neighborhoods, including those uses which reinforce residential
neighborhoods.
(Ord. passed - -2000)
§ 153.091 PERMITTED USES.
   (A)   Generally. In District R-2, no building, structure, land, or premises
shall be used and no building or structure shall be hereafter erected,
constructed, reconstructed, moved, or altered, except for one or more of the
following uses.
   (B)   Specifically.
      (1)   One-family dwellings;
      (2)   Mobile homes;
      (3)   Multi-family dwellings consisting of two or three units;
      (4)   Boarding houses;
      (5)   Churches and temples of worship;
      (6)   Schools and colleges;
      (7)   Day-care homes;
      (8)   Community Center buildings;
      (9)   Municipal utilities and buildings;
      (10)   Hospitals and nursing homes;
      (11)   Municipal recreation buildings, playgrounds, and parks;
      (12)   Public libraries;
      (13)   Home occupations, in accordance with §
153.206;
      (14)   Accessory buildings and uses customarily incidental to the listed
permitted uses.
      (15)   Commercial or private storage in accordance with §§
153.200 through
153.211.
(Ord. passed - -2000; Ord. 953, passed 6-13-2019) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.092 CONDITIONAL USES.
   (A)   Generally. The following conditional uses may be permitted subject to
approval procedures outlined in §§
153.240 through
153.243.
   (B)   Specifically.
      (1)   Multi-family dwellings with four or more units;
      (2)   Day-care centers;
      (3)   Public buildings or uses not listed as a permitted use;
      (4)   Group homes;
      (5)   Funeral homes;
      (6)   Campgrounds;
      (7)   Cabins, tent dwellings, buildings and structures commonly utilized
in campgrounds, and other similar uses associated uses conducive to camping and
similar recreational activities; and
      (8)   Uses similar to the uses listed above, as long as the use complies
with the general intent of the R-2 District.
(Ord. passed - -2000; Ord. 953, passed 6-13-2019) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.093 INTENSITY OF USE REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Minimum lot area shall be 5,000 square feet.
   (B)   Minimum lot width shall be 50 feet.
(Ord. passed - -2000) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.094 HEIGHT REGULATIONS.
   Maximum structure height shall be 35 feet.
(Ord. passed - -2000) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.095 YARD REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Front yard.
      (1)   The front yard shall not be less than 25 feet from the front lot
line.
      (2)   The front yard requirement shall be adjusted in the following
cases.
         (a)   If there are already two or more homes existing on a block with
the same street frontage, a new home can not have a front yard smaller than any
of the other aforementioned homes on that block.
         (b)   In cases of corner lots with more than two street frontages,
front yard requirements shall be subject to the following limitations.
            1.   At least one front yard shall be 25 feet from the respective
lot line.
            2.   The other front yard on the lot shall be at least ten feet
from the respective lot line.
            3.   Neither front yard can be less than any other front yard along
the same street on that same block
         (c)   With regard to homes and/or other conforming or conditional use
structures with a front yard that is facing north or south, if there is already
one or more existing structures on a block with the same street frontage, a new
structure cannot have a front yard smaller than any of the other aforementioned
structures on that block.
   (B)   Side yard. Not less than five feet from lot line; and
   (C)   Rear yard. Not less than 25 feet between the primary structure and
rear lot line; not less than five feet between rear lot line and an accessory
structure; however, accessory structures less than 150 square feet may be
constructed on the rear lot line.
(Ord. passed - -2000; Ord. 716, passed 11-8-2001; Ord. 930, passed 11-14-2017;
Ord. 941, passed 6-14-2018) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.096 ACCESSORY BUILDINGS.
   (A)   No accessory uses, buildings, or structures shall be erected in any
required front or side yard.
   (B)   No accessory building shall be erected closer than five feet from any
other building.
   (C)   All accessory buildings on a lot collectively shall not cover more
than 50% of the required rear yard.
   (D)   No accessory building shall be constructed upon a lot until the
construction of the main building has been started.
   (E)   No accessory building shall be used for dwelling purposes.
   (F)   Accessory storage buildings shall be permanently anchored.
   (G)   Accessory buildings shall not exceed 18 feet in height.
(Ord. passed - -2000) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.097 FENCES.
   (A)   Generally. Except as otherwise specifically provided in other codes
and regulations, the following regulations shall apply to the construction of
fences.
   (B)   Specifically.
      (1)   No fence shall be constructed which will constitute a traffic
hazard.
      (2)   No fence shall be constructed in a manner or be of a design as to
be hazardous or dangerous to persons or animals.
      (3)   No person shall erect or maintain any fence which shall adversely
affect the public health, safety, and welfare.
      (4)   No fence shall exceed three and one-half feet in height in front
yards and no fence shall exceed six feet in height in side or rear yards.
      (5)   Fences may be constructed on the property line as long as the fence
complies with all street, utility, and other applicable easements.
(Ord. passed - -2000) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.098 DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS.
   (A)   Generally. Any single-family dwelling allowed as a permitted use shall
comply with the following standards.
   (B)   Specifically.
      (1)   The dwelling shall have no less than 900 square feet of floor area.
      (2)   The roof shall be pitched with a minimum vertical rise of two and
one-half inches for each 12 inches of horizontal run.
(Ord. 862, passed 12-13-2012)
R-3 RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT
§ 153.110 GENERALLY.
   (A)   An R-3 Residential District is hereby created, with all intents,
permitted uses, conditional uses, intensity regulations, height regulations,
foundation requirements, accessory building regulations, fence regulations, and
development standards as in the R-1 Residential District.
   (B)   The R-3 District shall have a front yard not less than 15 feet; with
all other yard regulations being consistent with the R-1 District.
(Ord. 768, passed 11-8-2007) Penalty, see §
153.999
HC HIGHWAY COMMERCIAL DISTRICT
§ 153.125 INTENT.
   The intent of this District is to provide a zone which will accommodate the
broad range of retail shopping and service activities normally serving tourist
and highway commercial activities. This District will also accommodate public
facilitates and commercial activities not normally associated with a Central
Business District.
(Ord. passed - -2000)
§ 153.126 PERMITTED USES.
   (A)   Generally. In District HC, no building, structure, land, or premises
shall be used and no building or structure shall be hereafter erected,
constructed, reconstructed, moved, or altered, except for one or more of the
following uses.
   (B)   Specifically.
      (1)   Automobile and truck service and repair establishments;
      (2)   Gasoline service station;
      (3)   Gift and curio shop;
      (4)   Motels and hotels and other places which provide lodging;
      (5)   Restaurants, including drive-in eating establishment and café;
      (6)   Businesses which provide personal services;
      (7)   Businesses which sell retail merchandise;
      (8)   Businesses and structures which sell or store wholesale
merchandise;
      (9)   Public utilities;
      (10)   Public buildings and facilities;
      (11)   Offices;
      (12)   Accessory buildings and uses customarily incidental to the listed
permitted uses; and
      (13)   Automobile sales by dealers licensed by the State Department of
Motor Vehicles.
(Ord. passed - -2000; Ord. 722, passed 5-8-2003) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.127 CONDITIONAL USES.
   (A)   Generally. The following conditional uses may be permitted, subject to
approval procedures outlined in §§
153.240 through
153.243.
   (B)   Specifically.
      (1)   Recreational vehicle parks;
      (2)   Communication towers; and
      (3)   Other uses associated with tourist or highway commercial
activities, as long as the uses are similar to the intent of the HC District.
(Ord. passed - -2000; Ord. 721, passed 5-8-2003; Ord. 728, passed 2-5-2004)
Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.128 INTENSITY OF USE REGULATIONS.
   (A)   There is no minimum lot area.
   (B)   There is no minimum lot width.
(Ord. passed - -2000)
§ 153.129 HEIGHT REGULATIONS.
   Maximum structure height shall be 35 feet.
(Ord. passed - -2000) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.130 SETBACK REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Front yard setback.
      (1)   The front yard setback shall not be less than 25 feet from the
front lot line.
      (2)   The front yard setback requirement shall be adjusted in the
following cases.
         (a)   If there are already two or more structures existing on a block
with the same street frontage, a new structure can not have a front yard
setback smaller than any of the other aforementioned structures on that block.
         (b)   In cases where corner lots with more than two street frontages,
front yard setback requirements shall be subject to the following limitations.
            1.   At least one front yard setback shall be 25 feet from front
lot line.
            2.   The other front yard setback on the lot shall be at least ten
feet from front lot line.
            3.   Neither front yard setback can be less than any other front
yard setback along the same street on that same block.
   (B)   Side yard setback. Not less than five feet; and
   (C)   Rear yard setback. Not less than 15 feet between the rear lot line and
the primary structure; not less than five feet between the rear lot line and an
accessory structure.
(Ord. passed - -2000) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.131 ACCESSORY BUILDINGS.
   (A)   No accessory uses, buildings, or structures shall be erected in any
required front or side yard, with the exception of pertinent structures which
are necessary to the function of a business such as gasoline pumps as long as
the structures are not within the required front yard.
   (B)   No accessory building shall be erected closer than five feet from any
other building.
   (C)   No accessory building shall be used for dwelling purposes.
   (D)   Accessory storage buildings shall be permanently anchored.
   (E)   Fences may be constructed on the property line as long as the fence
complies with all street, utility, and other applicable easements.
(Ord. passed - -2000) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.132 USE LIMITATIONS.
   (A)   No storage outside of an enclosed area, except the display of
merchandise for sale to the public, shall be permitted.
   (B)   Exterior lighting fixtures shall be shaded so that no direct light is
cast upon any residential property and so that no glare is visible to any
traffic on any public street.
   (C)   Any highway commercial property that borders a residential property on
its rear or side yards shall furnish and install a six-foot high fence between
the commercial and residential uses unless a waiver is received from all of the
affected residential landowners.
(Ord. passed - -2000) Penalty, see §
153.999
CBD COMMERCIAL BUSINESS DISTRICT
§ 153.145 INTENT.
   The intent of this District is to provide a zone which will accommodate the
broad range of retail shopping, offices, and service activities normally found
in the Central Business District of a city.
(Ord. passed - -2000)
§ 153.146 PERMITTED USES.
   (A)   Generally. In District CBD, no building, structure, land, or premises
shall be used and no building or structure shall be hereafter erected,
constructed, reconstructed, moved, or altered, except for one or more of the
following uses.
   (B)   Specifically.
      (1)   Retail stores;
      (2)   Businesses which provide personal services, including gas stations;
      (3)   Businesses and structures which sell or store wholesale
merchandise;
      (4)   Restaurants;
      (5)   Offices;
      (6)   Public and/or governmental buildings and facilities;
      (7)   Hotels, motels, and other places which provide lodging;
      (8)   Utility service facilities;
      (9)   Auto sales and car washes;
      (10)   Churches; and
      (11)   Accessory buildings and uses customarily incidental to the listed
permitted uses.
(Ord. passed - -2000; Ord. 790, passed - -2009) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.147 CONDITIONAL USES.
   (A)   Generally. The following conditional uses may be permitted subject to
approval procedures outlined in §§
153.240 through
153.243.
   (B)   Specifically.
      (1)   Grain elevators;
      (2)   Grain storage facilities;
      (3)   Light manufacturing or fabrication establishments which are not
noxious or offensive by reason of vibration, noise, dust, fumes, gas, odor, or
smoke;
      (4)   Commercial storage units; and
      (5)   Uses similar to the uses listed above, as long as the use complies
with the general intent of the CBD District.
(Ord. passed - -2000) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.148 INTENSITY OF USE REGULATIONS.
   (A)   There is no minimum lot area.
   (B)   There is no minimum lot width.
(Ord. passed - -2000)
§ 153.149 HEIGHT REGULATIONS.
   There is no maximum structure height.
(Ord. passed - -2000)
§ 153.150 YARD REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Front yard. The equivalent setback of other existing buildings on the
same block, unless no other buildings exist on the same block, in which case
the front yard shall be 25 feet;
   (B)   Side yard. None; and
   (C)   Rear yard. None.
(Ord. passed - -2000) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.151 USE LIMITATIONS.
   (A)   No storage outside of an enclosed or fenced area, except the display
of merchandise for sale to the public, shall be permitted.
   (B)   Exterior lighting fixtures shall be shaded so that no direct light is
cast upon any residential property and so that no glare is visible to any
traffic on any public street.
(Ord. passed - -2000) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.152 FENCES.
   (A)   Generally. Except as otherwise specifically provided in other codes
and regulations, the following regulations shall apply to the construction of
fences.
   (B)   Specifically.
      (1)   No fence shall be constructed which will constitute a traffic
hazard.
      (2)   No fence shall be constructed in a manner or be of a design as to
be hazardous or dangerous to persons or animals.
      (3)   No person shall erect or maintain any fence which shall adversely
affect the public health, safety, and welfare.
      (4)   Fences may be constructed on the property line as long as the fence
complies with all street, utility, and other applicable easements.
(Ord. passed - -2000) Penalty, see §
153.999
I INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT
§ 153.165 INTENT.
   The intent of this District is to provide for those activities which require
more intense uses of land.
(Ord. passed - -2000)
§ 153.166 PERMITTED USES.
   (A)   Generally. In District I, no building, structure, land, or premises
shall be hereafter erected, constructed, reconstructed, moved, or altered,
except for one or more of the following uses.
   (B)   Specifically.
      (1)   Any use allowed as a permitted use in the HC and CBD Districts;
      (2)   Contractor equipment storage yard;
      (3)   Grain elevators;
      (4)   Grain storage facilities;
      (5)   Raising field crops and horticulture;
      (6)   Light manufacturing or fabrication establishments which are not
noxious or offensive by reason of vibration, noise, dust, fumes, gas, odor, or
smoke;
      (7)   Manufacturing or storage of bulk oil or gas;
      (8)   Ready-mixed concrete and asphalt mix plants;
      (9)   Commercial storage units;
      (10)   Public utilities; and
      (11)   Accessory buildings and uses customarily incidental to the listed
permitted uses.
(Ord. passed - -2000) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.167 CONDITIONAL USES.
   (A)   Generally. The following conditional uses may be permitted subject to
approval procedures outlined in §§
153.240 through
153.243.
   (B)   Specifically.
      (1)   Kennels;
      (2)   Communication towers, in accordance with §
153.211;
      (3)   Rail terminals;
      (4)   Auto wrecking yards, junk yards, salvage yards, and scrap
processing plants, however, subject to the following:
         (a)   Located on a tract of land at least 300 feet from a residential
district zone;
         (b)   The area shall be screened from public view and access by solid
or semi-solid fence having a minimum height of six feet. An adjacent landowner
may give written consent to a fence which separates the conditional use
property from the adjacent landowner's property, that deviates from this
fencing requirement. Said deviation shall be described by the parties and
recorded against the adjacent property affected by the consented deviation. A
deviation as set forth herein shall only be permissible as to the consenting
adjacent property, and shall not apply to any other non-consenting adjacent
property; and
         (c)   No junk shall be loaded, unloaded, or otherwise placed, either
temporarily or permanently, outside the screened area or within the public
right-of-way.
      (5)   Uses similar to the uses listed above as long as the use complies
with the general intent of the I District.
(Ord. passed - -2000; Ord. 917, passed 3-9-2017) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.168 HEIGHT REGULATIONS.
   Any building or structure hereafter erected or altered may be erected to any
height which is not in conflict with any other existing city ordinance, or
state or federal law.
(Ord. passed - -2000) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.169 YARD REGULATIONS.
   The front yard shall not be less than 25 feet.
(Ord. passed - -2000) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.170 FENCES.
   (A)   Generally. Except as otherwise specifically provided in other codes
and regulations, the following regulations shall apply to the construction of
fences.
   (B)   Specifically.
      (1)   No fence shall be constructed which will constitute a traffic
hazard.
      (2)   No fence shall be constructed in a manner or be of a design as to
be hazardous or dangerous to persons or animals.
      (3)   No person shall erect or maintain any fence which shall adversely
affect the public health, safety, and welfare.
      (4)   Fences may be constructed on the property line as long as the fence
complies with all street, utility, and other applicable easements.
(Ord. passed - -2000) Penalty, see §
153.999
P PARK AND RECREATION DISTRICT
§ 153.185 INTENT.
   The intent of this District is to preserve existing and future park and
recreation lands. It is the intention to only restrict in the P District that
which is necessary to protect the health, safety, and general welfare of the
city and its surrounding area.
(Ord. passed - -2000)
§ 153.186 PERMITTED USES.
   (A)   Generally. In District P, buildings, structures, land, and premises
shall hereafter be allowed to be erected, constructed, reconstructed, moved, or
altered as long as they are to be used for a permitted use.
   (B)   Specifically.
      (1)   Playground equipment;
      (2)   Ballparks;
      (3)   Outdoor recreation facilities;
      (4)   Picnic facilities, including shelter houses;
      (5)   Bandshells;
      (6)   Concession stands;
      (7)   Restroom facilities; and
      (8)   Public museums.
(Ord. passed - -2000) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.187 CONDITIONAL USES.
   The following conditional uses may be permitted subject to approval
procedures outlined in §§
153.240 through
153.243: other uses associated with parks and/or outdoor recreation as long as
the uses are similar to the intent of the P District.
(Ord. passed - -2000) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.188 HEIGHT REGULATIONS.
   Any building or structure hereafter erected or altered may be erected to any
height which is not in conflict with any other existing city ordinance, or
state or federal law.
(Ord. passed - -2000)
§ 153.189 FENCES.
   (A)   Generally. Except as otherwise specifically provided in other codes
and regulations, the following regulations shall apply to the construction of
fences.
   (B)   Specifically.
      (1)   No fence shall be constructed which will constitute a traffic
hazard.
      (2)   No fence shall be constructed in a manner or be of a design as to
be hazardous or dangerous to persons or animals.
      (3)   No person shall erect or maintain any fence which shall adversely
affect the public health, safety, and welfare.
      (4)   Fences may be constructed on the property line as long as the fence
complies with all street, utility, and other applicable easements.
(Ord. passed - -2000) Penalty, see §
153.999
SUPPLEMENTARY REGULATIONS
§ 153.200 PROJECTIONS FROM BUILDINGS.
   Cornices, eaves, canopies, belt courses, sills, ornamental features, and
other similar architectural features may project not more than two feet into
any required yards or into required open spaces.
(Ord. passed - -2000) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.201 GENERAL EXCEPTIONS TO BUILDING HEIGHT LIMITATIONS.
   The following types of structures or structural parts are not subject to the
building height limitations of this chapter: chimneys, cupolas, tanks, church
spire, belfries, domes, derricks, monuments, fire and hose towers, observation
towers, transmission towers, smokestacks, flagpoles, radio and television
towers, masts, arterioles, cooling towers, water towers, elevator shafts,
windmills, conveyors, and other similar projections.
(Ord. passed - -2000)
§ 153.202 PARKING, STORAGE, OR USE OF MAJOR RECREATIONAL EQUIPMENT.
   No major recreational equipment such as boats, boat trailers, travel
trailers, pick-up campers or coaches, tent trailers, and the like shall be
parked or stored on any lot in a residential district, except in a carport or
enclosed building or behind the nearest portion of a building to the street,
provided, however, that the equipment may be parked anywhere on residential
premises for not more than 24 hours during loading or unloading. No equipment
shall be used for living, sleeping, or housekeeping purposes when parked or
stored on a residential lot or in any location not approved for that use.
(Ord. passed - -2000) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.203 PARKING AND STORAGE OF UNLICENSED VEHICLES.
   Unlicensed automotive vehicles or trailers shall not be parked or stored in
any district other than in completely enclosed buildings, or permitted auto
salvage yards.
(Ord. passed - -2000) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.204 NUISANCES.
   (A)   No nuisance will be permitted to exist in any district. A NUISANCE is
defined as any structure or use in violation of this chapter and in addition
any use or structure which injures or endangers health, safety, or welfare or
constitutes or creates a fire hazard or obstructs or endangers the use of
streets or public ways or is offensive to the senses.
   (B)   The following structures and uses of property are declared to be
nuisances:
      (1)   Storage, accumulation, keeping, placing, or allowing to remain in
trash, garbage, junk, scrap and wrecked, worn out, broken or inoperative or
partially destroyed or disassembled personal or real property of any kind,
including motor vehicles, tractors, trailers, machinery, and equipment;
      (2)   Open privies, vaults, and cesspools; and
      (3)   Accumulation of any matter which produces a foul or noxious odor,
or serves as a haven for rats, or is unsightly as to depreciate property values
or create a fire hazard.
(Ord. passed - -2000) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.205 SIGNS.
   (A)   Generally. All signs in all districts shall conform to the following
requirements.
   (B)   Specifically.
      (1)   All sings and sign structures shall be kept in good repair and in a
proper state of presentation. Signs which are abandoned shall be removed within
30 days following abandonment.
      (2)   No sign or sign structure shall be erected at any location where it
may interfere with, obstruct the view of, or be confused with any authorized
traffic sign, signal or device, or is a traffic hazard. Beacon and flashing
signs are prohibited.
      (3)   If any nonconforming sign is damaged exceeding two-thirds of its
replacement value, it shall be removed within 30 days of receiving written
notification from the city.
      (4)   No sign or attachment thereof shall be located within the dedicated
right-of-way.
(Ord. passed - -2000) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.206 HOME OCCUPATIONS.
   (A)   Generally. Home occupations, where permitted, shall be subject to the
following.
   (B)   Specifically.
      (1)   Restrictions and limitations.
         (a)   The home occupation shall be incidental and subordinate to the
principal residential use of the premises and not more than 50% of the total
floor area of the dwelling unit.
         (b)   No outdoor storage of materials or equipment used in the home
occupation shall be permitted.
         (c)   No alteration of the exterior of the principal residential
building shall be made which changes the character as a residence. The home
occupation shall be carried on entirely within the principal residential
structure or accessory building.
         (d)   No sign shall be illuminated or exceed three square feet in
area.
         (e)   No equipment shall be utilized that creates a nuisance due to
noise or electrical interference.
         (f)   Parking needs generated by the conduct of a home occupation
shall be provided off-street.
      (2)   Particular home occupations prohibited. Permitted home occupations
shall not, in any event, include the following:
         (a)   Animal hospitals and veterinary clinics;
         (b)   Automobile and vehicle repair service;
         (c)   Equipment rental;
         (d)   Machine shops;
         (e)   Restaurants;
         (f)   Second-hand merchandise; and
         (g)   Any other use similar to those uses listed above.
(Ord. passed - -2000) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.207 TEMPORARY USES PERMITTED.
   (A)   Christmas tree sales.
      (1)   Christmas tree sales are to be held in A, HC, and CBD Districts
only, for a period not to exceed 60 days.
      (2)   Display of Christmas trees need not comply with the yard and
setback requirements of these regulations, provided that no trees shall be
displayed in the sight triangle.
   (B)   Contractor's office. Contractor's office and equipment sheds
(containing no sleeping or cooking accommodations) accessory to a construction
project and to continue only during the duration of the project.
   (C)   Seasonal sales. Seasonal sales of farm produce are to be held in A,
HC, and CBD Districts only. Structures incidental to the sale need not comply
with the applicable front yard requirements if the structures are removed or
moved back of the required front yard setback line at the end of the season
during which they are used. All permanent structures must comply with the front
yard requirements.
   (D)   Garage, yard, basement, or porch sales. The sale of tangible personal
property consisting of household goods and personal effects by an individual at
his or her residence, or if more than one individual's property is involved, at
the residence of one of the individuals, not occurring at any residence for
more than six days during the calendar year, and none of the individuals
conduct or engage in a trade or business in which similar items are sold, and
when the property was originally acquired for and used for personal use.
(Ord. passed - -2000) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.208 DETERMINATION OF BUILDING SETBACK (YARD) LINE.
   The building setback line shall be determined by measuring the horizontal
distance between the property line and the vertical plane of the architectural
projection of the existing or proposed structure nearest the property line.
(Ord. passed - -2000) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.209 RECREATIONAL VEHICLES.
   No recreational vehicle or camper shall be utilized for permanent living,
sleeping or housekeeping purposes when parked on a residential lot or in any
location not approved for this use.
(Ord. passed - -2000) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.210 FEEDLOTS.
   Feedlots shall not be allowed within one mile of the city.
(Ord. passed - -2000) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.211 COMMUNICATION TOWERS.
   (A)   Generally. The following minimum standards shall apply to all
communication towers when seeking a conditional use permit.
   (B)   Specifically.
      (1)   The minimum setback, from permanent structures, roads, or utility
lines, of a communications tower is the distance from the base to the top of
the tower; however, engineering reports verifying a safer, lesser distance may
be considered as part of a conditional use permitting process.
      (2)   Communication towers shall not be constructed unless evidence is
demonstrated that the communication transmitter(s) in question can not be
practically located on either an existing structure or an existing
communication tower.
      (3)   All new communication towers shall be constructed in a manner that
will allow the tower to accommodate at least three additional communication
transmitters.
      (4)   Communication towers shall not contain transmitters which interfere
with commercial or residential radio or television signals.
      (5)   All communication towers must comply with FAA regulations.
(Ord. passed - -2000; Ord. 730, passed 2-5-2004) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.212 PROHIBITED STRUCTURES.
   (A)   All semi-trailer bodies, whether on or off wheels, slide in campers,
shipping containers and other containers are prohibited from being placed upon
real estate zoned R-1 or R-2 for the purposes of storage, additions to homes,
playhouses or any other purpose.
   (B)   (1)   In the event that any new person desires to place an
unconventional structure upon real estate zoned R-1 or R-2 and can show the
same:
         (a)   Will be covered with a pitched roof of shingles or of metal;
         (b)   Will have sides painted the same color as the main building or
will be covered with siding that is the same color as the main building; and
         (c)   Will be permanently anchored so as to make its true nature
indiscernible from a conventional shed, he or she may apply to the Zoning
Committee for their tentative approval.
      (2)   In the event that the Zoning Committee approves the same, the
application shall be referred to the City Council for their approval. Any
denial by the Zoning Committee or City Council shall be final for all purposes
except appeal. All modifications required above shall be completed within one
year of receiving City Council's approval.
(Ord. 883, passed 6-12-2014)
MOBILE HOME PARK REGULATIONS
§ 153.225 INTENT.
   It is intended that the requirements for mobile home parks shall be such
that the quality of a neighborhood is not detrimentally affected by the
adjacent location of a mobile home park. The mobile home park is basically a
low- to medium-density residential use and shall be treated as such. Since this
form of single-family housing physically contrasts substantially with typical
on-site constructed housing, it is necessary to review each request via the
procedures of §§
153.240 through
153.243. This review procedure allows design adjustments to fit the constraints
of any site.
(Ord. passed - -2000)
§ 153.226 DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS.
   (A)   In those districts where mobile home parks are listed as conditional
uses, all applications must first be processed via the procedures of §§
153.240 through
153.243.
   (B)   In addition to possible conditions being attached as the result of the
conditional use, the following standards shall also apply.
      (1)   Minimum size of mobile home area. The minimum size of a mobile home
area shall be 5,000 square feet.
      (2)   Setback. Mobile homes shall not be placed within 20 feet of any
boundary that is not a street and 25 feet from any boundary that is adjacent to
a street.
      (3)   Minimum separation between homes. The minimum separation between
homes shall be based on the distance between mobile home units measured from
the closest point or edge of the mobile home as follows:
         (a)   Fifteen feet between mobile homes if the units are placed end
(width) to end (width).
         (b)   Twenty feet between mobile homes if the units are placed side
(length) to side (length);
         (c)   Eighteen feet between mobile homes if the units are placed side
(length) to end (width);
         (d)   Ends (width) of mobile homes that are greater than 16 feet in
width, shall be considered to be sides of the mobile home in measuring
distances between mobile home units;
         (e)   A mobile home shall have a minimum offset of five feet or one
foot for every three feet in height, whichever is greater, from the perimeter
of the mobile home park or from any adjacent property which is not approved to
be utilized for a mobile home;
         (f)   Accessory buildings and structures on the same lot or space as a
mobile home shall have a minimum clearance of ten feet from any structure or
mobile home on any other lot; and
         (g)   Commonly owned or utilized building which are accessory to the
park shall have a minimum clearance of ten feet from any other structure or
mobile home.
      (4)   Access to dedicated streets. Access to dedicated streets shall be
provided. The city may require mobile home parks over 50 units to have
additional access points for emergency access purposes.
      (5)   Lighting. Adequate lighting shall be provided.
      (6)   Architectural control.  
         (a)   The city may set architectural standards for a mobile home park,
including requirements of wood siding or similar design features.
         (b)   1.   All manufactured homes, whether they are moved into an
existing mobile home park or onto a privately owned lot in an appropriately
zoned area of the city, shall have been constructed in compliance with the
United States Department of Housing and Urban Development's (HUD) Manufactured
Home Construction and Safety Standards of 1976. Therefore, United States
Department of Housing and Urban Development's (HUD) Manufactured Home
Construction and Safety Standards of 1976, all manufactured homes must be
manufactured, or built, on or after July 1, 1976.
            2.   All manufactured homes must have the required and approved HUD
label attached to it demonstrating compliance with said regulations of division
(B)(6)(b)1. above.
            3.   Any manufactured homes moved into the city boundaries must be
compliant with regulations of divisions (B)(6)(b)1. and 2. above.
            4.   Any manufactured homes moved from location to location within
the cityshall also be compliant with said regulations of divisions (B)(6)(b)1.
and 2. above.
            5.   The only allowable movement of manufactured homes that are not
in compliance with divisions (B)(6)(b)1. and 2. above within the city is for
the exportation of said manufactured homes.
      (7)   Landscaping. A landscaping concept plan shall be submitted for
review and approval.
      (8)   Storage. Storage units shall be designed as an integral part of the
site.
      (9)   Utilities. All utilities shall be placed underground. Potable water
and a sewage disposal system meeting Department of Health requirements shall be
provided.
      (10)   Trash collection. Trash receptacles shall be provided and properly
screened from view.
(Ord. passed - -2000; Ord. 849, passed 4-5-2012; Ord. 871, passed 3-14-2013)
Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.227 LIVESTOCK.
   No livestock shall be kept, housed, penned, or otherwise in any mobile home
park.
(Ord. passed - -2000) Penalty, see §
153.999
CONDITIONAL USES
§ 153.240 PURPOSE.
   In order to provide for the most appropriate use of land throughout the
district and giving the maximum consideration to the character of the district
and its peculiar suitability for particular uses in the area affected by this
chapter, special exceptions in the form of conditional uses are hereby
established.
(Ord. passed - -2000)
§ 153.241 PROCEDURE.
   The City Council may, by special permit after referral to and recommendation
from the Planning Commission and public hearing as described in §
153.340, authorize the establishment of special exceptions in the form of
conditional uses designated in the district regulations if it is found that the
location and characteristics of the use will not be injurious to the health,
safety, morals, and general welfare of the area.
(Ord. passed - -2000)
§ 153.242 REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The conditional uses shall conform to the intent and purpose of this
chapter and the following requirements.
      (1)   The use shall in all other respects conform to the applicable
regulations of the district in which it is located.
      (2)   The use shall conform to all other applicable ordinances, laws, and
regulations of any governmental jurisdiction.
      (3)   The use shall have adequate water, sewer, and drainage facilities
approved by the Board of Trustees.
      (4)   Ingress and egress shall be so designed as to minimize traffic
congestion on the public streets.
      (5)   The use shall be in harmony with the character of the area and the
most appropriate use of land.
      (6)   The proposed conditional use will not cause substantial injury to
the value of other property in the neighborhood in which it is to be located.
      (7)   The location and size of the conditional use, the nature and
intensity of the operation involved in or conducted in connection with it and
the location of the site with respect to streets giving access to the use are
such that the conditional use will not dominate the immediate neighborhood so
as to prevent development and the use of neighboring property in accordance
with the applicable zoning district regulations.
   (B)   The City Council and the Planning Commission in considering an
application for a conditional use may consider, among other things, the most
appropriate use of the land; the conservation and stabilization of the value of
property; adequate open space for light and air; concentration of population;
congestion of public streets; and the promotion of public safety, health,
convenience, and comfort. The City Council may stipulate and require the
conditions and restrictions upon the conditional use and operation deemed
necessary for the protection of the public interest and to secure compliance
with this chapter.
(Ord. passed - -2000)
§ 153.243 ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   A conditional use permit may not be transferred and, if a change of
ownership of the lot or tract of land for which the conditional use permit was
issued occurs, the conditional use permit shall terminate. The new owners shall
have to apply for their own conditional use permit.
   (B)   Any conditional use wanting to expand the use shall apply for an
additional conditional use permit for the expansion.
(Ord. passed - -2000)
OFF-STREET PARKING REQUIREMENTS
§ 153.255 OFF-STREET PARKING REQUIREMENTS.
   At the time of erection of a structure or building, or at the time of
enlargement, or change in use of a structure, building, or land, off-street
parking spaces shall be provided and maintained for all uses as follows:
Use Area or Parking Space
Use                                     Area or Parking Space
Bowling alley                           6 spaces per alley
Dwelling and mobile home                1 space per dwelling unit
                                        1 space for each 6 students or 1 space
High school                             for each 6 seats in the auditorium,
                                        whichever is greater
Hospitals, nursing homes, and           1 space for each 2 beds
sanitariums
Hotel and motel                         1 space per guest room
Manufacturing, wholesale, warehouses,   1 space for each 3 employees on the
and industrial                          maximum working shift
Offices                                 1 space for each 400 square feet of
                                        floor area
Places of public assembly (auditorium)
such as churches, theaters, community   1 space for each 4 seats
buildings, and the like
Retail sales and service uses, such as  1 space per 250 square feet of gross
stores, eating establishments, clinics, floor area (none required in CBD
taverns, banks, drive-ins, and the like Commercial Business District)
                                        1 space per classroom or 1 space for
Schools, elementary or junior           each 6 seats in the auditorium,
                                        whichever is greater
 
(Ord. passed - -2000) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.256 INTERPRETATION.
   (A)   In the case of any building, structure, or land, the use of which is
not specifically mentioned herein, the provisions for a use which is so
mentioned and to which the use is similar, shall apply.
   (B)   In the event several uses occupy a single building or parcel of land,
the total requirement for off-street parking shall be the sum of the
requirements of the several uses separately.
(Ord. passed - -2000)
PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT
§ 153.270 ELIGIBILITY.
   (A)   The owner or owners of any tract of land compromising an area of not
less than three acres located in any zoning district may submit a plan for the
total development of the area in accordance with the following standards and
requirements as a planned unit development.
   (B)   A planned unit development is a complex, designed as a unit, to
produce on environment of stable, desirable character not out of harmony with
its surrounding area and which meets standards of density, open space, light
and air, pedestrian and vehicular access, and traffic circulation similar to
the requirements of this chapter of the district on which it is to be located.
(Ord. passed - -2000)
§ 153.271 PURPOSES.
   Some specific purposes of the planned development procedure are:
   (A)   Residential planned development. To offer recreational opportunities
close to home, to enhance the appearance of neighborhoods by the conservation
of streams and local spots of natural beauty, to add to the sense of
spaciousness through the preservation of natural green spaces, to counteract
the effects of urban monotony and congestion in the streets, to encourage
cooperative relationships between neighbors and participation by all age groups
in the use and care of local open space tracts in new residential subdivisions,
to promote harmonious architecture between adjacent dwellings or institutional
buildings and to encourage the placement of structures in proper relationship
to the natural characteristics of the site;
   (B)   Business planned development. To promote the cooperative development
of business centers each with adequate off-street parking, to control access
points on thoroughfares, to separate pedestrian and automobile traffic, to aid
in stabilizing property values, to develop centers of size and location
compatible with the market potential, to buffer adjacent residential areas with
landscaped green spaces and to encourage harmonious architecture between
adjacent commercial structures and between homes and commercial structures; and
   (C)   Industrial planned development. To promote the establishment of
industrial parks, to permit groups of industrial buildings with integrated
design an a coordinated physical plan, to encourage recreational facilities
within industrial areas, and to buffer adjacent residential areas with
landscaped green spaces.
(Ord. passed - -2000)
§ 153.272 REQUIRED INFORMATION.
   (A)   Generally. The developer shall be required to submit the following
information, and any other information that may be required by the Planning
Commission.
   (B)   Specifically.
      (1)   A site plan indicating the arrangement and tentative location of
buildings, uses permitted, land to be preserved as permanent common space,
parking and loading spaces, and other special features of the development plan.
      (2)   A draft of the proposed protective covenants whereby the owner
proposes to regulate land-sue and otherwise protect the proposed development.
      (3)   A draft of any proposed incorporation agreement and a draft of any
bylaws or easement declarations concerning maintenance of recreational and
other common facilities.
      (4)   Data on the market potential necessary to support the location of
the site and the size of uses in any planned development.
(Ord. passed - -2000)
§ 153.273 USE EXCEPTIONS.
   The Planning Commission may recommend and the City Council may authorize
that there be, in part of the area of the development, specified uses not
permitted by the use regulations of the district in which the development is
located, provided that the Planning Commission shall find that:
   (A)   The uses permitted by the exception are necessary or desirable and are
appropriate with respect to the primary purpose of the development;
   (B)   The uses permitted by the exception are not of such a nature or so
located as to exercise a detrimental influence on the surrounding neighborhood;
and
   (C)   Not more than 20% of the ground area of the gross floor of the
development shall be devoted to the uses permitted by the exception.
(Ord. passed - -2000)
§ 153.274 DENSITY OF REGULATIONS.
   In the case of any planned development, the Planning Commission may
recommend and the City Council may authorize exceptions to the applicable
density regulations of this chapter within the boundaries of the development,
provided that the Planning Commission shall find that:
   (A)   The exception shall be solely for the purpose of promoting an
integrated site plan no less beneficial to the residents or the occupants of
the development as well as the neighboring property, than would be obtained
under the bulk regulations of this chapter for buildings developed on separate
zoning lots;
   (B)   Along the periphery of the planned developments, yards shall be
provided as required by the regulations of the district in which the
development is located; and
   (C)   (1)   In a residential planned development, the maximum number of
dwelling units permitted shall be determined by dividing the net development
area by the minimum lot area per dwelling unit required by the district or
districts in which the area is located and increasing the resulting figure by
15%.
      (2)   Net development area shall be determined by subtracting the area
set aside for nonresidential uses from the gross development area and deducting
10% of the remainder for streets regardless at the amount of land actually
required for streets.
      (3)   The area of land set aside for common open space or recreational
use may be included in determining the number of dwelling units permitted.
(Ord. passed - -2000)
§ 153.275 DESIGNATION OF PERMANENT OPEN SPACE.
   (A)   Definition.  PERMANENT COMMON OPEN SPACE shall be defined as parks,
playgrounds, parkway medians, landscaped green space, schools, community
centers, or other similar areas in public ownership if covered by an open space
easement.
   (B)   Designation. No plan for a planned development shall be approved
unless the plan provides for permanent open space equivalent to 20% of the
total area in residential planned developments.
(Ord. passed - -2000)
§ 153.276 MINIMUM LOT AREA IN RESIDENTIAL PLANNED DEVELOPMENTS.
   Provided the overall number of dwelling units per acre (density) is not
increased beyond the provisions of §
153.274(C), and provided that the permanent common open space in accord with §
153.275, the planned development may include minimum lot area per dwelling unit
which are less than required in the applicable zoning district.
(Ord. passed - -2000)
§ 153.277 BUILDING PERMITS.
   No building permit shall be issued for any construction or use of a
development which does not conform to the approved plans, terms, and conditions
of the planned unit development. No changes shall be made in the planned unit
development except by approval in the same procedure by which the original plan
was approved. No planned unit development shall be approved until a public
hearing is held in accordance with §
153.340.
(Ord. passed - -2000)
ADMINISTRATION
§ 153.290 ZONING ADMINISTRATOR.
   (A)   The City Administrator is hereby designated the Zoning Administrator
who shall administer and enforce this chapter.
   (B)   The Zoning Administrator may be provided with the assistance of any
other persons as the City Council and Planning Commission may direct
(Ord. passed - -2000)
§ 153.291 BUILDING PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to commence or do any excavating, erecting,
constructing, reconstructing, enlarging, altering, or moving of any building or
structure or to use or occupy or permit the use or occupancy of any building,
land or premises, or construction or connection to water or sewer facilitates
or part thereof hereafter created, erected, changed, converted, or wholly or
partly altered or enlarged in its use or structure until a building permit
shall have been issued therefore by the Zoning Administrator stating that the
proposed use of the building or land conforms to this chapter.
   (B)   Notwithstanding any provisions contained herein, farm buildings and
structures, except farm dwellings, are exempt from the requirements of applying
for and receiving building permits provided the buildings and structures must
conform to all applicable provisions of this chapter.
   (C)   The Zoning Administrator may issue a temporary building permit for
uses in any district for the purpose of uses and building incidental and
required in the construction of a principal permitted use in the district in
which it is located and highway construction, provided that the use be of a
temporary nature and does not leave the erection of substantial buildings. The
permit shall be granted in the form of a temporary and revocable permit for not
more than six months subject to conditions as will safeguard the public health,
safety, and general welfare.
(Ord. passed - -2000) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.292 APPLICATION FOR A BUILDING PERMIT.
   (A)   Written applications on forms prescribed and furnished by the Zoning
Administrator stating any information as may be required for the enforcement of
this chapter shall be submitted and shall be accompanied by plans in duplicate,
drawn to scale, showing the actual shape and dimensions of the lot to be built
upon or to be changed in its use, in whole or in part, the exact location,
existing and intended use of each building or structure or part thereof, the
number of families or housekeeping units the building is designed to
accommodate and when no buildings are involved, the location of the present use
and proposed use to be made of the lot, existing and proposed water and
sanitary sewer facilities, as may be necessary to determine and provide for the
enforcement of this chapter. One copy of the plans shall be returned to the
owner when the plans shall have been approved by the Zoning Administrator
together with the building permits as may be granted. All dimensions shown on
these plans relating to the location and size of the lot to be built upon shall
be based on actual survey. The lot and the location of the building thereon
shall be staked out on the ground before construction is started.
   (B)   The Zoning Administrator shall issue a written permit, or denial,
thereof, with reasons in writing within 15 days from the date of the acceptance
of the application. Appeal may be made in accordance with §§
153.325 through
153.328.
   (C)   Except where an extension has been obtained in writing from the Zoning
Administrator, permits issued shall expire within 90 days if the work described
in the permit has not begun or the use applied for has not been established and
within one year if the work has not been completed.
   (D)   (1)   The permit is not an inspection and it is the responsibility of
the property owner or their agent to have the structure inspected by an
Official Inspector approved by the city. You cannot start the work prior to the
permit being issued; any work done prior to the permit can cause you to be
fined a penalty and work to be stopped until such permit can be issued. Once a
permit is issued it must be posted with easy access by the inspector and easily
viewed from the public right-of-way.
      (2)   The application shall include such other information as lawfully
may be required by the Zoning Administrator, including existing or proposed
building or alterations; existing or proposed uses of the building and land;
the number of families, housekeeping units, or rental units the building is
designed to accommodate; conditions existing on the lot; and such other matters
as may be necessary to determine conformance with, and provide for the
enforcement of, this section.
      (3)   Any flat work completed within the city must obtain a building
permit to compete such work. When the permit is obtained, the city will supply
to the property owner the minimum specifications the flat work must meet to
pass an inspection. When the work is completed it must be immediately inspected
by the Director of Public Works. Any work completed without a permit, if the
work does not meet the minimum specifications established, it may be required
to be redone.
   (E)   Building permit fees. The following table illustrates the appropriate
permit fee depending upon the structure to be completed; these fees are due at
the time of the application and are non-refundable if the permit is not
approved. The following table lists the building permit fees:
      (1)   Fence and flat work               $20.00
      (2)   Non-enclosed structure            $25.00
         These include but are not limited to a deck, screened in porch,
carport, etc.
      (3)   The moving of a mobile or manufactured home into or out of a state
of Nebraska registered mobile home park, within the city   $50.00
      (4)   The moving of a pre-built home on to a residentially zoned property
that is not a mobile home park, within the city         As (5) below
      (5)   Any enclosed structure (whether new construction or remodeling):
         200 square feet or less            $25.00
         201 to 500 square feet            $50.00
         501 to 1,000 square feet            $75.00
         1,001 to 5,000 square feet            $100.00
         5,001 square feet or more            $100.00 plus $5.00 per 1,000
square feet
(Ord. passed - -2000; Ord. 860, passed 12-13-2012; Ord. 868, passed 2-14-2013)
§ 153.293 BUILDING PERMIT APPROVAL.
   All building permits requiring a conditional use permit or change of zone
shall be approved by the City Council after consideration of the City Planning
Commission's recommendation.
(Ord. passed - -2000)
§ 153.294 CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY.
   (A)   No structure or land shall be hereafter used or the use changed
thereof until a certificate of occupancy shall have been issued by the Zoning
Administrator.
   (B)   A certificate of occupancy for a new building, or the alteration of an
existing structure, shall be applied for coincident with the application for a
building permit and shall be issued within ten days after the erection or
alteration of the building is completed and conformity with this chapter.
   (C)   (1)   No certificate of occupancy shall be issued for residential
purposes for a partially completed or portion of a building.
      (2)   No structure shall be used as a temporary residence.
   (D)   Application for a change of use of land or existing structure shall be
made on farms provided by the Zoning Administrator and shall state the proposed
use is in conformity with this chapter.
(Ord. passed - -2000) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.295 ENFORCEMENT BY ZONING ADMINISTRATOR.
   (A)   (1)   It shall be the duty of the Zoning Administrator to enforce this
chapter in accordance with its provisions.
      (2)   All departments, officials, and public employees of the city, which
are vested with the duty or authority to issue permits or licenses, shall
conform to the provisions of this chapter and shall issue no permit or license
for any use, building, or purpose, if the same would be in conflict with the
provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   The erection, construction, reconstruction, alteration, repair,
conversion, maintenance, or use of any building, structure, water or sewer
facility, automobile trailer, house trailer, or land in violation of this
chapter is hereby declared to be a violation of this chapter.
(Ord. passed - -2000) Penalty, see §
153.999
ENFORCEMENT
§ 153.310 ZONING VIOLATIONS.
   The city may enforce this chapter through methods included in this chapter
or through other methods adopted by the City Council.
(Ord. passed - -2000)
§ 153.311 ENFORCEMENT PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Whenever the Zoning Administrator, whether through personnel knowledge
or through members of the Planning Commission or city employees, has knowledge
of any violation of the this chapter, he or she shall give written notice to
the violator to correct the violation within 30 days after the date of the
notice. Should the violator fail to correct the violation within the 30-day
period, the City Council may request that the Police Department to issue a
citation to the violator, stating the nature of the violation with sufficient
particularity to give notice of the charge to the violator. The citation shall
require that the violator appear in court at a definite time and place stated
therein to answer and defend the charge.
   (B)   One copy of the citation shall be served upon the violator by the
Police Department in the manner provided by law for the service of a criminal
summons. One copy each shall be retained by the Police Department and the City
Council and one copy shall be transmitted to the Clerk of the Court.
(Ord. passed - -2000)
BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT
§ 153.325 BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT; GENERALLY.
   The Board of Adjustment shall consist of five regular members, plus one
additional member designated as an alternate who shall attend and serve only
when one of the regular members is unable to attend for any reason, each to be
appointed for a term of three years and removable for cause by the appointing
authority upon written charges and after public hearings. Vacancies shall be
filled for the unexpired term of any member whose term becomes vacant. One
member only of the Board of Adjustment shall be appointed from the membership
of the Planning Commission, and the loss of membership on the Planning
Commission by the member shall also result in his or her immediate loss of
membership on the Board of Adjustment and the appointment of another Planning
Commission member to the Board of Adjustment. After 9-9-1995, the first vacancy
occurring on the Board of Adjustment shall be filled by the appointment of a
person who resides in the extraterritorial zoning jurisdiction of the city at
the time as more than 200 persons reside within the area. Thereafter, at all
times, at least one member of the Board of Adjustment shall reside outside the
corporate boundaries of the city but within its extraterritorial jurisdiction.
The Board of Adjustment shall adopt rules in accordance with the provisions of
any ordinance adopted pursuant to Neb. RS 19-901 through 19-914. Meetings of
the Board of Adjustment shall be held at the call of the Chairperson and at any
other times as the Board of Adjustment may determine. The Chairperson, or in
his or her absence the Acting Chairperson, may administer oaths and compel the
attendance of witnesses. All meetings of the Board of Adjustment shall be open
to the public. The Board of Adjustment shall keep minutes of its proceedings,
showing the vote of each member upon each question, or, if absent or failing to
vote, indicating the fact, and shall keep records of its examinations and other
official actions, all of which shall be immediately filed in the office of the
Board and shall be a public record.
(Ord. passed - -2000)
§ 153.326 APPEALS.
   An appeal to the Board of Adjustment may be taken by any person or persons
aggrieved, or by an officer, department, board, or bureau of the city affected
by any decision of an administrative officer or Planning Commission. The appeal
shall be taken within a reasonable time, as provided by the rules of the Board
of Adjustment, by filing with the Board a notice of appeal specifying the
ground thereof. The officer or agency from whom the appeal is taken shall
transmit to the Board of Adjustment all the papers constituting the record upon
which the action appealed from was taken. The Board of Adjustment shall fix a
reasonable time for the hearing of the appeal, give public notice thereof, as
well as due notice to the parties of interest, and decide the same within a
reasonable time. Any party may appeal at the hearing in person, by agency, or
by attorney.
(Ord. passed - -2000)
§ 153.327 AUTHORITY.
   (A)   The Board of Adjustment shall have the following powers:
      (1)   To hear and decide appeals where it is alleged by the applicant
that there is an error in any order, requirement, decision, or refusal made by
an administrative official or agency based on or made in the enforcement of any
zoning regulation or any regulation relating to the location or soundness or
structures;
      (2)   To hear and decide, in accordance with the provisions of any
regulation, requests for interpretation of any map, or for decisions upon other
special questions upon which the Board is authorized by any such regulation to
pass; and
      (3)   Where by reason of exceptional narrowness, shallowness, or shape of
a specific piece of property at the time of their enactment of the regulation,
or by reason of exceptional topographic conditions or other extraordinary and
exceptional situation or condition of the piece of property, the strict
application of any enacted regulation under this act would result in peculiar
and exceptional practical difficulties to, or exceptional and undue hardships
upon the owner of the property, to authorize, upon an appeal relating to the
property, a variance from the strict application so as to relieve the
difficulties or hardship, if the relief may be granted without substantial
detriment to the public good and without substantially impairing the intent of
any resolution, but no such variance shall be authorized unless the Board of
Adjustment finds that: the strict application of the resolution would produce
undue hardship; the hardship is not shared generally by other properties in the
same zoning district and the same vicinity; the authorization of the variance
will not be of substantial detriment to adjacent property and the character of
the district will not be changed by the granting of the variance; and the
granting of the variance is based upon reasons of demonstrable and exceptional
hardship as distinguished from variations for purposes of convenience, profit
or caprice.
   (B)   No variance shall be authorized unless the Board finds that the
condition or situation of the property concerned or the intended use of the
property is not of so general or recurring a nature as to make a reasonable
practicable the formulation of a general regulation to be adopted as an
amendment to the resolution.
   (C)   In exercising the above mentioned powers, the Board may, in conformity
with the provisions of this act, reverse, or affirm, wholly or part, or may
modify the order, requirement, decision, or determination appealed from and may
make the order, requirement, decision, or determination as shall be proper, and
to that end shall have the power of the officer or agency from whom the appeal
is taken. The concurring vote of two-thirds of the members of the Board shall
be necessary to reverse any order, requirement, decision, or determination of
any such administrative official, or to decide in favor of the applicant on any
matter upon which it is required to pass under any such resolution or to effect
any variation in the resolution.
(Ord. passed - -2000)
§ 153.328 PETITIONS.
   Any person or persons, jointly or severally, aggrieved by any decision of
the Board of Adjustment, or any officer, department, board, or bureau of the
city, may present to the district court for the city, a petition, duly
verified, setting forth that the decision is illegal, in whole or in part, and
specifying the grounds of the illegality. The petition must be presented to the
court within 15 days after the filing of the decision in the office of the
Board of Adjustment.
(Ord. passed - -2000)
AMENDMENTS
§ 153.340 GENERALLY.
   These regulations, restrictions, and boundaries may from time to time be
amended, supplemented, changed, modified, or repealed. In case of a protest
against such a change, signed by the owners of 20% or more of the area of the
lots included in the proposed changed, or of those immediately adjacent on the
sides and in the rear thereof extending 300 feet therefrom, and of those
directly opposite thereto extending 300 feet from the street frontage of the
opposite lots, the amendment shall not become effective except by the favorable
vote of three-fourths of all the members of the City Council. The City Council
shall request and receive the advice of the Planning Commission before taking
definite action on any contemplated amendment, supplement, change,
modification, or repeal. No regulation, restriction, or boundary shall become
effective until after a public hearing in relation thereto, at which parties in
interest and citizens shall have an opportunity to be heard. Notice of the time
and place of the hearing shall be given by publication thereof in a paper of
general circulation in the city at least one time ten days prior to the
hearing.
(Ord. passed - -2000)
§ 153.341 NOTIFICATION.
   In addition to the publication of the notice therein prescribed, a notice
shall be posted in a conspicuous place on or near the property on which action
is pending. The notice shall not be less than 18 inches in height and 24 inches
in width with a white or yellow background and black letters not less than one
and one-half inches in height. The posted notice shall be so placed upon the
premises that it is easily visible from the street nearest the same and shall
be so posted at least ten days prior to the date of the hearing. It shall be
unlawful for anyone to remove, mutilate, destroy, or change the notice prior to
the hearing. Any persons so doing shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor. If
the record title owners of any lots included in the proposed change be
nonresidents of the municipality, then a written notice of the hearing shall be
mailed by certified mail to them addressed at their last-known address at least
ten days prior to the hearing. At the option of the City Council, in place of
the posted notice provided above, the owners or occupants of the real estate to
be zoned or rezoned may be personally served with a written notice thereof at
least ten days prior to the date of the hearing, if they can be served with the
notice in the county. Where the notice cannot be served personally upon the
owners or occupants in the county, a written notice of the hearing shall be
mailed to the owners or occupants addressed to their last-known addresses at
least ten days prior to the hearing. The provisions of this section in
reference to notice shall not apply in the event of a proposed change in the
regulations, restrictions, or boundaries throughout the entire area of an
existing zoning district in the city zoning jurisdiction, or in the event
additional or different types of zoning districts are proposed, whether or not
the additional or different districts are made applicable to areas, or parts of
areas, already within a zoning district of the municipality, but only the
requirements of §
153.340 shall be applicable.
(Ord. passed - -2000)
FEES AND CHARGES
§ 153.355 FEE SCHEDULE.
   (A)   The City Council shall establish a schedule of fees and charges and a
collection procedure for building permits, certificates of occupancy, appeals,
amendments, and other matter pertaining to this chapter.
   (B)   The schedule of fees shall be posted in the city office and may be
altered or amended only by the City Council.
(Ord. passed - -2000)
§ 153.356 UNPAID FEES.
   Until all applicable fees and charges have been paid in full, no action
shall be taken on any application or appeal.
(Ord. passed - -2000)
ALTERNATIVE ENERGY CONVERSION SYSTEMS
§ 153.360 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to regulate the occupancy and use of lands
by alternative energy conversion systems for protection of the public health,
safety and general welfare, including, but not limited to, that of owners and
occupants of adjacent lands in a manner that will facilitate the effective and
efficient use of such systems.
(Ord. 960, passed 2-13-2020)
§ 153.361 NET METERING.
   Alternative energy systems utilizing biomass, geothermal, methane,
hydropower, solar and/or wind sources shall conform with and adhere to the
rules associated with "Net Metering" per Neb. RS 70-2001 to 70-2005 (August 30,
2009, as amended). All costs associated with project conformance to said "Net
Metering" rules shall be the responsibility of the property owner seeking to
implement the alternative energy conversion system.
(Ord. 960, passed 2-13-2020)
§ 153.362 CONDITIONAL USE.
   All alternative energy conversion systems sought to be constructed,
implemented, or otherwise put into service following the passage of this
subchapter shall be considered as conditional uses in all zoning districts
within the city and shall be subject to the procedural requirements as set
forth by §§
53.32 and
153.240 through
153.243 of this code.
(Ord. 960, passed 2-13-2020)
§ 153.363 ALTERNATIVE ENERGY STRUCTURES.
   All structures within the city intended to support, aid, facilitate, or that
are otherwise associated with an alternative energy system shall, at a minimum,
and notwithstanding any additional requirements recommended by the Planning
Commission and approved by the City Council, conform to the same zoning
requirements set forth for accessory buildings within the respective zoning
district where the alternative energy structure is intended to be constructed
and conform to the requirements of §§
53.32 and
153.240 through
153.243 of this code.
(Ord. 960, passed 2-13-2020)
RECREATIONAL VEHICLE (RV) PARKS
§ 153.370 INTENT.
   It is intended that the requirements for recreational vehicle (RV) parks
shall be such that the quality of a neighborhood is not detrimentally affected
by the adjacent location of an RV park. The RV park is basically a low- to
medium-density temporary or long-term residential use and shall be treated as
such. Since this form of temporary or long-term residency physically contrasts
with typical on-site constructed housing, it is necessary to review each
request via the procedures of Bridgeport City Code §§
153.240 through
153.243. This review procedure allows design adjustments to fit the constraints
of any site.
(Ord. 974, passed 3-18-2021)
§ 153.371 DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS.
   (A)   An RV park shall only be established in those parts of the city where
RV park is set forth as a conditional use, and shall not be established until a
conditional use permit is granted. In those districts where RV park is listed
as a conditional use, all applications must first be processed via the
procedures of Bridgeport City Code §§
153.240 through
153.243.
   (B)   In addition to possible conditions being attached as the result of the
conditional use, the following standards shall also apply:
      (1)   Minimum size of RV park area. The minimum size of an RV park area
shall be 10,000 square feet.
      (2)   Setback. RVs shall not be placed within 20 feet of any boundary
that is not a street and 25 feet from any boundary that is adjacent to a
street.
      (3)   Minimum separation between RVs. The minimum separation between RVs
shall be based on the distance between RVs measured from the closest point or
edge of the RV as follows:
         (a)   Five feet between RVs if the units are placed end (width) to end
(width);
         (b)   Ten feet between RVs if the units are placed side (length) to
side (length); and
         (c)   Ten feet between RVs if the units are placed side (length) to
end (width).
      (4)   Access to dedicated streets. Access to dedicated streets shall be
provided. The city may require RV parks over 50 units to have additional access
points for emergency access purposes.
      (5)   Adequate lighting shall be provided.
      (6)   Architectural/manufacture control.
         (a)   The conditional use permit that is prerequisite to the
establishment of an RV park may set forth architectural/manufacturing standards
for the RV park and/or the RVs that are allowable to be utilized in the RV
park.
         (b)   The conditional use permit may set forth requirements pertaining
to the individual RVs and/or the RV park, including, but not limited to,
number, age, appearance, maintenance, length of stay, and other requirements
necessary for the health and safety of the patrons in the park, residents of
the city, and/or any other third parties that might have cause to interact with
the park, as well as to maintain the appearance of the city.
      (7)   Landscaping. A landscaping concept plan shall be submitted for
review and approval.
      (8)   Utilities. All utilities shall be placed underground. Potable water
and a sewage disposal system meeting Department of Health requirements shall be
provided.
      (9)   Trash receptacles shall be provided and properly screened from
view.
(Ord. 974, passed 3-18-2021)
§ 153.999 PENALTY.
   It is unlawful to erect, construct, reconstruct, or alter any building or
structure in violation of any provision of this chapter. Any person, firm, or
corporation violating any provision of this chapter is guilty of a misdemeanor
and, upon conviction thereof, shall be punished by a fine of not more than
$500, or by imprisonment in the County Jail for not more than ten days, or by
both the fine and imprisonment. Each day after notification of offense during
which the illegal use of any building, structure, or land continues shall be
deemed a separate offense. Whenever a violation exists in these regulations,
the city may proceed by a suit in equity to enjoin and abate the violation, in
the manner provided by law. Whenever, in any action, it is established that a
violation exists, the court may, together with the fine and penalty imposed,
enter an order of abatement as a part of the judgment in the case.
(Ord. passed - -2000)
CHAPTER 154: COMPREHENSIVE PLAN
Section
   
154.01   Adoption by reference
§ 154.01 ADOPTION BY REFERENCE.
   In order to accommodate anticipated long-range future growth, the City
Comprehensive Development Plan, as prepared by Arter-Hoskins, is hereby
incorporated by reference in addition to all amendments which may now or in the
future be made, as though printed in full herein. The Plan shall consist of
maps, graphs, and text. One copy of the herein adopted Plan shall be kept on
file with the City Clerk/Treasurer and available for inspection by any member
of the public during office hours.
(1973 Code, § 11-201)
CHAPTER 155: STORMWATER MITIGATION REGULATIONS
Section
   
155.01   Purpose; intent
   
155.02   Applicability
   
155.03   Compatibility with other permit and ordinance requirements
   
155.04   Design and performance standards for stormwater management measures
   
155.05   Stormwater drainage pond
§ 155.01 PURPOSE; INTENT.
   Flood control, groundwater recharge, and pollutant reduction through
nonstructural or low impact techniques shall be explored before relying on
structural BMPs. Structural BMPs should be integrated with nonstructural
stormwater management strategies and proper maintenance plans. Nonstructural
strategies include both environmentally sensitive site design and source
controls that prevent pollutants from being placed on the site or from being
exposed to stormwater. Source control plans should be developed based upon
physical site conditions and the origin, nature, and the anticipated quantity
or amount of potential pollutants. Multiple stormwater management BMPs may be
necessary to achieve the established performance standards for water quality,
quantity, and groundwater recharge:
   (A)   To regulate the contribution of pollutants to the city sewer system by
stormwater;
   (B)   To reduce pollutants or the potential for pollutants in stormwater
discharges guiding, regulating, and controlling the design, construction, use,
and maintenance of any development or other activity that disturbs or breaks
the topsoil or results in the movement of earth on land;
   (C)   To require the construction of locally-approved, permanent stormwater
runoff controls to protect water quality and maintain non-erosive hydrologic
conditions downstream of construction activity and development;
   (D)   To require responsibility for and long-term maintenance of structural
stormwater control facilities and nonstructural stormwater management;
   (E)   To enable legal authority to carry out all inspection, surveillance,
monitoring and enforcement procedures necessary to ensure compliance with this
chapter.
(Ord. 906, passed 5-12-2016)
§ 155.02 APPLICABILITY.
   This chapter shall be applicable to all non-residential site plans involving
construction of new structures or renovation of existing structures, and paving
of parking or other non-structured areas. Any construction taking place in an
HC (Highway Commercial District); CBD (Commercial Business District); or I
(Industrial District) shall be subject to these rules and regulations regarding
stormwater mitigation.
(Ord. 906, passed 5-12-2016)
§ 155.03 COMPATIBILITY WITH OTHER PERMIT AND ORDINANCE REQUIREMENTS.
   Development approvals issued for construction projects pursuant to this
chapter are to be considered an integral part of development approvals and do
not relieve the applicant of the responsibility to secure required permits or
approvals for activities regulated by any other applicable code, rule, act, or
ordinance. In their interpretation and application, the provisions of this
chapter shall be held to be the minimum requirements for the promotion of the
public health, safety, and general welfare. This chapter is not intended to
interfere with, abrogate, or annul any other ordinances, rule or regulation,
statute, or other provision of law except that, where any provision of this
chapter imposes restrictions different from those imposed by any other
ordinance, rule or regulation, or other provision of law, the more restrictive
provisions or higher standards shall control.
(Ord. 906, passed 5-12-2016)
§ 155.04 DESIGN AND PERFORMANCE STANDARDS FOR STORMWATER MANAGEMENT MEASURES.
   Design and performance standards for stormwater management measures:
   (A)   Stormwater management measures for major development shall be
developed to meet the erosion control, groundwater recharge, stormwater runoff
quantity, and stormwater runoff quality standards as set forth by the City
Engineer. To the maximum extent practicable, these standards shall be met by
incorporating nonstructural stormwater management strategies into the design.
If these strategies alone are not sufficient to meet these standards,
structural stormwater management measures necessary to meet these standards
shall be incorporated into the design.
   (B)   The standards in this chapter apply only to new development and are
intended to minimize the impact of stormwater runoff on water quality and water
quantity in receiving water bodies and maintain groundwater recharge, and to
assure that existing city sewers shall not be burdened by additional or
enhanced stormwater created by newly created buildings, developments,
structures, and/or construction.
(Ord. 906, passed 5-12-2016)
§ 155.05 STORMWATER DRAINAGE POND.
   Storm drainage ponds shall be required stormwater mitigation, unless the
City Engineer deems an alternative method can be utilized to achieve the same
mitigation result. Storm drainage ponds shall be constructed and designed as
directed by the City Engineer and in accordance with the following criteria:
   (A)   The volume of the pond shall equal one inch of water multiplied by the
entire contributing area, calculated in feet, that flows to the pond;
   (B)   The pond outlet shall be designed to drain the entire pond in not more
than 72 hours;
   (C)   The sides of the pond shall have a maximum slope of three feet
horizontal to one foot vertical (3:1), although a 4:1 slope is preferred and
may be required at the direction of the City Engineer if deemed necessary. Pond
slopes shall be stabilized with either landscaping, plantings, or rock. Details
shall be provided in the approved landscaping plans, that are submitted to the
Engineer for review prior to commencement of the landscaping;
   (D)   Pond inlets shall have a properly designed energy dissipater that
eliminates erosion. If riprap is utilized as the energy dissipater, a concrete
alley curb shall be poured around the riprap to facilitate a mowing edge. Pond
inlets shall be constructed so that they are accessible for maintenance
purposes;
   (E)   Pond outlets shall be located the greatest distance possible from the
inlet;
   (F)   Topsoil shall be minimally compacted over the top surface area, to a
minimum depth of six inches;
   (G)   The bottom of the pond shall be sloped to a drain manhole as
recommended by the City Engineer. The manhole shall be located adjacent to the
outlet of the pond or if there is no outlet the manhole shall be the greatest
distance from the inlet to the pond that is possible;
   (H)   In the event a lift station is required, ponds shall have a minimum
15-foot wide asphalt access road and a minimum asphalt/concrete area of 20 feet
by 20 feet at any lift station. The lift station and appurtenances shall be
placed to allow clear access to the pond with trucks, mowers, etc.
(Ord. 906, passed 5-12-2016)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
      Table
         
I.   ANNEXATIONS
         
II.   ZONING MAP CHANGES
         
III.   FRANCHISES
TABLE I: ANNEXATIONS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
772      2-7-2008    Accepts the plat of Lots 1 and 2, Landrigan Subdivision, a
                     replat of Lot 1, Landrigan Subdivision
774      4-10-2008   Accepts the plat of Lot 1A, Block 4, Third Addition, a
                     replat of Lots 1 and 2, Block 4, Third Addition
                     Accepts the plat of Lot 1, Dudden Second Subdivision, a
784      11-6-2008   subdivision in part of government Lots 2 and 3, in Section
                     28, Township 20, Range 50 West of the sixth P.M.
                     Accepts the plat of Lot A, Block 12, Seventh Addition, a
795      6-11-2009   replat of Lot 1 and the north half or Lot 2 Block 12,
                     Seventh Addition
796      8-6-2009    Accepts the plat of Lot 1A, Block 4, Riddles Subdivision,
                     a replat of Lot 1 and 2, Block 4, Riddles Addition
                     Accepts the plat of Lot 17A, Block 3, original town
798      9-10-2009   addition, a replat of Lots 17 and 18, Block 3, original
                     town addition
817      12-20-2010  Accepts the plat of Block 1, Woznick Subdivision
822      5-5-2011    Accepts the plat of Block 1, Lapaseotes Addition
                     Approving plats and petition of CCPN Lapaseotes, Ltd and
826      8-26-2011   Steven and Helen Plummer and annexing the real estate
                     described in Exhibit A
                     Approving plat and petition of Bridgeport Independent
829      9-15-2011   Living LLC and annexing the real estate described in
                     Exhibit A
                     Accepting the re-plat of Lots 1, 2, and 3 of Block 12 of
852      6-14-2012   the Seventh Addition to the city, into Lot A and B of
                     Block 12, Seventh Addition to the city
                     Accepting the re-plat of Lots 7 and 8 of Block 12, Meadow
857      10-11-2012  View Addition to the city, into Lot 7A, Block 12, Meadow
                     View Addition
                     Accepting the re-plat of Lots 5 through 11 of Block 16,
864      1-10-2013   Seventh Addition to the city, into Lot B, Seventh Addition
                     to the city
877      6-13-2013   Accepting the replat of Lots 12, 13 and 14 of Block 1,
                     Scoggin Addition, into Lot B, Block 1, Scoggin Addition
880      3-13-2014   Correcting plat of Block1, Woznick Subdivision
881      5-8-2014    Accepting re-plat of Lots 2 and 3 of Block 2, First
                     Addition, into Lot 2A, Block 2, First Addition
892      4-21-2015   Accepting re-plat of Lots 2 and 3, Block G, Second
                     Addition, into Lot 3A, Block G, Second Addition
                     Approving annexation petition of Bateman Family Revocable
902      4-12-2016   Trust and annexing real estate described therein, as set
                     forth in Exhibit B to Ordinance 902
                     Accepts replat of Lots 1 through 5, Wades Subdivision of
                     Lot 4, Block 1 Riverside Addition; Lot 1 Morton-Taylor
908      9-8-2016    Subdivision and Lot A of Albright Replat of the east half
                     of Lot 3, Block 1, Riverside Addition into Block 1,
                     Panhandle Coop Subdivision
                     Accepts replat of Lot 3, Block B, Second Addition and Lot
918      4-13-2017   A, Lila's replat of Lots 4, 5, and 6, Block B, Second
                     Addition into Lot 7, Block B, Second Addition
920      5-11-2017   Accepts the replat of Lots 5, 6, and 7, Block 11, First
                     Addition into Lot 5A, Block 11, First Addition
931      12-13-2017  Accepts the replat of Lots 1 through 17, Block 1 into Lots
                     A and B, Block 1
937      4-12-2018   Accepts subdivision and replat of parcels 2000061073,
                     2000061065 and 2000061081 and portion of 2000061073
938      5-10-2018   Accepts subdivision and replat of parcel 2000068232
939      5-22-2018   Accepts subdivision and replat of parcel 2000067969
940      5-22-2018   Accepts replat of Lots 3, 4, 5, and 6, Block 3, Nicholas
                     Addition into Lot 3A, Block 3, Nicholas Addition
                     Accepts subdivision and plat of property located in the
946      10-11-2018  Northwest Quarter of the Northeast Quarter of Section 32,
                     Township 20 N, Range 50 West of the 6th P.M. Morill
                     County, NE
                     Accepting of the subdivision of parcel 200060611 located
948      12-6-2018   in Section20, Township 20, Range50W of the 6th P.M.
                     Morrill County, NE
957      10-10-2019  Accepting the replat of Lots 1 and 2, Block 13, Meadow
                     View Addition to the city
958      10-10-2019  Accepting the replat of Lots 5 and 6, Block 13, Meadow
                     View Addition to the city
                     Approving the subdivision of parcel number 10008695, Lots
970      11-12-2020  12A and Lots 9 and 10 (less the north three feet of Lots 9
                     and 10), Block 2, Nicholas Addition
                     Accepting the replat of Lots 1 through 6, Block 9, Meadow
986      10-20-2022  View Addition to the city, into Lot 7, Block 9, Meadow
                     View Addition
                     Accepting the replat of portions of Lots A and B of
991      3-23-2023   Nichols replat and a portion of Tax Lot 9 into Parcel 1 of
                     Steer Replat
995      6-8-2023    Accepting Lots 1 through 3, Irving Addition to the city
                     into Lots 1A, 3A, and 3B, Irving addition
                     Accepting the replat of Lots 1, 2, and 6, Block 7, Meadow
999      11-9-2023   View Addition to the city into Lots 1A and 2A, Block 7,
                     Meadow View Addition
                     Accepting the replat of Lots 3 and 4, Block 6, Nicholas
1016     2-13-2025   Addition to the city into Lot 3A, Block 6, Nicholas
                     Addition
                    
 
TABLE II: ZONING MAP CHANGES
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. Date   Description
No.  Passed
702  3-8-   Classifies all lots located on the north side of 5th Street and east of N
     2001   Street as R-1
     2-5-   Zones HC (Highway Commercial) the tract of land being part of Tax Lot 9,
731  2004   located in the east half of the southwest quarter of Section 33, Township 20
            North, Range 50 West
743  4-14-  Zones HC (Highway Commercial) a triangular tract of land located in Lot 10
     2005   of the Irving Addition
768  11-8-  Amends Official Zoning Map to include R-3 Residential District
     2007
773  4-10-  Zones HC (Highway Commercial) the tract of land being Lot 3 and part of Lot
     2008   4, Block 8, Riverside Addition
775  6-5-   Zones A (Agricultural) the tract of land being part of the west half of the
     2008   southwest Section 21, Township 20, Range 50
776  9-11-  Zones R-2 (Residential) the tract of land being part of Section 28, Township
     2008   20, Range 50
789  3-5-   Zones CBD (Commercial Business District) the tract of land being the 500 and
     2009   600 blocks of Main Street
818  12-20- Zones I (Industrial) Block 1, Woznick Subdivision
     2010
832  10-6-  Zones C (Commercial) Block 1, Cline Subdivision, containing 3.1 acres, more
     2011   or less
894  6-11-  Zones CBD (Commercial Business) Lots 16, 17 and 18 of Block 6 of the
     2015   Original Town - 902, 906 and 910 L Street
904  6-16-  Zones HC (Highway Commercial) Lot 12, Block 6, Nicholas Addition
     2016
905  4-26-  Zones HC (Highway Commercial) a portion of lands situated in the SE ¼ SE ¼
     2016   of Section 29 and SW ¼ SW ¼ of Section 28, Township 20 North, Range 50 West
907  8-11-  Zones HC (Highway Commercial) land located at 110 W. 5th Street and 114 W.
     2016   5th Street
919  5-11-  Zones HC (Highway Commercial) Lots 5, 6, and 7, Block 11, First Addition
     2017
973  3-18-  Zones HC (Highway Commercial) Lots 11, 12, 13, and 14, Block 7, Nicholas'
     2021   Addition
1019 5-8-   Zones HC (Highway Commercial) N40' Lot 15, Block 6, and Lot 4, Block 5,
     2025   Original Town
           
 
TABLE III: FRANCHISES
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. Date   Description
No.  Passed
524  9-9-   Natural gas franchise granted to Sourcegas Distribution, LLC; codified in 1973
     1982   Code, § 10-501
527  10-7-  Garbage franchise granted to Donald Landrigan dba Don's Disposal Service;
     1982   codified in 1973 Code, § 4-304
531  4-7-   Cable television franchise granted to TCI Cablevision of Nebraska, Inc.;
     1983   codified in 1973 Code, § 10-502
562  7-11-  Natural gas franchise granted to K N Energy, Inc.; codified in 1973 Code, §§
     1985   10-601 through 10-610
584  9-10-  Amends Ord. 562; codified in 1973 Code, § 10-610
     1987
610  7-12-  Amends Ord. 531; codified in 1973 Code, § 10-502
     1990
771  2-7-   Amends Ord. 524; codified in 1973 Code, § 10-501
     2008
827  8-11-  Cable television franchise to ALLO Communications LLC
     2011
851  6-14-  Amending cable television franchise agreement with ALLO Communications LLC to
     2012   add franchise fee
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Nebraska Revised Statutes
References to 1973 Code
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO NEBRASKA REVISED STATUTES
Neb. RS Code Section
Neb. RS                        Code Section
9-701                          134.03
Ch. 10                         32.01
10-101–10-143                33.12
10-606–10-612                33.12
11-101                         31.51
11-103–11-118                31.50
13-503                         33.01
13-504                         33.28
13-505                         33.28
13-506                         33.29
13-507                         33.29
13-508                         33.30
13-509                         33.30
13-509.01                      33.27
13-509.02                      33.27
13-510                         33.32
13-511                         33.34
                               33.34;
13-518–13-522                33.29;
                               33.30
13-606                         33.02
13-609                         33.14
13-903                         33.05
13-1802                        32.08
16-691.01                      33.11
16-714                         33.10
16-716                         33.10
17-103                         31.03
17-104                         31.03;
                               31.04
17-105                         30.02;
                               30.14
17-106                         30.02;
                               30.15
                               31.06;
17-107                         31.07;
                               31.19;
                               31.27
17-107.01                      31.04
17-108.02                      31.20;
                               31.65
17-110–17-117                31.01
17-114                         54.03;
                               91.32
17-115                         31.06
17-118                         31.28
                               31.26;
17-121                         31.27;
                               32.03;
                               91.01
                               54.03;
17-123                         90.01;
                               91.32
17-124                         31.28
17-129                         131.01
17-130                         111.01
17-134                         111.01
17-135                         110.13
17-137                         112.08
                               112.07;
17-142                         131.02;
                               131.03
17-147                         31.29;
                               92.01
17-148                         31.02
17-149                         52.001;
                               52.003
17-149.01                      52.003
17-150                         31.30
17-207                         54.03;
                               90.01
17-209.02                      31.65
                               31.30;
17-405                         150.03;
                               150.04
17-405–17-426                150.01;
                               150.02
17-418                         150.04
17-426                         150.03
17-502                         11.01
                               10.99;
17-505                         30.30;
                               31.29;
                               112.02
17-506                         33.45
17-507                         33.46
17-510                         94.51
17-511                         94.52
17-522                         94.26
17-523                         94.26
17-524                         94.50
                               113.01;
17-525                         113.03–
                               113.05
                               90.17;
                               90.19–
17-526                         90.21;
                               90.23–
                               90.25
17-531                         51.01
17-534                         51.01
17-536                         51.11
                               51.07;
17-537                         51.08;
                               51.13
17-538                         51.06
17-540                         33.11
17-542                         51.05
17-549                         92.49;
                               92.50
17-550                         92.44–
                               92.48
17-552                         112.06
17-555                         131.02–
                               131.04
                               92.51;
17-556                         92.81;
                               131.01;
                               133.60
17-557                         94.21;
                               131.03
                               94.03;
17-557.01                      94.04;
                               94.20;
                               94.23
17-558                         94.42
17-559                         94.42
17-561                         112.06
                               94.02;
17-567                         94.43;
                               94.66
17-568.01                      31.30;
                               33.03
17-568.02                      33.03
17-602                         30.52
17-604                         31.19;
                               31.50
17-605                         31.21
17-606                         31.23
17-606–17-609                31.22
17-607                         33.09
17-608                         33.11
17-609                         33.11
17-610                         31.25
17-611                         31.35;
                               31.66
17-612                         31.65
                               30.33;
17-613                         30.36–
                               30.38;
                               33.03
                               10.15;
17-614                         30.34;
                               30.35;
                               30.39
17-616                         30.11
17-701                         33.25
17-702                         33.49;
                               33.08
17-703                         33.06
17-706                         33.31
17-708                         33.04
17-709                         33.04
17-710                         33.07
17-711                         33.04
17-714                         33.05
17-715                         33.05
17-718                         92.01
17-803                         33.11
17-901                         52.002
                               52.002;
                               53.03–
17-902                         53.05;
                               53.07;
                               53.09;
                               53.13
17-902–17-904                53.01
17-906                         53.01
17-909                         53.01
17-919                         31.30
17-920                         131.04
17-925.01                      52.001;
                               52.015
17-925.02                      52.009
17-948                         93.15
17-948–17-952                93.01
17-949                         93.16
17-951                         93.15
17-952                         32.04;
                               93.15
17-953                         92.01
                               150.01;
17-1,002                       150.02;
                               150.04
                               150.01;
17-1,003                       150.02;
                               150.04
18-132                         92.40
18-305–18-312                31.66
18-412.01                      33.03
18-503                         52.004–
                               52.006
18-756                         33.03
18-1214                        33.51
18-1216                        33.06
                               10.99;
                               94.03;
18-1,720                       112.05;
                               130.03;
                               133.02
18-1,722                       10.99
18-1,740                       72.16
18-1,751                       94.08
18-1808–18-1805              33.12
18-1,911                       112.01
18-2,101–18-2,144            32.06
18-2,101.01                    32.06
18-2,438                       30.13
18-2803                        33.35
18-2804                        33.02;
                               33.35
18-2805                        33.35
18-2806                        33.35
18-2807                        33.35
18-2808                        33.35
18-2902                        33.02
18-2903                        33.02
18-2904                        33.02
18-2905                        33.02
19-613                         31.04
19-901–19-914                153.325
19-902                         92.40;
                               150.03
19-903                         32.02
19-908                         32.02
19-916                         32.02
19-922                         92.40
19-1,101                       31.24
19-1,102                       31.21
19-1,104                       31.21
19-1301                        33.08
19-1302                        33.08
19-1303                        33.08
19-1304                        33.08
19-1,305                       51.01
19-1309                        33.47
19-1310                        33.47
19-1311                        33.47
19-1312                        33.47
19-2,101–19-2,106            54.20
19-2,427                       94.09
19-2,428–19-2,431            94.08;
                               94.53
19-2,701                       53.03
19-2905                        33.02
19-2906–19-2909              33.02
23-186                         33.51
25-1,801                       50.30
Ch. 28, Art. 3, 4, 7, 8, 10–1110.06
28-318                         134.02
28-431                         133.40
28-512                         53.14
28-519                         92.22;
                               130.01
28-520                         130.02
28-521                         130.02
28-523                         133.05
28-609                         132.01
28-610                         132.02
28-801                         134.01
28-806                         134.02
28-903                         132.03
28-904                         132.04
28-906                         132.05
28-907                         92.28;
                               132.07
28-908                         132.06
                               92.21;
28-908                         92.23;
                               92.25;
                               92.29
28-1004                        90.06
28-1005                        90.06
28-1005.04                     90.06
28-1008                        90.05
28-1009                        90.05
28-1012                        90.05
28-1101                        134.03
28-1102                        134.03
28-1103                        134.03
28-1104                        134.03
28-1107                        134.03
28-1108                        134.03
28-1109                        134.03
28-1110                        134.03
28-1111                        134.03
28-1112                        134.03
28-1113                        134.03
28-1117                        134.03
28-1,241                       92.81
28-1241–28-1252              112.08
28-1,244                       92.81
28-1,245                       92.81
28-1303                        133.06
28-1304                        133.03
28-1321                        130.03;
                               133.01
28-1322                        131.05
28-1418                        133.20
28-1419                        133.21
28-1427                        133.22
28-1465                        32.08
28-1466                        32.08
28-1472                        32.08
29-215                         32.08
29-422–29-429                90.05
32-110                         30.52
32-115                         30.52
32-404                         30.50;
                               30.54
32-405                         30.53
32-505.01                      30.59
32-533                         31.07
32-556                         30.50
32-557                         30.55
32-559                         30.53
32-562                         30.59
32-567–32-570                30.59
32-606                         30.56
32-607                         30.56
32-608                         30.57;
                               30.58
32-615                         30.58
32-616                         30.58
32-617                         30.58
32-618                         30.58
32-621                         30.58
32-622                         30.56
32-625                         30.56
32-625(1)                      30.58
32-627                         30.56;
                               30.58
32-628                         30.58
32-628–32-631                33.48
32-629                         30.58;
                               30.59
32-630                         30.58;
                               30.59
32-710                         30.58
32-802                         30.51;
                               33.48
32-952–959                   30.53
32-1301                        30.59
32-1302                        30.59
32-1303                        30.59
32-1304                        30.59
32-1305                        30.59
32-1306                        30.59
32-1307                        30.59
32-1308                        30.59
32-1309                        30.59
32-1525                        30.60
33-139.01                      92.02
33-141                         31.24
35-101–35-103                92.02
35-102                         31.29
35-106                         113.02
35-108                         31.29;
                               92.02
35-520                         92.28
37-1254.01                     32.08
37-1254.02                     32.08
Ch. 39                         70.01
39-301                         131.03
39-302                         131.03
39-307                         133.04
39-311                         70.55;
                               70.56
44-4,301–44-4,339            30.75
44-4,303                       30.75
45-601–45-622                33.13
45-623                         33.13
46-1212                        94.10
48-1503                        33.03
49-801(16)                     10.05
51-201                         33.48;
                               93.30
51-201–51-219                32.01
51-202                         32.01;
                               93.30
51-204                         32.01
51-205                         32.01;
                               93.32
51-206                         32.01
51-207                         32.01;
                               93.31
51-208                         32.01
51-209                         32.01;
                               93.34
51-210                         32.01
                               32.01;
51-211                         93.30;
                               93.33
51-212                         32.01
51-213                         32.01
51-214                         32.01;
                               93.32
51-215                         32.01;
                               33.08
51-216                         32.01;
                               33.08
51-217                         32.01
51-218                         32.01
51-219                         32.01
51-220                         32.01
51-501                         33.48
53-103                         133.24
53-103.01–53.103.42          110.01;
                               133.24
53-103.01                      133.24
53-103.23                      133.23
53-118                         110.19
53-123.04(3)                   133.25
52-123.11(1)(c)                133.25
53-124                         110.09;
                               110.26
53-124.01                      110.09
53-124.12                      110.26
53-124.15                      110.03
53-125                         110.06
53-131                         110.09
53-132                         110.09
53-133                         110.03;
                               110.09
                               110.09;
53-134                         110.24;
                               110.25
53-134.03                      110.09
53-135                         110.08
53-135.01                      110.08
53-148                         110.05
53-148.01                      110.02
53-168.06                      133.24
53-177                         110.03
53-177.01                      110.03
53-178                         110.04
53-180                         110.13
53-180.01                      133.23
53-180.02                      133.24
53-183                         110.14
53-184                         110.16
53-186                         110.21
53-186.01                      110.21
53-401–53-409                133.24
53-1,101                       110.10
53-1,102                       110.11
53-1,121                       110.23
54-601                         90.22
54-602                         90.22
54-603                         90.15;
                               90.17
54-603(3)                      90.15
54-606                         90.18
54-607                         90.25
Ch. 60                         70.01
60-301                         33.51;
                               133.40
60-302                         70.15;
                               70.16
60-323                         72.13
60-324                         70.17
60-325                         70.17
60-376                         133.40;
                               133.41
60-624                         70.80
                               70.54;
                               70.59;
                               70.60;
                               70.61;
                               70.66;
                               70.68–
                               70.70;
                               71.03;
                               71.06;
                               71.09;
60-680                         71.10;
                               72.03–
                               72.05;
                               72.07;
                               72.09;
                               72.11;
                               72.12;
                               72.15;
                               Ch. 74, Sch. I;
                               Ch. 74, Sch. II;
                               Ch. 75, Sch. I;
                               Ch. 75, Sch. III
60-683                         70.68
60-1901                        133.40
60-1902                        133.40
60-1903                        133.40
60-1903.01                     133.40
60-1904                        133.40
60-1905                        133.40
60-1906                        133.40
60-1907                        133.40
60-1908                        133.40
60-1909                        133.40
60-1911                        133.40
60-4,126                       70.81
60-4,163                       32.08
60-4,164                       32.08
60-6,109                       71.03
60-6,131                       71.05
60-6,136                       71.05
60-6,149                       71.08
60-6,159                       71.03
60-6,161                       71.03
60-6,161–60-6,163            71.03
60-6,166                       72.06;
                               72.08
60-6,167                       72.10
60-6,168                       72.01
60-6,169                       71.06
60-4,182                       70.63;
                               70.64
60-6,119–60-6,121            71.10;
                               Ch. 74, Sch. II
60-6,127                       70.57
60-6,129                       70.57
60-6,133                       70.50;
                               71.04
60-6,139                       70.51
60-6,140                       70.52;
                               70.54
60-6,146–60-6,148            71.04
60-6,151                       71.04
60-6,160                       Ch. 74, Sch. I
60-6,165                       72.15
60-6,166                       92.24
60-6,179                       70.58;
                               70.60
60-6,183                       70.53;
                               92.27
60-6,196                       32.08
60-6,197                       32.08
60-6,211.01                    32.08
60-6,211.02                    32.08
60-6,124                       110.21;
                               92.26
60-6,211.08                    133.25
60-6,213                       70.15;
                               70.63
60-6,215                       70.63
60-6,219                       70.18
60-6,220                       70.18
60-6,222                       70.68
60-6,196–60-6,203            70.62
60-6,214–60-6,218            70.63
60-6,224                       70.18;
                               70.19
60-6,241                       70.18
60-6,243                       70.21
60-6,244                       70.18
60-6,250                       94.48
60-6,255                       70.18
60-6,256                       70.18
60-6,285                       70.18
60-6,286                       70.20;
                               70.22
60-6,304                       70.22
60-6,308                       70.51
60-6,315                       70.35
60-6,316                       70.36
60-6,317                       70.35
60-6,318                       70.35
60-6,355                       70.80
60-6,680                       71.02
60-6,681                       71.01
69-202                         112.05
70-2001–70-2005              153.361
71-1637                        33.48
71-4,401                       90.18
71-4,408                       90.20
71-5,301                       51.13
71-6403                        151.15
73-101 et seq.                 33.03
76-704–76-724                32.01;
                               94.42
77-1,343                       94.53
77-1601                        33.50
77-1601.02                     33.50
77-1702                        33.14
77-2337                        33.08
77-2341                        33.11
77-2362                        33.09
77-2363                        33.09
77-2364                        33.09
77-2365.01                     33.09;
                               33.10
77-2366                        33.09;
                               33.10
77-2386                        33.09
77-3442                        33.48
77-3443                        33.48
77-3444                        30.53;
                               33.48
80-202                         33.48
81-502                         92.40
81-506                         31.29;
                               92.07
81-512                         31.29;
                               92.42
81-520.01                      92.53
81-592                         112.02
81-839                         31.30
81-2,005                       70.67
81-3423                        94.10
81-3445                        94.10
81-3449                        94.10
81-3453                        94.10
84-712                         31.21;
                               31.22
84-1,201–84-1,220            31.21
84-1,408                       30.01
84-1,408–84-1,414            30.13
84-1,409                       30.01
84-1,409(1)                    30.07
84-1,409(2)                    30.07
84-1,410                       30.08
                               30.01;
84-1,411                       30.09;
                               30.12
84-1,412                       30.10;
                               30.13
                               30.01;
84-1,413                       30.10;
                               30.11
                               
 
REFERENCES TO 1973 CODE
1973 Code 2010 Code
1973 Code     2010 Code
1-101         31.01
1-102         31.02
1-103         31.03
1-104         31.04
1-105         31.05
1-106         31.06
1-201         31.20
1-202         31.21
1-203         31.22
1-204         31.23
1-205         31.24
1-206         31.25
1-207         31.26
1-208         31.27
1-209         31.28
1-210         31.29
1-211         31.30
1-214         31.33
1-215         31.34
1-216         31.35
1-301         31.50
1-302         31.51
1-401         11.01
1-501         30.01
1-502         30.02
1-503         30.03
1-504         30.04
1-505         30.05
1-506         30.06
1-507         30.07
1-508         30.07
1-509         30.08
1-510         30.09
1-511         30.10
1-512         30.11
1-513         30.12
1-514         30.13
1-515         30.14
1-516         30.15
1-601         30.30
1-602         30.31
1-603         30.32
1-604         30.33
1-605         30.34
1-606         30.35
1-607         30.36
1-608         30.37
1-609         30.38
1-610         30.39
1-902         31.65;
              31.66
1-1001        30.75
2-102         32.02
2-103         32.03
2-104         32.04
2-106         32.05
2-201         32.06
3-101         51.01
3-102         51.02
3-103         51.03
3-104         51.04
3-105         51.05
3-107         51.06
3-108         51.07
3-109         51.08
3-110         51.09
3-110.01      51.10
3-111         51.11
3-112         51.12
3-113         51.13
3-116         51.14
3-117         51.15
3-119         51.30
3-120         51.31
3-121         51.32
3-122         51.33
3-123         51.34
3-124         51.35
3-125         51.36
3-126         51.37
3-127         51.38
3-128         51.39
3-129         51.40
3-130         51.41
3-131         51.42
3-132         51.43
3-133         51.55
3-201         52.001
3-202         52.002
3-203         52.003
3-204         52.004
3-205         52.005
3-206         52.006
3-206.1       52.007
3-207         52.008
3-208         52.009
3-209         52.010
3-211         52.011
3-212         52.012
3-213         52.013
3-214         52.014
3-215         52.015
3-217         52.016
3-218         52.017
3-220         52.019
3-221         52.030
3-222         52.031
3-223         52.032
3-224         52.033
3-225         52.045
3-226         52.046
3-227         52.047
3-228         52.048
3-229         52.049
3-230         52.050
3-231         52.065
3-232         52.066
3-233         52.067
3-234         52.068
3-235         52.069
3-236         52.070
3-237         52.071
3-238         52.072
3-239         52.073
3-240         52.085
3-241         52.086
3-242         52.087
3-243         52.100
3-244         52.101
3-245         52.102
3-246         52.103
3-247         52.104
3-248         52.105
3-249         52.106
3-250         52.106
3-251         52.106
3-252         52.107
3-254         52.999
3-255         52.108
3-301         92.01
3-302         92.02
3-303         92.03
3-304         92.04
3-305         92.05
3-306         92.06
3-307         92.07
3-401         32.07
3-501         93.01
3-502         93.02
3-601         93.15
3-602         93.16
3-603         93.17
3-701         93.30
3-702         93.31
3-703         93.32
3-704         93.33
3-705         93.34
3-901         54.20
3-902         54.21
3-1001        53.01
3-1002        53.02
3-1003        53.03
3-1004        53.04
3-1005        53.05
3-1006        53.06
3-1007        53.07
3-1008        53.08
3-1010        53.09
3-1011        53.10
3-1012        53.11
3-1013        53.12
3-1014        53.13
3-1015        53.14
3-1016        53.30
3-1017        53.31
3-1018        53.32
3-1019        53.33
3-1020        53.34
3-1102        50.30
3-1104        50.31
4-101         91.01
4-102         91.02
4-201         91.30
4-202         91.31
4-203         91.32
4-301         54.01
4-302         54.02
4-303         54.03
4-304         TSO III
4-305         54.04
4-306         54.05
4-307         53.06;
              54.99
4-401         91.45
4-402         91.46
4-403         91.47
4-404         91.48
4-405         91.49
4-406         91.50
5-101         70.01
5-201         71.01
5-203         71.02
5-204         Ch. 74, Sch. I
5-205         71.03
5-206         71.03
5-207         71.03
5-208         71.04
5-209         71.04
5-210         71.04
5-211         71.05
5-212         71.05
5-213         71.06
5-214         71.07
5-215         71.08
5-216         71.09
5-217         Ch. 74, Sch. II
5-218         71.10
5-301         70.15
5-302         70.16
5-303         70.17
5-304         70.18
5-305         70.19
5-306         70.20
5-307         70.21
5-308         70.22
5-401         72.01
5-402         72.02
5-403         Ch. 75, Sch. I
5-404         72.03
5-405         72.04
5-406         72.05
5-407         Ch. 75, Sch. II
5-408         72.06
5-409         72.07
5-410         72.08
5-411         72.09
5-412         72.10
5-413         72.11
5-414         72.12
5-415         72.13
5-416         Ch. 75, Sch. III
5-418         72.14
5-419         72.15
5-420         Ch. 75, Sch. IV
5-421         72.16
5-423         72.17
5-501         70.35
5-502         70.36
5-601         70.50
5-602         70.51
5-603         70.52
5-604         70.53
5-605         70.54
5-606         70.55;
              70.99
5-607         70.56
5-608         70.57
5-609         70.57
5-610         70.58
5-611         70.59
5-612         70.60
5-613         70.61
5-614         Ch. 74, Sch. III
5-615         70.62
5-616         70.63
5-617         70.63
5-618         70.64
5-619         70.65
5-620         70.66
5-621         70.67
5-622         70.68
5-623         70.68
5-624         70.68
5-625         70.69
5-626         70.69
5-627         70.70
5-628         70.71
5-629         70.72
5-630         70.73
5-631         70.74
5-632         70.74
5-634         70.75
5-635         70.76;
              70.99
6-101         90.15
6-103         90.17
6-104         90.18
6-105         90.19
6-106         90.20
6-107         90.21
6-108         90.22
6-109         90.23
6-110         90.24
6-111         90.25
6-112         90.40
6-113         90.41
6-114         90.42
6-115         90.43
6-116         90.44
6-117         90.45
6-118         90.46
6-119         90.47
6-201         90.01
6-202         90.02
6-203         90.03
6-204         90.04
6-501         135.01
6-502         135.02
6-503         135.03
6-504         135.04
6-505         135.99
7-101         92.20
7-102         92.21
7-103         92.22
7-104         92.23
7-105         92.24
7-106         92.25
7-107         92.26
7-108         92.27
7-109         92.28
7-110         92.29
7-201         92.40
7-202         92.41
7-203         92.42
7-204         92.43
7-205         92.44
7-206         92.45
7-207         92.46
7-208         92.47
7-209         92.48
7-210         92.49
7-211         92.50
7-212         92.51
7-213         92.52
7-301         92.65
7-401         92.80
7-402         92.81
7-404         92.82
8-101         94.01
8-102         94.02
8-103         94.03
8-104         94.04
8-105         94.05
8-106         94.06
8-107         94.07
8-108         94.08
8-109         94.09
8-201         94.20
8-202         94.21
8-203         94.22
8-204         94.23
8-205         94.24
8-206         94.25
8-207         94.26
8-208         94.27
8-301         94.40
8-302         94.41
8-303         94.42
8-304         94.43
8-305         94.44
8-306         94.45
8-307         94.46
8-308         94.47
8-309         94.48
8-310         94.49
8-311         94.50
8-312         94.51
8-313         94.52
8-314         94.53
8-315         94.54
8-401         94.65
8-402         94.66
9-101         151.01
9-102         151.02
9-601         151.30
9-602         151.31
9-603         151.32
9-604         151.33
9-605         151.34
9-606         151.35
9-701         151.50
9-702         151.51
9-703         151.52
9-704         151.53
10-101        110.01
10-102        110.02
10-103        110.03
10-104        110.04
10-105        110.05
10-106        110.06
10-108        110.08
10-109        110.09
10-110        110.10
10-111        110.11
10-112        110.12
10-113        110.13
10-114        110.14
10-116        110.16
10-117        110.17
10-118        110.18
10-119        110.19
10-121        110.21
10-122        110.22
10-123        110.23
10-124        110.24
10-125        110.25
10-205        111.01
10-206        111.01
10-207        111.01
10-301        112.01
10-302        112.02
10-303        112.02
10-304        112.02
10-305        112.03
10-306        112.03
10-307        112.04
10-308        112.04
10-309        112.05
10-310        112.05
10-311        112.05
10-312        112.05
10-313        112.05
10-314        112.06
10-315        112.06
10-316        112.07
10-317        112.08
10-401        113.01
10-402        113.02
10-403        113.03
10-404        113.04
10-405        113.05
10-501        TSO III
10-502        TSO III
10-601        TSO III
10-601–10-61TSO III
10-701        114.01
10-702        114.02
11-101        150.01
11-102        150.02
11-103        150.03
11-104        150.04
11-201        154.01
11-501        152.01
11-502        152.02
11-503        152.03
11-504        152.04
11-505        152.05
11-506        152.06
11-507        152.07
11-508        152.08
11-509        152.09
11-510        152.10
11-511        152.11
11-601        10.99
              
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
391      9-3-1973    70.51;
                     Ch. 74, Sch. III
393      2-7-1974    70.51
397      2-7-1974    92.02
407      12-5-1974   70.63–
                     70.65
408      12-5-1974   113.01
414      9-4-1975    110.18
419      3-4-1976    70.67
421      3-4-1976    31.05;
                     31.06
423      4-5-1976    31.29
429      8-5-1976    110.18
442      9-8-1977    Ch. 74, Sch. III
448      11-3-1977   Ch. 74, Sch. III
449      12-1-1977   91.50
450      12-1-1977   113.03
451      12-1-1977   70.58
                     30.07;
453      12-1-1977   30.09–
                     30.13
454      12-1-1977   30.06;
                     31.04
455      12-1-1977   31.21
459      7-6-1978    30.02
463      9-7-1978    90.24
472      9-6-1979    32.04
475      11-8-1979   113.01
479      2-7-1980    110.23
494      5-8-1980    32.02
495      5-8-1980    110.08
496      5-8-1980    94.51;
                     94.52
497      5-8-1980    94.27
511      5-7-1981    53.30–
                     53.34
512      6-15-1981   52.007
513      6-15-1981   52.003
518      3-11-1982   53.12
524      9-9-1982    TSO III
                     54.01–
527      10-7-1982   54.06;
                     54.99;
                     TSO III
531      4-7-1983    TSO III
535      8-11-1983   52.007
536      9-8-1983    51.03
537      9-8-1983    94.66
                     30.01;
540      10-6-1983   30.07–
                     30.09;
                     30.13
541      10-6-1983   50.30
                     52.016;
543      11-10-1983  52.017;
                     52.019
                     52.012;
                     52.016;
                     52.030–
                     52.033;
                     52.045–
                     52.050;
544      11-10-1983  52.065–
                     52.073;
                     52.085–
                     52.087;
                     52.100–
                     52.107;
                     52.999
545      2-9-1984    53.12
547      3-8-1984    52.017
548      6-7-1984    53.12
551      9-6-1984    Ch. 74, Sch. III
554      12-6-1984   110.18
555      2-7-1985    52.007
556      2-7-1985    152.01–
                     152.11
557      3-7-1985    152.01–
                     152.11
558      4-18-1985   53.10
562      7-11-1985   TSO III
565      9-5-1985    30.14;
                     30.15
568      12-5-1985   32.05
571      5-8-1986    110.24
573      5-8-1986    110.25
575      8-6-1986    53.12
579      5-8-1987    152.01–
                     152.11
582      9-10-1987   30.75
584      9-10-1987   TSO III
586      10-8-1987   94.08;
                     94.09
588      10-8-1987   94.53
589      10-8-1987   113.01
590      11-5-1987   30.01
591      11-5-1987   30.13
598      5-12-1988   51.14
599      7-7-1988    53.12
602      2-9-1989    72.15
603      2-9-1989    90.25
604      3-9-1989    92.81
607      2-8-1990    92.02
608      3-8-1990    53.12
609      4-5-1990    53.12
610      7-12-1990   TSO III
613      5-9-1991    51.15
614      5-9-1991    Ch. 75, Sch. IV
                     90.01;
616      11-7-1991   90.03;
                     90.04
617      11-7-1991   53.12
620      6-11-1992   50.31
622      6-11-1992   94.66
624      8-13-1992   70.75
625      10-8-1992   54.04
627      12-10-1992  94.66
629      4-20-1993   110.18
630      5-10-1993   31.21
632      6-10-1993   30.07
636      8-5-1993    54.05
639      9-9-1993    52.108
642      11-12-1993  30.08
647      4-7-1994    Ch. 74, Sch. III
648      5-5-1994    72.16
649      8-15-1994   53.06;
                     54.99
653      12-8-1994   94.66
466      12-4-1995   110.18
660      2-8-1996    114.01
661      2-8-1996    114.02
667      5-8-1997    72.02;
                     Ch. 75, Sch. I
669      5-8-1997    72.13
670      7-10-1997   Ch. 75, Sch. II
674      12-11-1997  94.54
685      9-10-1998   31.35
691      1-7-1999    51.30–
                     51.42
693      7-8-1999    91.50
694      7-8-1999    10.99
696      9-9-1999    Ch. 75, Sch. III
709      9-9-1999    Ch. 75, Sch. I
                     153.001–
                     153.007;
                     153.020–
                     153.024;
                     153.035–
                     153.039;
                     153.050–
                     153.055;
                     153.070–
                     153.078;
                     153.090–
                     153.097;
                     153.125–
                     153.132;
                     153.145–
                     153.152;
                     153.165–
                     153.170;
                     153.185–
                     153.189;
–      - - 2000    153.200–
                     153.211;
                     153.225–
                     153.227;
                     153.240–
                     153.243;
                     153.255;
                     153.256;
                     153.270–
                     153.277;
                     153.290–
                     153.295;
                     153.310;
                     153.311;
                     153.325–
                     153.328;
                     153.340;
                     153.341;
                     153.355;
                     153.356;
                     153.999
701      5-10-2001   90.45–
                     90.47
                     153.006;
702      3-8-2001    153.079;
                     TSO II
704      4-5-2001    90.20
705      4-5-2001    90.15;
                     90.16
706      4-5-2001    90.24
708      5-10-2001   90.40–
                     90.44
709      6-7-2001    91.45–
                     91.50
710      6-7-2001    151.30–
                     151.35
711      7-21-2001   54.05
714      9-13-2001   51.03
715      10-11-2001  53.12
716      11-8-2001   153.076;
                     153.095
720      10-10-2002  54.05
721      5-8-2003    153.006;
                     153.127
722      5-8-2003    153.126
724      10-9-2003   53.12
725      10-9-2003   54.05
728      2-5-2004    153.127
729      2-5-2004    151.50–
                     151.53
730      2-5-2004    153.211
731      2-5-2004    TSO II
734      8-5-2004    51.03;
                     52.007
740      2-10-2005   51.43
743      4-14-2005   TSO II
746      10-6-2005   53.12
747      3-9-2006    72.17
751      6-8-2006    51.55
752      7-6-2006    32.06
755      10-5-2006   153.076
756      1-11-2007   51.10
757      1-11-2007   53.06
758      1-11-2007   Ch. 74, Sch. III
761      7-12-2007   92.82
                     135.01–
762      7-12-2007   135.04;
                     135.99
765      11-11-2007  92.52
766      11-8-2007   153.051
768      11-8-2007   153.110;
                     TSO II
769      11-16-2007  53.12
770      1-10-2008   70.76;
                     70.99
771      1-10-2008   153.051
771      2-7-2008    TSO III
772      2-7-2008    TSO I
773      4-10-2008   TSO II
774      4-10-2008   TSO I
775      6-5-2008    TSO II
777      8-8-2008    73.01–
                     73.11
776      9-11-2008   TSO II
780      11-6-2008   50.01–
                     50.16
781      11-6-2008   Ch. 75, Sch. I
782      11-6-2008   90.99
783      11-6-2008   Ch. 51, App. A
784      11-6-2008   TSO I
786      12-11-2008  91.15;
                     91.99
790      - - 2009    153.146
788      2-5-2009    90.26;
                     90.99
789      3-5-2009    TSO II
793      6-11-2009   Ch. 75, Sch. II
794      6-11-2009   Ch. 51, App. A
795      6-11-2009   TSO I
792      8-6-2009    30.54;
                     31.04
796      8-6-2009    TSO I
700      9-10-2009   32.08
798      9-10-2009   TSO I
                     31.29;
800      9-10-2009   92.01;
                     92.02
801      9-10-2009   31.33–
                     31.35
                     Ch. 74, Sch. I;
802      2-11-2010   Ch. 75, Sch. I &
                     III
                     50.01–
803      2-11-2010   50.16;
                     53.09;
                     53.12
                     70.80;
804      4-8-2010    70.81;
                     70.99
805      6-10-2010   Adopting Ordinance
806      7-8-2010    93.40
807      9-16-2010   53.12
808      9-16-2010   Ch. 51, App. A
809      9-16-2010   Ch. 51, App. A
812      10-14-2010  51.17;
                     52.003
                     70.80;
813      11-10-2010  70.81;
                     70.99
814      11-10-2010  92.82
815      12-9-2010   110.18
816      1-6-2011    110.18
817      12-20-2010  TSO I
818      12-20-2010  TSO II
819      4-7-2011    110.18
821      5-5-2011    31.35
822      5-5-2011    TSO I
824      6-9-2011    94.06
825      6-9-2011    32.02
826      8-26-2011   TSO I
827      8-11-2011   TSO III
829      9-15-2011   TSO I
828      8-11-2011   51.03
830      10-6-2011   51.18
832      10-6-2011   TSO II
833      11-6-2011   30.02;
                     30.14
834      1-12-2012   110.13
835      1-12-2012   110.21
836      1-12-2012   110.14
837      1-12-2012   110.03
838      2-9-2012    110.09
839      2-9-2012    31.19
840      2-9-2012    32.08
841      2-9-2012    30.56
842      2-9-2012    30.58
843      2-9-2012    30.59
844      2-9-2012    33.03
845      3-8-2012    92.53
846      3-8-2012    133.25
847      3-8-2012    94.10
848      4-5-2012    31.07
849      4-5-2012    153.006;
                     153.226
850      4-23-2012   30.02;
                     30.14
851      6-14-2012   TSO III
852      6-14-2012   TSO I
                     30.02;
853      7-12-2012   30.14;
                     90.40
854      7-12-2012   51.03
855      8-9-2012    53.12
857      10-11-2012  TSO I
858      11-8-2012   Ch. 51, App. A
859      11-15-2012  Ch. 51, App. A
860      12-13-2012  153.292
861      12-13-2012  153.006;
                     153.072
862      12-13-2012  153.079;
                     153.098
864      1-10-2013   TSO I
865      2-14-2013   151.51 -
                     151.54
866      2-14-2013   51.19
867      2-14-2013   151.51
868      2-14-2013   153.292
871      3-14-2013   153.226
873      5-9-2013    153.076
874      5-9-2013    53.12
877      6-13-2013   TSO I
880      3-13-2014   TSO I
881      5-8-2014    TSO I
                     90.40 -
882      5-8-2014    90.51;
                     90.99
883      6-12-2014   153.292
885      9-18-2014   31.29
887      10-28-2014  54.05
888      10-28-2014  Ch. 51, App. A
889      3-17-2015   53.12
                     90.03;
                     90.18;
890      4-9-2015    90.22;
                     90.24;
                     90.25
891      4-9-2015    113.01
892      4-21-2015   TSO I
894      6-11-2015   TSO II
896      9-29-2015   54.05
897      9-29-2015   Ch. 51, App. A
898      10-8-2015   94.06
899      11-17-2015  32.10
900      12-10-2015  90.15
902      4-12-2016   TSO I
903      4-12-2016   113.01
904      6-16-2016   TSO II
905      4-26-2016   TSO II
906      5-12-2016   155.01 -
                     155.05
907      8-11-2016   TSO II
908      9-8-2016    TSO I
911      10-13-2016  54.05
912      10-13-2016  53.12
913      11-10-2016  Ch. 75, Sch. I
914      3-9-2017    92.54
915      3-9-2017    50.32
916      3-9-2017    94.06
917      3-9-2017    153.167
918      4-13-2017   TSO I
919      5-11-2017   TSO II
920      5-11-2017   TSO I
921      5-11-2017   50.01 -
                     50.16
922      5-11-2017   Ch. 75, Sch. I
923      6-8-2017    32.04
925      7-26-2017   Ch. 74, Sch. III
927      9-14-2017   54.05
928      10-16-2017  Ch. 75, Sch. I
929      11-14-2017  72.17;
                     72.99
930      11-14-2017  153.076;
                     153.095
931      12-13-2017  TSO I
932      1-11-2018   Ch. 74, Sch. III
933      2-8-2018    Ch. 74, Sch. I
934      3-8-2018    Ch. 74, Sch. II
936      4-12-2018   90.90
937      4-12-2018   TSO I
938      5-10-2018   TSO I
939      5-22-2018   TSO I
940      5-22-2018   TSO I
941      6-14-2018   153.076;
                     153.095
942      6-14-2018   50.17
944      9-13-2018   54.05
945      10-11-2018  Ch. 51, App. A
946      10-11-2018  TSO I
947      11-27-2018  30.14
948      12-6-2018   TSO I
949      1-10-2019   31.35
950      2-14-2019   70.80,
                     70.81
953      6-13-2019   153.091,
                     153.092
956      9-12-2019   54.05
957      10-10-2019  TSO I
958      10-10-2019  TSO I
959      11-14-2019  32.04,
                     32.09
960      2-13-2020   153.360 -
                     153.363
962      3-12-2020   Ch. 74, Sch. II
963      5-14-2020   92.81;
                     92.82
964      3-12-2020   53.06
                     51.03;
                     51.06;
                     51.14;
                     51.15;
                     51.16;
965      5-14-2020   51.37;
                     51.38;
                     53.05;
                     53.06;
                     53.08;
                     53.10
968      8-27-2020   31.31
970      11-12-2020  TSO I
972      1-14-2021   32.10
973      3-18-2021   TSO II
974      3-18-2021   153.370;
                     153.371
976      7-15-2021   113.03
977      7-29-2021   31.29
978      9-9-2021    54.05
981      12-16-2021  Ch. 75, Sch. IV
982      9-15-2022   54.04
984      10-20-2022  32.10
986      10-20-2022  TSO I
987      2-9-2023    90.20
988      2-9-2023    32.09
989      2-9-2023    73.01
990      3-9-2023    110.18
991      3-23-2023   TSO I
993      5-11-2023   32.09
994      5-11-2023   32.02
995      6-8-2023    TSO I
998      10-12-2023  Ch. 75, Sch. I
999      11-9-2023   TSO I
1000     11-9-2023   131.05
1001     12-14-2023  30.02,
                     30.14
1006     5-13-2024   32.10
1008     9-11-2024   50.08
1009     8-13-2024   Ch. 74, Sch. III
1011     10-10-2024  54.05
1014     2-13-2025   153.051
1016     2-13-2025   TSO I
1017     3-13-2025   53.12
1018     4-10-2025   Ch. 75, Sch. I
1019     5-8-2025    TSO II
                    
 
 
