CAMPBELL, NEBRASKA
CODE OF ORDINANCES
Local legislation updated through Ord. 24-1, passed 6-11-2024
 
Published by:
AMERICAN LEGAL PUBLISHING
525 Vine Street, Ste. 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-800-445-5588 www.amlegal.com
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
11.   VILLAGE STANDARDS
CHAPTER 10: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Interpretation
   
10.03   Application to future ordinances
   
10.04   Captions
   
10.05   Definitions
   
10.06   Rules of interpretation
   
10.07   Severability
   
10.08   Reference to other sections
   
10.09   Reference to offices
   
10.10   Errors and omissions
   
10.11   Official time
   
10.12   Reasonable time
   
10.13   Ordinances repealed
   
10.14   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.15   Repeal or modification of ordinance
   
10.16   Section histories; statutory references
   
10.17   Local changes to this code of ordinances
 
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01 TITLE OF CODE.
   This codification of ordinances shall be designated as the Village of
Campbell Code of Ordinances and may be so cited.
§ 10.02 INTERPRETATION.
   Unless otherwise provided herein, or by law or implication required, the
same rules of construction, definition and application shall govern the
interpretation of this code as those governing the interpretation of state law.
§ 10.03 APPLICATION TO FUTURE ORDINANCES.
   All provisions of Title I compatible with future legislation shall apply to
ordinances hereafter adopted amending or supplementing this code unless
otherwise specifically provided.
§ 10.04 CAPTIONS.
   The headings and captions that are used in this code, other than the title,
chapter and section numbers, are employed for reference purposes only and shall
not be deemed a part of the text of any section.
§ 10.05 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   General rule. Words and phrases shall be taken in their plain, or
ordinary and usual, sense. However, technical words and phrases having a
peculiar and appropriate meaning in law shall be understood according to their
technical import.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this code, the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      BOARD OF TRUSTEES, VILLAGE BOARD or GOVERNING BODY. The legislative body
of the village.
      CODE, THIS CODE or THIS CODE OF ORDINANCES. This village code as modified
by amendment, revision and adoption of new titles, chapters or sections.
      COUNTY. Franklin County, Nebraska.
      MAY. The act referred to is permissive.
      MONTH. A calendar month.
      OATH. Includes an affirmation in all cases in which, by law, an
affirmation may be substituted for an oath, and in such cases, the words SWEAR
and SWORN shall be equivalent to the words AFFIRM and AFFIRMED.
      OFFICER, OFFICE, EMPLOYEE, COMMISSION or DEPARTMENT. An officer, office,
employee, commission or department of this village unless the context clearly
requires otherwise.
      PERSON. Includes bodies politic and corporate, societies, communities,
the public generally, individuals, partnerships, limited liability companies,
joint-stock companies and associations.
(Neb. RS 49-801(16))
      PRECEDING or FOLLOWING. Next before or next after, respectively.
      SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory.
      SIGNATURE or SUBSCRIPTION. Includes a mark when the person cannot write.
      STATE. The State of Nebraska.
      SUBCHAPTER. A division of a chapter, designated in this code by a heading
in the chapter analysis and a capitalized heading in the body of the chapter,
setting apart a group of sections related by the subject matter of the heading.
Not all chapters have SUBCHAPTERS.
      VILLAGE, MUNICIPAL CORPORATION or MUNICIPALITY. Campbell, Nebraska.
      WRITTEN. Any representation of words, letters or figures, whether by
printing or otherwise.
      YEAR. A calendar year unless otherwise expressed.
§ 10.06 RULES OF INTERPRETATION.
   The construction of all ordinances of this village shall be by the following
rules unless that construction is plainly repugnant to the intent of the
Village Board or of the context of the same ordinance.
   (A)   AND or OR. Either conjunction shall include the other as if written
“and/or” if the sense requires it.
   (B)   Acts by assistants. When a statute or ordinance requires an act to be
done which, by law, an agent or deputy as well may do as the principal, the
requisition shall be satisfied by the performance of the act by an authorized
agent or deputy.
   (C)   Gender; singular and plural; tenses. Words denoting the masculine
gender shall be deemed to include the feminine and neuter genders; words in the
singular shall include the plural, and words in the plural shall include the
singular; the use of a verb in the present tense shall include the future, if
applicable.
   (D)   General term. A general term following a specific enumeration of terms
is not to be limited to the class enumerated unless expressly so limited.
§ 10.07 SEVERABILITY.
   If any provision of this code as now or later amended or its application to
any person or circumstance is held invalid, the invalidity does not affect
other provisions that can be given effect without the invalid provision or
application.
§ 10.08 REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   Whenever a section refers to another section hereof, that reference shall
extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently amended, revised,
recodified or renumbered unless the subject matter is materially altered by the
amendment or revision.
§ 10.09 REFERENCE TO OFFICES.
   Reference to a public office or officer shall be deemed to apply to any
office, officer or employee of this village exercising the powers, duties or
functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any transfer of
functions or change in the official title of the functionary.
§ 10.10 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error is discovered, consisting of the misspelling of any
words; the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention of
the provisions affected; the use of a word or words to which no meaning can be
attached; or the use of a word or words when another word or words was clearly
intended to express the intent, then the spelling shall be corrected and the
word or words supplied, omitted or substituted as will conform with the
manifest intention, and the provisions shall have the same effect as though the
correct words were contained in the text as originally published. No alteration
shall be made or permitted if any question exists regarding the nature or
extent of the error.
§ 10.11 OFFICIAL TIME.
   The official time, as established by applicable state/federal laws, shall be
the official time within this village for the transaction of all village
business.
§ 10.12 REASONABLE TIME.
   (A)   In all cases where an ordinance requires an act to be done in a
reasonable time or requires reasonable notice to be given, REASONABLE TIME OR
NOTICE shall be deemed to mean the time which is necessary for a prompt
performance of the act or the giving of the notice.
   (B)   The time within which an act is to be done, as herein provided, shall
be computed by excluding the first day and including the last. If the last day
is Sunday, it shall be excluded.
§ 10.13 ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   This code contains all of the provisions of a general nature pertaining to
the subjects enumerated and embraced in this code. All prior ordinances
pertaining to the subjects treated by this code are repealed, except that
nothing shall affect any rights acquired under, actions involving or fines,
penalties, forfeitures or liabilities incurred pursuant to those ordinances
prior to repeal.
§ 10.14 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not embraced in this code, including ordinances
specified in this section, shall remain in full force and effect unless
repealed expressly or by necessary implication:
   (A)   Vacating or setting the boundaries of streets, alleys or other public
places;
   (B)   Annexing or detaching territory;
   (C)   Granting or accepting easements, plats or dedications of land to
public use;
   (D)   Providing for the acquisition or conveyance of real or personal
property;
   (E)   Authorizing or directing public improvements to be made;
   (F)   Levying taxes or special assessments;
   (G)   Appropriating money;
   (H)   Granting franchises or special licenses; or
   (I)   Providing for the issuance of bonds or other instruments of
indebtedness.
§ 10.15 REPEAL OR MODIFICATION OF ORDINANCE.
   (A)   Whenever any ordinance or part of an ordinance is repealed or modified
by a subsequent ordinance, the ordinance or part of an ordinance thus repealed
or modified shall continue in force until the publication of the ordinance
repealing or modifying it to give effect thereto.
   (B)   No suit, proceedings, right, liability, fine, forfeiture or penalty
instituted, created, given, secured or accrued under any ordinance previous to
its repeal shall in any way be affected, released or discharged, but may be
prosecuted, enjoyed and recovered as fully as if the ordinance had continued in
force, unless it is otherwise expressly provided. When any ordinance repealing
a former ordinance, clause or provision is itself repealed, the repeal shall
not be construed to revive the former ordinance, clause or provision unless it
is expressly provided.
Statutory reference:
   Requirements for amendments and revisions, see Neb. RS 17-614
§ 10.16 SECTION HISTORIES; STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   A statutory cite included in the history indicates that the text of
the section reads substantially the same as the statute. Example: (Neb. RS 18-
132)
   (B)   A statutory cite set forth as a “statutory reference” following the
text of the section indicates that the reader should refer to that statute for
further information. Example:
      § 39.01 PUBLIC RECORDS AVAILABLE.
         This municipality shall make available to any person for inspection or
      copying all public records unless otherwise exempted by state law.
      Statutory reference:
         Inspection of public records, see Neb. RS 84-712 et seq.
§ 10.17 LOCAL CHANGES TO THIS CODE OF ORDINANCES.
   Any provision of this code of ordinances may be repealed, modified or
superseded by an ordinance passed by the Village Board.
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   Any person who shall violate or refuse to comply with the enforcement of any
of the provisions of this code of ordinances, set forth at full length herein
or incorporated by reference, shall be deemed guilty of an offense and, upon
conviction thereof, shall be fined not more than $100 for each offense. A new
violation shall be deemed to have been committed every 24 hours of such failure
to comply.
(Prior Code, § 1-1001)
CHAPTER 11: VILLAGE STANDARDS
Section
   
11.01   Official seal
§ 11.01 OFFICIAL SEAL.
   The official corporate seal of the municipality shall be kept in the office
of the Municipal Clerk-Treasurer and shall bear the following inscription,
“Village of Campbell, Nebraska, Seal.” The Municipal Clerk-Treasurer shall
affix an impression of the said official seal to all warrants, licenses,
permits, ordinances and all other official papers issued by order of the
governing body and countersigned by the Municipal Clerk-Treasurer.
(Prior Code, § 1-401)
Statutory reference:
   Seal, other powers, see Neb. RS 17-502
  TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   BOARD OF TRUSTEES; LEGISLATION
      
31.   VILLAGE OFFICIALS
      
32.   ORGANIZATIONS
      
33.   ELECTIONS
      
34.   FINANCE AND REVENUE
CHAPTER 30: BOARD OF TRUSTEES; LEGISLATION
Section
Board of Trustees
   
30.01   Election; terms; qualifications
   
30.02   General powers
   
30.03   Oath; organization; Chairperson
   
30.04   Chairperson; powers and duties; absence
   
30.05   Standing committees
   
30.06   Vacancy
Ordinances, Resolutions and Motions
   
30.20   Grant of power
   
30.21   Resolutions and motions
   
30.22   Introduction of ordinances
   
30.23   Ordinances; style, title
   
30.24   Reading and passage of ordinances, resolutions, orders, bylaws
   
30.25   Publication or posting
   
30.26   Certificate of publication or posting
   
30.27   Effective date; emergency ordinances
   
30.28   Amendments and revisions
BOARD OF TRUSTEES
§ 30.01 ELECTION; TERMS; QUALIFICATIONS.
   (A)   The corporate powers and duties of the village shall be vested in a
Board of Trustees, which shall consist of five members. At the first statewide
general election held after the incorporation of the village, two Trustees
shall be elected to serve two years and three Trustees shall be elected to
serve four years. Thereafter, the Board members shall be elected as provided in
the Election Act. The terms shall begin on the first regular meeting of the
Board in December following the statewide general election.
(Neb. RS 17-202)
   (B)   The members of the Board of Trustees shall be elected at the statewide
general election as provided in division (A) above and each four years
thereafter. Except as provided in that division, the term of each Board member
shall be four years or until his or her successor is elected and qualified.
(Neb. RS 32-532)
   (C)   Any person may be a Trustee who is a citizen of the United States,
resides in the village and is a registered voter.
(Neb. RS 17-203)
   (D)   Unless the village provides otherwise, members of the Board of
Trustees shall be elected from the village at large on a nonpartisan ballot.
   (E)   The Board of Trustees shall determine whether the person meets all
requirements before swearing in a Trustee.
(Neb. RS 32-602)
Statutory reference:
   Ability to elect Trustees at large or by ward, see Neb. RS 32-554
   Ability to provide for a partisan ballot, see Neb. RS 32-557
   Election Act, see Neb. RS 32-101
   Holding other office or employment, see Neb. RS 17-209.02 and 32-604
§ 30.02 GENERAL POWERS.
   (A)   The Village Board of Trustees shall have the power to pass ordinances:
      (1)   To prevent and remove nuisances within the village or within its
one-mile zoning jurisdiction;
      (2)   To restrain and prohibit gambling;
      (3)   To provide for licensing and regulating theatrical and other
amusements within the village;
      (4)   To prevent the introduction and spread of contagious diseases;
      (5)   To establish and regulate markets;
      (6)   To erect and repair bridges;
      (7)   To erect, repair and regulate wharves;
      (8)   To regulate the landing of watercraft;
      (9)   To provide for the inspection of building materials to be used or
offered for sale in the village;
      (10)   To govern the planting and protection of shade trees in the
streets and the building of structures projecting upon or over and adjoining,
and all excavations through and under, the sidewalks of the village;
      (11)   To maintain the peace, good government and welfare of the village
and its trade and commerce; and
      (12)   To enforce all ordinances by inflicting penalties upon inhabitants
or other persons for violation of such ordinances, not exceeding $500 for any
one offense, recoverable with costs.
(Neb. RS 17-207)
   (B)   The village has the power and authority by ordinance to define,
regulate, suppress and prevent nuisances, and to declare what constitutes a
nuisance, and to abate and remove the same. The village may exercise this power
and authority within its corporate limits and extraterritorial zoning
jurisdiction.
   (C)   The village may enter into an interlocal agreement pursuant to the
Interlocal Cooperation Act with a county in which the extraterritorial zoning
jurisdiction of the village is located to provide for joint and cooperative
action to abate, remove or prevent nuisances within such extraterritorial
zoning jurisdiction. The governing body of such village and the county board of
such county shall first approve such interlocal agreement by ordinance or
resolution.
(Neb. RS 18-1720)
Statutory reference:
   Interlocal Cooperation Act, see Neb. RS 13-801 to 13-827
§ 30.03 OATH; ORGANIZATION; CHAIRPERSON.
   Every Village Trustee, before entering upon the duties of his or her office,
shall take an oath to support the Constitution of the United States and the
Constitution of this state and faithfully and impartially to discharge the
duties of his or her office. All Trustees elected to office shall qualify and
meet on the first regular meeting of the Board of Trustees in December
thereafter, organize, elect a Chairperson of the Board of Trustees and appoint
the officers required by law.
(Neb. RS 17-204)
Statutory reference:
   Oath, see Neb. RS 11-101
§ 30.04 CHAIRPERSON; POWERS AND DUTIES; ABSENCE.
   (A)   The Chairperson shall preside at all meetings of the Board of Trustees
and perform all duties of his or her office in accordance with the laws of the
state and the ordinances of the village.
   (B)   The Chairperson of the Board of Trustees shall cause the ordinances of
the Board to be printed and published for the information of the inhabitants
and cause such ordinances to be carried into effect. In the absence of the
Chairperson from any meeting of the Board, the Board shall have power to
appoint a Chairperson pro tempore, who shall exercise and have the powers and
perform the same duties as the regular Chairperson.
(Neb. RS 17-210)
   (C)   The Chairperson and the Chairperson pro tempore shall have the same
powers and privileges as other members of the Board of Trustees.
§ 30.05 STANDING COMMITTEES.
   (A)   At the organizational meeting of the Village Board, the Village
Chairperson shall appoint members of such standing committees as the Village
Board may by ordinance, or resolution, create. The membership of such standing
committees may be changed at any time by the Village Chairperson. The Village
Chairperson shall be a member ex officio of each standing committee. The
members of the standing committees shall serve a term of office of one year,
unless reappointed.
   (B)   The following standing committees shall be appointed or reappointed
each year until changed by the governing body:
      (1)   Auditorium;
      (2)   Finance;
      (3)   911 Committee;
      (4)   Park;
      (5)   Powerhouse;
      (6)   Nursing Home;
      (7)   Sewer;
      (8)   Street and Alley;
      (9)   Board of Health; and
      (10)   Tree Board.
(Prior Code, § 2-101)
§ 30.06 VACANCY.
   (A)   Every elective office shall be vacant upon the happening of any of the
events specified in Neb. RS 32-560 except as provided in Neb. RS 32-561.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in division (C) or (D) below, vacancies
in village elected offices shall be filled by the Board of Trustees for the
balance of the unexpired term. Notice of a vacancy, except a vacancy resulting
from the death of the incumbent, shall be in writing and presented to the Board
at a regular or special meeting and shall appear as a part of the minutes of
that meeting. The Board shall at once give public notice of the vacancy by
causing to be published in a newspaper of general circulation within the
village or by posting in three public places in the village the office vacated
and the length of the unexpired term. The Chairperson of the Board shall call a
special meeting of the Board or place the issue of filling the vacancy on the
agenda at the next regular meeting, at which time the Chairperson shall submit
the name of a qualified registered voter to fill the vacancy for the balance of
the unexpired term. The regular or special meeting shall occur upon the death
of the incumbent, or within four weeks after the meeting at which such notice
of vacancy has been presented. The Board shall vote upon the nominee, and if a
majority votes in favor of the nominee, the vacancy shall be declared filled.
If the nominee fails to receive a majority of the votes, the nomination shall
be rejected and the Chairperson shall, at the next regular or special meeting,
submit the name of another qualified registered voter to fill the vacancy. If
the subsequent nominee fails to receive a majority of the votes, the
Chairperson shall continue at that meeting to submit the names of qualified
registered voters in nomination and the Board shall continue to vote upon the
nominations at such meeting until the vacancy is filled. All Trustees present
shall cast a ballot for or against the nominee. Any member of the Board who has
been appointed to fill a vacancy on the Board shall have the same rights,
including voting, as if that person were elected.
   (C)   The Chairperson and Board of Trustees may, in lieu of filling a
vacancy in a village elected office as provided in division (B) above, call a
special election to fill that vacancy.
   (D)   If vacancies exist in the offices of one-half or more of the members
of the Board of Trustees, the Secretary of State shall conduct a special
village election to fill those vacancies. Candidates for such special election
shall file a candidate filing form pursuant to §
34.07(C).
(Neb. RS 32-569)
Statutory reference:
   Additional and similar provisions, see Neb. RS 32-560 through 32-572
   Ineligibility of official subjected to recall, see Neb. RS 32-1308
ORDINANCES, RESOLUTIONS AND MOTIONS
§ 30.20 GRANT OF POWER.
   In addition to its special powers, the village shall have the power to make
all ordinances, bylaws, rules, regulations and resolutions, not inconsistent
with the laws of the state, as may be expedient for maintaining the peace, good
government and welfare of the village and its trade and commerce and to enforce
all ordinances by inflicting fines or penalties for the breach thereof, not
exceeding $500 for any one offense, recoverable with costs.
(Neb. RS 17-505)
Statutory reference:
   Adoption of standard codes, see Neb. RS 18-132 and 19-922
   Prosecution in county court, see Neb. RS 25-2703
§ 30.21 RESOLUTIONS AND MOTIONS.
   (A)   Unless the Board of Trustees has specified other procedures,
resolutions and motions shall be introduced in one of the methods prescribed in
§
30.22 for the introduction of ordinances. The issue raised by the resolution or
motion shall be disposed of in accordance with the usage of parliamentary law
adopted for the guidance of the Board of Trustees.
   (B)   A majority vote shall be required to pass any resolution or motion.
The vote on any resolution or motion shall be by roll call vote.
§ 30.22 INTRODUCTION OF ORDINANCES.
   Unless the Board of Trustees has specified other procedures, ordinances
shall be introduced by members of the Board of Trustees in one of the following
ways.
   (A)   With the recognition of the Chairperson, a member may, in the presence
and hearing of a majority of the members elected to the Board of Trustees, read
aloud the substance of the proposed ordinance and file a copy with the Village
Clerk-Treasurer for future consideration.
   (B)   With the recognition of the Chairperson, a member may present the
proposed ordinance to the Clerk-Treasurer, who, in the presence and hearing of
a majority of the members elected to the Board of Trustees, shall read aloud
the substance of the ordinance and file it for future consideration.
§ 30.23 ORDINANCES; STYLE, TITLE.
   (A)   The style of all village ordinances shall be: “Be it ordained by the
Chairperson and Board of Trustees of the Village of Campbell, Nebraska: ....”
(Neb. RS 17-613)
   (B)   No ordinance shall contain a subject which is not clearly expressed in
the title.
(Neb. RS 17-614)
§ 30.24 READING AND PASSAGE OF ORDINANCES, RESOLUTIONS, ORDERS, BYLAWS.
   (A)   All ordinances and resolutions or orders for the appropriation or
payment of money shall require for their passage or adoption the concurrence of
a majority of all elected members of the Board of Trustees. Ordinances of a
general or permanent nature shall be read by title on three different days
unless three-fourths of the Board of Trustees vote to suspend this requirement.
Such requirement shall not be suspended for any ordinance for the annexation of
territory, or the redrawing of boundaries for Village Board of Trustees
election districts or wards, or as otherwise provided by law. In case this
requirement is suspended, the ordinance shall be read by title and then moved
for final passage. Three-fourths of the Board of Trustees may require a reading
of any such ordinance in full before enactment under either procedure set out
in this section.
(Neb. RS 17-614)
   (B)   (1)   On the passage or adoption of every bylaw or ordinance, and
every resolution or order to enter into a contract by the Board of Trustees,
the yeas and nays shall be called and recorded. To pass or adopt any bylaw,
ordinance or any such resolution or order, a concurrence of a majority of the
whole number of members elected to the Board of Trustees shall be required. All
appointments of the officers by the Board of Trustees shall be made viva voce,
and the concurrence of a like majority shall be required, and the names of
those, and for whom they voted, on the vote resulting in an appointment shall
be recorded.
      (2)   The requirements of a roll call or viva voce vote shall be
satisfied by a village which utilizes an electronic voting device which allows
the yeas and nays of each member of the Board of Trustees to be readily seen by
the public.
(Neb. RS 17-616)
Statutory reference:
   Adjustments to boundaries of election districts, see Neb. RS 17-614
§ 30.25 PUBLICATION OR POSTING.
   All ordinances of a general nature shall, before they take effect, be
published within 15 days after they are passed:
   (A)   In a legal newspaper in or of general circulation in the village or,
if no paper is published in the village, by posting a written or printed copy
in each of three public places in the village; or
   (B)   In book, pamphlet or electronic form.
(Neb. RS 17-613)
Statutory reference:
   Additional provisions, see Neb. RS 18-131
   Chairperson of Board of Trustees; duties, see Neb. RS 17-210
§ 30.26 CERTIFICATE OF PUBLICATION OR POSTING.
   The passage, approval and publication or posting of an ordinance shall be
sufficiently proved by a certificate under the seal of the village from the
Village Clerk-Treasurer showing that the ordinance was passed and approved, and
when and in what paper the ordinance was published, or when and by whom and
where the ordinance was posted.
(Neb. RS 17-613)
Statutory reference:
   Passage; rules and regulations, see Neb. RS 17-615
§ 30.27 EFFECTIVE DATE; EMERGENCY ORDINANCES.
   (A)   Except as provided in §
30.25 and division (B) below, an ordinance for the government of the village
which has been adopted by the Board of Trustees without submission to the
voters of the village shall not go into effect until 15 days after the passage
of the ordinance.
(Neb. RS 19-3701)
   (B)   In the case of riot, infectious or contagious diseases or other
impending danger, failure of a public utility or any other emergency requiring
its immediate operation, an ordinance shall take effect upon the proclamation
of the Chairperson and the posting thereof in at least three of the most public
places in the village. The emergency ordinance shall recite the emergency, be
passed by a three-fourths’ vote of the Board of Trustees and be entered of
record on the Village Clerk-Treasurer’s minutes.
(Neb. RS 17-613)
§ 30.28 AMENDMENTS AND REVISIONS.
   No ordinance or section thereof shall be revised or amended unless the new
ordinance contains the entire ordinance or section as revised or amended and
the ordinance or section so amended is repealed, except that an ordinance
revising all the ordinances of the village and modifications to zoning or
building districts may be adopted as otherwise provided by law.
(Neb. RS 17-614)
Statutory reference:
   Modifications to zoning or building districts, see Neb. RS 19-915
   Ordinances revising all the ordinances of the village, see Neb. RS 17-614
CHAPTER 31: VILLAGE OFFICIALS
Section
General Provisions
   
31.01   Bonds; requirements
   
31.02   Oath of office; village officials
   
31.03   Compensation; how fixed; limitations
   
31.04   Conflicts of interest involving contracts
Appointed Officials
   
31.15   Appointment; terms; removal; powers; duties
   
31.16   Merger of offices
   
31.17   Village Clerk
   
31.18   Village Treasurer
   
31.19   Village Clerk-Treasurer
   
31.20   Village Attorney
   
31.21   County Sheriff as law enforcement officer
   
31.22   Village Engineer; special engineer
Meetings
   
31.35   Definitions
   
31.36   Open to public; notice; agenda
   
31.37   Notice to news media
   
31.38   Village Board meetings; when; where; quorum
   
31.39   Emergency meetings
   
31.40   Attendance other than in person
   
31.41   Closed sessions
   
31.42   Public participation
   
31.43   Order of business
   
31.44   Minutes
   
31.45   Change in office
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 31.01 BONDS; REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The village may enact ordinances or bylaws to require from all
officers and servants, elected or appointed, bonds and security or evidence of
equivalent insurance for the faithful performance of their duties. The village
may pay the premium for such bonds or insurance coverage.
(Neb. RS 17-604)
   (B)   (1)   All official bonds of officers of the village shall be in form
joint and several and made payable to the village in such penalty as the Board
of Trustees may fix.
      (2)   (a)   In place of the individual bonds required to be furnished by
municipal officers, a schedule, position, blanket bond or undertaking, or
evidence of equivalent insurance may be given by municipal officers, or a
single corporate surety fidelity, schedule, position or blanket bond or
undertaking, or evidence of insurance coverage covering all the officers,
including officers required by law to furnish an individual bond or
undertaking, may be furnished.
         (b)   The municipality may pay the premium for the bond or insurance
coverage. The bond or insurance coverage shall be, at a minimum, an aggregate
of the amounts fixed by law or by the Board of Trustees, and with such terms
and conditions as may be required.
(Neb. RS 11-104)
      (3)   The penalty amount on any bond shall not fall below the legal
minimum, when one has been set by the state, for each particular official.
   (C)   (1)   Official bonds, with the oath endorsed thereon, shall be filed
in the Village Clerk-Treasurer’s office within the following time:
         (a)    Of all officers elected at any general election, following
receipt of their election certificate and not later than ten days before the
first Thursday after the first Tuesday in January next succeeding the election;
         (b)   Of all appointed officers, within 30 days after their
appointment; and
         (c)   Of officers elected at any special election and village
officers, within 30 days after the canvass of the votes of the election at
which they were chosen.
      (2)   The filing of the bond with the oath endorsed thereon does not
authorize a person to take any official action prior to the beginning of his or
her term of office pursuant to Nebraska Constitution Article XVII § 5.
(Neb. RS 11-105)
   (D)   All official bonds of village officers shall be executed by the
principal named in such bonds and by at least two sufficient sureties, who
shall be freeholders of the county in which such bonds are given, or any
official bond of a village officer may be executed by the officer as principal
and by a guaranty, surety, fidelity or bonding company as surety, or by two or
more such companies. Only such companies as are legally authorized to transact
business in this state shall be eligible to suretyship on the bond of a village
officer.
(Neb. RS 11-109)
   (E)   The Village Clerk-Treasurer shall carefully record and preserve the
bonds in his or her office and shall give certified copies thereof, when
required, under the seal of his or her office, and shall be entitled to receive
for the same the usual fee allowed by law for certified copies of records in
other cases.
(Neb. RS 11-110)
   (F)   (1)   The approval of each official bond shall be endorsed upon such
bond by the officer approving the same, and no bond shall be filed and recorded
until so approved.
(Neb. RS 11-111)
      (2)   No bond shall be deemed to be given or complete until the approval
of the Board of Trustees and all sureties are endorsed in writing on the
instrument by the Chairperson and Village Clerk-Treasurer pursuant to the
approval of the Board of Trustees.
   (G)   All official bonds shall obligate the principal and sureties for the
faithful discharge of all duties required by law of such principal and shall
inure to the benefit of any persons injured by a breach of the conditions of
such bonds.
(Neb. RS 11-112)
   (H)   No official bond shall be rendered void by reason of any informality
or irregularity in its execution or approval.
(Neb. RS 11-113)
   (I)   No village official shall be taken as security on the bond of any
administrator, executor or other officer from whom by law bond is or may be
required.
(Neb. RS 11-114)
   (J)   (1)   If any person elected or appointed to any office neglects to
have his or her official bond executed and approved as provided by law and
filed for record within the time limited by this section, the Village Clerk-
Treasurer shall immediately issue an order to such person to show cause why he
or she has failed to properly file such bond and why his or her office should
not be declared vacant.
      (2)   (a)   If such person properly files the official bond within ten
days of the issuance of the show cause order for appointed officials or before
the date for taking office for elected officials, such filing shall be deemed
to be in compliance with this section.
         (b)   If such person does not file the bond within ten days of the
issuance of such order for appointed officials or before the date for taking
office for elected officials and sufficient cause is not shown within that
time, his or her office shall thereupon ipso facto become vacant, and such
vacancy shall thereupon immediately be filled by election or appointment as the
law may direct in other cases of vacancy in the same office.
(Neb. RS 11-115)
   (K)   Any person appointed to fill a vacancy, before entering upon the
duties of the office, must give a bond corresponding in substance and form with
the bond required of the officer originally elected or appointed, as herein
provided.
(Neb. RS 11-116)
   (L)   When the incumbent of an office is reelected or reappointed, he or she
shall qualify by taking the oath and giving the bond as above directed, but
when such officer has had public funds or property in his or her control, his
or her bond shall not be approved until he or she has produced and fully
accounted for such funds and property. When it is ascertained that the
incumbent of an office holds over by reason of the nonelection or
nonappointment of a successor or of the neglect or refusal of the successor to
qualify, he or she shall qualify anew within ten days from the time at which
his or her successor, if elected, should have qualified.
(Neb. RS 11-117)
   (M)   No person shall be surety for the same officer for more than two
successive terms of the same office, but this provision shall not apply to
incorporated surety companies.
(Neb. RS 11-118)
   (N)   (1)   If the sureties on the official bond of any appointed officer of
the village, in the opinion of the Board of Trustees, become insufficient, the
Board may, by resolution, fix a reasonable time within which the officer may
give a new bond or additional sureties as directed.
      (2)   If the officer fails, refuses or neglects to give a new bond or
additional sureties to the satisfaction and approval of the Board, the office
shall, by such failure, refusal or neglect, become vacant, and it shall be the
duty of the Board to appoint a competent and qualified person to fill the
office.
§ 31.02 OATH OF OFFICE; VILLAGE OFFICIALS.
   (A)   All officials of the village, whether elected or appointed, except
when a different oath is specifically provided herein, shall before entering
upon their respective duties take and subscribe the following oath, which shall
be endorsed upon their respective bonds.
      “I, ______________________________, do solemnly swear that I will support
the constitution of the United States and the constitution of the State of
Nebraska, against all enemies foreign and domestic; that I will bear true faith
and allegiance to the same; that I take this obligation freely and without
mental reservation or for the purpose of evasion; and that I will faithfully
and impartially perform the duties of the office of ____________________,
according to law and to the best of my ability. And I do further swear that I
do not advocate nor am I a member of any political party or organization that
advocates the overthrow of the government of the United States or of this state
by force or violence; and that during such time as I am in this position I will
not advocate nor become a member of any political party or organization that
advocates the overthrow of the government of the United States or of this state
by force or violence. So help me God.”
   (B)   If any such officer is not required to give bond, the oath shall be
filed with the Village Clerk-Treasurer.
(Neb. RS 11-101)
§ 31.03 COMPENSATION; HOW FIXED; LIMITATIONS.
   (A)   The appointive officials and other employees of the village shall
receive such compensation as the Board of Trustees shall designate by
ordinance, and the annual salary of the Chairperson and other members of the
Board of Trustees shall be fixed by ordinance.
(Neb. RS 17-209)
   (B)   Trustees may perform, and upon Village Board of Trustees approval
receive compensation for, seasonal or emergency work subject to §
31.04.
(Neb. RS 17-209.02)
   (C)   The village may enact ordinances or bylaws to regulate and prescribe
the compensation of officers not provided for in state law.
(Neb. RS 17-604)
   (D)   No officer shall receive any pay or perquisites from the village other
than his or her salary. The Board of Trustees shall not pay or appropriate any
money or other valuable thing to any person not an officer for the performance
of any act, service or duty the doing or performance of which shall come within
the proper scope of the duties of any officer of the village.
(Neb. RS 17-611)
   (E)   (1)   The salary of any elective officer shall not be increased or
diminished during the term for which he or she shall have been elected, except
when there has been a combination and merger of offices as provided in §
31.16, except that when there are officers elected to the Board of Trustees, or
any other board or commission having more than one member, and the terms of one
or more members commence and end at different times, the compensation of all
members of such board or commission may be increased or diminished at the
beginning of the full term of any member thereof.
      (2)   No person who shall have resigned or vacated any office shall be
eligible to the same during the time for which he or she was elected if during
the same time the salary was increased.
(Neb. RS 17-612)
§ 31.04 CONFLICTS OF INTEREST INVOLVING CONTRACTS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      BUSINESS ASSOCIATION. 
         (a)   A business:
            1.   In which the individual is a partner, limited liability
company member, director or officer; or
            2.   In which the individual or a member of the individual’s
immediate family is a stockholder of closed corporation stock worth $1,000 or
more at fair market value or which represents more than a 5% equity interest or
is a stockholder of publicly traded stock worth $10,000 or more at fair market
value or which represents more than 10% equity interest.
         (b)   An individual who occupies a confidential professional
relationship protected by law shall be exempt from this definition. This
definition shall not apply to publicly traded stock under a trading account if
the filer reports the name and address of the stockbroker.
(Neb. RS 49-1408)
      IMMEDIATE FAMILY. A child residing in an individual’s household, a spouse
of an individual, or an individual claimed by that individual or that
individual’s spouse as a dependent for federal income tax purposes.
(Neb. RS 49-1425)
      OFFICER.
         (a)   Includes:
            1.   A member of any board or commission of the village which
spends and administers its own funds who is dealing with a contract made by
that board or commission; or
            2.   Any elected village official.
         (b)   OFFICER does not mean volunteer firefighters or ambulance
drivers with respect to their duties as firefighters or ambulance drivers.
   (B)   (1)   Except as provided in Neb. RS 49-1499.04 or 70-624.04, no
officer may have an interest in any contract to which his or her governing
body, or anyone for its benefit, is a party. The existence of such an interest
in any contract shall render the contract voidable by decree of a court of
competent jurisdiction as to any person who entered into the contract or took
assignment of the contract with actual knowledge of the prohibited conflict. An
action to have a contract declared void under this section may be brought by
the County Attorney, the governing body or any resident within the jurisdiction
of the governing body and shall be brought within one year after the contract
is signed or assigned. The decree may provide for the reimbursement of any
person for the reasonable value of all money, goods, material, labor or
services furnished under the contract to the extent the governing body has
benefitted thereby.
      (2)   The prohibition in this division (B) shall apply only when the
officer or his or her parent, spouse or child:
         (a)   Has a business association with the business involved in the
contract; or
         (b)   Will receive a payment, fee or commission as a result of the
contract.
   (C)   Division (B) above does not apply if the contract is an agenda item
approved at a meeting of the governing body and the interested officer:
      (1)   Makes a declaration on the record to the governing body responsible
for approving the contract regarding the nature and extent of his or her
interest prior to official consideration of the contract;
      (2)   Does not vote on the matters of granting the contract, making
payments pursuant to the contract or accepting performance of work under the
contract, or similar matters relating to the contract, except that if the
number of members of the governing body declaring an interest in the contract
would prevent the body with all members present from securing a quorum on the
issue, then all members may vote on the matters; and
      (3)   Does not act for the governing body which is a party to the
contract as to inspection or performance under the contract in which he or she
has an interest.
   (D)   The receiving of deposits, cashing of checks and buying and selling of
warrants and bonds of indebtedness of any such governing body by a financial
institution shall not be considered a contract for the purposes of this
section. The ownership of less than 5% of the outstanding shares of a
corporation shall not constitute an interest within the meaning of this
section.
   (E)   If an officer’s parent, spouse or child is an employee of the
officer’s governing body, the officer may vote on all issues of the contract
which are generally applicable to all employees, or all employees within a
classification, and do not single out his or her parent, spouse or child for
special action.
   (F)   Neb. RS 49-14,102 does not apply to contracts covered by this section.
(Neb. RS 49-14,103.01)
   (G)   (1)   The person charged with keeping records for the governing body
shall maintain separately from other records a ledger containing the
information listed in divisions (G)(1)(a) through (G)(1)(e) below about every
contract entered into by the governing body in which an officer of the body has
an interest and for which disclosure is made pursuant to division (C) above.
This information shall be kept in the ledger for five years from the date of
the officer’s last day in office and shall include:
         (a)   The names of the contracting parties;
         (b)   The nature of the interest of the officer in question;
         (c)   The date that the contract was approved by the governing body;
         (d)   The amount of the contract; and
         (e)   The basic terms of the contract.
      (2)   The information supplied relative to the contract shall be provided
not later than ten days after the contract has been signed by both parties. The
ledger kept pursuant to this division (G) shall be available for public
inspection during the normal working hours of the office in which it is kept.
(Neb. RS 49-14,103.02)
   (H)   An open account established for the benefit of any governing body with
a business in which an officer has an interest shall be deemed a contract
subject to this section. The statement required to be filed by division (G)
above shall be filed within ten days after the account is opened. Thereafter,
the person charged with keeping records for the governing body shall maintain a
running account of amounts purchased on the open account. Purchases made from
petty cash or a petty cash fund shall not be subject to this section.
(Neb. RS 49-14,103.03)
   (I)   Notwithstanding divisions (A) through (H) above, the governing body
may prohibit contracts over a specific dollar amount in which an officer of the
governing body may have an interest.
(Neb. RS 49-14,103.05)
   (J)   The governing body may exempt from divisions (A) through (H) above,
contracts involving $100 or less in which an officer of that body may have an
interest.
(Neb. RS 49-14,103.06)
Statutory reference:
   Other provisions on conflicts of interest, see Neb. RS 18-305 through 18-312
and 49-1499.03 through 49-14,103
   Penalty for violation of restrictions on contracts, see Neb. RS 49-14,103.04
APPOINTED OFFICIALS
§ 31.15 APPOINTMENT; TERMS; REMOVAL; POWERS; DUTIES.
   (A)   (1)   (a)   The Board of Trustees may appoint a Village Clerk,
Treasurer, Attorney, Engineer, Overseer of the Streets and Chief of Police, and
other such officers as shall be required by ordinance or otherwise required by
law.
         (b)   Pursuant to division (A)(2) below, the Village Chief of Police
or any other police officer may appeal to the Village Board his or her removal,
demotion or suspension with or without pay. After a hearing, the Village Board
of Trustees may uphold, reverse or modify the action.
      (2)   The Village Board of Trustees shall by ordinance adopt rules and
regulations governing the removal, demotion or suspension with or without pay
of any police officer, including the Chief of Police, in accordance with the
requirements of Neb. RS 17-208. Nothing in this section shall be construed to
prevent the preemptory suspension or immediate removal from duty of an officer
by the appropriate authority, pending the hearing authorized by this section,
in cases of gross misconduct, neglect of duty or disobedience of orders.
      (3)   Division (A)(2) above does not apply to a police officer during his
or her probationary period.
   (B)   The Village Clerk, Treasurer, Attorney, Overseer of the Streets,
members of the Board of Health, and other appointed officers, except regular
police officers, shall hold office for one year unless removed by the
Chairperson of the Village Board with the advice and consent of the Trustees.
(Neb. RS 17-208)
   (C)   (1)   The village may enact ordinances or bylaws to regulate and
prescribe the powers and duties of officers not provided for in state law.
(Neb. RS 17-604)
      (2)   If the Village Board of Trustees appoints any of the officials
specified in this chapter or any other officials, the officials shall have the
powers and duties, if any, provided in this chapter or as otherwise provided by
village ordinances and state law.
§ 31.16 MERGER OF OFFICES.
   (A)   (1)   The Board of Trustees may, by ordinance, combine or merge any
elective or appointive village office or village employment or any combination
of duties of any such offices or employments, except that the office of Trustee
shall not be combined or merged with any other village office or village
employment except as provided in division (B) below.
      (2)   The village offices or village employments combined or merged shall
always be construed to be separate and the effect of the combination or merger
shall be limited to a consolidation of official duties only.
   (B)   (1)   The office of Trustee shall not be combined or merged with any
other village office or village employment, except that a member of the Board
of Trustees may receive compensation to perform seasonal or emergency work upon
approval by the Board of Trustees.
      (2)   No member of the Board of Trustees shall receive compensation from
the village in excess of the maximum amount provided by law.
   (C)   For the purposes of this section, volunteer firefighters and volunteer
rescue squad personnel shall not be considered village officers.
(Neb. RS 17-209.02)
§ 31.17 VILLAGE CLERK.
   (A)   The Village Clerk shall have the custody of all laws and ordinances
and shall keep a correct journal of the proceedings of the Board of Trustees.
After the period of time specified by the State Records Administrator pursuant
to the Records Management Act, the Clerk may transfer the journal of the
proceedings of the Board of Trustees to the State Archives of the State
Historical Society for permanent preservation. The Clerk shall also perform
such other duties as may be required by the ordinances of the village. If the
Clerk is acting as the Treasurer, he or she shall also comply with the
requirements of §
31.18(A)(3).
(Neb. RS 17-605)
   (B)   (1)   It shall be the duty of the Clerk to prepare and publish the
official proceedings of the Board of Trustees within 30 days after any meeting
of the Board. The publication shall be in a newspaper of general circulation in
the village, shall set forth a statement of the proceedings of the meeting and
shall also include the amount of each claim allowed, the purpose of the claim
and the name of the claimant, except that the aggregate amount of all payroll
claims may be included as one item. Between July 15 and August 15 of each year,
the employee job titles and the current annual, monthly or hourly salaries
corresponding to such job titles shall be published. Each job title published
shall be descriptive and indicative of the duties and functions of the
position. The charge for the publication shall not exceed the rates provided
for in Neb. RS 23-122.
(Neb. RS 19-1102)
      (2)   Publication under division (B)(1) above shall be made in one legal
newspaper of general circulation in the village. If no legal newspaper is
published in the village, then the publication shall be made in one legal
newspaper published or of general circulation within the county in which the
village is located. The cost of publication shall be paid out of the general
funds of the village.
(Neb. RS 19-1103)
   (C)   The Clerk shall dispose of or destroy village public records when the
records have been determined to be of no further legal, administrative, fiscal
or historical value by the State Records Administrator pursuant to the Records
Management Act. This shall not apply to the minutes of the Clerk and the
permanent ordinance and resolution books or any other record classified as
permanent by the State Records Administrator.
(Neb. RS 18-1701)
   (D)   (1)   The Clerk shall permit any person to examine and copy the public
records in the Clerk’s custody and may charge a fee for providing copies of a
public record, as provided in Neb. RS 84-712 through 84-712.09.
      (2)   The Clerk may charge a reasonable fee for certified copies of any
record in his or her office as set by resolution of the Board of Trustees.
   (E)   (1)   The Clerk shall permit no records, public papers or other
documents of the village kept and preserved in his or her office to be taken
therefrom, except by such officers of the village as may be entitled to the use
of the same, but only upon their leaving a receipt therefor, and except
pursuant to Neb. RS 84-712(2).
      (2)   He or she shall keep all the records of his or her office,
including a record of all licenses issued by him or her, in a blank book with a
proper index. He or she shall include as part of his or her records all
petitions under which the Board of Trustees shall order public work to be done
at the expense of the property fronting thereon, together with references to
all resolutions and ordinances relating to the same. He or she shall endorse
the date and hour of filing upon every paper or document so filed in his or her
office. All such filings made by him or her shall be properly docketed.
Included in his or her records shall be all standard codes, amendments thereto
and other documents incorporated by reference and arranged in triplicate in a
manner convenient for reference.
      (3)   He or she shall keep an accurate and complete account of the
appropriation of the several funds and draw, sign and attest all warrants
ordered for the payment of money on the particular fund from which the same is
payable. At the end of each month, he or she shall then make a report of the
amounts appropriated to the various funds and the amount of the warrants drawn
thereon.
   (F)   The Clerk shall deliver all warrants, ordinances and resolutions under
his or her charge to the Chairperson for his or her signature. He or she shall
also deliver to officers, employees and committees all resolutions and
communications which are directed at such officers, employees or committees.
With the seal of the village, he or she shall duly attest the Chairperson’s
signature to all ordinances, deeds and papers required to be attested to when
ordered to do so by the Board of Trustees.
   (G)   The Clerk shall issue and sign all licenses, permits and occupation
tax receipts authorized by law and required by the village ordinances. He or
she shall collect all occupation taxes and license money, except where some
other village officer is specifically charged with that duty. He or she shall
keep a register of all licenses granted in the village and the purposes for
which they have been issued.
   (H)   The Clerk shall keep in a book with a proper index copies of all
notices required to be published or posted by the Clerk by order of the Board
of Trustees or under the ordinances of the village. To each of the file copies
of the notices shall be attached the printer’s affidavit of publication, if the
notices are required to be published, or the Clerk’s certificate under seal
where the same are required to be posted only.
   (I)   The Clerk shall receive all objections to the creation of paving
districts and other street improvements. He or she shall receive the claims of
any person against the village, and in the event that the claim is disallowed,
in part or in whole, the Clerk shall notify the claimant or his or her agent or
attorney by letter within five days after the disallowance, and the Clerk shall
then prepare transcripts on appeals of any disallowance of a claim in all
proper cases.
Statutory reference:
   Records Management Act, see Neb. RS 84-1201 et seq.
§ 31.18 VILLAGE TREASURER.
   (A)   (1)   The Village Treasurer shall be the custodian of all money
belonging to the village. He or she shall keep a separate account of each fund
or appropriation and the debts and credits belonging thereto. He or she shall
give every person paying money into the Treasury a receipt for such money,
specifying the date of payment and on what account paid. He or she shall also
file copies of such receipts with his or her monthly reports. The Treasurer
shall, at the end of every month, and as often as may be required, render an
account to the Board of Trustees, under oath, showing the state of the Treasury
at the date of such account and the balance of money in the Treasury. He or she
shall also accompany such accounts with a statement of all receipts and
disbursements, together with all warrants redeemed and paid by him or her,
which warrants, with any and all vouchers held by him or her, shall be filed
with his or her account in the Village Clerk’s office. If the Treasurer fails
to render his or her account within 20 days after the end of the month, or by a
later date established by the Board of Trustees, the Chairperson, with the
advice and consent of the Board, may use this failure as cause to remove the
Treasurer from office.
      (2)   The Treasurer shall keep a record of all outstanding bonds against
the village, showing the number and amount of each bond, for and to whom the
bonds were issued, and the date upon which any bond is purchased, paid or
canceled. He or she shall accompany the annual statement submitted pursuant to
Neb. RS 19-1101 with a description of the bonds issued and sold in that year
and the terms of sale, with every item of expense thereof.
      (3)   The Treasurer shall annually complete continuing education through
a program approved by the Auditor of Public Accounts, and proof of completion
of such program shall be submitted to the Auditor of Public Accounts.
(Neb. RS 17-606)
   (B)   (1)   The Treasurer shall prepare and publish annually within 60 days
after the close of the village fiscal year a statement of the receipts and
expenditures of funds of the village for the preceding fiscal year. The
statement shall also include the information required by Neb. RS 16-318(3) or
17-606(2). Not more than the legal rate provided for in Neb. RS 33-141 shall be
charged and paid for such publication.
(Neb. RS 19-1101)
      (2)   Publication shall be made in one legal newspaper of general
circulation in the village. If no legal newspaper is published in the village,
then such publication shall be made in one legal newspaper published or of
general circulation within the county in which the village is located.
(Neb. RS 19-1103)
   (C)   (1)   All warrants upon the Treasurer shall be paid in the order of
their presentation therefor and as otherwise provided in Neb. RS 77-2201
through 77-2215.
(Neb. RS 77-2201)
      (2)   The Treasurer shall keep a warrant register, which register shall
show in columns arranged for that purpose the number, the date and the amount
of each warrant presented and registered, the particular fund upon which the
same is drawn, the date of presentation, the name and address of the person in
whose name the warrant is registered, the date of payment, the amount of
interest and the total amount paid thereon, with the date when notice to the
person in whose name such warrant is registered is mailed.
(Neb. RS 77-2202)
      (3)   The Treasurer shall make duplicate receipts for all sums which
shall be paid into his or her office, which receipts shall show the source from
which such funds are derived, and shall, by distinct lines and columns, show
the amount received to the credit of each separate fund, and whether the same
was paid in cash, in warrants or otherwise. The Treasurer shall deliver one of
the duplicates to the person making the payment and retain the other in his or
her office.
(Neb. RS 77-2209)
      (4)   The Treasurer shall daily, as money is received, foot the several
columns of the cash book and of the register, and carry the amounts forward,
and at the close of each year, in case the amount of money received by the
Treasurer is insufficient to pay the warrants registered, he or she shall close
the account for that year in the register and shall carry forward the excess.
(Neb. RS 77-2210)
      (5)   The cash book, register and retained receipts of the Treasurer
shall at all times be open to the inspection of any person in whose name any
warrants are registered and unpaid.
(Neb. RS 77-2212)
   (D)   The Treasurer shall permit any person to examine and copy the public
records in the Treasurer’s custody and may charge a fee for providing copies of
a public record, as provided in Neb. RS 84-712 through 84-712.09.
   (E)   The Treasurer shall keep all money belonging to the village separate
and distinct from his or her own money. He or she shall cancel all bonds,
coupons, warrants and other evidences of debt against the village, whenever
paid by him or her, by writing or stamping on the face thereof, “Paid by the
Village Treasurer,” with the date of payment written or stamped thereon. He or
she shall collect all special taxes, allocate special assessments to the
several owners and obtain from the County Treasurer a monthly report as to the
collection of delinquent taxes.
§ 31.19 VILLAGE CLERK-TREASURER.
   The appointive office of Municipal Clerk and Municipal Treasurer are hereby
combined and merged, in accordance with the authority granted to the governing
body by §
31.16.
(Prior Code, § 1-203)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-209.02
§ 31.20 VILLAGE ATTORNEY.
   (A)   The Village Attorney shall be the legal advisor of the Board of
Trustees. He or she shall commence, prosecute and defend all suits and actions
necessary to be commenced, prosecuted or defended on behalf of the village or
that may be ordered by the Board. When requested, he or she shall attend
meetings of the Board and give them his or her opinion upon any matters
submitted to him or her, either orally or in writing, as may be required. He or
she shall draft or review for legal correctness ordinances, contracts,
franchises and other instruments as may be required, and he or she shall
perform such other duties as may be imposed upon him or her by general law or
ordinance. The Board shall have the right to pay the Village Attorney
compensation for legal services performed by him or her for it on such terms as
the Board and Attorney may agree, and to employ additional legal assistance and
to pay for such legal assistance, out of the funds of the village.
(Neb. RS 17-610)
   (B)   The Village Attorney shall also examine, when requested to do so by
the Board of Trustees, the ordinance records and advise and assist the Village
Clerk-Treasurer as much as may be necessary to the end that each procedural
step will be taken in the passage of each ordinance to ensure that it will be a
valid and subsisting local law insofar as its passage and approval are
concerned.
§ 31.21 COUNTY SHERIFF AS LAW ENFORCEMENT OFFICER.
   The County Sheriff shall direct the police work of the municipality and
shall be responsible for the maintenance of law and order. The Sheriff shall
act as Health Inspector and Building Inspector, except in the event the
municipality appoints another person to those offices. The Sheriff shall make
all necessary reports required by the municipal ordinances or the laws of the
state.
(Prior Code, § 1-207)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 19-3801
§ 31.22 VILLAGE ENGINEER; SPECIAL ENGINEER.
   (A)   The Village Engineer shall, when requested by the Board of Trustees,
make estimates of the cost of labor and material which may be done or furnished
by contract with the village and make all surveys, estimates and calculations
necessary to be made for the establishment of grades, the building of culverts,
sewers, electric light systems, waterworks, power plants, public heating
systems, bridges, curbing and gutters, the improvement of streets and the
erection and repair of buildings, and shall perform such other duties as the
Board may require.
(Neb. RS 17-568.01)
   (B)   The Village Engineer, when ordered to do so by the Village Board of
Trustees, shall make surveys, estimates and calculations necessary to be made
for the establishment and maintenance of public works by the village.
(Neb. RS 17-213.01)
   (C)   The Board of Trustees may employ a special engineer to make, or assist
in making, any estimate necessary or to perform any other duty provided for in
Neb. RS 17-568.01. Any work executed by such special engineer shall have the
same validity and serve in all respects as though executed by the Village
Engineer.
(Neb. RS 17-568)
   (D)   The Village Engineer shall make a record of the minutes of his or her
surveys and of all work done for the village and, when directed by the Board of
Trustees, shall accurately make such plats, sections, profiles and maps as may
be necessary in the prosecution of any public work, which shall be public
records and belong to the village and be turned over to his or her successor.
Statutory reference:
   Duties related to areas to be annexed, see Neb. RS 18-3301
   Duties related to sewerage systems, see Neb. RS 17-919
MEETINGS
§ 31.35 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   MEETING. All regular, special or called meetings, formal or informal, of any
public body for the purposes of briefing, discussion of public business,
formation of tentative policy or the taking of any action of the public body.
   PUBLIC BODY.
      (1)   (a)   The Board of Trustees;
         (b)   All independent boards, commissions, bureaus, committees,
councils, subunits or any other bodies created by the State Constitution,
statute, ordinance or otherwise pursuant to law; and
         (c)   Advisory committees of the bodies listed above.
      (2)   PUBLIC BODY does not include subcommittees of such bodies unless a
quorum of the public body attends a subcommittee meeting or unless the
subcommittees are holding hearings, making policy or taking formal action on
behalf of their parent body.
(Neb. RS 84-1409)
§ 31.36 OPEN TO PUBLIC; NOTICE; AGENDA.
   (A)   The formation of public policy is public business and may not be
conducted in secret. Every meeting of a public body shall be open the public in
order that citizens may exercise their democratic privilege of attending and
speaking at meetings of public bodies, except as otherwise provided by the
State Constitution, federal statutes and the Open Meetings Act.
(Neb. RS 84-1408)
   (B)   (1)   Each public body shall give reasonable advance publicized notice
of the time and place of each meeting as provided in division (B)(2) below. The
notice shall be transmitted to all members of the public body and to the
public.
      (2)   The notice shall be given by:
         (a)   1.   a.   Publication in a newspaper of general circulation
within the public body’s jurisdiction that is finalized for printing prior to
the time and date of the meeting;
               b.   Posting on such newspaper’s website, if available; and
               c.   Posting on a statewide website established and maintained
as a repository for such notices by a majority of state newspapers.
            2.   Such notice shall be placed in the newspaper and on the
websites by the newspaper.
         (b)   1.   a.   Posting to the newspaper’s website, if available; and
               b.   Posting on a statewide website established and maintained
as a repository for such notices by a majority of state newspapers if no
edition of a newspaper of general circulation within the public body’s
jurisdiction is to be finalized for printing prior to the time and date of the
meeting.
            2.   Such notice shall be placed in the newspaper and on the
websites by the newspaper.
         (c)   Posting written notice in three conspicuous public places in
such city, village, or district. Such notice shall be posted by the village in
the same three places for each meeting.
      (3)   (a)   In case of refusal, neglect, or inability of the newspaper to
publish the notice, the public body shall:
            1.   Post such notice on its website, if available;
            2.   Submit a post on a statewide website established and
maintained as a repository for such notices by a majority of state newspapers;
and
            3.   Post such notice in a conspicuous public place in such public
body’s jurisdiction.
         (b)   The public body shall keep a written record of such posting. The
record of such posting shall be evidence that such posting was done as required
and shall be sufficient to fulfill the requirement of publication.
      (4)   Each public body shall record the methods and dates of the notice
in its minutes.
      (5)   The notice shall contain an agenda of subjects known at the time of
the publicized notice or a statement that the agenda, which shall be kept
continually current, is readily available for public inspection at the office
of the public body during normal business hours. Agenda items shall be
sufficiently descriptive to give the public reasonable notice of the matters to
be considered at the meeting. Except for items of an emergency nature, the
agenda shall not be altered later than 24 hours before the scheduled
commencement of the meeting or 48 hours before the scheduled commencement of a
meeting of the Board of Trustees scheduled outside the corporate limits of the
village. The public body shall have the right to modify the agenda to include
items of an emergency nature only at such public meeting.
(Neb. RS 84-1411)
Statutory reference:
   Open Meetings Act, see Neb. RS 84-1407 to 84-1414
   Videoconferencing when emergency is declared by the Governor under the
Emergency Management Act, see Neb. RS 84-1411(8)
§ 31.37 NOTICE TO NEWS MEDIA.
   The Village Clerk-Treasurer, in the case of the Board of Trustees, and the
secretary or other designee of each other public body shall maintain a list of
the news media requesting notification of meetings and shall make reasonable
efforts to provide advance notification to them of the time and place of each
meeting and the subjects to be discussed at that meeting.
(Neb. RS 84-1411)
§ 31.38 VILLAGE BOARD MEETINGS; WHEN; WHERE; QUORUM.
   (A)   (1)   The Village Board of Trustees shall, by ordinance, fix the time
and place of holding its stated meetings and may be convened at any time by the
Chairperson.
(Neb. RS 17-204)
      (2)   Unless otherwise provided by the Board, special meetings may also
be called by any three members of the Board of Trustees. The object of a
special meeting shall be submitted to the Village Clerk-Treasurer in writing.
The call and object, as well as the disposition thereof, shall be entered upon
the journal by the Clerk-Treasurer. On filing the call for a special meeting,
the Clerk-Treasurer shall notify the members of the Board of Trustees of the
special meeting, stating the time and its purpose.
   (B)   At the hour specified for a meeting, the Village Clerk-Treasurer shall
proceed to call the roll of members and announce whether a quorum is present.
If a quorum is present, the Board shall be called to order by the Chairperson.
   (C)   (1)   At all meetings of the Village Board of Trustees, a majority of
the Trustees shall constitute a quorum to do business. A smaller number may
adjourn from day to day and may compel the attendance of absent members in such
manner and under such penalties as prescribed by the Village Board of Trustees.
(Neb. RS 17-205)
      (2)   Unless otherwise provided by the Board, on the request of any two
members, whether a quorum is present or not, all absent members shall be sent
for and compelled to attend.
§ 31.39 EMERGENCY MEETINGS.
   When it is necessary to hold an emergency meeting without reasonable advance
public notice, the nature of the emergency shall be stated in the minutes and
any formal action taken in that meeting shall pertain only to the emergency.
Such emergency meetings may be held by means of electronic or
telecommunications equipment. The provisions of §
31.37 shall be complied with in conducting emergency meetings. Complete minutes
of such emergency meetings specifying the nature of the emergency and any
formal action taken at the meeting shall be made available to the public by not
later than the end of the next regular business day.
(Neb. RS 84-1411)
§ 31.40 ATTENDANCE OTHER THAN IN PERSON.
   A public body may allow a member of the public or any other witness other
than a member of the public body to appear before the public body by means of
video or telecommunications equipment.
(Neb. RS 84-1411)
§ 31.41 CLOSED SESSIONS.
   (A)   Any public body may hold a closed session by the affirmative vote of a
majority of its voting members if a closed session is clearly necessary for the
protection of the public interest or for the prevention of needless injury to
the reputation of an individual and if that individual has not requested a
public meeting. The subject matter and the reason necessitating the closed
session shall be identified in the motion to close.
   (B)   (1)   Closed sessions may be held for, but shall not be limited to,
such reasons as:
         (a)   Strategy sessions with respect to collective bargaining, real
estate purchases, pending litigation or litigation which is imminent as
evidenced by communication of a claim or threat of litigation to or by the
public body;
         (b)   Discussion regarding deployment of security personnel or
devices;
         (c)   Investigative proceedings regarding allegations of criminal
misconduct; or
         (d)   Evaluation of the job performance of a person when necessary to
prevent needless injury to the reputation of a person and if that person has
not requested a public meeting.
      (2)   Nothing in this section shall permit a closed meeting for
discussion of the appointment or election of a new member to any public body.
   (C)   The vote to hold a closed session shall be taken in open session. The
entire motion, the vote of each member on the question of holding a closed
session, and the time when the closed session commenced and concluded shall be
recorded in the minutes. If the motion to close passes, then the presiding
officer, immediately prior to the closed session, shall restate on the record
the limitation of the subject matter at the closed session. The public body
holding such a closed session shall restrict its consideration of matters
during the closed portions to only those purposes set forth in the motion to
close as the reason for the closed session. The meeting shall be reconvened in
open session before any formal action may be taken. For the purposes of this
section, FORMAL ACTION means a collective decision or a collective commitment
or promise to make a decision on any question, motion, proposal, resolution,
order or ordinance or formation of a position or policy, but shall not include
negotiating guidance given by members of the public body to legal counsel or
other negotiators in closed sessions authorized under division (B)(1)(a) above.
   (D)   Any member of any public body shall have the right to challenge the
continuation of a closed session if the member determines that the session has
exceeded the reason stated in the original motion to hold a closed session or
if the member contends that the closed session is neither clearly necessary for
the protection of the public interest or the prevention of needless injury to
the reputation of an individual. Such challenge shall be overruled only by a
majority vote of the members of the public body. The challenge and its
disposition shall be recorded in the minutes.
   (E)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to require that any meeting
be closed to the public.
(Neb. RS 84-1410)
§ 31.42 PUBLIC PARTICIPATION.
   (A)   Subject to this subchapter and the Open Meetings Act, the public has
the right to attend and the right to speak at meetings of public bodies, and
all or any part of a meeting of a public body, except for closed sessions
called pursuant to §
31.41, may be videotaped, televised, photographed, broadcast or recorded by any
person in attendance by means of a tape recorder, a camera, video equipment or
any other means of pictorial or sonic reproduction or in writing. Except for
closed sessions called pursuant to §
33.07, a public body shall allow members of the public an opportunity to speak
at each meeting.
   (B)   It shall not be a violation of division (A) above for any public body
to make and enforce reasonable rules and regulations regarding the conduct of
persons attending, speaking at, videotaping, televising, photographing,
broadcasting or recording its meetings, including meetings held by virtual
conferencing.
   (C)   No public body shall require members of the public to identify
themselves as a condition for admission to the meeting, nor shall such body
require that the name of any member of the public be placed on the agenda prior
to such meeting in order to speak about items on the agenda. The body shall
require any member of the public desiring to address the body to identify
himself or herself, including an address and the name of any organization
represented by such person unless the address requirement is waived to protect
the security of the individual.
   (D)   No public body shall, for the purpose of circumventing this subchapter
or the Open Meetings Act, hold a meeting in a place known by the body to be too
small to accommodate the anticipated audience.
   (E)   No public body shall be deemed in violation of this section if it
holds its meeting in its traditional meeting place which is located in this
state.
   (F)   No public body shall be deemed in violation of this section if it
holds a meeting outside of this state if, but only if, a member entity of the
public body is located outside of this state and the other requirements of Neb.
RS 84-1412 are met.
   (G)   The public body shall, upon request, make a reasonable effort to
accommodate the public’s right to hear the discussion and testimony presented
at the meeting.
   (H)   Public bodies shall make available at the meeting, for examination and
copying by members of the public, at least one copy of all reproducible written
material to be discussed at an open meeting, either in paper or electronic
form. Public bodies shall make available at least one current copy of the Open
Meetings Act, posted in the meeting room at a location accessible to members of
the public. At the beginning of the meeting, the public shall be informed about
the location of the posted information.
(Neb. RS 84-1412)
Statutory reference:
   Open Meetings Act, see Neb. RS 84-1407 to 84-1414
§ 31.43 ORDER OF BUSINESS.
   Promptly at the hour set by law on the day of each regular meeting, the
members of the Village Board, the Village Clerk-Treasurer and such other
village officials that may be required shall take their regular stations in the
meeting place, and the business of the village shall be taken up for
consideration and disposition in the order prescribed by the official agenda on
file at the office of the Village Clerk-Treasurer.
§ 31.44 MINUTES.
   (A)   Each public body shall keep minutes of all meetings showing the time,
place, members present and absent, and the substance of all matters discussed.
   (B)   The minutes of all meetings and evidence and documentation received or
disclosed in open session shall be public records and open to public inspection
during normal business hours.
   (C)   Minutes shall be written or kept as an electronic record and shall be
available for inspection within ten working days or prior to the next convened
meeting, whichever occurs earlier, except that the village may have an
additional ten working days if the employee responsible for writing or keeping
the minutes is absent due to a serious illness or emergency.
(Neb. RS 84-1413)
§ 31.45 CHANGE IN OFFICE.
   (A)   The Board of Trustees shall meet at the time and place of the regular
meeting in December in each election year, and the outgoing officers and the
outgoing members of the Board shall present their reports. Upon the outgoing
Board having completed its business, the outgoing Trustees shall surrender
their offices to the incoming Trustees, and the outgoing officers shall
thereupon each surrender to their successors in office all property, records,
papers and moneys belonging to the same.
   (B)   The newly elected Trustees and those continuing in office shall
convene immediately after the prior Board adjourns and proceed to organize
themselves for the ensuing year. The Chairperson pro tempore shall call the
meeting to order. The Clerk-Treasurer shall report to the Board the names of
all Trustees-elect who have qualified for their respective offices. The Board
shall examine the credentials of its members and any other elective officers of
the village to see that each has been duly and properly elected and to see that
such oaths and bonds as are required have been given. The Clerk-Treasurer’s
report shall be spread upon the minutes of the meeting preceding the roll call.
   (C)   After ascertaining that all Trustees and officers are duly qualified
and after the Clerk-Treasurer has called the roll, the Board shall elect a
Chairperson and shall appoint the officers required by state law or village
ordinance. The Chairperson shall then proceed with the regular order of
business.
CHAPTER 32: ORGANIZATIONS
Section
Boards and Commissions
   
32.01   Board of Health
   
32.02   Tree Board
 
   
32.99   Penalty
BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS
§ 32.01 BOARD OF HEALTH.
   (A)   (1)   The Board of Trustees shall appoint a Board of Health consisting
of three members: the Chairperson of the Board of Trustees, who shall be
Chairperson, and two other members. One member shall be a physician or health
care provider, if one can be found who is willing to serve. Such physician or
health care provider, if appointed, shall be the Board of Health’s medical
advisor. If the Board of Trustees has appointed a Chief of Police, the Chief of
Police may be appointed to the Board of Health and serve as secretary and
quarantine officer.
      (2)   A majority of the Board of Health shall constitute a quorum and
shall enact rules and regulations, which shall have the force and effect of
law, to safeguard the health of the people of such village and prevent
nuisances and unsanitary conditions. The Board of Health shall enforce such
rules and regulations and provide fines and punishments for violations.
      (3)   The appointees shall hold office for one year unless removed by the
Chairperson of the Board of Trustees with the advice and consent of the
Trustees.
(Neb. RS 17-208)
   (B)   The Board of Health shall reorganize at its meeting each year after
the Board of Trustees’ meeting when appointments are regularly made and, if
necessary, select a member to serve as Secretary. No member of the Board of
Health shall hold more than one Board of Health position. The Secretary shall
keep full and correct minutes and records of all meetings and file the same
with the Village Clerk-Treasurer, where they shall be available for public
inspection during office hours.
   (C)   The Board shall meet at such times as the Board of Trustees may
designate. Special meetings may be held upon the call of the Chairperson or any
two members of the Board of Health.
   (D)   The members of the Board of Health shall serve without compensation.
The Board of Health shall be funded by the Board of Trustees from time to time
out of the General Fund.
   (E)   The Board of Health may regulate, suppress and prevent the occurrence
of nuisances and enforce all laws of the state and ordinances of the village
relating to nuisances and to matters of sanitation which affect the health and
safety of the people. The Board shall regularly inspect such premises and
businesses as the Board of Trustees may direct.
   (F)   All members of the Board of Health shall be responsible for making
such reports and performing such other duties as the Board of Trustees may,
from time to time, designate.
§ 32.02 TREE BOARD.
   (A)   There is hereby created and established a Tree Board which shall
consist of five members, citizens and residents of this municipality who shall
be appointed by the Chairperson with the approval of the other members of the
Board of Trustees. The Community Forest Manager shall be an ex officio member
of the Tree Board.
   (B)   The term of the five appointed members shall be three years, except
that the term of two of the members appointed to the first Board shall be for
only one year and the term of two members of the first Board shall be for two
years. In the event that a vacancy shall occur during the term of any member, a
successor shall be appointed for a new three-year term.
   (C)   Members of the Tree Board shall serve without compensation.
   (D)   It shall be the responsibility of the Tree Board to study,
investigate, counsel and develop and/or update annually, and administer written
plans (annual and long range) for the care, replacement, maintenance and
removal or disposition of trees and shrubs in parks, along streets and in other
public areas. Such plan will be presented annually to the Board of Trustees and
upon their acceptance and approval shall constitute the official comprehensive
tree plan for the village.
   (E)   The Tree Board, when requested by the Board of Trustees, shall
consider, investigate, make findings, report and recommend upon any special
matter or question relating to trees.
   (F)   The Tree Board shall choose its own officers, make its own rules and
regulations and keep a journal of its proceedings. A majority of the members
shall be a quorum for the transaction of business.
(Prior Code, § 2-202)
§ 32.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person who shall violate or refuse to comply with the enforcement
of any of the provisions of §
32.02, set forth at full length herein or incorporated by reference, shall be
deemed guilty of an offense and, upon conviction thereof, shall be fined not
more than $100 for each offense. A new violation shall be deemed to have been
committed every 24 hours of such failure to comply.
(Prior Code, § 2-301)
CHAPTER 33: ELECTIONS
Section
   
33.01   Generally
   
33.02   Notice
   
33.03   Registered voters; qualifications
   
33.04   Special elections
   
33.05   Election of officers; certification
   
33.06   Partisan ballot; when allowed; requirements
   
33.07   Ballots
   
33.08   Filing fee
   
33.09   Caucus candidates
   
33.10   Petition, write-in and other candidates for general election ballot;
procedures
   
33.11   Recall procedure
   
33.12   Exit polls; poll watchers
   
33.13   Tie votes
   
33.14   Certificate of nomination or election
   
33.15   Inability to assume office
§ 33.01 GENERALLY.
   (A)   All village issues and offices shall be combined on the statewide
primary and general election ballots whenever possible. The issuance of
separate ballots shall be avoided in a statewide election if village offices or
issues can reasonably be combined with the nonpartisan ballot and state law
does not require otherwise. All village elections involving the election of
officers shall be held in accordance with the Election Act and in conjunction
with the statewide primary or general election.
(Neb. RS 32-556)
   (B)   When the village holds an election in conjunction with the statewide
primary or general election, the election shall be held as provided in the
Election Act. Any other election held by the village shall be held as provided
in the Election Act unless otherwise provided by the charter, code or bylaws of
the village.
   (C)   The village shall furnish to the Secretary of State and Election
Commissioner or County Clerk any maps and additional information which the
Secretary of State and Election Commissioner or County Clerk may require in the
proper performance of their duties in the conduct of elections and
certification of results.
(Neb. RS 32-404)
Statutory reference:
   Election Act, see Neb. RS 32-101 to 32-1551
§ 33.02 NOTICE.
   The notice of election required to be published by the Election Commissioner
or County Clerk pursuant to Neb. RS 32-802 shall serve as the notice
requirement for all village elections which are held in conjunction with the
statewide primary or general election.
§ 33.03 REGISTERED VOTERS; QUALIFICATIONS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      REGISTERED VOTER. An elector who has a current voter registration record
on file with the Election Commissioner or County Clerk in the county of his or
her residence.
(Neb. RS 32-115)
   (B)   All registered voters residing within the corporate limits of the
village on or before election day shall be entitled to vote at all village
elections.
(Neb. RS 17-602)
Statutory reference:
   Definition of elector, see Neb. RS 32-110
§ 33.04 SPECIAL ELECTIONS.
   (A)   (1)   Except as provided in Neb. RS 77-3444, any issue to be submitted
to the registered voters at a special election by the village shall be
certified by the Village Clerk-Treasurer to the Election Commissioner or County
Clerk on or before the eighth Friday prior to the election. A special election
may be held by mail as provided in Neb. RS 32-952 through 32-959. Any other
special election under this section shall be subject to division (B) below.
      (2)   In lieu of submitting the issue at a special election, the village
may submit the issue at a statewide primary or general election or at any
scheduled county election, except that no such issue shall be submitted at a
statewide election or scheduled county election unless the issue to be
submitted has been certified by the Village Clerk-Treasurer to the Election
Commissioner or County Clerk by March 1 for the primary election and by
September 1 for the general election.
      (3)   After the Election Commissioner or County Clerk has received
certification of the issue to be submitted, he or she shall be responsible for
all matters relating to the submission of the issue to the registered voters,
except that the Village Clerk-Treasurer shall be responsible for the
publication or posting of any required special notice of the submission of the
issue other than the notice required to be given of the statewide election
issues. The Election Commissioner or County Clerk shall prepare the ballots and
issue ballots for early voting and shall also conduct the submission of the
issue, including the receiving and counting of ballots on the issue. The
election returns shall be made to the Election Commissioner or County Clerk.
The ballots shall be counted and canvassed at the same time and in the same
manner as the other ballots. Upon completion of the canvass of the vote by the
County Canvassing Board, the Election Commissioner or County Clerk shall
certify the election results to the Board of Trustees. The canvass by the
County Canvassing Board shall have the same force and effect as if made by the
Board of Trustees.
   (B)   (1)   A village that has submitted an issue for a special election
under division (A)(1) above may cancel the special election if the Secretary of
State, Election Commissioner or County Clerk receives a resolution adopted by
the political subdivision canceling the special election on or before the
fourth Thursday prior to the election. No cancellation shall be effective after
such date. If a special election is canceled in such manner, the village shall
be responsible for the costs incurred that are related to the canceled
election. Such costs shall include all chargeable costs as provided in Neb. RS
32-1202 associated with preparing for and conducting a special election.
      (2)   A village that has submitted an issue at a statewide primary or
general election or at any scheduled county election under division (A)(2)
above may withdraw the issue from the ballot if the Secretary of State,
Election Commissioner or County Clerk receives a resolution adopted by the
village withdrawing the issue from the ballot not later than March 1 prior to a
statewide primary election or September 1 prior to a statewide general
election. No withdrawal shall be effective after such date. Any issue withdrawn
in this manner shall not be printed on the ballot.
(Neb. RS 32-559)
   (C)   Any special election under the Election Act shall be held on the first
Tuesday following the second Monday of the selected month unless otherwise
specifically provided. Except as otherwise specifically provided, no special
election shall be held under the Election Act in April, May, June, October,
November or December of an even-numbered year unless it is held in conjunction
with the statewide primary or general election. No special election shall be
held under the Election Act in September of an even-numbered year except as
provided in Neb. RS 32-564 and except for a special election by a political
subdivision pursuant to Neb. RS 13-519 or 77-3444 to approve a property tax
levy or exceed a property tax levy limitation.
(Neb. RS 32-405)
Statutory reference:
   Election Act, see Neb. RS 32-101 to 32-1551
§ 33.05 ELECTION OF OFFICERS; CERTIFICATION.
   Not later than June 15 of each even-numbered year, the Village Board shall
certify to the Secretary of State, the Election Commissioner or the County
Clerk the name of the village, the number of officers to be elected, the length
of the terms of office, the vacancies to be filled by election and length of
the remaining term and the number of votes to be cast by a registered voter for
each office. The Secretary of State, Election Commissioner and County Clerk
shall prescribe the forms to be used for certification to him or her.
(Neb. RS 32-404)
§ 33.06 PARTISAN BALLOT; WHEN ALLOWED; REQUIREMENTS.
   All elective village officers shall be nominated and elected on a
nonpartisan basis unless the village provides for a partisan ballot by
ordinance. No ordinance providing for nomination and election on a partisan
ballot shall permit affiliation with any party not recognized as a political
party for the purposes of the Election Act. Such ordinance providing for
nomination and election on a partisan ballot shall be adopted and effective not
less than 60 days prior to the filing deadline.
(Neb. RS 32-557)
Statutory reference:
   Election Act, see Neb. RS 32-101 to 32-1551
§ 33.07 BALLOTS.
   The County Clerk shall provide printed ballots for every general municipal
election and the expense of printing and delivering the ballots and cards of
instruction shall be a charge upon the municipality.
(Prior Code, § 1-715)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 32-805 and 32-807
§ 33.08 FILING FEE.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (D) or (E) below, a filing fee shall be
paid to the Village Clerk-Treasurer by or on behalf of each candidate for
village office prior to filing for office. The fee shall be placed in the
General Fund of the village. No candidate filing forms shall be filed until the
proper payment or the proper receipt showing the payment of such filing fee is
presented to the filing officer. On the day of the filing deadline, the Village
Clerk-Treasurer’s office shall remain open to receive filing fees until the
hour of the filing deadline.
   (B)   Except as provided in division (D) or (E) below, the filing fee shall
be a sum equal to 1% of the annual salary as of November 30 of the year
preceding the election for the office for which he or she files as a candidate.
   (C)   All declared write-in candidates shall pay the filing fees that are
required for the office at the time that they present the write-in affidavit to
the filing officer.
   (D)   No filing fee shall be required for any candidate filing for an office
in which a per diem is paid rather than a salary or for which there is a salary
of less than $500 per year.
   (E)   (1)   No filing fee shall be required of any candidate completing an
affidavit requesting to file for elective office in forma pauperis.
      (2)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
         AVAILABLE RESOURCES. Includes every type of property or interest in
property that an individual owns and may convert into cash except:
            1.   Real property used as a home;
            2.   Household goods of a moderate value used in the home; and
            3.   Assets to a maximum value of $3,000 used by a recipient in a
planned effort directed towards self-support.
         PAUPER. A person whose income and other resources for maintenance are
found under assistance standards to be insufficient for meeting the cost of his
or her requirements and whose reserve of cash or other available resources does
not exceed the maximum available resources that an eligible individual may own.
   (F)   If any candidate dies prior to an election, the spouse of the
candidate may file a claim for refund of the filing fee with the Board of
Trustees prior to the date of the election. Upon approval of the claim by the
Board of Trustees, the filing fee shall be refunded.
(Neb. RS 32-608)
§ 33.09 CAUCUS CANDIDATES.
   (A)   The Board of Trustees may, by ordinance, call a caucus for the purpose
of nomination of candidates for offices to be filled in the village election.
This caucus shall be held at least ten days before the filing deadline for that
election, and the Board of Trustees shall publish notice of the caucus in at
least one legal newspaper in or of general circulation in the county at least
once each week for two consecutive weeks before the caucus.
(Neb. RS 17-601.01)
   (B)   The chairperson of the caucus at which candidates are nominated shall
notify the Village Clerk-Treasurer in writing of the candidates so nominated
not later than two days following the caucus. The Village Clerk-Treasurer shall
then notify the persons so nominated of their nomination, this notification to
take place not later than five days after the caucus. No candidate so nominated
shall have his or her name placed upon the ballot unless, not more than ten
days after the holding of the caucus, he or she files with the Village Clerk-
Treasurer a written statement accepting the nomination of the caucus and pays
the filing fee, if any, for the office for which he or she was nominated.
(Neb. RS 17-601.02)
   (C)   The provisions of this section shall not preclude in any manner any
person from filing for the offices to which this section is applicable, either
by direct filing or by petition.
(Neb. RS 17-601.03)
§ 33.10 PETITION, WRITE-IN AND OTHER CANDIDATES FOR GENERAL ELECTION BALLOT;
PROCEDURES.
   (A)   (1)   Any registered voter who was not a candidate in the primary
election and who was not registered to vote with a party affiliation on or
after March 1 and before the general election in the calendar year of the
general election may have his or her name placed on the general election ballot
for a partisan office by filing petitions as prescribed in this section and
Neb. RS 32-621 or by nomination by political party convention or committee
pursuant to Neb. RS 32-627 or 32-710.
      (2)   Any candidate who was defeated in the primary election and any
registered voter who was not a candidate in the primary election may have his
or her name placed on the general election ballot if a vacancy exists on the
ballot under Neb. RS 32-625(2) and the candidate:
         (a)   Files for the office by petition as prescribed in divisions (B)
and (C) below;
         (b)   Files as a write-in candidate as prescribed in Neb. RS 32-615;
or
         (c)   Is nominated by political party convention or committee pursuant
to Neb. RS 32-710.
(Neb. RS 32-616)
   (B)   Petitions for nomination shall conform to the requirements of Neb. RS
32-628. Petitions shall state the office to be filled and the name and address
of the candidate. Petitions for partisan office shall also indicate the party
affiliation of the candidate. A sample copy of the petition shall be filed with
the filing officer prior to circulation. Petitions shall be signed by
registered voters residing in the village, if candidates are chosen at large,
or in the ward in which the officer is to be elected, if candidates are chosen
by ward, and shall be filed with the filing officer in the same manner as
provided for candidate filing forms. Petition signers and petition circulators
shall conform to the requirements of Neb. RS 32-629 and 32-630. No petition for
nomination shall be filed unless there is attached thereto a receipt showing
the payment of the filing fee required pursuant to Neb. RS 32-608. The
petitions shall be filed by September 1 in the year of the general election,
and all signed petitions not filed with the Secretary of State by such date
shall become invalid.
(Neb. RS 32-617)
   (C)   (1)   The number of signatures of registered voters needed to place
the name of a candidate upon the nonpartisan ballot for the general election
shall be at least 10% of the total number of registered voters voting for
Governor or President of the United States at the immediately preceding general
election in the village or in the ward in which the officer is to be elected,
not to exceed 2,000.
      (2)   The number of signatures of registered voters needed to place the
name of a candidate for an office upon the partisan ballot for the general
election shall be as follows:
         (a)   For each partisan office to be filled by the registered voters
of the entire state, at least 4,000, and at least 750 signatures shall be
obtained in each congressional district in the state;
         (b)   For each partisan office to be filled by the registered voters
of a county, at least 20% of the total number of registered voters voting for
Governor or President of the United States at the immediately preceding general
election within the county, not to exceed 2,000, except that the number of
signatures shall not be required to exceed 25% of the total number of
registered voters voting for the office at the immediately preceding general
election; and
         (c)   For each partisan office to be filled by the registered voters
of a political subdivision other than a county, at least 20% of the total
number of registered voters voting for Governor or President of the United
States at the immediately preceding general election within the political
subdivision, not to exceed 2,000.
(Neb. RS 32-618)
§ 33.11 RECALL PROCEDURE.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      FILING OFFICER. The Election Commissioner or County Clerk.
(Neb. RS 32-1301)
   (B)   Any member of the Board of Trustees may be removed from office by
recall pursuant to this section.
(Neb. RS 32-1302)
   (C)   (1)   A petition demanding that the question of removing a member of
the Board of Trustees be submitted to the registered voters shall be signed by
registered voters equal in number to at least 45% of the total vote cast for
the person receiving the most votes for that office in the last general
election. The signatures shall be affixed to petition papers and shall be
considered part of the petition.
      (2)   Petition circulators shall conform to the requirements of Neb. RS
32-629 and 32-630.
      (3)   The petition papers shall be procured from the filing officer.
Prior to the issuance of such petition papers, a recall petition filing form
shall be signed and filed with the filing officer by at least one registered
voter. Such voter or voters shall be deemed to be the principal circulator or
circulators of the recall petition. The filing form shall state the name and
office of the Trustee sought to be removed, shall include in concise language
of 60 words or less the reason or reasons for which recall is sought, and shall
request that the filing officer issue initial petition papers to the principal
circulator for circulation.
      (4)   After receiving the filing form, the filing officer shall notify
the Trustee by any method specified in Neb. RS 25-505.01 or, if notification
cannot be made with reasonable diligence by any of the methods specified in
Neb. RS 25-505.01, by leaving a copy of the filing form at the Trustee’s usual
place of residence and mailing a copy by first-class mail to the Trustee’s last
known address. If the Trustee chooses, he or she may submit a defense statement
in concise language of 60 words or less for inclusion on the petition. Any such
defense statement shall be submitted to the filing officer within 20 days after
the Trustee receives the copy of the filing form. The filing officer shall
prepare the petition papers within five business days after receipt of the
defense statement. The principal circulator or circulators shall gather the
petition papers within 20 days after being notified by the filing officer that
the petition papers are available. The filing officer shall notify the
principal circulator or circulators that the necessary signatures must be
gathered within 30 days from the date of issuing the petitions.
      (5)   The filing officer, upon issuing the initial petition papers or any
subsequent petition papers, shall enter in a record, to be kept in his or her
office, the name of the principal circulator or circulators to whom the papers
were issued, the date of issuance, and the number of papers issued. The filing
officer shall certify on the papers the name of the principal circulator or
circulators to whom the papers were issued and the date they were issued. No
petition paper shall be accepted as part of the petition unless it bears such
certificate. The principal circulator or circulators who check out petitions
from the filing officer may distribute such petitions to persons who may act as
circulators of such petitions.
      (6)   Petition signers shall conform to the requirements of Neb. RS 32-
629 and 32-630. Each signer of a recall petition shall be a registered voter
and qualified by his or her place of residence to vote for the office in
question.
(Neb. RS 32-1303)
   (D)   Each petition paper shall conform to the requirements of Neb. RS 32-
1304.
   (E)   (1)   The principal circulator or circulators shall file, as one
instrument, all petition papers comprising a recall petition for signature
verification with the filing officer within 30 days after the filing officer
issues the initial petition papers to the principal circulator or circulators
as provided in division (C) above.
      (2)   Within 15 business days after the filing of the petition, the
filing officer shall ascertain whether or not the petition is signed by the
requisite number of registered voters. No new signatures may be added after the
initial filing of the petition papers. Any person may remove his or her name
from a petition as provided in Neb. RS 32-632. If the petition is found to be
sufficient, the filing officer shall attach to the petition a certificate
showing the result of such examination. If the requisite number of signatures
has not been gathered, the filing officer shall file the petition in his or her
office without prejudice to the filing of a new petition for the same purpose.
(Neb. RS 32-1305)
   (F)   (1)   If the recall petition is found to be sufficient, the filing
officer shall notify the Trustee whose removal is sought and the Board of
Trustees that sufficient signatures have been gathered. Notification of the
Trustee shall be by any method specified in Neb. RS 25-505.01 or, if
notification cannot be made with reasonable diligence by any of the methods
specified in Neb. RS 25-505.01, by leaving such notice at the Trustee’s usual
place of residence and mailing a copy by first-class mail to the Trustee’s last
known address.
      (2)   The Board of Trustees shall, within 21 days after receipt of the
notification from the filing officer pursuant to division (F)(1) above, order
an election. The date of the election shall be the first available date that
complies with Neb. RS 32-405 and that can be certified to the election
commissioner or county clerk at least 50 days prior to the election, except
that if any other election is to be held in the village within 90 days after
such notification, the Board shall provide for the holding of the recall
election on the same day.
      (3)   All resignations shall be tendered as provided in Neb. RS 32-562.
If the Trustee whose removal is sought resigns before the recall election is
held, the Board may cancel the recall election if the Board notifies the
Election Commissioner or County Clerk of the cancellation on or before the
fourth Thursday prior to the election; otherwise, the recall election shall be
held as scheduled.
      (4)   If a filing officer is subject to a recall election, the Secretary
of State shall conduct the recall election.
(Neb. RS 32-1306)
   (G)   The form of the official ballot at a recall election held pursuant to
division (F) above shall conform to the requirements of Neb. RS 32-1307.
   (H)   (1)   If a majority of the votes cast at a recall election are against
the removal of the Trustee named on the ballot or the election results in a
tie, the Trustee shall continue in office for the remainder of his or her term
but may be subject to further recall attempts as provided in division (I)
below.
      (2)   If a majority of the votes cast at a recall election are for the
removal of the Trustee named on the ballot, he or she shall, regardless of any
technical defects in the recall petition, be deemed removed from office unless
a recount is ordered. If the Trustee is deemed removed, the removal shall
result in a vacancy in the office, which shall be filled as otherwise provided
in this section, Neb. RS 32-567 through 32-570, 32-574, and 32-606.01.
      (3)   If the election results show a margin of votes equal to 1% or less
between the removal or retention of the Trustee in question, the Secretary of
State, Election Commissioner, or County Clerk shall order a recount of the
votes cast unless the Trustee files a written statement with the filing officer
that he or she does not want a recount.
      (4)   If there are vacancies in the offices of one-half or more of the
members of the Board of Trustees at one time due to the recall of such members,
a special election to fill such vacancies shall be conducted as expeditiously
as possible by the Secretary of State, Election Commissioner, or County Clerk.
Candidates for the special election shall file a candidate filing form.
      (5)   No Trustee who is removed at a recall election or who resigns after
the initiation of the recall process shall be appointed to fill the vacancy
resulting from his or her removal or the removal of any other member of the
Board of Trustees during the remainder of his or her term of office.
(Neb. RS 32-1308)
   (I)   No recall petition filing form shall be filed against an elected
Trustee within 12 months after a recall election has failed to remove him or
her from office or within six months after the beginning of his or her term of
office or within six months prior to the incumbent filing deadline for the
office.
(Neb. RS 32-1309)
§ 33.12 EXIT POLLS; POLL WATCHERS.
   (A)   No person shall conduct an exit poll, a public opinion poll or any
other interview with voters on election day seeking to determine voter
preference within 20 feet of the entrance of any polling place, or, if inside
the polling place or building, within 100 feet of any voting booth.
   (B)   (1)   No poll watcher shall interfere with any voter in the
preparation or casting of such voter’s ballot or prevent any election worker
from performing the worker’s duties.
      (2)   A poll watcher shall not provide assistance to a voter as described
in Neb. RS 32-918 unless selected by the voter to provide assistance as
provided in Neb. RS 32-918.
      (3)   A poll watcher shall not do any electioneering or disseminate any
information or materials advertising or advocating for or against any ballot
measure while engaged in observing at a polling place.
      (4)   A poll watcher shall maintain a distance of at least eight feet
from the sign-in table, the sign-in register, the polling booths, the ballot
box and any ballots which have not been cast, except that if the polling place
is not large enough for a distance of eight feet, the judge of election shall
post a notice of the minimum distance the poll watcher must maintain from the
sign-in table, the sign-in register, the polling booths, the ballot box and any
ballots which have not been cast. The posted notice shall be clearly visible to
the voters and shall be posted prior to the opening of the polls on election
day. The minimum distance shall not be determined to exclude a poll watcher
from being in the polling place.
(Neb. RS 32-1525) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 33.13 TIE VOTES.
   In the case of a tie vote of any of the candidates in either the primary or
general election, the County Clerk shall notify such candidates to appear at
his or her office on a given day and hour to determine the same by lot before
the Canvassing Board, and the certificate of nomination or election shall be
given accordingly. Notice to appear shall be given by certified mail.
(Prior Code, § 1-711)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 32-1122
§ 33.14 CERTIFICATE OF NOMINATION OR ELECTION.
   (A)   The Election Commissioner, County Clerk or Municipal Clerk-Treasurer
shall, within 40 days after the election, prepare, sign and deliver a
certificate of nomination or a certificate of election to each person whom the
County Canvassing Board has declared to have received the highest vote for each
municipal office.
   (B)   No person shall be issued a certificate of nomination as a candidate
of a political party unless such person has received at least 5% of the total
vote cast for the office at the primary election.
(Prior Code, § 1-712)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 32-558 and 32-1033
§ 33.15 INABILITY TO ASSUME OFFICE.
   (A)   If the candidate who received the highest number of votes for a
nonpartisan office in a general election is ineligible, disqualified, deceased
or for any other reason unable to assume the office for which he or she was a
candidate and the registered voters had reasonable notice of such disability at
the time of the election, the candidate who received the next highest number of
votes to the candidates who would normally receive certificates of election
shall be declared elected and shall be entitled to a certificate of election if
he or she received not less than 35% of the total number of votes cast for the
office in the election and the number of persons to be elected for the office
is not greater than two and not less than 10% when the number of persons to be
nominated for the office is greater than two. If the candidate who received the
next highest number of votes received less than the required percentage, if no
other person was a candidate for the office, or if the registered voters did
not have reasonable notice at the time of the election of the disability of the
candidate who received the highest number of votes to merit a certificate of
election, a vacancy in such office shall be declared to exist at the time of
commencement of the term, and the vacancy may be filled as prescribed by law
for such office.
   (B)   The determination of whether the registered voters had reasonable
notice, for the purpose of this section, shall be made by the appropriate
filing officer under Neb. RS 32-607. The decision of the filing officer may be
appealed to the district court.
(Prior Code, § 1-713)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 32-625
CHAPTER 34: FINANCE AND REVENUE
Section
General Provisions
   
34.01   Definitions
   
34.02   Annual audit; financial statements
   
34.03   Contracts and purchases; bidding and other requirements
   
34.04   Warrants; expenditures
   
34.05   Claims and accounts payable
   
34.06   Collection of special assessments; procedure
   
34.07   Special assessment fund
   
34.08   Sinking funds
   
34.09   Deposit of funds
   
34.10   Certificates of deposit; time deposits; conditions
   
34.11   Investment of funds
   
34.12   Bond issues
   
34.13   Debt collection; authority to contract with collection agency
   
34.14   Credit cards; authority to accept
Annual Budget
   
34.25   Fiscal year
   
34.26   Budget procedures
   
34.27   Expenditures prior to adoption of budget
   
34.28   Proposed budget statement; contents; availability; correction
   
34.29   Proposed budget statement; hearing; adoption; certification of tax
amount
   
34.30   Adopted budget statement; filing; certification of tax amount
   
34.31   Appropriation bill
   
34.32   Proprietary functions; fiscal year; budget statements; filing; hearing;
adoption; reconciliation
Tax Levies
   
34.45   All-purpose levy; extraordinary levies; allocation; abandonment
   
34.46   Property tax levy; maximum; authority to exceed
   
34.47   Property tax levy; certification of amount; collection
   
34.48   Property tax request; procedure for setting
   
34.49   Motor vehicle fee
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 34.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BIENNIAL BUDGET. A budget by the village that provides for a biennial period
to determine and carry on the village’s financial and taxing affairs.
   BIENNIAL PERIOD. The two fiscal years comprising a biennium, commencing in
odd-numbered or even-numbered years, used by the village in determining and
carrying on its financial and taxing affairs.
   PUBLIC FUNDS. All money, including non-tax money, used in the operation and
functions of governing bodies. If the village has a lottery established under
the State County and Village Lottery Act, only those net proceeds which are
actually received by the village from a licensed lottery operator shall be
considered PUBLIC FUNDS, and PUBLIC FUNDS shall not include amounts awarded as
prizes.
(Neb. RS 13-503)
Statutory reference:
   State County and City Lottery Act, see Neb. RS 9-601 et seq.
§ 34.02 ANNUAL AUDIT; FINANCIAL STATEMENTS.
   (A)   (1)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
         ACCOUNTANT. A duly licensed public accountant or certified public
accountant who otherwise is not an employee of or connected in any way with the
village.
         ANNUAL AUDIT REPORT. The written report of the accountant and all
appended statements and schedules relating thereto presenting or recording the
findings of an examination or audit of the financial transactions, affairs or
financial condition of the village and its proprietary functions for the fiscal
year immediately prior to the making of the annual report.
         FISCAL YEAR. The fiscal year for the village, or the fiscal year
established in Neb. RS 18-2804 for a proprietary function if different than the
village fiscal year.
(Neb. RS 19-2902)
      (2)   (a)   The Board of Trustees shall cause an audit of the village’s
accounts to be made by a recognized independent and qualified accountant as
expeditiously as possible following the close of the fiscal year and to cover
all financial transactions and affairs of the village for that preceding fiscal
year. The audit shall be made on a cash or accrual method at the discretion of
the Board of Trustees. The audit shall be completed and the annual audit report
made by the accountant shall be submitted within six months after the close of
the fiscal year in any event, unless an extension of time is granted by a
written resolution adopted by the Board of Trustees. The Board of Trustees may
request a waiver of the audit requirement subject to the requirements of Neb.
RS 84-304.
         (b)   If the village is required to conduct an audit under Neb. RS 84-
304 and owns or operates any type of public utility or other enterprise which
substantially generates its own revenue, the Board of Trustees shall have that
phase of the village’s affairs reported separately from the other functions of
the village. The result of that audit shall appear separately in the annual
audit report made by the accountant to the village, and the audit shall be on a
cash or accrual basis at the discretion of the Board of Trustees.
(Neb. RS 19-2903)
      (3)   The annual audit report shall set forth, insofar as possible, the
financial position and results of financial operations for each fund or group
of accounts of the village. When the accrual method is selected for the annual
audit report, the report shall be in accordance with generally accepted
accounting principles. The annual audit report shall also include the
professional opinion of the accountant with respect to the financial
statements, or, if an opinion cannot be expressed, a declaration that the
accountant is unable to express such an opinion with an explanation of the
reasons why he or she cannot do so.
(Neb. RS 19-2904)
      (4)   At least three copies of such annual audit report shall be properly
signed and attested by the accountant; two copies shall be filed with the
Village Clerk-Treasurer, and one copy shall be filed with the Auditor of Public
Accounts. The annual audit report filed, together with any accompanying comment
or explanation, shall become a part of the public records of the Village Clerk-
Treasurer and shall at all times thereafter be open and subject to public
inspection.
(Neb. RS 19-2905)
   (B)   The Board of Trustees shall provide and file with the Village Clerk-
Treasurer, not later than August 1 of each year, financial statements showing
the village’s actual and budgeted figures for the most recently completed
fiscal year.
(Neb. RS 13-606)
Statutory reference:
   Other provisions on audits, see Neb. RS 19-2906 through 19-2909
§ 34.03 CONTRACTS AND PURCHASES; BIDDING AND OTHER REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Except as provided in Neb. RS 18-412.01 for a contract with a public
power district to operate, renew, replace or add to the electric distribution,
transmission or generation system of the village, no contract for enlargement
or general improvements, such as water extensions, sewers, public heating
systems, bridges, work on streets or any other work or improvement when the
cost of the enlargement or improvement is assessed to the property, costing
over $30,000 shall be made unless it is first approved by the Board of
Trustees.
   (B)   Except as provided in Neb. RS 18-412.01, before the Board of Trustees
makes any contract in excess of $30,000 for enlargement or general
improvements, such as water extensions, sewers, public heating systems,
bridges, work on streets or any other work or improvement when the cost of the
enlargement or improvement is assessed to the property, an estimate of the cost
shall be made by the Village Engineer and submitted to the Board of Trustees.
In advertising for bids as provided in divisions (C) and (E) below, the Board
of Trustees may publish the amount of the estimate.
   (C)   Advertisements for bids shall be required for any contract costing
over $30,000 entered into:
      (1)   For enlargement or general improvements, such as water extensions,
sewers, public heating systems, bridges, work on streets or any other work or
improvement when the cost of the enlargement or improvement is assessed to the
property; or
      (2)   For the purchase of equipment used in the construction of the
enlargement or general improvements.
   (D)   A village electric utility may enter into a contract for the
enlargement or improvement of the electric system or for the purchase of
equipment used for the enlargement or improvement without advertising for bids
if the price is:
      (1)   Thirty thousand dollars or less;
      (2)   Sixty thousand dollars or less and the village electric utility has
gross annual revenue from retail sales in excess of $1,000,000;
      (3)   Ninety thousand dollars or less and the village electric utility
has gross annual revenue from retail sales in excess of $5,000,000; or
      (4)   One hundred twenty thousand dollars or less and the village
electric utility has gross annual revenue from retail sales in excess of
$10,000,000.
   (E)   The advertisement provided for in division (C) above shall be
published at least seven days prior to the bid closing in a legal newspaper
published in or of general circulation in the village. In case of a public
emergency resulting from infectious or contagious diseases, destructive
windstorms, floods, snow, war or an exigency or pressing necessity or
unforeseen need calling for immediate action or remedy to prevent a serious
loss of or serious injury or damage to life, health or property, estimates of
costs and advertising for bids may be waived in the emergency ordinance
authorized by Neb. RS 17-613 when adopted by a three-fourths’ vote of the Board
of Trustees and entered of record.
   (F)   If, after advertising for bids as provided in this section, the Board
of Trustees receives fewer than two bids on a contract or if the bids received
by the Board of Trustees contain a price which exceeds the estimated cost, the
Board of Trustees may negotiate a contract in an attempt to complete the
proposed enlargement or general improvements at a cost commensurate with the
estimate given.
   (G)   If the materials are of such a nature that, in the opinion of the
manufacturer and with the concurrence of the Board of Trustees, no cost can be
estimated until the materials have been manufactured or assembled to the
specific qualifications of the village, the Board of Trustees may authorize the
manufacture and assemblage of those materials and may thereafter approve the
estimated cost expenditure when it is provided by the manufacturer.
(Neb. RS 17-568.01)
   (H)   Any village bidding procedure may be waived by the Board of Trustees:
      (1)   When materials or equipment are purchased at the same price and
from the same seller as materials or equipment which have formerly been
obtained pursuant to the state bidding procedure in the State Procurement Act,
Neb. RS 81-145 through 81-162;
      (2)   When the contract is negotiated directly with a sheltered workshop
pursuant to the provisions of Neb. RS 48-1503; or
      (3)   When required to comply with any federal grant, loan or program.
(Neb. RS 17-568.02)
   (I)   (1)   Notwithstanding any other provisions of law or a home rule
charter, a village which has established, by an interlocal agreement with any
county, a joint purchasing division or agency may purchase personal property
without competitive bidding if the price for the property has been established
by the federal General Services Administration or the materiel division of the
Department of Administrative Services.
      (2)   For the purpose of this division (I), the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
         PERSONAL PROPERTY. Includes, but is not limited to, supplies,
materials and equipment used by or furnished to any officer, office,
department, institution, board or other agency.
         PURCHASING or PURCHASE. The obtaining of personal property by sale,
lease or other contractual means.
(Neb. RS 18-1756)
Statutory reference:
   Requirements for public lettings, see Neb. RS 73-101 et seq.
§ 34.04 WARRANTS; EXPENDITURES.
   (A)   The Board of Trustees shall have no power to appropriate, issue or
draw any order or warrant on the Village Clerk-Treasurer for money unless the
same has been appropriated or ordered by ordinance, or the claim for the
payment of which such order or warrant is issued has been allowed according to
the provisions of §
34.05, and funds for the class or object out of which such claim is payable
have been included in the adopted budget statement or transferred according to
law.
(Neb. RS 17-708)
   (B)   All warrants drawn upon the Village Treasurer must be signed by the
Chairperson and countersigned by the Village Clerk, stating the particular fund
to which the same is chargeable, the person to whom payable, and for what
particular object. No money shall be otherwise paid than upon such warrants so
drawn. Each warrant shall specify the amount included in the adopted budget
statement for such fund upon which it is drawn and the amount already expended
of such fund.
(Neb. RS 17-711)
§ 34.05 CLAIMS AND ACCOUNTS PAYABLE.
   (A)   (1)   All liquidated and unliquidated claims and accounts payable
against the village shall:
         (a)   Be presented in writing;
         (b)   State the name and address of the claimant and the amount of the
claim; and
         (c)   Fully and accurately identify the items or services for which
payment is claimed or the time, place, nature and circumstances giving rise to
the claim.
      (2)   As a condition precedent to maintaining an action for a claim,
other than a tort claim as defined in Neb. RS 13-903, the claimant shall file
such claim within 90 days of the accrual of the claim in the office of the
Village Clerk-Treasurer.
      (3)   The Village Clerk-Treasurer shall notify the claimant or his or her
agent or attorney by letter mailed to the claimant’s address within five days
if the claim is disallowed by the Board of Trustees.
      (4)   No costs shall be recovered against the village in any action
brought against it for any claim, or for any claim allowed in part, which has
not been presented to the Board of Trustees to be audited unless the recovery
is for a greater sum than the amount allowed with the interest due.
(Neb. RS 17-714)
   (B)   (1)   Upon the allowance of claims by the Board of Trustees, the order
for their payment shall specify the particular fund or appropriation out of
which they are payable as specified in the adopted budget statement and no
order or warrant shall be drawn in excess of 85% of the current levy for the
purpose for which it is drawn unless there is sufficient money in the Treasury
at the credit of the proper fund for its payment; provided, that if there
exists at the time such warrant is drawn obligated funds from the federal
government or the state, or both from the federal government and the state, for
the general purpose or purposes of such warrant, then such warrant may be drawn
in excess of 85% of the current levy for the purpose for which it is drawn to
the additional extent of 100% of such obligated federal or state funds.
      (2)   No claim shall be audited or allowed unless an order or warrant for
the payment thereof may legally be drawn.
(Neb. RS 17-715)
§ 34.06 COLLECTION OF SPECIAL ASSESSMENTS; PROCEDURE.
   (A)   The village shall have the authority to collect the special
assessments which it levies and to perform all other necessary functions
related thereto, including foreclosure.
   (B)   The Board of Trustees of any village collecting its own special
assessments shall direct that notice that special assessments are due shall be
mailed or otherwise delivered to the last known address of the person against
whom those special assessments are assessed or to the lending institution or
other party responsible for paying those special assessments. Failure to
receive the notice shall not relieve the taxpayer from any liability to pay the
special assessments and any interest or penalties accrued thereon.
   (C)   A village collecting its own assessments shall:
      (1)   File notice of the assessments and the amount of assessment being
levied for each lot or tract of land to the Register of Deeds; and
      (2)   File a release of assessment upon final payment of each assessment
with the Register of Deeds.
(Neb. RS 18-1216)
Statutory reference:
   Refunding erroneously paid special assessments, see Neb. RS 17-703
§ 34.07 SPECIAL ASSESSMENT FUND.
   All money received on special assessments shall be held by the Village
Clerk-Treasurer as a special fund to be applied to the payment of the
improvement for which the assessment was made, and this money shall be used for
no other purpose whatever, unless to reimburse the village for money expended
for any such improvement.
(Neb. RS 17-710)
§ 34.08 SINKING FUNDS.
   (A)   The village is hereby empowered to receive money or property by
donation, bequest, gift, devise or otherwise for the benefit of any one or more
of the public purposes for which sinking funds are established by the
provisions of this section, as stipulated by the donor. Title to any money or
property so donated shall vest in the Board of Trustees, or in its successors
in office, who shall become the owners thereof in trust to the uses of the
sinking fund or funds. Provided, in the event of a donation of real estate, the
Board of Trustees may manage the real estate as in the case of real estate
donated to the village for village library purposes under the provisions of
Neb. RS 51-215 and 51-216.
(Neb. RS 19-1301)
   (B)   The Board of Trustees, subject to all the limitations set forth in
this section, shall have the power to levy a tax of not to exceed $0.105 on
each $100 in any one year upon the taxable value of all the taxable property
within the village for a term of not to exceed ten years, in addition to the
amount of tax which may be annually levied for the purposes of the adopted
budget statement of the village, for the purpose of establishing a sinking fund
for the construction, purchase, improvement, extension, original equipment or
repair, not including maintenance, of any one or more of the following public
improvements, including acquisition of any land incident to the making thereof:
village libraries; village auditoriums or community houses for social or
recreational purposes; village halls; village public libraries, auditoriums or
community houses in a single building; village swimming pools; village jails;
village fire stations, together with firefighting equipment or apparatus;
village parks; village cemeteries; village medical buildings, together with
furnishings and equipment; or village hospitals. The village shall not be
authorized to levy the tax or to establish the sinking fund as provided in this
division (B) if, having bonded indebtedness, such village has been in default
in the payment of interest thereon or principal thereof for a period of ten
years prior to the date of the passage of the resolution providing for the
submission of the proposition for establishment of the sinking fund as required
in division (C) below.
(Neb. RS 19-1302)
   (C)   Before any sinking fund or funds are established or before any annual
tax is levied for any such planned village improvements mentioned in division
(B) above by the village, the Board of Trustees shall declare its purpose by
resolution to submit to the qualified electors of the village at the next
general village election the proposition to provide the village with the
specific village improvement planned under this section. The resolution of
submission shall, among other things, set forth a clear description of the
improvement planned, the estimated cost according to the prevailing costs, the
amount of annual levy over a definite period of years, not exceeding ten years,
required to provide such cost, and the specific name or designation for the
sinking fund sought to be established to carry out the planned improvement,
together with a statement of the proposition for placement upon the ballot at
the election. Notice of the submission of the proposition, together with a copy
of the official ballot containing the same, shall be published in its entirety
three successive weeks before the day of the election in a legal newspaper in
or of general circulation in the village or, if no legal newspaper is in or of
general circulation in the village, in a legal newspaper in or of general
circulation in the county in which the village is located. No such sinking fund
shall be established unless the same has been authorized by a majority or more
of the legal votes of the village cast for or against the proposition. If less
than a majority of the legal votes favor the establishment of the sinking fund,
the planned improvement shall not be made, no annual tax shall be levied
therefor, and no sinking fund or sinking funds shall be established in
connection therewith, but such resolution of submission shall immediately be
repealed. If the proposition shall carry at such election in the manner
prescribed in this division, the Board of Trustees and its successors in office
shall proceed to do all things authorized under such resolution of submission,
but never inconsistent with this section. The election provided for under this
section shall be conducted as provided under the Election Act.
(Neb. RS 19-1303)
   (D)   All funds received by the Village Clerk-Treasurer, by donation or by
tax levy as hereinbefore provided, shall, as they accumulate, be immediately
invested by the Clerk-Treasurer, with the written approval of the Board of
Trustees, in the manner provided in §
34.11. Whenever investments of such sinking fund or funds are made, as
aforesaid, the nature and character of the same shall be reported to the Board
of Trustees and the investment report shall be made a matter of record by the
Village Clerk-Treasurer in the proceedings of the Village Board. The sinking
fund, or sinking funds, accumulated under the provisions of this section shall
constitute a special fund, or funds, for the purpose or purposes for which the
same was authorized and shall not be used for any other purpose unless
authorized by 60% of the qualified electors of the village voting at a general
election favoring such change in the use of the sinking fund or sinking funds;
provided, that the question of the change in the use of the sinking fund or
sinking funds, when it fails to carry, shall not be resubmitted in substance
for a period of one year from and after the date of such election.
(Neb. RS 19-1304)
Statutory reference:
   Additional levy limitations, see Neb. RS 17-702
   Election Act, see Neb. RS 32-101 to 32-1551
§ 34.09 DEPOSIT OF FUNDS.
   (A)   (1)   The Village Clerk-Treasurer shall deposit, and at all times keep
on deposit for safekeeping, in banks, capital stock financial institutions or
qualifying mutual financial institutions of approved and responsible standing,
all money collected, received or held by him or her as Village Clerk-Treasurer.
These deposits shall be subject to all regulations imposed by law or adopted by
the Board of Trustees for the receiving and holding thereof. The fact that a
stockholder, director or other officer of the bank, capital stock financial
institution or qualifying mutual financial institution is also serving as a
member of the Board of Trustees or as any other officer of the village shall
not disqualify the bank, capital stock financial institution or qualifying
mutual financial institution from acting as a depository for the village funds.
      (2)   The Board of Trustees shall require from all banks, capital stock
financial institutions or qualifying mutual financial institutions a bond in
such penal sum as may be the maximum amount on deposit at any time less the
amount insured or guaranteed by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation or,
in lieu thereof, security given as provided in the Public Funds Deposit
Security Act, to secure the payment of all such deposits and accretions. The
Board of Trustees shall approve this bond or giving of security. The Village
Clerk-Treasurer shall not be liable for any loss of any money sustained by
reason of the failure of any such depository so designated and approved.
(Neb. RS 17-607)
   (B)   The insurance afforded to depositors in banks, capital stock financial
institutions or qualifying mutual financial institutions through the Federal
Deposit Insurance Corporation shall be deemed and construed to be a surety bond
or bonds to the extent that the deposits are insured or guaranteed by that
corporation, and for deposits so insured or guaranteed, no other surety bond or
bonds or other security shall be required.
(Neb. RS 77-2362)
   (C)   (1)   Neb. RS 77-2366 shall apply to deposits in capital stock
financial institutions.
      (2)   Neb. RS 77-2365.01 shall apply to deposits in qualifying mutual
financial institutions.
(Neb. RS 17-607 and 77-2362)
Statutory reference:
   Other provisions on deposits of public funds, see Neb. RS 77-2363 and 77-
2364
   Public Funds Deposit Security Act, see Neb. RS 77-2386
§ 34.10 CERTIFICATES OF DEPOSIT; TIME DEPOSITS; CONDITIONS.
   (A)   The Village Clerk-Treasurer may, upon resolution of the Board of
Trustees authorizing the same, purchase certificates of deposit from and make
time deposits in any bank, capital stock financial institution or qualifying
mutual financial institution in the state to the extent that those certificates
of deposit or time deposits are insured or guaranteed by the Federal Deposit
Insurance Corporation. Deposits may be made in excess of the amounts so secured
by the corporation, and the amount of the excess deposit shall be secured by a
bond or by security given in the same manner as is provided for cities of the
first class in Neb. RS 16-714 through 16-716 as of the time the deposit is
made.
   (B)   (1)   Neb. RS 77-2366 shall apply to deposits in capital stock
financial institutions.
      (2)   Neb. RS 77-2365.01 shall apply to deposits in qualifying mutual
financial institutions.
(Neb. RS 17-720)
§ 34.11 INVESTMENT OF FUNDS.
   (A)   When the Village Clerk-Treasurer holds funds of the village in excess
of the amount required for maintenance or set aside for betterments and
improvements, the Board of Trustees may, by resolution, direct and authorize
the Clerk-Treasurer to invest the surplus funds in the outstanding bonds or
registered warrants of the village, in bonds and debentures issued either
singly or collectively by any of the 12 federal land banks, the 12 intermediate
credit banks or the 13 banks for cooperatives under the supervision of the Farm
Credit Administration, or in interest-bearing bonds or the obligations of the
United States. The interest on such bonds or warrants shall be credited to the
fund out of which the bonds or warrants were purchased.
(Neb. RS 17-608)
   (B)   All income received by the village from public utilities and the
payment and collection of water taxes, rents, rates or assessments shall be
applied to the payment of running expenses, interest on bonds or money borrowed
and the erection and construction of public utilities; should there be any
surplus, it shall be annually created into a sinking fund for payment of public
utility bonds or for improvement of the works, or into the General Fund as the
Board may direct. The surplus remaining, if any, may, if the Board so directs,
be invested in interest-bearing bonds or obligations of the United States.
(Neb. RS 17-540)
   (C)   The Board of Trustees may, by resolution, direct and authorize the
Clerk-Treasurer to dispose of the surplus electric light, water or gas funds,
or the funds arising from the sale of electric light, water or natural gas
distribution properties, by the payment of outstanding electric light, water or
gas distribution bonds or water warrants then due. The excess, if any, after
such payments may be transferred to the General Fund of the village.
(Neb. RS 17-609)
   (D)   (1)   Whenever the village has accumulated a surplus of any fund in
excess of its current needs or has accumulated a sinking fund for the payment
of its bonds and the money in such sinking fund exceeds the amount necessary to
pay the principal and interest of any such bonds which become due during the
current year, the Board of Trustees may invest any such surplus in excess of
current needs or such excess in its sinking fund in certificates of deposit, in
time deposits, and in any securities in which the State Investment Officer is
authorized to invest pursuant to the State Capital Expansion Act and the State
Funds Investment Act and as provided in the authorized investment guidelines of
the State Investment Council in effect on the date the investment is made. The
State Investment Officer shall, upon request, furnish a copy of current
authorized investment guidelines of the State Investment Council.
      (2)   Nothing in division (D)(1) above shall be construed to authorize
investments in venture capital or to expand the investment authority of a local
government investment pool under the Public Entities Pooled Investment Act,
being Neb. RS 77-23,109 et seq.
(Neb. RS 77-2341)
Statutory reference:
   State Capital Expansion Act, see Neb. RS 17-1269 et seq.
   State Funds Investment Act, see Neb. RS 17-1237 et seq.
§ 34.12 BOND ISSUES.
   The Board of Trustees may, after meeting all the requirements of state law,
issue bonds, fund bonds and retire bonds for such purposes as may be permitted
by state law. The Board of Trustees shall have the authority to levy special
assessments for the payment of interest and principal on these bonds and may
spread the payments up to the maximum number of years permitted by state law.
Statutory reference:
   Bonds in general, see Neb. RS 18-1801 through 18-1805
   General provisions, see Neb. RS 10-101 through 10-143
§ 34.13 DEBT COLLECTION; AUTHORITY TO CONTRACT WITH COLLECTION AGENCY.
   (A)   The village may contract to retain a collection agency licensed
pursuant to the Collection Agency Act, within or without this state, for the
purpose of collecting public debts owed by any person to the village.
   (B)   No debt owed pursuant to division (A) above may be assigned to a
collection agency unless:
      (1)   There has been an attempt to advise the debtor by first-class mail,
postage prepaid, at the last known address of the debtor:
         (a)   Of the existence of the debt; and
         (b)   That the debt may be assigned to a collection agency for
collection if the debt is not paid.
      (2)   At least 30 days have elapsed from the time the notice was sent.
   (C)   A collection agency which is assigned a debt under this section shall
have only those remedies and powers which would be available to it as an
assignee of a private creditor.
   (D)   For the purposes of this section, DEBT shall include all delinquent
fees or payments except delinquent property taxes on real estate. In the case
of debt arising as a result of an order or judgment of a court in a criminal or
traffic matter, a collection fee may be added to the debt. The collection fee
shall be $25 or 4.5% of the debt, whichever is greater. The collection fee
shall be paid by the person who owes the debt directly to the person or agency
providing the collection service.
(Neb. RS 45-623)
Statutory reference:
   Collection Agency Act, see Neb. RS 45-601 et seq.
§ 34.14 CREDIT CARDS; AUTHORITY TO ACCEPT.
   (A)   (1)   If authorized by the Board of Trustees, any village official may
accept credit cards, charge cards, or debit cards, whether presented in person
or electronically, or electronic funds transfers as a method of cash payment of
any tax, levy, excise, duty, custom, toll, interest, penalty, fine, license,
fee, or assessment of whatever kind or nature, whether general or special, as
provided by Neb. RS 77-1702.
      (2)   A county treasurer, county official, or political subdivision
official shall not accept a central bank digital currency as a method of cash
payment of any tax, levy, excise, duty, custom, toll, interest, penalty, fine,
license, fee, or assessment of whatever kind or nature.
   (B)   The total amount of the taxes, levies, excises, duties, customs,
tolls, interest, penalties, fines, licenses, fees or assessments of whatever
kind or nature, whether general or special, paid for by credit card, charge
card, debit card or electronic funds transfer shall be collected by the village
official.
   (C)   With respect to a facility which it operates in a proprietary
capacity, the Board of Trustees may choose to accept credit cards, charge cards
or debit cards, whether presented in person or electronically, or electronic
funds transfers as a means of cash payment and may adjust the price for
services to reflect the handling and payment costs.
   (D)   The village official shall obtain, for each transaction, authorization
for use of any credit card, charge card or debit card used pursuant to this
section from the financial institution, vending service company, credit card or
charge card company or third-party merchant bank providing that service.   
   (E)   (1)   The types of credit cards, charge cards or debit cards accepted
and the payment services provided shall be determined by the State Treasurer
and the Director of Administrative Services, with the advice of a committee
convened by the State Treasurer and the Director. The committee shall consist
of the State Treasurer, the Tax Commissioner, the Director and representatives
from counties, villages and other political subdivisions as may be appropriate.
The committee shall develop recommendations for the contracting of such
services. The State Treasurer and the Director shall contract with one or more
credit card, charge card or debit card companies or third-party merchant banks
for services on behalf of the state and those counties, villages and political
subdivisions that choose to participate in the state contract for such
services. The State Treasurer and the Director shall consider, for the purposes
of this section, any negotiated discount or processing or transaction fee
imposed by a credit card, charge card or debit card company or third-party
merchant bank, as an administrative expense.
      (2)   If the Board of Trustees chooses not to participate in the state
contract, it may choose types of credit cards, charge cards and debit cards and
may negotiate and contract independently or collectively as a governmental
entity with one or more financial institutions, vending service companies,
credit card, charge card or debit card companies, or third-party merchant banks
for the provision of these services.
   (F)   Subject to the direction of the Board of Trustees, a village official
authorizing acceptance of credit card or charge card payments shall be
authorized, but not required, to impose a surcharge or convenience fee upon the
person making a payment by credit card or charge card so as to wholly or
partially offset the amount of any discount or administrative fees charged to
the village, but the surcharge or convenience fee shall not exceed the
surcharge or convenience fee imposed by the credit card or charge card
companies or third-party merchant banks which have contracted under division
(E) above. The surcharge or convenience fee shall be applied only when allowed
by the operating rules and regulations of the credit card or charge card
involved or when authorized in writing by the credit card or charge card
company involved. When a person elects to make a payment to the village by
credit card or charge card and such a surcharge or convenience fee is imposed,
the payment of the surcharge or convenience fee shall be deemed voluntary by
that person and shall be in no case refundable. If a payment is made
electronically by credit card, charge card, debit card or electronic funds
transfer as part of a system for providing or retrieving information
electronically, the village official shall be authorized, but not required, to
impose an additional surcharge or convenience fee upon the person making a
payment.
   (G)   For the purpose of this section, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      CENTRAL BANK DIGITAL CURRENCY. A digital medium of exchange, token, or
monetary unit of account issued by the United States Federal Reserve System or
any analogous federal agency that is made directly available to the consumer by
such federal entities. CENTRAL BANK DIGITAL CURRENCY includes a digital medium
of exchange, token, or monetary unit of account so issued that is processed or
validated directly by such federal entities.
      ELECTRONIC FUNDS TRANSFER. The movement of funds by nonpaper means,
usually through a payment system, including, but not limited to, an automated
clearinghouse or the Federal Reserve’s Fedwire System.
(Neb. RS 13-609)
ANNUAL BUDGET
§ 34.25 FISCAL YEAR.
   The fiscal year of the village and any public utility of the village
commences on October 1 and extends through the following September 30 except as
provided in the Municipal Proprietary Function Act.
(Neb. RS 17-701)
Statutory reference:
   Municipal Proprietary Function Act, see Neb. RS 18-2801 et seq.
§ 34.26 BUDGET PROCEDURES.
   The budget instruction manual prepared by the Auditor of Public Accounts is
incorporated by reference for the purpose of proper budget preparation.
§ 34.27 EXPENDITURES PRIOR TO ADOPTION OF BUDGET.
   (A)   (1)   On and after the first day of its fiscal year in 1993 and of
each succeeding year or on or after the first day of its biennial period, and
until the adoption of the budget by the Board of Trustees in September, the
Board of Trustees may expend any balance of cash on hand for the current
expenses of the village.
      (2)   Except as provided in division (B) below, the expenditures shall
not exceed an amount equivalent to the total amount expended under the last
budget in the equivalent period of the prior budget year or biennial period.
The expenditures shall be charged against the appropriations for each
individual fund or purpose as provided in the budget when adopted.
(Neb. RS 13-509.01)
   (B)   (1)   The restriction on expenditures in division (A) above may be
exceeded upon the express finding of the Board of Trustees that expenditures
beyond the amount authorized are necessary to enable the village to meet its
statutory duties and responsibilities. The finding and approval of the
expenditures in excess of the statutory authorization shall be adopted by the
Board of Trustees in open public session.
      (2)   Expenditures authorized by this section shall be charged against
appropriations for each individual fund or purpose as provided in the budget
when adopted, and nothing in this section shall be construed to authorize
expenditures by the village in excess of that authorized by any other statutory
provision.
(Neb. RS 13-509.02)
§ 34.28 PROPOSED BUDGET STATEMENT; CONTENTS; AVAILABILITY; CORRECTION.
   (A)   (1)   The Board of Trustees shall annually or biennially prepare a
proposed budget statement on forms prescribed and furnished by the Auditor of
Public Accounts. The proposed budget statement shall be made available to the
public prior to publication of the notice of the hearing on the proposed budget
statement pursuant to §
34.29.
      (2)   A proposed budget statement shall contain the following
information, except as provided by state law:
         (a)   For the immediately preceding fiscal year or biennial period,
the revenue from all sources, including motor vehicle taxes, other than revenue
received from personal and real property taxation, allocated to the funds and
separately stated as to each such source: the unencumbered cash balance at the
beginning and end of the year or biennial period; the amount received by
taxation of personal and real property; and the amount of actual expenditures;
         (b)   For the current fiscal year or biennial period, actual and
estimated revenue from all sources, including motor vehicle taxes, allocated to
the funds and separately stated as to each such source: the actual unencumbered
cash balance available at the beginning of the year or biennial period; the
amount received from personal and real property taxation; and the amount of
actual and estimated expenditures, whichever is applicable. This statement
shall contain the cash reserve for each fiscal year or biennial period and
shall note whether or not the reserve is encumbered. The cash reserve
projections shall be based upon the actual experience of prior years or
biennial periods. The cash reserve shall not exceed 50% of the total budget
adopted exclusive of capital outlay items;
         (c)   For the immediately ensuing fiscal year or biennial period, an
estimate of revenue from all sources, including motor vehicle taxes, other than
revenue to be received from taxation of personal and real property, separately
stated as to each such source: the actual or estimated unencumbered cash
balances, whichever is applicable, to be available at the beginning of the year
or biennial period; the amounts proposed to be expended during the year or
biennial period; and the amount of cash reserve, based on actual experience of
prior years or biennial periods, which cash reserve shall not exceed 50% of the
total budget adopted exclusive of capital outlay items;
         (d)   A statement setting out separately the amount sought to be
raised from the levy of a tax on the taxable value of real property:
            1.   For the purpose of paying the principal or interest on bonds
issued or authorized to be issued by the Board of Trustees or the legal voters
of the political subdivision; and
            2.   For all other purposes.
         (e)   A uniform summary of the proposed budget statement, including
each proprietary function fund included in a separate proprietary budget
statement prepared pursuant to the Municipal Proprietary Function Act, and a
grand total of all funds maintained by the Board of Trustees; and
         (f)   A list of the proprietary functions which are not included in
the budget statement. These proprietary functions shall have a separate budget
statement, which is approved by the Board of Trustees as provided in the
Municipal Proprietary Function Act.
   (B)   The actual or estimated unencumbered cash balance required to be
included in the budget statement by this section shall include deposits and
investments of the village as well as any funds held by the County Treasurer
for the village and shall be accurately stated on the proposed budget
statement.
   (C)   The village shall correct any material errors in the budget statement
detected by the Auditor of Public Accounts or by other sources.
(Neb. RS 13-504)
   (D)   The estimated expenditures plus the required cash reserve for the
ensuing fiscal year or biennial period, less all estimated and actual
unencumbered balances at the beginning of the year or biennial period, and less
the estimated income from all sources, including motor vehicle taxes, other
than taxation of personal and real property shall equal the amount to be
received from taxes, and that amount shall be shown on the proposed budget
statement pursuant to this section. The amount to be raised from the taxation
of personal and real property, as determined above, plus the estimated revenue
from other sources, including motor vehicle taxes, and the unencumbered
balances shall equal the estimated expenditures, plus the necessary required
cash reserve, for the ensuing year or biennial period.
(Neb. RS 13-505)
Statutory reference:
   Municipal Proprietary Function Act, see Neb. RS 18-2801 et seq.
§ 34.29 PROPOSED BUDGET STATEMENT; HEARING; ADOPTION; CERTIFICATION OF TAX
AMOUNT.
   (A)   The Board of Trustees shall each year or biennial period conduct a
public hearing on its proposed budget statement. Such hearing shall be held
separately from any regularly scheduled meeting of the governing body and shall
not be limited by time. Notice of the place and time of the hearing, together
with a summary of the proposed budget statement, shall be published at least
four calendar days prior to the date set for hearing in a newspaper of general
circulation within the village’s jurisdiction. For the purposes of such notice,
the four calendar days shall include the day of publication but not the day of
hearing. When the total operating budget, not including reserves, does not
exceed $10,000 per year or $20,000 per biennial period, the proposed budget
summary may be posted at the Board of Trustee’s principal headquarters. At such
hearing, the governing body shall make at least three copies of the proposed
budget statement available to the public and shall make a presentation
outlining key provisions of the proposed budget statement, including, but not
limited to, a comparison with the prior year’s budget. Any member of the public
desiring to speak on the proposed budget statement shall be allowed to address
the governing body at the hearing and shall be given a reasonable amount of
time to do so.
   (B)   After the hearing, the proposed budget statement shall be adopted, or
amended and adopted as amended, and a written record shall be kept of the
hearing. The amount to be received from personal and real property taxation
shall be certified to the levying board after the proposed budget statement is
adopted or is amended and adopted as amended. The certification of the amount
to be received from personal and real property taxation shall specify
separately the amount to be applied to the payment of principal or interest on
bonds issued or authorized to be issued by the Board of Trustees or the legal
voters of the political subdivision and the amount to be received for all other
purposes.
   (C)   If the adopted budget statement reflects a change from that shown in
the published proposed budget statement, a summary of the changes shall be
published within 20 calendar days after its adoption in the manner provided in
this section, but without provision for hearing, setting forth the items
changed and the reasons for the changes.
   (D)   Upon approval by the Board of Trustees, the budget shall be filed with
the Auditor of Public Accounts. The Auditor may review the budget for errors in
mathematics, improper accounting and noncompliance with the State Budget Act or
Neb. RS 13-518 through 13-522. If the Auditor detects such errors, he or she
shall immediately notify the Board of such errors. The Board shall correct any
such error as provided in state statutes. Warrants for the payment of
expenditures provided in the budget adopted under this section shall be valid
notwithstanding any errors or noncompliance for which the Auditor has notified
the Board.
(Neb. RS 13-506)
   (E)   When a levy increase has been authorized by vote of the electors, the
adopted budget statement shall indicate the amount of the levy increase.
(Neb. RS 13-507)
Statutory reference:
   State Budget Act, see Neb. RS 13-501 to 13-513
§ 34.30 ADOPTED BUDGET STATEMENT; FILING; CERTIFICATION OF TAX AMOUNT.
   (A)   (1)   After publication and hearing on the proposed budget statement
and within the time prescribed by law, the Board of Trustees shall file with
and certify to the levying board or boards on or before September 30 of each
year or September 30 of the final year of a biennial period, and file with the
Auditor of Public Accounts a copy of the adopted budget statement which
complies with Neb. RS 13-518 through 13-522, if applicable, together with the
amount of the tax required to fund the adopted budget, setting out separately:
         (a)   The amount to be levied for the payment of principal or interest
on bonds issued or authorized to be issued by the Board of Trustees or the
legal voters of the political subdivision; and
         (b)   The amount to be levied for all other purposes.
      (2)   Proof of publication shall be attached to the statements.
   (B)   If the prime rate published by the Federal Reserve Board is 10% or
more at the time of the filing and certification required under this section,
the Board of Trustees, in certifying the amount required, may make allowance
for delinquent taxes not exceeding 5% of the amount required plus the actual
percentage of delinquent taxes for the preceding tax year or biennial period
and for the amount of estimated tax loss from any pending or anticipated
litigation which involves taxation and in which tax collections have been or
can be withheld or escrowed by court order. For the purposes of this section,
ANTICIPATED LITIGATION shall be limited to the anticipation of an action being
filed by a taxpayer who or which filed a similar action for the preceding year
or biennial period which is still pending. Except for such allowances, the
Board of Trustees shall not certify an amount of tax more than 1% greater or
lesser than the amount determined under §
34.28.
   (C)   The Board of Trustees shall use the certified taxable values as
provided by the County Assessor pursuant to Neb. RS 13-509 for the current year
in setting or certifying the levy. The Board of Trustees may designate one of
its members to perform any duty or responsibility required of the Board by this
section.
(Neb. RS 13-508)
Statutory reference:
   State Budget Act, see Neb. RS 13-501 to 13-513
§ 34.31 APPROPRIATION BILL.
   The Board of Trustees shall adopt a budget statement pursuant to the State
Budget Act, to be termed “The Annual Appropriation Bill,” in which the Board
may appropriate those sums of money as may be deemed necessary to defray all
necessary expenses and liabilities of the village.
(Neb. RS 17-706)
Statutory reference:
   State Budget Act, see Neb. RS 13-501 to 13-513
§ 34.32 PROPRIETARY FUNCTIONS; FISCAL YEAR; BUDGET STATEMENTS; FILING; HEARING;
ADOPTION; RECONCILIATION.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      PROPRIETARY FUNCTION. A water supply or distribution utility, a
wastewater collection or treatment utility, an electric generation,
transmission or distribution utility, a gas supply, transmission or
distribution utility, an integrated solid waste management collection, disposal
or handling utility, or a hospital or a nursing home owned by the village.
(Neb. RS 18-2803)
      SUBSIDIZATION. The costs of operation of a proprietary function are
regularly financed by appropriations from the village’s General Fund in excess
of the amount paid by the village to the proprietary function for actual
service or services received.
(Neb. RS 18-2804)
   (B)   The Board of Trustees may establish a separate fiscal year for each
proprietary function, except that any proprietary function which is subsidized
by appropriations from the village’s General Fund shall have the same fiscal
year as the village.
   (C)   (1)   At least 30 days prior to the start of the fiscal year of each
proprietary function, a proposed proprietary budget statement shall be prepared
in writing and filed with the Village Clerk-Treasurer containing the following
information:
         (a)   For the immediately preceding fiscal year, the revenue from all
sources, the unencumbered cash balance at the beginning and end of the year,
the amount received by taxation and the amount of actual expenditure;
         (b)   For the current fiscal year, actual and estimated revenue from
all sources separately stated as to each such source, the actual unencumbered
cash balance available at the beginning of the year, the amount received from
taxation and the amount of actual and estimated expenditure, whichever is
applicable;
         (c)   For the immediately ensuing fiscal year, an estimate of revenue
from all sources separately stated as to each such source, the actual or
estimated unencumbered cash balance, whichever is applicable, to be available
at the beginning of the year, the amounts proposed to be expended during the
fiscal year and the amount of cash reserve based on actual experience of prior
years; and
         (d)   A uniform summary of the proposed budget statement, which shall
include a total of all funds maintained for the proprietary function.
      (2)   The statement shall contain the estimated cash reserve for each
fiscal year and shall note whether or not the reserve is encumbered. The cash
reserve projections shall be based upon the actual experience of prior years.
      (3)   Each proprietary budget statement shall be filed on forms
prescribed and furnished by the Auditor of Public Accounts following
consultation with representatives of such governing bodies as operate
proprietary functions subject to the provisions of the Municipal Proprietary
Function Act.
(Neb. RS 18-2805)
   (D)   (1)   After a proposed proprietary budget statement is filed with the
Village Clerk-Treasurer, the Board of Trustees shall conduct a public hearing
on the statement. Notice of the time and place of the hearing, a summary of the
proposed proprietary budget statement, and notice that the full proposed
proprietary budget statement is available for public review with the Village
Clerk-Treasurer during normal business hours shall be published one time at
least five days prior to the hearing in a legal newspaper in or of general
circulation within the Board’s jurisdiction or by mailing to each resident
within the Board’s jurisdiction.
      (2)   After the hearing, the proposed proprietary budget statement shall
be adopted or amended and adopted as amended, and a written record shall be
kept of the hearing. If the adopted proprietary budget statement reflects a
change from the proposed proprietary statement presented at the hearing, a copy
of the adopted proprietary budget statement shall be filed with the Village
Clerk-Treasurer within 20 days after its adoption and published in a legal
newspaper in or of general circulation within the Board’s jurisdiction, or by
mailing to each resident within the Board’s jurisdiction.
(Neb. RS 18-2806)
   (E)   (1)   If the actual expenditures for a proprietary function exceed the
estimated expenditures in the proprietary budget statement during its fiscal
year, the Board of Trustees shall adopt a proprietary function reconciliation
statement within 90 days after the end of the fiscal year which reflects any
difference between the adopted proprietary budget statement for the previous
fiscal year and the actual expenditures and revenue for that fiscal year. After
the adoption of a proprietary function reconciliation statement, it shall be
filed with the Village Clerk-Treasurer and published in a legal newspaper in or
of general circulation within the Board’s jurisdiction, or by mailing to each
resident within the Board’s jurisdiction.
      (2)   If the difference between the adopted proprietary budget for the
previous fiscal year and the actual expenditures and revenues for that fiscal
year is greater than 10%, the proprietary function reconciliation statement
shall only be adopted following a public hearing.
(Neb. RS 18-2807)
   (F)   If the budget of a proprietary function is included in the village
budget statement created pursuant to the State Budget Act, the Municipal
Proprietary Function Act need not be followed for that proprietary function.
Any income from a proprietary function which is transferred to the General Fund
of the village shall be shown as a source of revenue in the village budget
statement created pursuant to the State Budget Act.
(Neb. RS 18-2808)
Statutory reference:
   Municipal Proprietary Function Act, see Neb. RS 18-2801 et seq.
   State Budget Act, see Neb. RS 13-501 to 13-513
TAX LEVIES
§ 34.45 ALL-PURPOSE LEVY; EXTRAORDINARY LEVIES; ALLOCATION; ABANDONMENT.
   (A)   Notwithstanding provisions in the statutes of the state and this code
to the contrary, for any fiscal year, the Board of Trustees may decide to
certify to the County Clerk for collection one all-purpose levy required to be
raised by taxation for all village purposes instead of certifying a schedule of
levies for specific purposes added together. Subject to the limits in §
34.46, the all-purpose levy shall not exceed an annual levy of $1.05 on each
$100 upon the taxable valuation of all the taxable property in the village.
Otherwise-authorized extraordinary levies to service and pay bonded
indebtedness of the village may be made by the village in addition to such all-
purpose levy.
(Neb. RS 19-1309)
   (B)   If the method provided in division (A) above is followed in village
financing, the village shall allocate the amount so raised to the several
departments of the village in its annual budget and appropriation ordinance, or
in other legal manner as the Board of Trustees deems wisest and best.
(Neb. RS 19-1310)
   (C)   If the village elects to follow the method provided in division (A)
above, it shall be bound by that election during the ensuing fiscal year but
may abandon such method in succeeding fiscal years.
(Neb. RS 19-1311)
   (D)   If it is necessary to certify the amount to county officers for
collection, the same shall be certified as a single amount for General Fund
purposes.
(Neb. RS 19-1312)
§ 34.46 PROPERTY TAX LEVY; MAXIMUM; AUTHORITY TO EXCEED.
   (A)   Property tax levies for the support of the village for fiscal years
beginning on or after July 1, 1998, shall be limited to the amounts set forth
in this division (A), except as provided in division (C) below. The village may
levy a maximum levy of $0.45 per $100 of taxable valuation of property subject
to the levy plus an additional $0.05 per $100 of taxable valuation to provide
financing for the village’s share of revenue required under an agreement or
agreements executed pursuant to the Interlocal Cooperation Act or the Joint
Public Agency Act. The maximum levy shall include amounts levied to pay for
sums to support a library pursuant to Neb. RS 51-201, museum pursuant to Neb.
RS 51-501, visiting community nurse, home health nurse or home health agency
pursuant to Neb. RS 71-1637, or statue, memorial or monument pursuant to Neb.
RS 80-202. Property tax levies for judgments, except judgments or orders from
the Commission of Industrial Relations, obtained against the village which
require or obligate the village to pay that judgment, to the extent the
judgment is not paid by liability insurance coverage of the village, for
preexisting lease-purchase contracts approved prior to July 1, 1998, for bonded
indebtedness approved according to law and secured by a levy on property, and
for payments by a public airport to retire interest-free loans from the
Department of Aeronautics in lieu of bonded indebtedness at a lower cost to the
public airport are not included in the levy limits established by this division
(A). The limitations on tax levies provided in this division (A) are to include
all other general or special levies provided by law. Notwithstanding other
provisions of law, the only exceptions to the limits in this division (A) are
those provided by or authorized by this section. Tax levies in excess of the
limitations in this section shall be considered unauthorized levies under Neb.
RS 77-1606 unless approved under division (C) below.
(Neb. RS 77-3442)
   (B)   (1)   All city airport authorities established under the Cities
Airport Authorities Act and community redevelopment authorities established
under the Community Development Law may be allocated property taxes, as
authorized by law, which are authorized by the village and are counted in the
village levy limit provided by division (A) above, except that such limitation
shall not apply to property tax levies for preexisting lease-purchase contracts
approved prior to July 1, 1998, for bonded indebtedness approved according to
law and secured by a levy on property, and for payments by a public airport to
retire interest-free loans from the Department of Aeronautics in lieu of bonded
indebtedness at a lower cost to the public airport. The Board of Trustees shall
review and approve or disapprove the levy request of the political subdivisions
subject to this division (B). The Board of Trustees may approve all or a
portion of the levy request and may approve a levy request that would allow a
levy greater than that permitted by law. The levy allocated by the village may
be exceeded as provided in division (C) below.
      (2)   On or before August 1, all political subdivisions subject to
village levy authority under this division (B) shall submit a preliminary
request for levy allocation to the Board of Trustees. The preliminary request
of the political subdivision shall be in the form of a resolution adopted by a
majority vote of members present of the political subdivision’s governing body.
The failure of a political subdivision to make a preliminary request shall
preclude that political subdivision from using procedures set forth in Neb. RS
77-3444 to exceed the final levy allocation as determined in this division (B).
      (3)   (a)   The Board of Trustees shall:
            1.   Adopt a resolution by a majority vote of members present which
determines a final allocation of levy authority to its political subdivisions;
and
            2.   Forward a copy of that resolution to the chairperson of the
governing body of each of its political subdivisions.
         (b)   No final levy allocation shall be changed after September 1
except by agreement between both the Board of Trustees and the governing body
of the political subdivision whose final levy allocation is at issue.
(Neb. RS 77-3443)
   (C)   (1)   The village may exceed the limits provided in division (A) above
by an amount not to exceed a maximum levy approved by a majority of registered
voters voting on the issue in a primary, general or special election at which
the issue is placed before the registered voters. A vote to exceed the limits
must be approved prior to October 10 of the fiscal year which is to be the
first to exceed the limits.
      (2)   The Board of Trustees may call for the submission of the issue to
the voters:
         (a)   By passing a resolution calling for exceeding the limits by a
vote of at least two-thirds of the members of the Board of Trustees and
delivering a copy of the resolution to the County Clerk or Election
Commissioner of every county which contains all or part of the village; or
         (b)   Upon receipt of a petition by the County Clerk or Election
Commissioner of every county containing all or part of the village requesting
an election signed by at least 5% of the registered voters residing in the
village.
      (3)   The resolution or petition shall include the amount of levy which
would be imposed in excess of the limits provided in division (A) above and the
duration of the excess levy authority. The excess levy authority shall not have
a duration greater than five years. Any resolution or petition calling for a
special election shall be filed with the County Clerk or Election Commissioner
on or before the fifth Friday prior to the election, and the time of
publication and providing a copy of the notice of election required in Neb. RS
32-802 shall be not later than 20 days prior to the election.
      (4)   The County Clerk or Election Commissioner shall place the issue on
the ballot at an election, as called for in the resolution or petition, which
is at least 31 days after receipt of the resolution or petition. The election
shall be held pursuant to the Election Act. For petitions filed with the County
Clerk or Election Commissioner on or after May 1, 1998, the petition shall be
in the form as provided in Neb. RS 32-628 through 32-631.
      (5)   Any excess levy authority approved under this division (C) shall
terminate pursuant to its terms, on a vote of the Board of Trustees to
terminate the authority to levy more than the limits, at the end of the fourth
fiscal year following the first year in which the levy exceeded the limit, or
as provided in division (C)(9) below, whichever is earliest.
      (6)   The Board of Trustees may pass not more than one resolution calling
for an election pursuant to this division (C) during any one calendar year.
Only one election may be held in any one calendar year pursuant to a petition
initiated under this division (C). The ballot question may include any terms
and conditions set forth in the resolution or petition and shall include the
language specified in Neb. RS 77-3444.
      (7)   If a majority of the votes cast upon the ballot question are in
favor of the tax, the County Board shall authorize a tax in excess of the
limits in division (A) above, but the tax shall not exceed the amount stated in
the ballot question. If a majority of those voting on the ballot question are
opposed to the tax, the Board of Trustees shall not impose the tax.
      (8)   In lieu of the election procedures in this division (C), the
village may approve a levy in excess of the limits in division (A) above for a
period of one year at a meeting of the residents of the village, called after
notice is published in a newspaper of general circulation in the village at
least 20 days prior to the meeting. At least 10% of the registered voters
residing in the village shall constitute a quorum for the purpose of taking
action to exceed the limits or final levy allocation. A record shall be made of
the registered voters residing in the political subdivision or village who are
present at the meeting. The method of voting at the meeting shall protect the
secrecy of the ballot. If a majority of the registered voters present at the
meeting vote in favor of exceeding the limits, a copy of the record of that
action shall be forwarded to the County Board prior to October 10, and the
County Board shall authorize a levy as approved by the residents for the year.
If a majority of the registered voters present at the meeting vote against
exceeding the limits, the limit shall not be exceeded and the village shall
have no power to call for an election under this division (C).
      (9)   (a)   The village may rescind or modify a previously approved
excess levy authority prior to its expiration by a majority of registered
voters voting on the issue in a primary, general or special election at which
the issue is placed before the registered voters. A vote to rescind or modify
must be approved prior to October 10 of the fiscal year for which it is to be
effective.
         (b)   The Board of Trustees may call for the submission of the issue
to the voters:
            1.   By passing a resolution calling for the rescission or
modification by a vote of at least two-thirds of the members of the Board of
Trustees and delivering a copy of the resolution to the County Clerk or
Election Commissioner of every county which contains all or part of the
village; or
            2.   Upon receipt of a petition by the County Clerk or Election
Commissioner of every county containing all or part of the village requesting
an election signed by at least 5% of the registered voters residing in the
village.
         (c)   The resolution or petition shall include the amount and the
duration of the previously approved excess levy authority and a statement that
either the excess levy authority will be rescinded or the excess levy authority
will be modified. If the excess levy authority will be modified, the amount and
duration of the modification shall be stated. The modification shall not have a
duration greater than five years. The County Clerk or Election Commissioner
shall place the issue on the ballot at an election, as called for in the
resolution or petition, which is at least 31 days after receipt of the
resolution or petition, and the time of publication and providing a copy of the
notice of the election required in Neb. RS 32-802 shall be not later than 20
days prior to the election. The election shall be held pursuant to the Election
Act.
(Neb. RS 77-3444)
Statutory reference:
   Cities Airport Authorities Act, see Neb. RS 3-501
   Community Development Law, see Neb. RS 18-2101 et seq.
   Election Act, see Neb. RS 32-101
   Interlocal Cooperation Act, see Neb. RS 13-801
   Joint Public Agency Act, see Neb. RS 13-2501
§ 34.47 PROPERTY TAX LEVY; CERTIFICATION OF AMOUNT; COLLECTION.
   The Board of Trustees shall, at the time and in the manner provided by law,
cause to be certified to the County Clerk the amount of tax to be levied upon
the taxable value of all the taxable property of the village which the village
requires for the purposes of the adopted budget statement for the ensuing year,
including all special assessments and taxes assessed as otherwise provided. The
County Clerk shall place the same on the property tax lists, to be collected in
the manner provided by law for the collection of county taxes in the county
where the village is situated. In all sales for any delinquent taxes for
municipal purposes, if there are other delinquent taxes due from the same
person or a lien on the same property, the sale shall be for all the delinquent
taxes. Such sales and all sales made under or by virtue of this section or the
provision of law herein referred to shall be of the same validity and in all
respects be deemed and treated as though such sales had been made for the
delinquent county taxes exclusively.
(Neb. RS 17-702)
§ 34.48 PROPERTY TAX REQUEST; PROCEDURE FOR SETTING.
   (A)   If the annual assessment of property would result in an increase in
the total property taxes levied by a county, municipality, school district,
learning community, sanitary and improvement district, natural resources
district, educational service unit, or community college, as determined using
the previous year’s rate of levy, the village’s property tax request for the
current year shall be no more than its property tax request in the prior year,
and the village’s rate of levy for the current year shall be decreased
accordingly when such rate is set by the County Board of Equalization pursuant
to Neb. RS 77-1601. The Board of Trustees shall pass a resolution or ordinance
to set the amount of its property tax request after holding the public hearing
required in division (C) below. If the Board of Trustees seeks to set its
property tax request at an amount that exceeds its property tax request in the
prior year, it may do so, subject to the limitations provided in the School
District Property Tax Limitation Act, Neb. RS 79-3401 et seq., and the Property
Tax Growth Limitation Act, Neb. RS 13-3401 et seq., after holding the public
hearing required in division (C) below and by passing a resolution or ordinance
that complies with division (D) below. If any county, village, school district,
or community college seeks to increase its property tax request by more than
the allowable growth percentage, such political subdivision shall comply with
the requirements of Neb. RS 77-1633 in lieu of the requirements in divisions
(C) and (D) below.
   (B)   If the annual assessment of property would result in no change or a
decrease in the total property taxes levied by a county, village, school
district, learning community, sanitary and improvement district, natural
resources district, educational service unit, or community college, as
determined using the previous year’s rate of levy, the village’s property tax
request for the current year shall be no more than its property tax request in
the prior year, and the Board of Trustee’s rate of levy for the current year
shall be adjusted accordingly when such rate is set by the County Board of
Equalization pursuant to Neb. RS 77-1601. The Board of Trustees shall pass a
resolution or ordinance to set the amount of its property tax request after
holding the public hearing required in division (C) below. If the Board of
Trustees seeks to set its property tax request at an amount that exceeds its
property tax request in the prior year, it may do so, subject to the
limitations provided in the School District Property Tax Limitation Act, Neb.
RS 79-3401 et seq., and the Property Tax Growth Limitation Act, Neb. RS 13-3401
et seq., after holding the public hearing required in division (C) below and by
passing a resolution or ordinance that complies with division (D) below. If any
county, village, school district, or community college seeks to increase its
property tax request by more than the allowable growth percentage, such
political subdivision shall comply with the requirements of Neb. 77-1633 in
lieu of the requirements in divisions (C) and (D) below.
   (C)   The resolution or ordinance required under this section shall only be
passed after a special public hearing called for the purpose is held and after
notice is published in a newspaper of general circulation in the area of the
village at least four calendar days prior to the hearing. For the purposes of
such notice, the four calendar days shall include the day of publication but
not the day of hearing. If the village’s total operating budget, not including
reserves, does not exceed $10,000 per year or $20,000 per biennial period, the
notice may be posted at the Board of Trustee’s principal headquarters.
   (D)   The hearing notice shall contain the following information:
      (1)   The certified taxable valuation under Neb. RS 13-509 for the prior
year, the certified taxable valuation under Neb. RS 13-509 for the current
year, and the percentage increase or decrease in such valuations from the prior
year to the current year;
      (2)   The dollar amount of the prior year’s tax request and the property
tax rate that was necessary to fund that tax request;
      (3)   The property tax rate that would be necessary to fund last year’s
tax request if applied to the current year’s valuation;
      (4)   The proposed dollar amount of the tax request for the current year
and the property tax rate that will be necessary to fund that tax request;
      (5)   The percentage increase or decrease in the property tax rate from
the prior year to the current year; and
      (6)   The percentage increase or decrease in the total operating budget
from the prior year to the current year.
   (E)   Any resolution or ordinance setting a village’s property tax request
under Neb. RS 77-1632 at an amount that exceeds the village’s property tax
request in the prior year shall include, but not be limited to, the following
information:
      (1)   The name of the village;
      (2)   The amount of the property tax request;
      (3)   The following statements:
         (a)   The total assessed value of property differs from last year’s
total assessed value by percent;
         (b)   The tax rate which would levy the same amount of property taxes
as last year, when multiplied by the new total assessed value of property,
would be $       per $100 of assessed value;
         (c)   The (name of village) proposes to adopt a property tax request
that will cause its tax rate to be $       per $100 of assessed value; and
         (d)   Based on the proposed property tax request and changes in other
revenue, the total operating budget of (name of village) will exceed last
year’s by        percent.
      (4)   The record vote of the Board of Trustees in passing such resolution
or ordinance.
   (F)   Any resolution or ordinance setting a property tax request under this
section shall be certified and forwarded to the County Clerk on or before
October 15 of the year for which the tax request is to apply.
   (G)   Any tax levy which is not in compliance with this section and Neb. RS
77-1601 shall be construed as an unauthorized levy under Neb. RS 77-1606.
(Neb. RS 77-1632)
§ 34.49 MOTOR VEHICLE FEE.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      LIMITS OF THE VILLAGE. Includes the extraterritorial zoning jurisdiction
of the village.
      PERSON. Includes bodies corporate, societies, communities, the public
generally, individuals, partnerships, limited liability companies, joint-stock
companies, cooperatives and associations. PERSON does not include any federal,
state or local government or any political subdivision thereof.
   (B)   (1)   (a)   Except as otherwise provided in division (D) below, the
governing body of the village shall have the power to require any individual
whose primary residence, or person who owns a place of business, which is
within the limits of the village and who owns and operates a motor vehicle
within such limits to pay an annual motor vehicle fee and to require the
payment of such fee upon the change of ownership of such vehicle.
         (b)   All such fees which may be provided for under this section shall
be used exclusively for constructing, repairing, maintaining or improving
streets, roads, alleys, public ways or parts thereof or for the amortization of
bonded indebtedness when created for such purposes.
      (2)   To ensure compatibility with the Vehicle Title and Registration
System maintained by the Department of Motor Vehicles:
         (a)   Any village that collects the annual motor vehicle fee
authorized under this section shall use the plate types listed under Neb. RS
60-3,104 and, as applicable, weight categories listed under the Motor Vehicle
Registration Act when reporting information to the Vehicle Title and
Registration System; and
         (b)   Any village that adopts an annual motor vehicle fee under this
section or that modifies an existing motor vehicle fee shall notify the
Department of Motor Vehicles of such new or modified fee within ten business
days after the passage of the ordinance authorizing such new or modified fee
and at least 60 days prior to the implementation of such new or modified fee.
   (C)   No motor vehicle fee shall be required under this section if:
      (1)   A vehicle is used or stored but temporarily in the village for a
period of six months or less in a 12-month period;
      (2)   An individual does not have a primary residence or a person does
not own a place of business within the limits of the village and does not own
and operate a motor vehicle within the limits of the village; or
      (3)   An individual is a full-time student attending a postsecondary
institution within the limits of the village and the motor vehicle’s situs
under the Motor Vehicle Certificate of Title Act is different from the place at
which he or she is attending such institution.
   (D)   After December 31, 2012, no motor vehicle fee shall be required of any
individual whose primary residence is or person who owns a place of business
within the extraterritorial zoning jurisdiction of the village.
   (E)   The fee shall be paid to the County Treasurer of the county in which
the village is located when the registration fees as provided in the Motor
Vehicle Registration Act are paid. These fees shall be credited by the County
Treasurer to the Road Fund of the village.
(Neb. RS 18-1214)
Statutory reference:
   Motor Vehicle Certificate of Title Act, see Neb. RS 60-101 et seq.
   Motor Vehicle Registration Act, see Neb. RS 60-301
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   UTILITIES GENERALLY
      
51.   SOLID WASTE
      
52.   WATER
      
53.   SEWER
      
54.   ELECTRICAL SYSTEM
CHAPTER 50: UTILITIES GENERALLY
Section
   
50.01   Denial of service; when prohibited
   
50.02   Utility bills
   
50.03   Discontinuance of service; notice procedure
   
50.04   Delinquent utility charges; lien; civil action
   
50.05   Refundable new service deposit
   
50.06   Responsibility of landlord and tenant
 
   
50.99   Penalty
§ 50.01 DENIAL OF SERVICE; WHEN PROHIBITED.
   No applicant for the services of a public or private utility company
furnishing water, natural gas or electricity at retail in this village shall be
denied service because of unpaid bills for similar service which are not
collectible at law because of statutes of limitations or discharge in
bankruptcy proceedings.
(Neb. RS 70-1601)
§ 50.02 UTILITY BILLS.
   (A)   Charges for solid waste collection and water, sewer and electrical
service shall be billed jointly on a monthly basis. Utility bills shall be
mailed on the last working day of each month and shall be due and payable by
the fifteenth day of the following month. Bills not paid by the fifteenth day
of the month following that in which they were mailed shall be deemed to be
delinquent, and the customer shall be assessed a $10 delinquent charge. In the
event, that a customer does not pay his or her bill by the twenty-third day of
the month following that in which they were mailed, his or her utility service
shall be discontinued pursuant to the provisions of §
50.03, his or her electric meter shall be read at that time, and he or she
shall be assessed a disconnection fee of $50.
   (B)   Once discontinued, service shall not be recommenced except upon
payment in full of the following:
      (1)   All past due bills;
      (2)   The electricity used from the previous billing to the disconnect
time;
      (3)   The water, sewer, sinking fund and waste charges for the current
month that shall be considered fully earned;
      (4)   The delinquent charge;
      (5)   The disconnection fee; and
      (6)   A $50 reconnection fee.
   (C)   An additional fee of $100 is required if reconnection is requested for
outside of the hours of 6:30 a.m. to 3:00 p.m. from Monday to Friday, on the
weekend or on a holiday. If the municipality is reconnecting for a second time
in a 12-month period, the reconnect fee increases to $100.
   (D)   If the municipality is reconnecting for a third time in a 12-month
period, the reconnect fee increases to $200.
   (E)   If the municipality is reconnecting for a fourth or subsequent time in
a 12-month period, the reconnect fee increases to $500. The municipality may
also take any action authorized by law to effect collection of the delinquent
charges.
(Prior Code, § 3-402) (Ord. 15-1, passed 6-8-2015)
§ 50.03 DISCONTINUANCE OF SERVICE; NOTICE PROCEDURE.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      DOMESTIC SUBSCRIBER. Shall not include municipalities, cities, villages,
political subdivisions, companies, corporations, partnerships, limited
liability companies or businesses of any nature.
(Neb. RS 70-1602)
   (B)   No utility which is owned and operated by the village furnishing
water, natural gas or electricity at retail in the village shall discontinue
service to any domestic subscriber for nonpayment of any past-due account
unless the utility first gives written notice by mail to any subscriber whose
service is proposed to be terminated at least seven days prior to termination.
As to any subscriber who has previously been identified as a welfare recipient
to the utility by the Department of Health and Human Services, the notice shall
be by certified mail, and notice of such proposed termination shall be given to
the Department.
(Neb. RS 70-1603)
   (C)   Prior to the discontinuance of service to any domestic subscriber by a
utility owned and operated by the village, the domestic subscriber, upon
request, shall be provided a conference with the Board of Trustees. A utility
owned and operated by the village shall not be subject to Neb. RS 70-1608
through 70-1614, but the Board of Trustees shall establish a procedure to
resolve utility bills when a conference is requested by a domestic subscriber.
The procedure shall be in writing, and a copy of such procedure shall be
furnished upon the request of any domestic subscriber. The Board of Trustees
shall notify the domestic subscriber of the time, place and date scheduled for
such conference.
(Neb. RS 70-1604)
   (D)   The utility shall establish a third-party notice procedure for the
notification of a designated third party of any proposed discontinuance of
service and shall advise its subscribers, including new subscribers, of the
availability of such procedures.
(Neb. RS 70-1607)
   (E)   This section shall not apply to any disconnections or interruptions of
services made necessary by the utility for reasons of repair or maintenance or
to protect the health or safety of the domestic subscriber or of the general
public.
(Neb. RS 70-1615)
§ 50.04 DELINQUENT UTILITY CHARGES; LIEN; CIVIL ACTION.
   (A)   All water rates, taxes or rent assessed by the Board of Trustees shall
be a lien upon the premises or real estate upon or for which the same is used
or supplied; and such taxes, rents or rates shall be paid and collected and
such lien enforced in such manner as the Board of Trustees shall by ordinance
direct and provide.
(Neb. RS 17-538)
   (B)   All sewer charges established by the Board of Trustees shall be a lien
upon the premises or real estate for which such water is used or supplied. Such
lien shall be enforced in such manner as the Board of Trustees provides by
ordinance.
(Neb. RS 17-925.01)
   (C)   If the service charge established by the Board of Trustees for the use
of any village sewage disposal plant and sewerage system is not paid when due,
such sum may be recovered by the village in a civil action, or it may be
certified to the County Assessor and assessed against the premises served, and
collected or returned in the same manner as other village taxes are certified,
assessed, collected and returned.
(Neb. RS 18-503)
   (D)   Unless the Board of Trustees otherwise provides, on June 1 of each
year, the Village Clerk-Treasurer shall report to the Board a list of all
unpaid accounts due for utilities service together with a description of the
premises served. If the Board approves the report, the Clerk-Treasurer shall
certify the report to the County Clerk, to be collected as a special tax in the
manner provided by law.
§ 50.05 REFUNDABLE NEW SERVICE DEPOSIT.
   (A)   Every person or persons desiring utility service (whether solid waste
collection, water, sewer or electrical service), who is not currently a utility
customer nor has been disconnected within the past 12 months pursuant to the
provisions of §
50.02 and this section shall be a non-refundable connect fee of $50 as well as
refundable deposit of $100, refundable after 12 consecutive months of on-time
payments (no delinquent charges or disconnect fees assessed to account). A
separate connect fee applies for each location said person or persons is
desiring utility service, but said person or persons shall only pay one
deposit.
   (B)   All persons who have paid a deposit for utility service who have 12
consecutive months of on-time payments (no delinquent charges or disconnect
fees assessed to account) shall have said deposit refunded upon presentation of
proof of payment of deposit.
(Ord. 15-1, passed 6-8-2015)
§ 50.06 RESPONSIBILITY OF LANDLORD AND TENANT.
   In cases of residential, commercial or industrial rental properties, the
property owner and the tenant or occupant shall be jointly responsible for
payment of bills for utilities. The Village Clerk-Treasurer shall first attempt
to collect the bill from the tenant, and if payment is not voluntarily made by
the tenant, then the Village Clerk-Treasurer may look to the property owner for
payment. The tenant or occupant’s service deposit and any other payments shall
be first applied to the account before collection of the account balance from
the property owner. In case of delinquency, the property owner shall be
provided a copy of the notice of delinquency and notice of intent to terminate
service required herein. Unpaid accounts for water, sewer, electricity and
solid waste collection services may still be filed as liens against the
property as provided herein and the property owner shall be provided copies of
all notices required in those sections. In case of delinquency that falls on
the property owner’s responsibility to pay after exhausting all attempts to
collect from the tenant, the village has the right to disconnect utility
service to that property until such time as all accounts are paid in full
pursuant to the village’s ordinance concerning reconnect of delinquent
accounts.
(Ord. 17-2, passed 4-10-2017)
§ 50.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who shall violate or refuse to comply with the enforcement of any
of the provisions of this title, set forth at full length herein or
incorporated by reference, shall be deemed guilty of an offense and, upon
conviction thereof, shall be fined not more than $100 for each offense. A new
violation shall be deemed to have been committed every 24 hours of such failure
to comply.
(Prior Code, § 3-801)
CHAPTER 51: SOLID WASTE
Section
   
51.01   Definitions
   
51.02   Collection and disposal
   
51.03   Collection equipment required
   
51.04   Mandatory service; billing
   
51.05   Liability for charges; proof of proper disposal
   
51.06   Contracts for service
   
51.07   Licensed facilities
   
51.08   Private collection service prohibited
   
51.09   Lien
   
51.10   Hazardous waste; special handling
   
51.11   Single premises
   
51.12   Additional regulations
   
51.13   Tree dump; operation and funding
§ 51.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   GARBAGE. Rejected food wastes, including waste accumulation of animal, fruit
or vegetable matter used or intended for food or that attend the preparation,
use, cooking, dealing in or storing of meat, fish, fowl, fruit or vegetable.
   HAZARDOUS WASTE. Any waste designated or defined as a hazardous waste by
N.A.C. Title 128: Rules and Regulations Governing Hazardous Waste Management in
Nebraska, which for purposes of general definition is a solid waste which,
because of quantity, concentration or physical, chemical or infectious
characteristics may:
      (1)   Cause, or significantly contribute to, an increase in mortality or
an increase in serious, irreversible or incapacitating reversible, illness; or
      (2)   Pose a substantial present or potential hazard to human health or
the environment when improperly treated, stored, transported, disposed of or
otherwise managed.
   HOME-BASED BUSINESS. A business, profession, service or trade conducted for
gain or support whereby the central office is located within a residential
building in which the owner owns, rents, leases or occupies.
   REFUSE. Putrescible and non-putrescible solid wastes, except body wastes,
and include garbage, rubbish, ashes, incinerator ash, incinerator residue,
street cleanings, industrial wastes and other such wastes.
   RUBBISH. Non-putrescible solid wastes, excluding ashes, consisting of both
combustible and noncombustible wastes, such as paper, cardboard, tin cans,
wood, glass, bedding, crockery or litter of any kind that will be a detriment
to the public health and safety.
    SOLID WASTE. Any garbage, refuse or sludge from a waste treatment plant,
water supply treatment plant or air pollution control facility and other
discarded material, including solid, liquid, semisolid or contained gaseous
material resulting from industrial, commercial and mining operations, and from
community activities.
   YARD WASTE. Grass and leaves.
(Prior Code, § 4-201)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 13-2003 through 13-2016.01
§ 51.02 COLLECTION AND DISPOSAL.
   (A)   The municipality shall provide or contract for the collection and
disposal of nonhazardous solid waste from residential, commercial,
institutional and governmental premises within its solid waste jurisdiction
area. Such wastes shall be collected on a regularly scheduled basis and shall
be disposed of only in a licensed landfill facility approved by the governing
body and which meets all state and federal criteria.
   (B)   The governing body shall approve and is authorized to contract with
any such licensed landfill facility for these purposes.
(Prior Code, § 4-202)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 13-2020
§ 51.03 COLLECTION EQUIPMENT REQUIRED.
   (A)   Solid waste shall be collected only in vehicles equipped with a trash
bed constructed of substantial metal material, and such bed shall be completely
enclosed. The body and bed of any vehicle used in the collection or
transportation of solid wastes shall be maintained in a clean and odor-free
condition.
   (B)   Before any person, firm or corporation may engage in the business of
collecting, hauling or transporting nonhazardous solid waste within the
village, they shall demonstrate to the governing body that they currently own
or have made proper provision for all required equipment.
(Prior Code, § 4-203)
§ 51.04 MANDATORY SERVICE; BILLING.
   (A)   (1)   Every residential, commercial, institutional and governmental
building or premises in municipal solid waste jurisdiction area shall be served
by the solid waste collection and disposal service system offered by the
municipality and shall be subject to the assessment and payment of charges for
such service as set from time to time by the governing body.
      (2)   The municipality may also agree to provide such service to persons
who do not live within the corporate limits of the municipality but who are
served by municipal utilities or who are within such close distance to the
corporate limits of the municipality as to make such service economical and
practical for the municipality and its contracted hauler or haulers.
   (B)   Charges for solid waste disposal services shall be billed and
collected in the same manner as utility bills pursuant to §
50.02.
(Prior Code, § 4-204)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 13-2027
§ 51.05 LIABILITY FOR CHARGES; PROOF OF PROPER DISPOSAL.
   (A)   The governing body has separately established charges to be paid to it
by each person whose premises are served by the municipal solid waste
collection system. For purposes of such charges, a person’s premises are deemed
to be served by the municipal solid waste collection system and the owner and
occupant of the premises shall be deemed served and therefore liable for the
charges, if on that property the village is already providing at least two
other village utility services (such as water, sewer and/or electric). In such
case, then said property must also have solid waste service and pay for said
service at the applicable rate. The village may, in its discretion, waive such
charges if the solid waste generated at the premises during the applicable
billing period was lawfully collected and hauled to a permitted facility or was
otherwise disposed of in conformance with all applicable laws, regulations and
ordinances.
   (B)   Proof of proper disposal during the applicable billing period may be
provided by a billing receipt or other statement from the duly permitted solid
waste hauling service for collection of solid waste at the premises during the
applicable billing period.
(Prior Code, § 4-205) (Ord. 24-1, passed 6-11-2024)
§ 51.06 CONTRACTS FOR SERVICE.
   The municipality may contract with independent contractors to provide for
the collection and disposal of nonhazardous solid waste. Any such contractor
shall enter into a written agreement with the municipality, which agreement
shall provide for the rates to be charged and such other terms and conditions
as may be required by the governing body.
(Prior Code, § 4-206)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 13-2020
§ 51.07 LICENSED FACILITIES.
   All nonhazardous solid waste collected within the village shall be disposed
of only in a licensed solid waste facility. Any hazardous waste shall be
disposed of only in the manner provided by state or federal laws and
regulations.
(Prior Code, § 4-207)
§ 51.08 PRIVATE COLLECTION SERVICE PROHIBITED.
   No person, firm or corporation who is not under contract with the village
shall collect or dispose of residential nonhazardous solid waste within the
village, except yard wastes, grass clippings, tree branches or materials which
are collected for recycling.
(Prior Code, § 4-208) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 51.09 LIEN.
   In addition to all other remedies, if a customer shall for any reason remain
indebted to the municipality for solid waste collection and disposal services
furnished by the municipality, such amount due, together with any charges in
arrears, shall be considered delinquent and are hereby declared to be a lien
upon the real estate for which the same was furnished. The Municipal Clerk-
Treasurer shall notify in writing or cause to be notified in writing, all
owners of premises or their agents whenever they or their tenants or lessees
are 60 days or more delinquent in the payment of solid waste collection and
disposal fees. It shall be the duty of the Municipal Clerk-Treasurer on June 1
of each year to report to the governing body a list of all unpaid accounts due
for solid waste collection and disposal service together with a description of
the premises for which the same was furnished. The report shall be examined
and, if approved by the governing body, shall be certified by the Municipal
Clerk-Treasurer to the County Clerk to be collected as a special tax in the
manner provided by law.
(Prior Code, § 4-210)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 13-2020
§ 51.10 HAZARDOUS WASTE; SPECIAL HANDLING.
   (A)   Hazardous waste or waste requiring special handling. Any person, firm
or corporation within the municipal solid waste jurisdiction area who generates
or creates hazardous waste or waste requiring special handling or disposal
shall be responsible for the transportation and disposal of the same. All such
handling and disposal shall in all respects comply with state and federal laws
and regulations pertaining to the specific type of waste generated.
(Prior Code, § 4-209)
   (B)   Hazardous items and items requiring special handling or disposal.
      (1)   No person shall put out to be collected by the Municipal Solid
Waste Collector, any of the following items:
         (a)   Yard wastes, including grass clippings and tree branches;
         (b)   Unregulated hazardous wastes, except household wastes which are
exempt from the regulation of the Environmental Protection Act;
         (c)   Tires;
         (d)   Waste oil;
         (e)   Lead-acid batteries; and
         (f)   Household appliances.
      (2)   Any such items shall be disposed of only as permitted under the
State Integrated Solid Waste Management Act or any amendments thereof.
(Prior Code, § 4-212) Penalty, see §
50.99
Statutory reference:
   Environmental Protection Act, see Neb. RS 81-1501 et seq.
   Integrated Solid Waste Management Act, see Neb. RS 13-2001 et seq.
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 13-2020, 13-2023 and 13-2026
§ 51.11 SINGLE PREMISES.
   No person shall accept from any other person any of such other person’s
disposable solid waste to be commingled with and disposed of as a part of the
accepting person’s solid waste. All solid waste which is to be picked up by the
village or its contractor for each residence and for each commercial,
institutional or governmental building shall be only the solid waste which is
generated at that site and shall not include any items left for disposal by
another person.
(Prior Code, § 4-211) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 51.12 ADDITIONAL REGULATIONS.
   The governing body may, from time to time, make and adopt by ordinance such
additional rules and regulations governing the use, operation and control of
the solid waste collection and disposal system and the regulation of solid
waste with the municipal solid waste jurisdiction area as it may deem necessary
to promote the efficient operation and management of the system and to protect
the environment and the health, safety and welfare of all persons within the
municipal solid waste jurisdiction area.
(Prior Code, § 4-213)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 13-2020, 13-2023 and 13-2026
§ 51.13 TREE DUMP; OPERATION AND FUNDING.
   The municipality owns and operates the tree dump, which shall be open to the
public at no cost for disposing of yard waste, wood and trees. The governing
body, for the purpose of defraying the cost of the care, management and
maintenance of the tree dump may each year levy a tax not to exceed the maximum
limit prescribed by state law, on the taxable value of all the taxable property
within the municipality. The revenue from the tax shall be known as the Tree
Dump Fund and shall remain in the custody of the Municipal Clerk-Treasurer. The
governing body shall have the authority to adopt rules and regulations for the
sanitary and efficient management of the tree dump. The governing body shall
further provide by ordinance for the management and operation of the tree dump.
(Prior Code, § 3-601)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 19-2101 through 19-2106
CHAPTER 52: WATER
Section
General Provisions
   
52.01   Definitions
   
52.02   Operating and funding
   
52.03   Consumer application
   
52.04   Water contract
   
52.05   Installation procedure
   
52.06   Installation expense
   
52.07   Single premises
   
52.08   Restricted use
   
52.09   Fire hydrants
   
52.10   Pollution
   
52.11   Mandatory hook-up
   
52.12   Water service contracts
   
52.13   Police reports
   
52.14   Destruction of property
   
52.15   Service to nonresidents
   
52.16   Inspections
   
52.17   Repairs and maintenance
   
52.18   Rates; fees; collections
Backflow Prevention Devices
   
52.30   General provisions
   
52.31   Definitions
   
52.32   Cross-connections prohibited
   
52.33   Survey and investigations
   
52.34   Type of protection required
   
52.35   Where protection is required
   
52.36   Authorized devices
   
52.37   Installation of devices
   
52.38   Inspection and maintenance
   
52.39   Sprinkler system permits
   
52.40   Violations
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 52.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   MAIN. Any pipe other than a supply or service pipe that is used for the
purpose of carrying water to and dispersing the same in the municipality.
   SEPARATE PREMISES. More than one consumer procuring water from the same
service or supply pipe. The second premises may be a separate dwelling,
apartment, building or structure used for a separate business.
   SERVICE PIPE. Any pipe extending from the shut-off, stop box or curb cock at
or near the lot line to and beyond the property line of the consumer to the
location on the premises where the water is to be dispersed.
   SUPPLY PIPE. Any pipe tapped into a main and extending from there to a point
at or near the lot line of the consumer’s premises where the shut-off, stop box
or curb cock is located.
(Prior Code, § 3-102)
§ 52.02 OPERATING AND FUNDING.
   The municipality owns and operates the Municipal Water Department. The
governing body, for the purpose of defraying the cost of the care, management
and maintenance of the Municipal Water Department may each year levy a tax not
exceeding the maximum limit prescribed by state law, on the taxable value of
all the taxable property within the municipality. The revenue from the tax
shall be known as the Water Fund and shall remain in the custody of the
Municipal Clerk-Treasurer. A municipal employee shall have the direct
management and control of the Municipal Water Department and shall faithfully
carry out the duties of the office. The governing body shall have the authority
to adopt rules and regulations for the sanitary and efficient management of the
Water Department. The governing body shall set the rates to be charged for
services rendered by ordinance and shall file a copy of the rates in the office
of the Municipal Clerk-Treasurer for public inspection at any reasonable time.
(Prior Code, § 3-101)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-531, 17-534 and 19-1305
§ 52.03 CONSUMER APPLICATION.
   Every person or persons desiring a supply of water must make application
therefor to the Municipal Clerk-Treasurer. The Clerk-Treasurer may require any
applicant to make a service deposit in such amount as has been set by the
governing body and placed on file at the office of the Municipal Clerk-
Treasurer. Water may not be supplied to any house or private service pipe
except upon the order of the Municipal Clerk-Treasurer.
(Prior Code, § 3-103)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-537
§ 52.04 WATER CONTRACT.
   (A)   The municipality, through its Water Department, shall furnish water to
persons within its corporate limits whose premises abut a street or alley in
which a commercial main now is or may hereafter be laid.
   (B)   The municipality may furnish water to persons within its corporate
limits whose premises do not abut a street or alley in which a municipal
commercial main is now or may hereafter be laid and may also furnish water to
persons whose premises are situated outside the corporate limits of the
municipality, as and when, according to law, the governing body may see fit to
do so. The rules, regulations and water rates hereinafter named in this
chapter, shall be considered a part of every application hereafter made for
water service and shall be considered a part of the contract between every
consumer now or hereafter served.
   (C)   Without further formality, the making of application on the part of
any applicant or the use or consumption of water service by present consumers
thereof and the furnishing of water service to said consumer shall constitute a
contract between the consumer and the municipality, to which said contract both
parties are bound.
   (D)   If the consumer shall violate any of the provisions of said contract
or any reasonable rules and regulations that the governing body may hereafter
adopt, the Water Department employees may cut off or disconnect the water
service from the building or premises or place of such violation. No further
connection for water service to said building, premises or place shall again be
made except by order of the governing body or its designated agent.
(Prior Code, § 3-105)
§ 52.05 INSTALLATION PROCEDURE.
   (A)   In making excavations in streets, alleys or sidewalks, for the purpose
of installing pipe, or making repairs, the paving, stones and earth must be
removed and deposited in a manner that will occasion the least inconvenience to
the public and provide for adequate drainage. No person shall leave an
excavation made in the street, alley or sidewalk open at any time without a
barricade, and during the night, warning lights. After service pipes are laid,
the streets, alleys and sidewalks shall be restored to good condition.
   (B)   If the excavation in any street, alley or sidewalk is left open or
unfinished for a period of 24 hours or more, the Water Department shall have
the duty to finish or correct the work, and all expenses so incurred shall be
charged to the consumer.
   (C)   All installation shall be done under the supervision and strictly in
accordance with the rules, regulations and specifications prescribed for such
installation by the Water Department; provided that said rules, regulations and
specifications have been reviewed and approved by the governing body.
(Prior Code, § 3-106)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-537
§ 52.06 INSTALLATION EXPENSE.
   (A)   (1)   The municipality shall pay the cost of tapping the main,
installing the meter and providing fixtures and labor up to and including the
stop box at the lot line of the customer. No water meters shall be installed
inside a building or residence until the customer proves he or she has heating
in the building or residence and electricity to the same. No person other than
the Water Department employees shall tap the water main.
      (2)   The customer shall pay a tap fee in the sum of $500. The customer
shall at his or her own expense bring water service from the stop box and upon
his or her own premises and shall employ a licensed plumber who shall install
water service to the place of dispersement. Said plumber must bore the street
and is not permitted to trench. Nonresidents shall pay such tap fees and
installation charges in such sums as the governing body shall in each case fix.
The extension of commercial mains into unsupplied territory within the
corporate limits, may be made by means of water extension districts.
   (B)   Replacement meters due to damage caused by the property owner/renter
shall be at the expense of the property owner.
   (C)   Customers shall be required to pay the difference between installing
the meter inside a building/house on the property and that outside of the
building/houses (such as in a pit) if the meter installation could occur in
said building/house but the property owner refuses such installation.
   (D)   The municipality shall have the right of access to the customer’s
premises at reasonable times for the purpose of installing, reading,
inspection, testing, maintaining or repairing metering and regulation
equipment, or for the purpose of removing its property, and for other proper
and lawful purposes.
(Prior Code, § 3-107) (Ord. 18-1, passed 2-19-2018; Ord. 23-3, passed 9-12-
2023)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-542
§ 52.07 SINGLE PREMISES.
   No consumer shall supply water to other families, or allow them to take
water from his or her premises, nor after water is supplied into a building
shall any person make or employ a plumber or other person to make a tap or
connection with the pipe upon the premises for alteration, extension or
attachment without the written permission of the governing body.
(Prior Code, § 3-110) Penalty, see §
50.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-537
§ 52.08 RESTRICTED USE.
   (A)   The governing body may order a reduction in the use of water or shut
off the water on any premises in the event of a water shortage due to fire or
other good and sufficient cause.
   (B)   The municipality shall not be liable for any damages caused by
shutting off the supply of water of any consumer while the system or any part
thereof is undergoing repairs or when there is a shortage of water due to
circumstances over which the municipality has no control.
(Prior Code, § 3-111)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-537
§ 52.09 FIRE HYDRANTS.
   (A)   All hydrants for the purpose of extinguishing fires are hereby
declared to be public hydrants.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person other than members of the
Municipal Fire Department under the orders of the Fire Chief or the Assistant
Fire Chief, members of the Water Department or other persons authorized by the
governing body to open or attempt to open any of the hydrants and draw water
from the same, or in any manner to interfere with the hydrants.
(Prior Code, § 3-112) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 52.10 POLLUTION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to pollute or attempt to pollute any
stream or source of water for the supply of the Municipal Water Department.
(Prior Code, § 3-113) Penalty, see §
50.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-536
§ 52.11 MANDATORY HOOK-UP.
   All persons within 300 feet of a water main shall be required, upon notice
by the governing body, to hook-up with the municipal water system.
(Prior Code, § 3-114)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-539
§ 52.12 WATER SERVICE CONTRACTS.
   Contracts for water service are not transferable. Any person wishing to
change from one location to another shall make a new application and sign a new
contract. If any consumer shall move from the premises where service is
furnished, or if said premises is destroyed by fire or other casualty, he or
she shall at once inform the Municipal Clerk-Treasurer who shall cause the
water service to be shut off at said premises. If the consumer should fail to
give such notice, he or she shall be charged for all water used on said
premises until the Municipal Clerk-Treasurer is otherwise advised of such
circumstances.
(Prior Code, § 3-115)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-537
§ 52.13 POLICE REPORTS.
   It shall be the duty of the municipal police to report to the governing body
all cases of leakage and waste in the use of water and all violations of the
municipal code relating to the Water Department. They shall have the additional
duty of enforcing the observance of all such regulations.
(Prior Code, § 3-117)
§ 52.14 DESTRUCTION OF PROPERTY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to willfully or carelessly break, injure
or deface any building, machinery, apparatus, fixture, attachment or
appurtenance of the Municipal Water Department. No person may deposit anything
in a stop box or commit any act tending to obstruct or impair the intended use
of any of the above mentioned property without the written permission of the
governing body.
(Prior Code, § 3-118) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 52.15 SERVICE TO NONRESIDENTS.
   The Department shall not supply water service to any person outside the
corporate limits without special permission from the governing body; provided,
that the entire cost of laying mains, service pipe and supply pipe shall be
paid by the consumer. Nothing herein shall be construed to obligate the
municipality to provide water service to nonresidents.
(Prior Code, § 3-104)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 19-2701
§ 52.16 INSPECTIONS.
   The employees of the Water Department shall have free access, at any
reasonable time, to all parts of each premises and building to, or in which,
water is delivered for the purpose of examining the pipes, fixtures and other
portions of the system to ascertain whether there is any disrepair or
unnecessary waste
of water.
(Prior Code, § 3-116)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-537
§ 52.17 REPAIRS AND MAINTENANCE.
   The municipality shall repair or replace, as the case may be, all supply
pipe between the commercial main and the stop box. The customer at his or her
own expense shall replace and keep in repair all service pipe from the stop box
to the place of dispersement. When leaks occur in service pipes, the Water
Department employees shall shut off water service until the leak is repaired at
the expense of the customer.
(Prior Code, § 3-108)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-537
§ 52.18 RATES; FEES; COLLECTIONS.
   The governing body has the power and authority to fix the rates to be paid
by the water consumers for the use of water from the Water Department. All such
fees shall be on file for public inspection at the office of the Municipal
Clerk-Treasurer. The Municipal Clerk-Treasurer shall bill the consumers and
collect all money received by the municipality on the account of the Water
Department. He or she shall faithfully account for and pay to the village all
revenue collected by him or her, taking his or her receipt therefor in
duplicate, filing one and keeping the other on file in the Water Department’s
official records.
(Prior Code, § 3-109)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-540
BACKFLOW PREVENTION DEVICES
§ 52.30 GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of this subchapter is:
      (1)   To protect the public potable water supply of the village water
system from contamination or pollution by containing within the consumer’s
internal distribution system or private water system contaminants or pollutants
which could backflow through the service connection into the public potable
water supply system;
      (2)   To promote the elimination, containment, isolation or control of
existing cross-connections, actual or potential, between the public or
consumer’s potable water systems and non-potable water systems, plumbing
fixtures and industrial-process systems; and
      (3)   To provide for the maintenance of a continuing program of cross-
connection control which will systematically and effectively prevent the
contamination or pollution of all potable water systems.
   (B)   Application. This subchapter shall apply to all premises served by the
public potable water system of the village.
   (C)   Policy.
      (1)   This subchapter shall be reasonably interpreted by the Village
Board of Health. It is the Board of Health’s intent to recognize the varying
degrees of hazard and to apply the principle that the degree of protection
shall be commensurate with the degree of hazard.
      (2)   The Board of Health shall have primary responsibility for
protection of the public potable water distribution system from contamination
or pollution due to backflow of contaminants or pollutants through the water
service connection. The cooperation of all consumers is required to implement
and maintain the program to control cross-connections. The Board of Health and
consumer are jointly responsible for preventing contamination of the water
system within the consumer’s premises.
(Prior Code, § 3-119)
§ 52.31 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AIR GAP SEPARATION. The unobstructed vertical distance through the free
atmosphere between the lowest opening from any pipe or faucet supplying water
to a tank, plumbing fixture or other device and the overflow level rim of the
receptacle, and shall be at least double the diameter of the supply pipe
measured vertically above the flow level rim of the vessel, but in no case less
than one inch.
   AUXILIARY WATER SUPPLY. Any water source or system, other than the public
water supply, that may be available in the building or premises.
   BACKFLOW. The flow, other than the intended direction of flow, of any
foreign liquids, gases or substances into the distribution system of a public
water supply.
   BACKFLOW PREVENTION DEVICE. Any device, method or type of construction
intended to prevent backflow into a potable water system provided backflow
preventers have been tested and approved by a reputable testing laboratory.
   BOARD OF HEALTH. The Board created in §
32.01.
   CONSUMER. The owner or person in control of any premises supplied by or in
any manner connected to a public water system.
   CONTAINMENT. Protection of the public water supply by installing a cross-
connection control device or air gap separation on the main service line to a
facility, or as an installation within equipment handling potentially hazardous
materials.
   CONTAMINATION. An impairment of the quality of the water by sewage, process
fluids or other wastes to a degree which could create an actual hazard to the
public health through poisoning or through spread of disease by exposure.
   CROSS-CONNECTION. Any physical link, between a potable water supply and any
other substance, fluid or source, which makes possible contamination of the
potable water supply due to the reversal of flow of the water in the piping or
distribution system.
   HAZARD, DEGREE OF. An evaluation of the potential risk to public health and
the adverse effect of the hazard upon the potable water system.
      (1)   HAZARD, HEALTH. Any condition, device or practice in the water
supply system and its operation which could create or may create a danger to
the health and wellbeing of the water consumer.
      (2)   HAZARD, PLUMBING. A plumbing type cross-connection in a consumer’s
potable water system that has not been properly protected by a vacuum breaker,
air gap separation or backflow prevention device.
      (3)   HAZARD, POLLUTIONAL. An actual or potential threat to the physical
properties of the water system or to the potability of the public or the
consumer’s potable water system but which would constitute a nuisance or be
aesthetically objectionable or could cause damage to the system or its
appurtenances but would not be dangerous to health.
      (4)   HAZARD, SYSTEM. An actual or potential threat of severe damage to
the physical properties of the public potable water system or the consumer’s
potable water system, or of a pollution or contamination which would have a
protracted effect on the quality of the potable water in the system.
   INDUSTRIAL PROCESS SYSTEM. Any system containing a fluid or solution, which
may be chemically, biologically or otherwise contaminated or polluted in a form
or concentration such as would constitute a health, system, pollutional or
plumbing hazard if introduced into a potable water supply.
   ISOLATION. Protection of a facility service line by installing a cross-
connection control device or air gap separation on an individual fixture,
appurtenance or system.
   POLLUTION. The presence of any foreign substance (organic, inorganic or
biological) in water which tends to degrade its quality so as to constitute a
hazard or impair the usefulness of the water to a degree which does not create
an actual hazard to the public health but which does adversely and unreasonably
affect such waters for domestic use.
   PUBLIC POTABLE WATER SYSTEM. Any publicly or privately owned water system
supplying water to the general public which is satisfactory for drinking,
culinary and domestic purposes and meets the requirements of the State
Department of Health and Human Services Regulation and Licensure.
   SERVICE CONNECTION. The terminal end of a service line from the public water
system. If a meter is installed at the end of the service, then the SERVICE
CONNECTION means the downstream end of the meter.
(Prior Code, § 3-120)
§ 52.32 CROSS-CONNECTIONS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No water service connection shall be installed or maintained to any
premises where actual or potential cross-connections to the public potable or
consumer’s water system may exist unless such actual or potential cross-
connections are abated or controlled to the satisfaction of the Board of
Health, and as required by the laws and regulations of the State Department of
Health and Human Services Regulation and Licensure.
   (B)   No connection shall be installed or maintained whereby an auxiliary
water supply may enter a public potable or consumer’s water system unless such
auxiliary water supply and the method of connection and use of such supply
shall have been approved by the Board of Health and the State Department of
Health and Human Services Regulation and Licensure.
   (C)   No water service connection shall be installed or maintained to any
premises in which the plumbing system, facilities and fixtures have not been
constructed and installed using acceptable plumbing practices considered by the
Board of Health as necessary for the protection of health and safety.
(Prior Code, § 3-121) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 52.33 SURVEY AND INVESTIGATIONS.
   (A)   The consumer’s premises shall be open at all reasonable times to the
Board of Health, or its authorized representative, for the conduction of
surveys and investigations of water use practices within the consumer’s
premises to determine whether there are actual or potential cross-connections
to the consumer’s water system through which contaminants or pollutants could
backflow into the public potable water system.
   (B)   On request by the Board of Health or its authorized representative,
the consumer shall furnish information on water use practices within his or her
premises.
   (C)   It shall be the responsibility of the water consumer to conduct
periodic surveys of water use practices on his or her premises to determine
whether there are actual or potential cross-connections to his or her water
system through which contaminants or pollutants could backflow into his or her
system or the public’s potable water system.
   (D)   The Board of Health may delegate to an employee of the Municipal Water
Department the authority to make inspections of cross-connections to the
village water supply.
(Prior Code, § 3-122)
§ 52.34 TYPE OF PROTECTION REQUIRED.
   The type of protection required by this subchapter shall depend on the
degree of hazard which exists, as follows.
   (A)   An approved air gap separation shall be installed where the public
potable water system may be contaminated with substances that could cause a
severe health hazard.
   (B)   An approved air gap separation or an approved reduced pressure
principle backflow prevention device shall be installed where the public
potable water system may be contaminated with a substance that could cause a
system or health hazard.
   (C)   An approved air gap separation or an approved reduced pressure
principal backflow prevention device or an approved double check valve assembly
shall be installed where the public potable water system may be polluted with
substances that cause a pollutional hazard not dangerous to health.
(Prior Code, § 3-123)
§ 52.35 WHERE PROTECTION IS REQUIRED.
   (A)   An approved backflow prevention device shall be installed on each
service line to a consumer’s water system serving premises, where in the
judgment of the Board of Health or the State Department of Health and Human
Services Regulation and Licensure actual or potential hazards to the public
potable water system exist. The type and degree of protection required shall be
commensurate with the degree of hazard.
   (B)   An approved air gap separation or reduced pressure principle backflow
prevention device shall be installed at the service connection or within any
premises where, in the judgment of the Board of Health or the State Department
of Health and Human Services Regulation and Licensure, the nature and extent of
activities on the premises, or the materials used in connection with the
activities, or materials stored on the premises, would present an immediate and
dangerous hazard to health should a cross-connection occur, even though such
cross-connection may not exist at the time the backflow prevention device is
required to be installed. This includes, but is not limited to, the following
situations:
      (1)   Premises having an auxiliary water supply, unless the quality of
the auxiliary supply is acceptable to the Board of Health and the State
Department of Health and Human Services Regulation and Licensure;
      (2)   Premises having internal cross-connections that are not
correctable, or intricate plumbing arrangements which make it impractical to
ascertain whether or not cross-connections exist;
      (3)   Premises where entry is restricted so that inspections for cross-
connections cannot be made with sufficient frequency or at sufficiently short
notice to assure the cross-connections do not exist;
      (4)   Premises that although not covered by code are subject to frequent
modification which would change their status; or premises that have had
backflow code violations;
      (5)   Premises on which any substance is handled under pressure so as to
permit entry into the public water supply, or where a cross-connection could
reasonably be expected to occur. This shall include the handling of process and
cooling waters; and
      (6)   Premises where materials of a toxic or hazardous nature are handled
such that if back siphonage or backpressure should occur, a serious health
hazard may result.
   (C)   The following type of facilities are instances in which where an
approved air gap separation or reduced pressure principal backflow prevention
device is required by the Board of Health and the State Department of Health
and Human Services Regulation and Licensure to protect the public water supply
unless all hazardous or potentially hazardous conditions have been eliminated
or corrected by other methods to the satisfaction of the Board of Health and
the State Department of Health and Human Services Regulation and Licensure:
       (1)   Auxiliary water systems;
      (2)   Beverage bottling plants;
      (3)   Canneries, packing houses and reduction plants;
      (4)   Car washing facilities;
      (5)   Chemical manufacturing, processing, compounding or treatment
plants;
      (6)   Chemically contaminated water systems;
      (7)   Dairies and cold storage plants;
      (8)   Film laboratories;
      (9)   Fire protection systems;
      (10)   Hazardous waste storage and disposal;
      (11)   Hospital, mortuaries, clinics;
      (12)   Irrigation and sprinkler systems;
      (13)   Laundries and dye works;
      (14)   Metal manufacturing, cleaning, processing and fabricating plants;
      (15)   Oil and gas production, storage or transmission properties;
      (16)   Plating plants;
      (17)   Printing and publishing facilities;
      (18)   Research and analytical laboratories;
      (19)   Rubber plants, natural and synthetic;
      (20)   Sewage and storm drainage facilities, pumping stations;
      (21)   Zoological and horticultural gardens;
      (22)   All free discharge points on customer property that accommodates a
hose connection;
      (23)   Pet grooming and veterinarian hospitals;
      (24)   Class A, B and C swimming pools; and
 
      (25)   Cooling coil service lines (refrigeration, air conditioning and
the like).
(Prior Code, § 3-124)
§ 52.36 AUTHORIZED DEVICES.
   (A)   Any backflow prevention device required by this subchapter shall be of
a model or construction approved by the Board of Health and the State
Department of Health and Human Services Regulation and Licensure.
      (1)   Air gap separation to be approved shall be at least four inches
above the top rim of the vessel.
      (2)   A double check valve assembly or a reduced pressure principle
backflow prevention device shall be approved by the Board of Health and shall
appear on the current “list of approved backflow prevention devices”
established by the Village Board of Trustees.
   (B)   (1)   Existing backflow prevention devices approved by the Water
Surveyor at the time of installation and properly maintained shall, except for
inspection and maintenance requirements, be excluded from the requirements of
this subchapter so long as the Board of Health is assured that they will
satisfactorily protect the water system.
      (2)   Whenever the existing device is moved from its present location, or
requires more than minimum maintenance, or when the Board of Health finds that
the maintenance constitutes a hazard to health, the unit shall be replaced by a
backflow prevention device meeting the requirements of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 3-125)
§ 52.37 INSTALLATION OF DEVICES.
   (A)   Backflow prevention devices required by this subchapter shall be
installed at a location and in a manner approved by the Board of Health and
shall be installed at the expense of the water consumer.
   (B)   Backflow prevention devices installed on the service line to the
consumer’s water system shall be located on the consumer’s side of the water
meter, as close to the meter as is reasonably practical, and prior to any other
connection.
   (C)   Backflow prevention devices shall be located so as to be readily
accessible for maintenance and testing, protected from freezing and where no
part of the device will be submerged or subject to flooding by any fluid.
   (D)   Backflow prevention devices for underground sprinklers shall be
located at least six inches above the highest sprinkler head in the system.
(Prior Code, § 3-126)
§ 52.38 INSPECTION AND MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the consumer at any premises on which backflow
prevention devices required by this subchapter are installed to have
inspections, tests and overhauls made in accordance with the following schedule
or more often where inspections indicate a need.
      (1)   Air gap separations shall be inspected at the time of installation
and at least every 12 months thereafter.
      (2)   Double check valve assemblies shall be inspected and tested for
tightness at the time of installation and at least every 12 months thereafter.
They shall be dismantled, inspected internally, cleaned and repaired whenever
needed and at least every three years.
      (3)   Reduced pressure principle backflow prevention devices shall be
inspected and tested for tightness at the time of installation and at least
every 12 months thereafter. They shall be dismantled, inspected internally,
cleaned and repaired whenever needed and at least every five years.
   (B)   Overhauls of backflow prevention devices shall be made at the expense
of the water consumer and shall be performed by the Board of Health, an
employee of the Municipal Water Department or a state-certified backflow
prevention device tester.
   (C)   Inspections and tests each year will be at the expense of the Board of
Health.
   (D)   Whenever backflow prevention devices required by this subchapter are
found to be defective, they shall be repaired or replaced at the expense of the
consumer without delay.
   (E)   The water consumer must maintain a complete record of each backflow
prevention device from purchase to retirement. This shall include a
comprehensive listing that includes a record of all tests, inspections and
repairs. Records of inspections, tests, repairs and overhauls shall be made
available to the Board of Health upon request.
   (F)   Backflow prevention devices shall not be bypassed, made inoperative,
removed or otherwise made ineffective without specific authorization by the
Board of Health.
   (G)   All plumbing to be in accordance with the Uniform Plumbing Code.
   (H)   All underground sprinkler systems must first obtain a permit for
installation from an employee of the Municipal Water Department before
installing the system.
(Prior Code, § 3-127)
§ 52.39 SPRINKLER SYSTEM PERMITS.
   (A)   No sprinkler system shall be installed in the village limits until a
permit for the same has been issued by an employee of the Municipal Water
Department, or unless it is exempt from a permit in accordance with this
subchapter.
   (B)   A fee of $10 per sprinkler system installed shall be paid at the time
such permit is issued.
(Prior Code, § 3-128)
§ 52.40 VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   The Board of Health or its designated representative shall deny or
discontinue, after 30 days’ notice to the occupants thereof, the water service
to any premises wherein any backflow prevention device required by this
subchapter is not installed, tested and maintained in a manner acceptable to
the Board of Health, or if it is found that the backflow prevention device has
been removed or bypassed or if an unprotected cross-connection exists on the
premises.
   (B)   Water service to such premises shall not be restored until the
consumer has corrected or eliminated such conditions or defects in conformance
with this subchapter to the satisfaction of the Board of Health.
   (C)   The Board of Trustees shall be advised of inspection findings, and the
violation abatement action pursued by the Board of Health or its representative
and consulted prior to violation abatement action on items having to do with
Public Health significance.
(Prior Code, § 3-129)
CHAPTER 53: SEWER
Section
General Provisions
   
53.01   Operation and funding
   
53.02   Application for permit
   
53.03   Sewer contract
   
53.04   Service contracts
   
53.05   Manholes
   
53.06   Inspections
Sewer Use
   
53.20   Installation procedure
   
53.21   Installation expense
   
53.22   Repairs and maintenance
   
53.23   Unlawful use
   
53.24   Special equipment
   
53.25   Fee classifications
   
53.26   Rate setting
   
53.27   Fees and collections
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 53.01 OPERATION AND FUNDING.
   (A)   The municipality owns and operates the municipal sewer system through
the governing body. For the purpose of defraying the cost of the maintenance
and repairing of any sewer or water utilities in the municipality, the
governing body may each year levy a tax not exceeding the maximum limit
prescribed by state law on the taxable value of all the taxable property in the
municipality. The revenue from the tax shall be known as the Water and Sewer
Maintenance Fund and shall be used exclusively for the purpose of maintenance
and repairs of the water and sewer system.
   (B)   An employee of the Sewer Department shall have the direct management
and control of the Sewer Department, shall faithfully carry out the duties of
the office and shall have the authority to adopt rules and regulations for the
sanitary and efficient management of the Department subject to the supervision
and review of the governing body.
(Prior Code, § 3-201)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-925.01
§ 53.02 APPLICATION FOR PERMIT.
   Any person wishing to connect with the sewer system shall make an
application therefor to the Municipal Clerk-Treasurer. The Clerk-Treasurer may
require any applicant to make a service deposit in such amount as has been set
by the governing body and placed on file at the office of the Municipal Clerk-
Treasurer. Sewer service may not be supplied to any house or building except
upon the order of the Municipal Clerk-Treasurer. The Department shall not
supply sewer service to any person outside the corporate limits without special
permission from the governing body; provided, that the entire cost of pipe and
other installation charges shall be paid by such consumers. Nothing herein
shall be construed to obligate the municipality to provide sewer service to
nonresidents.
(Prior Code, § 3-202)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 19-2701
§ 53.03 SEWER CONTRACT.
   (A)   The municipality, through the Municipal Sewer Department, shall
furnish sewer services to persons within its corporate limits whose premises
abut a street or alley in which a commercial main is now or may hereafter be
laid. The municipality may also furnish sewer service to persons whose premises
are situated outside the corporate limits of the municipality, as and when,
according to law, the governing body may see fit to do so.
   (B)   The rules, regulations and sewer rental rates hereinafter named in
this chapter, shall be considered a part of every application hereafter made
for sewer service and shall be considered a part of the contract between every
customer now or hereafter served. Without further formality, the making of the
application on the part of any applicant or the use of sewer service by present
customers thereof shall constitute a contract between the customer and the
municipality to which said contract both parties are bound. If the customer
shall violate any of the provisions of said contract or any reasonable rules
and regulations that the governing body may hereafter adopt, an employee of the
Sewer Department may cut off or disconnect the sewer service from the building
or premises of such violation. No further connection for sewer service to said
building or premises shall again be made save or except by order of the
governing body.
(Prior Code, § 3-203)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-901 and 17-902
§ 53.04 SERVICE CONTRACTS.
   Contracts for sewer service are not transferable. Any person wishing to
change from one location to another shall make a new application and sign a new
contract. If any customer shall move from the premises where service is
furnished, or if the premises is destroyed by fire or other casualty, he or she
shall at once inform the Municipal Clerk-Treasurer who shall cause the sewer
service to be shut off from the premises. If the customer should fail to give
notice, he or she shall be charged for that period of time until the official
in charge of sewers is otherwise advised of such circumstances.
(Prior Code, § 3-204)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 18-503
§ 53.05 MANHOLES.
   Entrance into a manhole or opening for any purpose except by authorized
persons is hereby prohibited. It shall be unlawful to deposit or cause to be
deposited in any receptacle connected with the sewer system any substance which
is not the usual and natural waste carried by the sewer system.
(Prior Code, § 3-213) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 53.06 INSPECTIONS.
   The Chief Sewer Official or his or her authorized agents shall have free
access at any reasonable time to all parts of each premises and building which
is connected with the sewer system to ascertain whether there is any disrepair
or violations of this chapter therein.
(Prior Code, § 3-214)
SEWER USE
§ 53.20 INSTALLATION PROCEDURE.
   (A)   In making excavations in streets, alleys or sidewalks for the purpose
of installing pipe, or making repairs, the paving, stones and earth must be
removed and deposited in a manner that will occasion the least inconvenience to
the public and provide for adequate drainage. No person shall leave an
excavation made in the street, alley or sidewalk open at any time without a
barricade, and during the night, warning lights. After the house sewer is laid,
the public ways and property shall be restored to good condition.
   (B)   If the excavation in the public ways and property is left open or
unfinished for a period of 24 hours or more, the governing body shall have the
duty to finish or correct the work, and all expenses so incurred shall be
charged to the owner, occupant or lessee of the property. All installation
shall be done under the supervision and strictly in accordance with the rules,
regulations and specifications for such installation prescribed by the Sewer
Department; provided, that the rules, regulations and specifications have been
reviewed and approved by the governing body.
(Prior Code, § 3-205)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 18-503
§ 53.21 INSTALLATION EXPENSE.
   The customer, upon approval of his or her application for sewer service,
shall pay to the Municipal Clerk-Treasurer a tap fee in the sum of $125 which
shall compensate the municipality for the expense of processing his or her
application and tapping the sewer main. An employee of the Sewer Department
shall tap the main. The customer shall then be required to pay the expense of
procuring the materials required and shall pay all other costs of installation.
(Prior Code, § 3-206)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 18-503
§ 53.22 REPAIRS AND MAINTENANCE.
   The municipality shall repair or replace as the case may be, all pipe
constituting major sewer mains. It shall be the responsibility of the customer
to repair or replace all other sewer pipe and appurtenances from the mains to
and including the customer’s property. All replacements and repairs made by the
customer shall be done in the manner and with the materials approved by an
employee of the Sewer Department; provided, that the same have been previously
approved by the governing body. Prior to digging work being performed, whether
for an existing sewer line or a new one, the digger shall pay a deposit of
$1,000 to the municipality which shall be refunded if and when the job is
complete and no damage to the village sewer main has occurred.
(Prior Code, § 3-207) (Ord. 23-3, passed 9-12-2023)
§ 53.23 UNLAWFUL USE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to discharge or cause to be discharged
any stormwater, surface water, groundwater, roof runoff, surface drainage or
unpolluted industrial process waters into the sanitary sewer.
(Prior Code, § 3-211) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 53.24 SPECIAL EQUIPMENT.
   In the event a customer of the Municipal Sewer Department discharges an
unusually large amount of waste daily, an unusually large amount of grease or
oil, or waste with an unusually high biochemical oxygen demand the Chief Sewer
Official may require said customer to install interceptors or other preliminary
treatment equipment to reduce the objectionable characteristics of the waste to
within such maximum limits as he or she shall prescribe subject to the review
of the governing body. All preliminary treatment facilities shall be purchased
and maintained continuously in satisfactory and efficient operation at the
customer’s expense. Nothing herein shall be construed to prohibit a special
agreement or arrangement between the governing body and an industrial concern
whereby an industrial waste of unusual strength or character may be accepted by
the municipality for treatment subject to additional rental fees or other
charges.
(Prior Code, § 3-212)
§ 53.25 FEE CLASSIFICATIONS.
   The governing body may classify for the purpose of rental fees the customers
of the Municipal Sewer Department; provided, that such classifications are
reasonable and do not discriminate unlawfully against any consumer or group of
consumers.
(Prior Code, § 3-208)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-925.02
§ 53.26 RATE SETTING.
   Customers of the Municipal Sewer Department shall be charged a flat rate for
the use of sewer service. Rates shall be set by ordinance and shall be on file
at the office of the Municipal Clerk-Treasurer for public inspection at any
reasonable time.
(Prior Code, § 3-209)
§ 53.27 FEES AND COLLECTIONS.
   (A)   The governing body has the power and authority to fix the rates to be
paid by the customers of the Sewer Department. All such fees shall be on file
for public inspection at the office of the Municipal Clerk-Treasurer. The
Municipal Clerk-Treasurer shall have the duty of collecting the rental fees of
the customers of the Sewer Department quarterly on January 1, April 1, July 1
and October 1. If a customer shall for any reason order the service
discontinued or shall vacate the premises, the amount due under the terms of
this chapter, together with any rental fees and charges in arrears, shall be
considered as a delinquent sewer rental which is hereby declared to be a lien
upon the premises or real estate for which or from which the sewer was used or
supplied, and upon the refusal of the customer to pay said delinquent sewer
rental, it shall be collected by being placed upon the assessment roll and tax
books for collection. Charges shall be delinquent 25 days after the due date.
   (B)   Upon being deemed delinquent, the Chief Sewer Official shall proceed
to give notice to the delinquent customer and demand payment immediately. In
the event said bill is not paid within seven days after sending such written
notice, it shall be discretionary with the Chief Sewer Official to cut off
service immediately; provided, that if the delinquent customer is a known
welfare recipient, it shall be the duty of the Chief Sewer Official to notify
the customer and the County Welfare Department by certified mail of the
proposed termination.
(Prior Code, § 3-210)
CHAPTER 54: ELECTRICAL SYSTEM
Section
   
54.01   Ownership
   
54.02   Contract and terms
   
54.03   Consumer’s application
   
54.04   Electrical service contracts
   
54.05   Installation expense
   
54.06   Meters
   
54.07   Fees and collections
   
54.08   Minimum rates
   
54.09   Restricted use
   
54.10   Building moving
   
54.11   Meter in disrepair
   
54.12   Trimming trees
   
54.13   Inspections
   
54.14   Destruction of property
§ 54.01 OWNERSHIP.
   The municipality owns and operates the municipal electrical system. The
governing body, for the purpose of defraying the cost of the care, management
and maintenance of the municipal electrical system may each year levy a tax,
not exceeding the maximum limit prescribed by state law, on the taxable value
of all the taxable property within the municipality. The revenue from the tax
shall be known as the Electrical Fund and shall remain in the custody of the
Municipal Clerk-Treasurer. An employee of the Electrical Department shall have
the direct management and control of the municipal electrical system. He or she
shall have the authority to adopt rules and regulations for the safe and
efficient management of the electrical system subject to the supervision and
review of the governing body.
(Prior Code, § 3-301)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-902 through 17-904, 17-906 and 17-909
§ 54.02 CONTRACT AND TERMS.
   The municipality, through its Electrical Department, shall furnish electric
current for light and power purposes to persons whose premises abut on any
supply wire of the distribution system and may furnish electric current to such
other persons within or without its corporate limits, as and when, according to
law, the governing body may see fit to do so. The rules, regulations and rates
for electric service, hereinafter named, in this chapter, shall be considered a
part of every application hereafter made for electric service and shall be
considered a part of the contract between every consumer now served by the
Electrical Department. Without further formality, the making of application on
the part of any applicant or the use or consumption of electric energy by
present customers and the furnishing of electric service to an applicant or
customer shall constitute a contract between applicant or customer and the
municipality, to which both parties are bound. If the customer should violate
any of the provisions of the contract or any reasonable rules and regulations
that the governing body may hereafter adopt, an employee of the Electrical
Department shall cut off or disconnect the electric service from the building
or place of such violation, and no further connection of electric service for
such building or place shall again be made save or except by order of the
governing body.
(Prior Code, § 3-302)
§ 54.03 CONSUMER’S APPLICATION.
   Every person or persons desiring electrical service must make application
therefor to the Municipal Clerk-Treasurer. Any applicant may be required to
make a service deposit in such amount as has been set by the governing body and
on file at the office of the Municipal Clerk-Treasurer. Electricity may not be
supplied to any house or building except upon the written order of the
governing body or its designated representative. Further, electricity shall not
be furnished to any house or building for which electrical service has not been
maintained with the municipality for at least one day in the 30-day period
preceding the date of application, unless said house or building is inspected
by an electrician licensed in the state and said electrician submits a report
to the municipality stating that it is safe for electrical service to be
commenced or re-commenced by the municipality. The system shall not supply to
any person outside the corporate limits electrical service without special
permission from the governing body; provided, that the entire cost of wire,
installation and other expenses shall be paid by the consumer. Nothing herein
shall be construed to obligate the municipality to supply electrical service to
nonresidents.
(Prior Code, § 3-303) (Ord. 23-1, passed 1-10-2023)
§ 54.04 ELECTRICAL SERVICE CONTRACTS.
   Contracts for electrical service are not transferable. Any person wishing to
change from one location to another shall make a new application and sign a new
contract. If any consumer shall sell, dispose or remove from the premises where
service is furnished in his or her name, or if the premises is destroyed by
fire or other casualty, he or she shall at once inform the governing body or
its designated representative who shall cause the electrical service to be shut
off from the premises. If the consumer should fail to give such notice, he or
she shall be charged for all electricity used on the premises until the
governing body or its designated representative is otherwise advised of such
circumstances.
(Prior Code, § 3-304)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-902 and 19-1404
§ 54.05 INSTALLATION EXPENSE.
   (A)   For new electrical service the customer upon approval of the
customer’s application for electrical service, shall pay to the Municipal
Clerk-Treasurer a fee of $250 which shall compensate the municipality for the
expense of processing the customer’s application and installing the electrical
meter.
   (B)   The expense of installation and wiring from the meter to the points of
distribution shall be the responsibility of the consumer. New electrical
service lines must be run underground. Customers shall be required to pay the
full expense of equipment and underground installation of electrical wires.
(Prior Code, § 3-305) (Ord. 23-3, passed 9-12-2023)
§ 54.06 METERS.
   All electrical meters shall be read at least one time each month during
which electrical service is used by the twentieth day of the month. In the
event a meter is broken or otherwise fails to register accurately the use of
electricity by any consumer, the six-month average of the season one year
previous to such breakage shall be used for billing purposes.
(Prior Code, § 3-306)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 19-1404
§ 54.07 FEES AND COLLECTIONS.
   (A)   The governing body has the power and authority to fix the rates to be
paid by electrical consumers for the use of electricity. All rates shall be on
file for public inspection at the office of the Municipal Clerk-Treasurer.
   (B)   The Municipal Clerk-Treasurer shall bill the consumers and collect all
money received by the municipality on the account of the municipal electrical
system. He or she shall faithfully account for and pay over the same to the
Municipal Clerk-Treasurer all revenue collected by him or her, taking his or
her receipt therefor in duplicate, filing one with the Municipal Clerk-
Treasurer and keeping the other on file in his or her official records.
(Prior Code, § 3-307)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-902 and 19-1404
§ 54.08 MINIMUM RATES.
   All electrical consumers shall be liable for the minimum rate provided by
resolution unless and until the consumer shall, by written order, direct the
governing body or its designated representative to shut off the electricity, in
which case he or she shall not be liable thereafter for electrical service
until the electricity is turned on again.
(Prior Code, § 3-308)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-902 and 19-1404
§ 54.09 RESTRICTED USE.
   (A)   The municipal electrical system does not guarantee the delivery of
electric current over the lines of the distribution system except when it has
sufficient power, current, equipment and machinery to do so. An employee of the
Electrical Department has the power and authority to disconnect or discontinue
such service for any good and sufficient reason without liability.
   (B)   The municipality shall use due care and reasonable diligence to
provide and supply uninterrupted service to consumers but shall not be liable
for damages resulting from interruption of service due to causes over which the
municipality has no control and the municipality expressly reserves the right
to discontinue or disconnect any consumer’s service without preliminary notice.
(Prior Code, § 3-309)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-902 and 19-1404
§ 54.10 BUILDING MOVING.
   (A)   Should any house or building moving occur or be necessary and it
becomes necessary in the work to remove or disturb any of the property or wires
of the municipal electrical system, the same should not be done except upon
written permission received from the governing body or its designated
representative, who shall then order paid in advance the actual cost of moving
the wires, and such cost shall be paid by the applicant prior to the moving of
the building or house.
   (B)   All expense of removing, changing and replacing the wires or apparatus
of the electrical system shall be paid out of the deposit made prior to moving
and any surplus remaining after all expenses are paid shall be returned to the
applicant; provided, that if in the course of moving the building or house it
becomes apparent that additional expense will be incurred, such additional
deposit as deemed necessary may be demanded.
(Prior Code, § 3-310)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 19-1404
§ 54.11 METER IN DISREPAIR.
   In the event that any customer’s meter falls out of repair or fails to
register properly, the Superintendent shall charge such customer the same
amount billed one year previous to such disrepair. In the event that there is
no such basis for comparison, the Superintendent shall charge the customer such
amount as he or she deems is fair both to the customer and the municipality.
(Prior Code, § 3-311)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 19-1404
§ 54.12 TRIMMING TREES.
   Any person desiring to cut or remove trees or branches thereof in close
proximity to the lines of the municipal electrical system shall, before doing
the work, give reasonable written notice to the governing body or its
designated representative and shall follow any and all rules and regulations
which he or she may prescribe for doing such work. It shall be unlawful for any
person felling or removing such trees or branches to disrupt or damage the
lines without first giving proper notice and receiving permission in writing to
do so. Whenever it becomes necessary to protect the lines or property of the
electrical system, the governing body shall have the power to order cut and
remove any overhanging branches or limbs of trees so that the lines will be
free and safe.
(Prior Code, § 3-312) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 54.13 INSPECTIONS.
   An employee of the Electrical Department shall have free access at any
reasonable time to each premises and building to or in which electricity is
supplied; provided, that in the event of an emergency, such inspections may
take place at any time.
(Prior Code, § 3-313)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-902
§ 54.14 DESTRUCTION OF PROPERTY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to willfully or carelessly break, injure
or deface any building, machinery, apparatus, fixture, attachment or
appurtenance of the municipal electrical system.
(Prior Code, § 3-314) Penalty, see §
50.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 28-519
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
      
71.   PARKING REGULATIONS
      
72.   TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
CHAPTER 70: TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
70.01   Definitions
   
70.02   Truck routes
   
70.03   Traffic lanes; designation
   
70.04   Crosswalks
   
70.05   Placement and maintenance of traffic control devices
   
70.06   Enforcement of rules and laws
   
70.07   Obedience to traffic control devices; exceptions
   
70.08   Signs; unauthorized display
   
70.09   Traffic officers
   
70.10   Traffic citations; disposition and records
Speed Limits
   
70.25   Basic rule
   
70.26   Maximum limits
   
70.27   Near schools
 
   
70.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 70.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this title, the following definitions and the other
definitions in Neb. RS 60-606 through 60-676 shall apply unless the context
clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALLEY. A highway intended to provide access to the rear or side of lots or
buildings and not intended for the purpose of through vehicular traffic.
(Neb. RS 60-607)
   AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLE. Such fire department vehicles, police
vehicles, rescue vehicles and ambulances as are publicly owned, such other
publicly or privately owned vehicles as are designated by the Director of Motor
Vehicles and such publicly owned military vehicles of the National Guard as are
designated by the Adjutant General pursuant to Neb. RS 55-133.
(Neb. RS 60-610)
   BUSINESS DISTRICT. The territory contiguous to and including a highway when,
within any 600 feet along such highway, there are buildings in use for business
or industrial purposes, including, but not limited to, hotels, banks, office
buildings, railroad stations or public buildings which occupy at least 300 feet
of frontage on one side or 300 feet collectively on both sides of a highway.
(Neb. RS 60-613)
   HIGHWAY. The entire width between the boundary limits of any street, road,
avenue, boulevard or way which is publicly maintained when any part thereof is
open to the use of the public for purposes of vehicular travel.
(Neb. RS 60-624)
   MANUAL. The Manual on Uniform Traffic Control Devices adopted by the
Department of Transportation pursuant to Neb. RS 60-6,118.
(Neb. RS 60-631)
   MOTOR VEHICLE. Every self-propelled land vehicle, not operated upon rails,
except bicycles, mopeds, self-propelled chairs used by persons who are disabled
and electric personal assistive mobility devices.
(Neb. RS 60-638)
   PEACE OFFICER. The Village Marshal or other chief law enforcement official,
any village police officer or any other person authorized to enforce village
ordinances. With respect to directing traffic only, PEACE OFFICER shall also
include any person authorized to direct or regulate traffic.
(Neb. RS 60-646)
   RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT. The territory contiguous to and including a highway
not comprising a Business District when the property on such highway for a
distance of 300 feet or more is in the main improved with residences or
residences and buildings in use for business.
(Neb. RS 60-654)
   ROADWAY. The portion of a highway improved, designed or ordinarily used for
vehicular travel, exclusive of the berm or shoulder. If a highway includes two
or more separate roadways, the term ROADWAY shall refer to any such roadway
separately but not to all such roadways collectively.
(Neb. RS 60-656)
   SCHOOL CROSSING ZONE. The area of a roadway designated to the public by the
Board of Trustees as a school crossing zone through the use of a sign or
traffic control device as specified by the Board in conformity with the Manual,
but does not include any area of a freeway. A school crossing zone starts at
the location of the first sign or traffic control device identifying the school
crossing zone and continues until a sign or traffic control device indicates
that the school crossing zone has ended.
(Neb. RS 60-658.01)
   SHOULDER. The part of the highway contiguous to the roadway and designed for
the accommodation of stopped vehicles, for emergency use and for lateral
support of the base and surface courses of the roadway.
(Neb. RS 60-661)
   TRAFFIC. Pedestrians, ridden or herded animals, and vehicles and other
conveyances, either singly or together, while using any highway for purposes of
travel.
(Neb. RS 60-669)
   TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICE. Any sign, signal, marking or other device not
inconsistent with the state’s Rules of the Road placed or erected by authority
of the Board of Trustees or any official having jurisdiction for the purpose of
regulating, warning or guiding traffic.
(Neb. RS 60-670)
   TRAFFIC CONTROL SIGNAL. Any signal, whether manually, electrically or
mechanically operated, by which traffic is alternately directed to stop and
permitted to proceed.
(Neb. RS 60-671)
   TRAFFIC INFRACTION. The violation of any provision of the state’s Rules of
the Road or of any law, ordinance, order, rule or regulation regulating traffic
which is not otherwise declared to be a misdemeanor or a felony or, in this
title, an offense.
(Neb. RS 60-672)
   VEHICLE. Every device in, upon or by which any person or property is or may
be transported or drawn upon a highway, except devices moved solely by human
power or used exclusively upon stationary rails or tracks.
(Neb. RS 60-676)
§ 70.02 TRUCK ROUTES.
   The governing body may, by resolution, designate certain streets in the
municipality that trucks shall travel upon, and it shall be unlawful for
persons operating such trucks to travel on other streets than those designated
for trucks, unless to pick up or deliver goods, wares or merchandise, and in
that event, the operator of such truck shall return to such truck routes as
soon as possible in traveling through, or about the municipality. The governing
body shall cause notices to be posted or shall erect signs indicating the
streets so designated as truck routes.
(Prior Code, § 5-102) Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 60-681
§ 70.03 TRAFFIC LANES; DESIGNATION.
   The governing body may, by resolution, mark lanes for traffic on street
pavements at such places as it may deem advisable.
(Prior Code, § 5-103)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 60-680
§ 70.04 CROSSWALKS.
   The governing body may, by resolution, establish and maintain, by
appropriate devices, markers or lines upon the street, crosswalks, at
intersections where there is particular danger to pedestrians crossing the
street, and at such other places as they may deem necessary.
(Prior Code, § 5-104)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 60-680
§ 70.05 PLACEMENT AND MAINTENANCE OF TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES.
   The Board of Trustees shall place and maintain such traffic control devices
upon highways under its jurisdiction as it deems necessary to indicate and to
carry out the provisions of this title or to regulate, warn or guide traffic.
All such traffic control devices erected pursuant to this title shall conform
with the Manual.
(Neb. RS 60-6,121)
§ 70.06 ENFORCEMENT OF RULES AND LAWS.
   (A)   All peace officers are hereby specifically directed and authorized,
and it shall be deemed and considered a part of the official duties of each of
such officers to enforce the provisions, of the state’s Rules of the Road and
this title, including the specific enforcement of maximum speed limits, and any
other state or village law regulating the operation of vehicles or the use of
the highways.
   (B)   To perform the official duties imposed by this section, peace officers
shall have the power:
      (1)   To make arrests upon view and without warrant for any violation
committed in their presence of any of the provisions of the Motor Vehicle
Operator’s License Act or this title or of any other law regulating the
operation of vehicles or the use of the highways, if and when designated or
called upon to do so as provided by law;
      (2)   To make arrests upon view and without warrant for any violation
committed in their presence of any provision of the laws of this state relating
to misdemeanors or felonies, or of similar village ordinances, if and when
designated or called upon to do so as provided by law;
      (3)   At all times to direct all traffic in conformity with law or, in
the event of a fire or other emergency, or in order to expedite traffic or
ensure safety, to direct traffic as conditions may require;
      (4)   When in uniform, to require the driver of a vehicle to stop and
exhibit his or her operator’s license and registration certificate issued for
the vehicle and submit to an inspection of such vehicle and the license plates
and registration certificate for the vehicle and to require the driver of a
motor vehicle to present the vehicle within five days for correction of any
defects revealed by such motor vehicle inspection as may lead the inspecting
officer to reasonably believe that such motor vehicle is being operated in
violation of the statutes of this state, the rules and regulations of the
Director of Motor Vehicles or any village ordinance or regulation;
      (5)   To inspect any vehicle of a type required to be registered
according to law in any public garage or repair shop or in any place where such
a vehicle is held for sale or wrecking;
      (6)   To serve warrants relating to the enforcement of the laws
regulating the operation of vehicles or the use of the highways; and
      (7)   To investigate traffic accidents for the purpose of carrying on a
study of traffic accidents and enforcing motor vehicle and highway safety laws.
(Neb. RS 60-683)
Statutory reference:
   Motor Vehicle Operator’s License Act, see Neb. RS 60-462
§ 70.07 OBEDIENCE TO TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES; EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   The driver of any vehicle shall obey the instructions of any traffic
control device applicable thereto placed in accordance with the state’s Rules
of the Road or this title, unless otherwise directed by a peace officer,
subject to the exceptions granted to the driver of an authorized emergency
vehicle in the Rules and this title.
   (B)   No provision of the Rules or this title for which traffic control
devices are required shall be enforced against an alleged violator if, at the
time and place of the alleged violation, an official device is not in proper
position and sufficiently legible to be seen by a reasonably observant person.
Whenever any provision of the Rules or this title does not state that traffic
control devices are required, such provision shall be effective even though no
devices are erected or in place.
   (C)   Whenever traffic control devices are placed in position approximately
conforming to the requirements of the Rules or this title, such devices shall
be presumed to have been so placed by the official act or direction of lawful
authority unless the contrary is established by competent evidence.
   (D)   Any traffic control device placed pursuant to the Rules or this title
and purporting to conform with the lawful requirements pertaining to such
devices shall be presumed to comply with the requirements of the Rules or this
title unless the contrary is established by competent evidence.
(Neb. RS 60-6,119) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.08 SIGNS; UNAUTHORIZED DISPLAY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to maintain or display upon, or in view
of any street, any unofficial sign, signal or device which purports to be, is
an imitation of or resembles an official traffic sign or signal which attempts
to direct the movement of traffic, or which hides from view, or interferes with
the effectiveness of any official sign or signal. Every such prohibited sign,
signal or device is hereby declared to be a public nuisance, and any police
officer is hereby empowered to remove the same, or cause it to be removed,
without notice.
(Prior Code, § 5-106) Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 60-6,127
§ 70.09 TRAFFIC OFFICERS.
   The Board of Trustees or the village police may at any time detail officers,
to be known as “traffic officers,” at street intersections. All traffic
officers shall be vested with the authority to regulate and control traffic at
the intersections to which they are assigned. It shall be their duty to direct
the movement of traffic and prevent congestion and accidents. It shall be
unlawful for any person to violate any order or signal of any such traffic
officer notwithstanding the directive of a stop sign or signal device that may
have been placed at any such intersection.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.10 TRAFFIC CITATIONS; DISPOSITION AND RECORDS.
   (A)   The municipal police upon issuing a traffic citation to an alleged
violator of any provision of this chapter shall deposit a copy of the traffic
citation with the County Attorney, unless the citation is just a warning.
   (B)   Upon the deposit of the traffic citation with the Attorney, such
citation may be disposed of only by trial in the court, specified in the
citation or other official action by the judge of the court, including a
forfeiture of bail, or by the deposit of sufficient bail with, or payment of a
fine to the court by the person to whom such traffic citation has been issued.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for the municipal police to dispose of a traffic
citation, or copies thereof, or of the record of the issuance of the same in a
manner other than as required herein.
(Prior Code, § 5-203) Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 29-422 and 29-424
SPEED LIMITS
§ 70.25 BASIC RULE.
   No person shall drive a vehicle on a highway at a speed greater than is
reasonable and prudent under the conditions and having regard to the actual and
potential hazards then existing. A person shall drive at a safe and appropriate
speed when approaching and crossing an intersection or railroad grade crossing,
when approaching and going around a curve, when approaching a hillcrest, when
traveling upon any narrow or winding roadway, and when special hazards exist
with respect to pedestrians or other traffic or by reason of weather or highway
conditions.
(Neb. RS 60-6,185) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.26 MAXIMUM LIMITS.
   (A)   Except when a special hazard exists that requires lower speed for
compliance with § 71.20, the limits set forth in this section and Neb. RS 60-
6,187, 60-6,188, 60-6,305 and 60-6,313 shall be the maximum lawful speeds
unless reduced pursuant to division (B) below, and no person shall drive a
vehicle on a highway at a speed in excess of such maximum limits:
      (1)   Twenty-five mph in any Residential District;
      (2)   Twenty mph in any Business District;
      (3)   Fifty mph upon any highway that is gravel or not dustless surfaced;
      (4)   Fifty-five mph upon any dustless-surfaced highway not a part of the
state highway system;
      (5)   Sixty-five mph upon any four-lane divided highway not a part of the
state highway system; and
      (6)   Sixty-five mph upon any part of the state highway system other than
an expressway, a super-two highway or a freeway.
   (B)   The maximum speed limits established in division (A) above may be
reduced by the Department of Transportation or the Board of Trustees pursuant
to Neb. RS 60-6,188.
   (C)   The Board may erect and maintain suitable signs along highways under
its jurisdiction in such number and at such locations as it deems necessary to
give adequate notice of the speed limits established pursuant to division (A)
or (B) above upon such highways.
(Neb. RS 60-6,186) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.27 NEAR SCHOOLS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the driver of any vehicle, when passing
premises on which school buildings are located and which are used for school
purposes, during school recess or while children are going to or leaving school
during the opening or closing hours, to drive the vehicle at a rate of speed in
excess of 15 mph past the premises.
   (B)   The driver shall stop at all stop signs located at or near such school
premises, and it shall be unlawful for the driver to make a U-turn at any
intersection where such stop signs are located at or near such school premises.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who shall violate or refuse to comply with the enforcement of any
of the provisions of this traffic code, set forth at full length herein or
incorporated by reference, shall be deemed guilty of an offense and, upon
conviction thereof, shall be fined not more than $100 for each offense. A new
violation shall be deemed to have been committed every 24 hours of such failure
to comply.
(Prior Code, § 5-401)
CHAPTER 71: PARKING REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
71.01   Regulation or prohibition authorized
   
71.02   Obstructing street, intersection or entrance
   
71.03   Alleys
   
71.04   Display or repair of vehicle
   
71.05   Current license
   
71.06   Time limits generally
   
71.07   Limit on parking in one spot or location
   
71.08   Limit on parking of certain trucks
   
71.09   Snow; weather emergencies; highway maintenance
   
71.10   Parallel, angle and center parking
   
71.11   Removal of illegally stopped vehicles; liability for costs
Parking for Disabled Persons
   
71.25   Definitions
   
71.26   Designation of on-street parking spaces and access aisles; display of
permits
   
71.27   Designation of off-street parking stalls, spaces and access aisles
   
71.28   Personal permit; issuance; renewal
   
71.29   Motor vehicle permit; issuance; renewal
   
71.30   Permits; issuance; prohibitions; duplicates
   
71.31   Permits; period of validity; renewal of temporary permits
   
71.32   Permits nontransferable
   
71.33   Removal of unauthorized vehicle
   
71.34   Citation; complaint
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 71.01 REGULATION OR PROHIBITION AUTHORIZED.
   (A)   The Board of Trustees, with respect to highways under its jurisdiction
and within the reasonable exercise of the police power, may regulate or
prohibit stopping, standing or parking.
(Neb. RS 60-680)
   (B)   If the Board regulates or prohibits stopping, standing or parking all
vehicles or a particular kind or class of vehicles on a highway or a portion of
a highway, no person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle subject to such
regulation or prohibition on the highway or portion thereof longer than a
period of time necessary to load and unload freight or passengers.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.02 OBSTRUCTING STREET, INTERSECTION OR ENTRANCE.
   No person shall, except in case of an accident or emergency, stop any
vehicle in any location where stopping will obstruct any street, intersection
or entrance to an alley or public or private drive.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.03 ALLEYS.
   (A)   No person shall park a vehicle with any portion thereof projecting
into any alley entrance.
   (B)   No person shall park a vehicle in any alley except for the purpose of
loading or unloading during the time necessary to load or unload, which shall
not exceed the maximum limit of one-half hour. Every vehicle while loading or
unloading in an alley shall be parked in such manner as will cause the least
obstruction possible to traffic in the alley.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.04 DISPLAY OR REPAIR OF VEHICLE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to park upon any highway or public place
within the village any vehicle displayed for sale. Except when necessary due to
a breakdown or other emergency, no person shall adjust or repair, or race the
motor of, any motor vehicle or motorcycle while standing on the highways of the
village. No person or employee connected with a garage or repair shop shall use
sidewalks or highways in the vicinity of the garage or shop for the purpose of
working on vehicles of any description.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.05 CURRENT LICENSE.
   It shall be unlawful to park or place on the streets, alleys or other public
property any motor vehicle without first securing a current license as provided
by law, and no such licensed motor vehicle shall be allowed to stand for a
longer period than 24 hours.
(Prior Code, § 5-317) Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 60-323
§ 71.06 TIME LIMITS GENERALLY.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to park a vehicle on a public street for over 24
consecutive hours except where a different maximum time limit is posted.
   (B)   If the Board of Trustees adopts a resolution entirely prohibiting, or
fixing a time limit for, the parking and stopping of vehicles on any highway,
it is unlawful to park or stop any vehicle in such highway for a period of time
longer than fixed in the resolution.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.07 LIMIT ON PARKING IN ONE SPOT OR LOCATION.
   It shall be unlawful for the owner of any licensed or unlicensed vehicle to
permit the same to be parked in one spot or location, for more than 72 hours,
upon the municipal streets, alleys and public highways located within the
corporate limits of the municipality. Each 72-hour period that the vehicle
remains parked in the same spot or place after the initial 72-hour period shall
constitute a separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 5-318) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.08 LIMIT ON PARKING OF CERTAIN TRUCKS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the owner or operator of any truck with a
gross vehicle weight over 10,000 pounds, any trailer with a gross vehicle
weight over 10,000 pounds, any truck-tractor and/or any semitrailer (as defined
in the state’s Rules of the Road) to permit the same to be parked in one spot
or location, for more than two hours, upon the municipal streets, alleys and
public highways located within the corporate limits of the municipality
   (B)   The Board of Trustees shall cause notices to be posted or signs to be
erected informing the public of the terms of this section.
   (C)   Each two-hour period that the truck, trailer, truck-tractor and/or
semitrailer remains parked in the same spot or place after the initial two-hour
period shall constitute a separate offense.
   (D)   Upon application, payment of a fee of $20 and, for good cause shown by
the owner or operator of any vehicle as defined in division (A) above, the
Municipal Clerk-Treasurer may issue a special permit to extend the parking time
limit for a period of not to exceed 48 hours.
(Prior Code, § 5-319) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.09 SNOW; WEATHER EMERGENCIES; HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   Unless the Board of Trustees provides otherwise, it is unlawful to
park or stand any vehicle on any highway in the village at any time within 12
hours after a snowfall of three inches or more has occurred within a 24-hour
period if the snow has not been removed within that time.
   (B)   The Chairperson of the Board of Trustees, the village police or any
other designated person may order any highway or portion thereof vacated for
weather emergencies or highway maintenance. Notice shall be given by personally
notifying the owner or operator of a vehicle parked on such highway or by
posting appropriate signs along the highway not less than four hours prior to
the time that the vacation order is to be effective. It is unlawful to park a
vehicle on a highway or portion thereof vacated in accordance with this
division (B).
   (C)   A vehicle parked in violation of this section may be removed and
parked, under the supervision of the village police, to a suitable nearby
location without further notice to the owner or operator of such vehicle.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.10 PARALLEL, ANGLE AND CENTER PARKING.
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided in this section, any vehicle stopped or
parked upon a two-way roadway where parking is permitted shall be so stopped or
parked with the right-hand wheels parallel to and within 12 inches of the
right-hand curb or edge of such roadway. No vehicle shall be parked upon a
roadway when there is a shoulder adjacent to the roadway which is available for
parking.
   (B)   Except when otherwise provided by the Board of Trustees, every vehicle
stopped or parked upon a one-way roadway shall be so stopped or parked parallel
to the curb or edge of such roadway, in the direction of authorized traffic
movement, with its right-hand wheels within 12 inches of the right-hand curb or
edge of the roadway or its left-hand wheels within 12 inches of the left-hand
curb or edge of such roadway.
   (C)   The Board of Trustees may permit angle or center parking on any
roadway, except that angle or center parking shall not be permitted on any
federal-aid highway or on any part of the state highway system unless the
Director-State Engineer has determined that such roadway is of sufficient width
to permit angle or center parking without interfering with the free movement of
traffic.
   (D)   The Board of Trustees may prohibit or restrict stopping, standing or
parking on highways under its jurisdiction and erect and maintain proper and
adequate signs thereon. No person shall stop, stand or park any vehicle in
violation of the restrictions stated on such signs.
(Neb. RS 60-6,167)
   (E)   Where stalls are designated either on the curb or pavement, vehicles
shall be parked within those stalls.
   (F)   Vehicles must not be parked at any curb in such a position as to
prevent another vehicle already parked at the curb from moving away.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.11 REMOVAL OF ILLEGALLY STOPPED VEHICLES; LIABILITY FOR COSTS.
   (A)   Whenever any peace officer, or any authorized employee of a law
enforcement agency who is employed by the village and specifically empowered by
ordinance to act, finds a vehicle standing upon a highway in violation of any
of the provisions of this chapter, the individual may remove the vehicle, have
such vehicle removed or require the driver or other person in charge of the
vehicle to move such vehicle to a position off the roadway of the highway or
from the highway.
   (B)   The owner or other person lawfully entitled to the possession of any
vehicle towed or stored shall be charged with the reasonable cost of towing and
storage fees. Any towing or storage fee shall be a lien upon the vehicle prior
to all other claims. Any person towing or storing a vehicle shall be entitled
to retain possession of the vehicle until the charges are paid. The lien
provided for in this section shall not apply to the contents of any vehicle.
(Neb. RS 60-6,165)
PARKING FOR DISABLED PERSONS
§ 71.25 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACCESS AISLE. A space adjacent to a handicapped parking space or passenger
loading zone which is constructed and designed in compliance with the Americans
with Disabilities Act of 1990, being 42 U.S.C. §§ 12101 et seq., and the
federal rules and regulations adopted and promulgated in response to the Act.
   HANDICAPPED OR DISABLED PARKING PERMIT. A permit issued by the department
that authorizes the use of parking spaces and access aisles that have been
designated for the exclusive use of handicapped or disabled persons.
   HANDICAPPED OR DISABLED PERSON. Any individual with a severe visual,
neurological or physical impairment which limits personal mobility and results
in an inability to travel unassisted more than 200 feet without the use of a
wheelchair, crutch, walker or prosthetic, orthotic or other assistant device,
any individual whose personal mobility is limited as a result of respiratory
problems, any individual who has a cardiac condition to the extent that his or
her functional limitations are classified in severity as being Class III or
Class IV, according to standards set by the American Heart Association, and any
individual who has permanently lost all or substantially all the use of one or
more limbs.
   HANDICAPPED OR DISABLED PERSON, TEMPORARILY. Any handicapped or disabled
person whose personal mobility is expected to be limited in such manner for no
longer than one year.
   HANDICAPPED PARKING INFRACTION. Violation of any section of this subchapter
regulating:
      (1)   The use of parking spaces, including access aisles, designated for
use by handicapped or disabled persons;
      (2)   The unauthorized possession, use or display of handicapped or
disabled parking permits; or
      (3)   The obstruction of any wheelchair ramps constructed or created in
accordance and in conformity with the Federal Americans with Disabilities Act
of 1990, being 42 U.S.C. §§ 12101 et seq.
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 18-1736 and 18-1741.01
§ 71.26 DESIGNATION OF ON-STREET PARKING SPACES AND ACCESS AISLES; DISPLAY OF
PERMITS.
   (A)   (1)   The governing body may designate parking spaces, including
access aisles, for exclusive use of:
         (a)   Handicapped or disabled persons whose motor vehicles display the
distinguishing license plates issued to handicapped or disabled persons
pursuant to Neb. RS 60-3,113.06;
         (b)   Handicapped or disabled persons whose motor vehicles display a
distinguishing license plate issued to a handicapped or disabled person by
another state;
         (c)   Such other handicapped or disabled persons or temporarily
handicapped or disabled persons, as certified by the village, whose motor
vehicles display the permit; and
         (d)   Such other motor vehicles, as certified by the village, which
display such permit.
      (2)   All such permits shall be displayed by hanging the permit from the
motor vehicle’s rearview mirror so as to be clearly visible through the front
windshield. The permit shall be displayed on the dashboard only when there is
no rearview mirror.
   (B)   If the governing body so designates a parking space or access aisle,
it shall be indicated by posting above ground and immediately adjacent to and
visible from each space or access aisle a sign as described in Neb. RS 18-1737.
In addition to such sign, the space or access aisle may also be indicated by
blue paint on the curb or edge of the paved portion of the street adjacent to
the space or access aisle.
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 18-1736
§ 71.27 DESIGNATION OF OFF-STREET PARKING STALLS, SPACES AND ACCESS AISLES.
   The village and any person in lawful possession of any off-street parking
facility may designate stalls or spaces, including access aisles, in such
facility owned or operated by the village or person for exclusive use of:
   (A)   Handicapped or disabled persons whose motor vehicles display the
distinguishing license plates issued to such individuals pursuant to Neb. RS
60-3,113.06;
   (B)   Such other handicapped or disabled persons or temporarily handicapped
or disabled persons, as certified by the village, whose motor vehicles display
the permit; and
   (C)   Such other motor vehicles, as certified by the village, which display
such permit. Such designation shall be made by posting above ground and
immediately adjacent to and visible from each stall or space, including access
aisles, a sign which is in conformance with the requirements in Neb. RS 18-
1737.
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 18-1737
§ 71.28 PERSONAL PERMIT; ISSUANCE; RENEWAL.
   (A)   The Village Clerk shall take an application, on a form provided by the
Department of Motor Vehicles, from a handicapped or disabled person or
temporarily handicapped or disabled person or his or her parent, legal guardian
or foster parent for a permit which will entitle the holder thereof or a person
driving a motor vehicle for the purpose of transporting such holder to park in
those spaces or access aisles provided for by this subchapter when the holder
of the permit will enter or exit the motor vehicle while it is parked in such
spaces or access aisles. For the purposes of this section, the handicapped or
disabled person or temporarily handicapped or disabled person shall be
considered the holder of the permit.
   (B)   A person applying for a permit, or for the renewal of a permit, shall
complete an application, shall provide proof of identity and shall submit a
completed medical form containing the statutory criteria for qualification and
signed by a physician, physician assistant or advanced practice registered
nurse certifying that the person who will be the holder meets the definition of
handicapped or disabled person or temporarily handicapped or disabled person.
No applicant shall be required to provide his or her Social Security number. In
the case of a temporarily handicapped or disabled person, the certifying
physician, physician’s assistant or advanced practice registered nurse shall
indicate the estimated date of recovery or that the temporary handicap or
disability will continue for a period of six months, whichever is less.
   (C)   A person may hold only one permit under this section and may hold
either a permit under this section or a permit under §
71.29, but not both.
   (D)   A copy of the completed application form shall be given to each
applicant. The Village Clerk shall submit to the Department of Motor Vehicles
the name, address and license number of all persons applying for a permit
pursuant to this section.
   (E)   An application for the renewal of a permit under this section may be
filed within 30 days prior to the expiration of the permit. The existing permit
shall be invalid upon receipt of the new permit.
   (F)   The Village Clerk shall not accept the application for a permit of any
person making application contrary to the provisions of the Nebraska Revised
Statutes.
§ 71.29 MOTOR VEHICLE PERMIT; ISSUANCE; RENEWAL.
   (A)   The Village Clerk shall take an application from any person for a
motor vehicle permit which will entitle the holder thereof or a person driving
the motor vehicle for the purpose of transporting handicapped or disabled
persons or temporarily handicapped or disabled persons to park in those spaces
or access aisles provided for by this subchapter if the motor vehicle is used
primarily for the transportation of handicapped or disabled persons or
temporarily handicapped or disabled persons. Such parking permit shall be used
only when the motor vehicle for which it was issued is being used for the
transportation of a handicapped or disabled person, or temporarily handicapped
or disabled person, and such person will enter or exit the motor vehicle while
it is parked in such designated spaces or access aisles.
   (B)   A person applying for a permit, or for the renewal of a permit,
pursuant to this section, shall apply for a permit for each motor vehicle used
for the transportation of handicapped or disabled persons, or temporarily
handicapped or disabled persons, shall complete such forms as are provided to
the Village Clerk by the Department of Motor Vehicles and shall demonstrate to
the Village Clerk that each such motor vehicle is used primarily for the
transportation of handicapped or disabled persons, or temporarily handicapped
or disabled persons. A copy of the completed application form shall be given to
each applicant.
   (C)   No more than one such permit shall be issued for each motor vehicle. A
person may hold either a permit under this section or a permit under §
71.28, but not both.
   (D)   An application for the renewal of a permit under this section may be
filed within 30 days prior to the expiration of the permit. The existing permit
shall be invalid upon receipt of the new permit.
   (E)   The Village Clerk shall submit to the Department of Motor Vehicles the
name, address and license number of all persons applying for a permit pursuant
to this section.
   (F)   The Village Clerk shall not accept the application for a permit of any
person making application contrary to the Nebraska Revised Statutes.
§ 71.30 PERMITS; ISSUANCE; PROHIBITIONS; DUPLICATES.
   (A)   (1)   No permit shall be issued to any person or for any motor vehicle
if any parking permit has been issued to such person or for such motor vehicle
and such permit has been suspended, pursuant to §
71.32.
      (2)   At the expiration of such suspension, a permit may be renewed in
the manner provided for renewal in this subchapter.
   (B)   A duplicate permit may be provided without cost if the original permit
is destroyed, lost or stolen. Such duplicate permit shall be issued in the same
manner as the original permit, except that a newly completed medical form need
not be provided if a completed medical form submitted at the time of the most
recent application for a permit or its renewal is on file with the Village
Clerk or the Department of Motor Vehicles. A duplicate permit shall be valid
for the remainder of the period for which the original permit was issued.
§ 71.31 PERMITS; PERIOD OF VALIDITY; RENEWAL OF TEMPORARY PERMITS.
   (A)   All permanently issued permits for handicapped or disabled parking
authorized by this subchapter shall be issued for a period ending on September
30 of the third year after the date of issuance and shall expire on that date.
   (B)   (1)   All permits authorized under this subchapter for temporarily
handicapped or disabled parking shall be issued for a period ending not more
than six months after the date of issuance but may be renewed one time for a
period not to exceed six months.
      (2)   For the renewal period, there shall be submitted an additional
application with proof of a handicap or disability.
§ 71.32 PERMITS NONTRANSFERABLE.
   (A)   Permits issued under this subchapter shall not be transferable and
shall be used only by the party to whom issued or for the motor vehicle for
which issued and only for the purpose for which it is issued. No person shall
alter or reproduce in any manner a permit issued pursuant to this subchapter.
No person shall knowingly hold more than one permit or knowingly provide false
information on an application for a permit.
   (B)   No person who is not the holder of a handicapped or disabled parking
permit issued to him or her as a handicapped or disabled person shall display a
handicapped or disabled parking permit and park in a space or access aisle
designated for the exclusive use of a handicapped or disabled person.
   (C)   No person who is the holder of a handicapped or disabled parking
permit issued for the use of such person when transporting a handicapped or
disabled person shall display his or her handicapped or disabled parking permit
and park in a space or access aisle designated for the exclusive use of a
handicapped or disabled person unless a handicapped or disabled person is
actually in the vehicle displaying the permit at the time it is parked, has
left the vehicle while it was parked and will return to the vehicle before it
leaves the designated space or access aisle.
   (D)   No person who is not the holder of a handicapped or disabled parking
permit issued for use when a vehicle is transporting a handicapped or disabled
person shall display a handicapped or disabled parking permit and park in a
space or access aisle designated for the exclusive use of a handicapped or
disabled person, unless a handicapped or disabled person is actually in the
vehicle displaying the permit at the time it is parked, has left the vehicle
while it was parked and will return to the vehicle before it leaves the
designated space or access aisle.
   (E)   (1)   Any violation of this section shall constitute a handicapped
parking infraction and shall be cause for suspension of such permit for a
period of six months and imposition of the penalty provided for violation of
this subchapter. In addition, the trial court shall impose a fine of not more
than $250, which may be waived by the court if, at the time of sentencing, all
handicapped parking permits issued to or in the possession of the offender are
returned to the court.
      (2)   At the expiration of such six-month period, a suspended permit may
be renewed in the manner provided for renewal in this subchapter.
§ 71.33 REMOVAL OF UNAUTHORIZED VEHICLE.
   (A)   The owner or person in lawful possession of an off-street parking
facility, after notifying the municipal police and the village, if it provides
on-street parking or owns, operates or provides an off-street parking facility,
may cause the removal, from a stall or space, including access aisles,
designated exclusively for handicapped or disabled persons or temporarily
handicapped or disabled persons or motor vehicles for the transportation of
handicapped or disabled persons or temporarily handicapped or disabled persons,
of any vehicle not displaying the proper permit or the distinguishing license
plates specified in this subchapter if there is posted above ground and
immediately adjacent to and visible from such stall or space, including access
aisles, a sign which clearly and conspicuously states the area so designated as
a tow-in zone.
   (B)   (1)   A person who parks a vehicle in any on-street parking space or
access aisle which has been designated exclusively for handicapped or disabled
persons, or temporarily handicapped or disabled persons, or motor vehicles for
the transportation of handicapped or disabled persons, or temporarily
handicapped or disabled persons, or in any so exclusively designated parking
space or access aisle in any off-street parking facility, without properly
displaying the proper permit or when the handicapped or disabled person to whom
or for whom, as the case may be, the license plate or permit is issued will not
enter or exit the vehicle while it is parked in the designated space or access
aisle shall be guilty of a handicapped parking infraction and shall be subject
to the procedures set forth in §
71.34.
      (2)   The display on a motor vehicle of a distinguishing license plate or
permit issued to a handicapped or disabled person by and under the duly
constituted authority of another state shall constitute a full and complete
defense in any action for a handicapped parking infraction.
      (3)   If the identity of the person who parked the vehicle in violation
of this section cannot be readily determined, the owner or person in whose name
the vehicle is registered shall be held prima facie responsible for such
violation and shall be guilty and subject to the penalties and procedures
described in this section.
   (C)   In the case of a privately-owned off-street parking facility, the
village shall not require the owner or person in lawful possession of such
facility to inform the village of a violation of this section prior to the city
issuing the violator a handicapped parking infraction citation.
Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 18-1737
§ 71.34 CITATION; COMPLAINT.
   (A)   For any offense classified as a handicapped parking infraction, a
handicapped parking citation may be issued by any peace officer or by any
person designated by ordinance by the governing body to exercise the authority
to issue a citation for any handicapped parking infraction.
   (B)   (1)   When a handicapped parking citation is issued for a handicapped
parking infraction, the person issuing the handicapped parking citation shall
enter thereon all required information, including the name and address of the
cited person or, if not known, the license number and description of the
offending motor vehicle, the offense charged and the time and place the person
cited is to appear in court.
      (2)   Unless the person cited requests an earlier date, the time of
appearance shall be at least three days after the issuance of the handicapped
parking citation.
      (3)   One copy of the handicapped parking citation shall be delivered to
the person cited or attached to the offending motor vehicle.
   (C)   At least 24 hours before the time set for the appearance of the cited
person, either the Village Attorney, or other person authorized by law to issue
a complaint for the particular offense, shall issue and file a complaint
charging such person with a handicapped parking infraction, or such person
shall be released from the obligation to appear as specified.
   (D)   The trial of any person for a handicapped parking infraction shall be
by the court without a jury. A person cited for a handicapped parking violation
may waive his or her right to trial.
   (E)   For any handicapped parking citation issued for a handicapped parking
infraction by reason of the failure of a vehicle to display a handicapped
parking permit issued, the complaint shall be dismissed, if, within seven
business days after the date of issuance of the citation, the person cited
files with the court the affidavit included on the citation, signed by a peace
officer certifying that the recipient is the lawful possessor in his or her own
right of a handicapped parking permit, and that the peace officer has
personally viewed the permit.
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 18-1741.01, 18-1741.04 and 18-1741.06
CHAPTER 72: TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
Schedule
      
I.   Truck routes
SCHEDULE I. TRUCK ROUTES.
   The following streets are designated as truck routes.
 
Route
Broad Street
Deming Street
Main Street
 
(Prior Code, § 5-102)
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   LEISURE AND RECREATION
      
91.   HEALTH AND SAFETY; NUISANCES
      
92.   ANIMALS
      
93.   FIRE PREVENTION AND PROTECTION
CHAPTER 90: LEISURE AND RECREATION
Section
Parks and Recreational Facilities
   
90.01   Operation and funding
   
90.02   Injury to property
Municipal Auditorium/Library
   
90.15   Ownership
   
90.16   Rentals
PARKS AND RECREATIONAL FACILITIES
§ 90.01 OPERATION AND FUNDING.
   (A)   If the village has already acquired or hereafter acquires land for
park purposes or recreational facilities or has already built or hereafter
builds swimming pools, recreational facilities or dams, the Board of Trustees
may each year make and levy a tax upon the taxable value of all the taxable
property in the village. The levy shall be collected and put into the Village
Treasury and shall constitute the Park and Recreation Fund of the village. The
funds so levied and collected shall be used for amusements, for laying out,
improving and beautifying such parks, for maintaining, improving, managing, and
beautifying such swimming pools, recreational facilities or dams and for the
payment of salaries and wages of persons employed in the performance of such
labor.
(Neb. RS 17-951)
   (B)   If the Board of Trustees creates a Board of Park Commissioners or
Board of Park and Recreation Commissioners, when such Board has been appointed
and qualified, all accounts against the Park Fund or Park and Recreation Fund,
as the case may be, shall be audited by such Board, and warrants against the
fund shall be drawn by the Chairperson of the Board, and warrants so drawn
shall be paid by the Village Clerk-Treasurer out of the fund.
(Neb. RS 17-952)
   (C)   (1)   Whether the title to real estate for parks, public grounds,
swimming pools or dams, either for recreational or conservational purposes,
shall be acquired by gift, devise or purchase as provided in Neb. RS 17-948,
the jurisdiction of the Board of Trustees or Park Board shall at once be
extended over such real estate; and the Board of Trustees or Park Board shall
have the power to enact bylaws, rules or ordinances for the protection and
preservation of any real estate acquired, and to provide rules and regulations
for the closing of the park or swimming pool, in whole or in part, to the
general public, and charge admission thereto during such closing, either by the
village or by any person, persons or corporation leasing the same. They may
provide suitable penalties for the violation of such bylaws, rules or
ordinances, and the police power of the village shall be at once extended over
the same.
(Neb. RS 17-949)
      (2)   The Park Board shall not enter into a contract of any nature that
involves an expenditure of funds, except for ordinary operating expenses,
unless the contract has been approved by resolution of the majority of the
members of the Board of Trustees prior to the contractual agreement.
Statutory reference:
   Levy limits, see Neb. RS 77-3442
   Parks and recreational facilities generally, see Neb. RS 17-948 through 17-
952
§ 90.02 INJURY TO PROPERTY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to maliciously or willfully cut down,
injure or destroy any tree, plant or shrub in any village park or recreational
facility. It shall be unlawful for any person to injure or destroy any sodded
or planted area or injure or destroy any building, structure, equipment, fence,
bench, table or any other property of any village park or recreational area. No
person shall commit any waste on or litter the village parks or other public
grounds.
Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Littering of public and private property, see Neb. RS 28-523
MUNICIPAL AUDITORIUM/LIBRARY
§ 90.15 OWNERSHIP.
   The municipality owns and manages the Municipal Auditorium/Library through
the Municipal Clerk-Treasurer. The governing body, for the purpose of defraying
the cost of the management, maintenance and improvements on the Municipal
Auditorium/Library may each year levy a tax not exceeding the maximum limit
prescribed by state law, on the taxable value of all the taxable property
within the municipality. The revenue from the tax shall be known as the
Auditorium Fund and shall include all gifts, grants, deeds of conveyance,
bequests or other valuable income-producing personal property and real estate
from any source for the purpose of endowing the Municipal Auditorium/Library.
The Auditorium Fund shall at all times be in the custody of the Municipal
Clerk-Treasurer. The Municipal Clerk-Treasurer shall have the power to hire and
supervise such employees as he or she may deem necessary and shall pass such
rules and regulations for the operation of the Auditorium/Library as may be
proper for its efficient management. All actions by the Municipal Clerk-
Treasurer shall be under the supervision and control of the governing body.
(Prior Code, § 3-701)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-953 through 17-955
§ 90.16 RENTALS.
   The Municipal Clerk-Treasurer may, for the purpose of defraying the expenses
involved in maintaining, improving, managing and beautifying the Auditorium/
Library, make a reasonable rental charge for the use by any person or
organization of the Auditorium/Library. The Clerk-Treasurer shall prescribe
rules and regulations for such rentals subject to the review of the governing
body. Rental rates may be structured for classes of persons and organizations
in a reasonable manner; provided, that nothing herein shall be construed to
permit or allow discrimination on the basis of race, creed, color or national
origin in the classification of persons and organizations for rental purposes.
(Prior Code, § 3-702)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-953
CHAPTER 91: HEALTH AND SAFETY; NUISANCES
Section
General Provisions
   
91.01   Health regulations
   
91.02   County Board of Health
Nuisances
   
91.15   Definition
   
91.16   Abatement procedure
   
91.17   Jurisdiction
   
91.18   Dead or diseased trees
   
91.19   Weeds; litter; stagnant water
 
   
91.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 91.01 HEALTH REGULATIONS.
   For the purpose of promoting the health and safety of the residents of the
village, the Board of Health shall, from time to time, adopt such rules and
regulations relative thereto and shall make such inspections, prescribe such
penalties and make such reports as may be necessary toward that purpose.
Statutory reference:
   Authority to regulate, see Neb. RS 17-208
§ 91.02 COUNTY BOARD OF HEALTH.
   It shall be the duty of the Board of Health to work closely with the County
Health Board in protecting the health and welfare of the residents of the
village.
NUISANCES
§ 91.15 DEFINITION.
   (A)   General definition. For the purpose of this subchapter, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      NUISANCE. Consists in doing any unlawful act, or omitting to perform a
duty, or suffering or permitting any condition or thing to be or exist, which
act, omission, condition or thing either:
         (a)   Injures or endangers the comfort, repose, health or safety of
others;
         (b)   Offends decency;
         (c)   Is offensive to the senses;
         (d)   Unlawfully interferes with, obstructs, tends to obstruct or
renders dangerous for passage any stream, public park, parkway, square, street
or highway in the village;
         (e)   In any way renders other persons insecure in life or the use of
property; or
         (f)   Essentially interferes with the comfortable enjoyment of life
and property or tends to depreciate the value of the property of others.
   (B)   Specific definition. The maintaining, using, placing, depositing,
leaving or permitting of any of the following specific acts, omissions, places,
conditions and things are hereby declared to be NUISANCES:
      (1)   Any odorous, putrid, unsound or unwholesome grain, meat, hides,
skins, feathers, vegetable matter or the whole or any part of any dead animal,
fish or fowl;
      (2)   Privies, vaults, cesspools, dumps, pits or like places which are
not securely protected from flies or rats, or which are foul or malodorous;
      (3)   Filthy, littered or trash-covered cellars, houseyards, barnyards,
stableyards, factory yards, mill yards or vacant areas in the rear of stores,
granaries, vacant lots, houses, buildings or premises;
      (4)   Animal manure in any quantity which is not securely protected from
flies and the elements, or which is kept or handled in violation of any
ordinance of the village;
      (5)   Liquid household waste, human excreta, garbage, butcher’s trimmings
and offal, parts of fish or any waste vegetable or animal matter in any
quantity; provided, that nothing herein contained shall prevent the temporary
retention of waste in receptacles in a manner provided by the Health Officer of
the village, nor the dumping of non-putrefying waste in a place and manner
approved by the Health Officer;
      (6)   Tin cans, bottles, glass, cans, ashes, small pieces of scrap iron,
wire metal articles, bric-a-brac, broken stone or cement, broken crockery,
broken glass, broken plaster and all trash or abandoned material, unless the
same be kept in covered bins or galvanized iron receptacles;
      (7)   Trash, litter, rags, accumulations of barrels, boxes, crates,
packing crates, mattresses, bedding, excelsior, packing hay, straw or other
packing material, lumber not neatly piled, scrap iron, tin or other metal not
neatly piled, old automobiles or parts thereof, or any other waste materials
when any of the articles or materials create a condition in which flies or rats
may breed or multiply, or which may be a fire danger, or which are so unsightly
as to depreciate property values in the vicinity thereof;
      (8)   Any unsightly building, billboard or other structure, or any old,
abandoned or partially destroyed building or structure or any building or
structure commenced and left unfinished, which buildings, billboards or other
structures are either a fire hazard, a menace to the public health or safety,
or are so unsightly as to depreciate the value of property in the vicinity
thereof;
      (9)   All places used or maintained as junk yards, or dumping grounds, or
for the wrecking and disassembling of automobiles, trucks, tractors or
machinery of any kind, or for the storing or leaving of worn-out, wrecked or
abandoned automobiles, trucks, tractors or machinery of any kind, or of any of
the parts thereof, or for the storing or leaving of any machinery or equipment
used by contractors or builders or by other persons, which places are kept or
maintained so as to essentially interfere with the comfortable enjoyment of
life or property by others, or which are so unsightly as to tend to depreciate
property values in the vicinity thereof;
      (10)   Stagnant water permitted or maintained on any lot or piece of
ground;
      (11)   Stockyards, granaries, mills, pig pens, cattle pens, chicken pens
or any other place, building or enclosure in which animals or fowl of any kind
are confined or on which is stored tankage or any other animal or vegetable
matter, or on which any animal or vegetable matter, including grain, is being
processed, when the places in which the animals are confined, or the premises
on which the vegetable or animal matter is located, are maintained and kept in
such a manner that foul and noxious odors are permitted to emanate therefrom to
the annoyance of inhabitants of the village or are maintained and kept in such
a manner as to be injurious to the public health; or
      (12)   All other things specifically designated as nuisances elsewhere in
this code.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 91.16 ABATEMENT PROCEDURE.
   (A)   The owner or occupant of any real estate within the corporate limits
or extraterritorial zoning jurisdiction of the village shall keep such real
estate free of nuisances. Except to the extent that conflicting procedures are
otherwise provided, the procedures in this section shall apply to the abatement
of nuisances.
   (B)   Upon determination by the Board of Health or designated official that
the owner or occupant of any such real estate has failed to keep the real
estate free of nuisances, notice to abate and remove such nuisance and notice
of the right to a hearing before the Board of Trustees and the manner in which
it may be requested shall be given to each owner, or the owner’s duly
authorized agent, and to the occupant, if any, by personal service or by
certified mail. If notice by personal service or certified mail is
unsuccessful, notice shall be given by publication in a newspaper of general
circulation in the village or by conspicuously posting the notice on the real
estate upon which the nuisance is to be abated and removed. The notice shall
describe the condition as found by the Board of Health or designated official
and state that the condition has been declared a nuisance and must be remedied
at once.
   (C)   If, within five days after receipt of such notice or publication or
posting, whichever is applicable, the owner or occupant of the real estate does
not request a hearing with the village or fails to comply with the order to
abate and remove the nuisance, the village may have such work done.
   (D)   (1)   If, within five days after receipt of such notice or publication
or posting, whichever is applicable, the owner or occupant requests in writing
a hearing with the Board of Trustees, the Board shall fix a time and place at
which a hearing will be held. Notice of the hearing shall be given by personal
service or certified mail and require the owner or occupant to appear before
the Board to show cause why such condition should not be found to be a nuisance
and remedied. The notice shall be given not less than seven nor more than 14
days before the time of the hearing.
      (2)   Upon the date fixed for the hearing and pursuant to the notice, the
Board shall hear all objections made by the owner or occupant and shall hear
evidence submitted by the Board of Health or designated official.
         (a)   If, after consideration of all the evidence, the Board of
Trustees finds that the condition is a nuisance, it shall by resolution order
and direct the owner or occupant to remedy the nuisance at once.
         (b)   If the owner or occupant refuses or neglects to promptly comply
with the order to abate and remove the nuisance, the Board may have such work
done.
   (E)   The costs and expenses of any such work shall be paid by the owner. If
unpaid for two months after such work is done, the village may either:
      (1)   Levy and assess the costs and expenses of the work upon the real
estate so benefited as a special assessment in the same manner as other special
assessments for improvements are levied and assessed; or
      (2)   Recover in a civil action the costs and expenses of the work upon
the real estate and the adjoining streets and alleys.
Statutory reference:
   Authority to regulate and abate nuisances, see Neb. RS 18-1720
   Nuisances prohibited, see Neb. RS 28-1321
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-563
   Zoning jurisdiction, see Neb. RS 17-1001
§ 91.17 JURISDICTION.
   The Chairperson is directed to enforce this municipal code against all
nuisances. The jurisdiction of the Chairperson and court shall extend to, and
the territorial application of this chapter shall include, all territory
adjacent to the limits of the municipality within one mile thereof and all
territory within the corporate limits.
(Prior Code, § 4-304)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 18-1720
§ 91.18 DEAD OR DISEASED TREES.
   (A)   (1)   It is hereby declared a nuisance for a property owner to permit,
allow or maintain any dead or diseased trees within the right-of-way of streets
within the corporate limits of the village or within the extraterritorial
zoning jurisdiction.
      (2)   Notice to abate and remove such nuisance and notice of the right to
a hearing and the manner in which it may be requested shall be given to each
owner, or owner’s duly authorized agent, and to the occupant, if any. The
village shall establish the method of notice by ordinance. If notice is given
by first-class mail, such mail shall be conspicuously marked as to its
importance. Within five days after receipt of such notice, the owner or
occupant of the lot or piece of ground may request a hearing with the village
to appeal the decision to abate or remove the nuisance by filing a written
appeal with the office of the Village Clerk-Treasurer. A hearing on the appeal
shall be held within 14 days after the filing of the appeal and shall be
conducted by an elected or appointed officer as designated in the ordinance.
The hearing officer shall render a decision on the appeal within five business
days after the conclusion of the hearing. If the appeal fails, the village may
have the work done to abate and remove the dead or diseased trees. If the owner
or occupant of the lot or piece of ground does not request a hearing with the
village within five days after receipt of such notice or fails to comply with
the order to abate and remove the nuisance, the village may have such work
done. The village may levy and assess all or any portion of the costs and
expenses of the work upon the lot or piece of ground so benefited as a special
assessment.
(Neb. RS 17-555)
   (B)   It is hereby declared a nuisance for a property owner to permit, allow
or maintain any dead or diseased trees on private property within the corporate
limits of the village or within its one-mile zoning jurisdiction. The
provisions in division (A)(2) above shall apply to such nuisances. For the
purpose of carrying out the provisions of this section, the village police
shall have the authority to enter upon private property to inspect the trees
thereon.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 91.19 WEEDS; LITTER; STAGNANT WATER.
   (A)   Lots or pieces of ground within the village or within its
extraterritorial zoning jurisdiction shall be drained or filled so as to
prevent stagnant water or any other nuisance accumulating thereon.
   (B)   The owner or occupant of any lot or piece of ground within the village
or within its extraterritorial zoning jurisdiction shall keep the lot or piece
of ground and the adjoining streets and alleys free of any growth of 12 inches
or more in height of weeds, grasses or worthless vegetation.
   (C)   The throwing, depositing or accumulation of litter on any lot or piece
of ground within the village or within its one-mile zoning jurisdiction is
prohibited.
   (D)   It is hereby declared to be a nuisance to permit or maintain any
growth of 12 inches or more in height of weeds, grasses or worthless vegetation
on any lot or piece of ground within the village or within its one-mile zoning
jurisdiction or on the adjoining streets or alleys or to litter or cause litter
to be deposited or remain thereon except in proper receptacles.
   (E)   Any owner or occupant of a lot or piece of ground shall, upon
conviction of violating this section, be guilty of an offense.
   (F)   (1)   Notice to abate and remove such nuisance shall be given to each
owner or owner’s duly authorized agent and to the occupant, if any. The village
shall establish the method of notice by ordinance. If notice is given by first-
class mail, such mail shall be conspicuously marked as to its importance.
Within five days after receipt of such notice, the owner or occupant of the lot
or piece of ground may request a hearing with the village to appeal the
decision to abate or remove a nuisance by filing a written appeal with the
office of the Village Clerk-Treasurer. A hearing on the appeal shall be held
within 14 days after the filing of the appeal and shall be conducted by an
elected or appointed officer as designated in the ordinance. The hearing
officer shall render a decision on the appeal within five business days after
the conclusion of the hearing. If the appeal fails, the village may have such
work done. Within five days after receipt of such notice, if the owner or
occupant of the lot or piece of ground does not request a hearing with the
village or fails to comply with the order to abate and remove the nuisance, the
village may have such work done.
      (2)   The costs and expenses of any such work shall be paid by the owner.
If unpaid for two months after such work is done, the village may either:
         (a)   Levy and assess the costs and expenses of the work upon the lot
or piece of ground so benefited as a special assessment in the same manner as
other special assessments for improvements are levied and assessed; or
         (b)   Recover in a civil action the costs and expenses of the work
upon the lot or piece of ground and the adjoining streets and alleys.
   (G)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      LITTER. Includes, but is not limited to:
         (a)   Trash, rubbish, refuse, garbage, paper, rags and ashes;
         (b)   Wood, plaster, cement, brick or stone building rubble;
         (c)   Grass, leaves and worthless vegetation, except when used as
ground mulch or in a compost pile;
         (d)   Dead animals; and
         (e)   Any machine or machines, vehicle or vehicles, or parts of a
machine or vehicle which have lost their identity, character, utility or
serviceability as such through deterioration, dismantling or the ravages of
time, are inoperative or unable to perform their intended functions, or are
cast off, discarded or thrown away or left as waste, wreckage or junk.
      WEEDS. Includes, but is not limited to: bindweed (Convolvulus arvensis),
puncture vine (Tribulus terrestris), leafy spurge (Euphorbia esula), Canada
thistle (Cirsium arvense), perennial peppergrass (Lepidium draba), Russian
knapweed (Centaurea picris), Johnson grass (Sorghum halepense), nodding or musk
thistle, quack grass (Agropyron repens), perennial sow thistle (Sonchus
arvensis), horse nettle (Solanum carolinense), bull thistle (Cirsium
lanceolatum), buckthorn (Rhamnus sp.) (tourn), hemp plant (Cannabis sativa) and
ragweed (Ambrosiaceae).
(Neb. RS 17-563) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 91.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who shall violate or refuse to comply with the enforcement
of any of the provisions of this chapter, set forth at full length herein or
incorporated by reference, shall be deemed guilty of an offense and, upon
conviction thereof, shall be fined not more than $100 for each offense. A new
violation shall be deemed to have been committed every 24 hours of such failure
to comply.
(Prior Code, § 4-401)
   (B)   (1)   Whenever a nuisance exists as defined in this chapter, the
municipality may proceed by a suit in equity to enjoin and abate the same, in
the manner provided by law.
      (2)   Whenever, in any action, it is established that a nuisance exists,
the court may together with the fine or penalty imposed, enter an order of
abatement as a part of the judgment in the case.
(Prior Code, § 4-402)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 18-1720 and 18-1722
CHAPTER 92: ANIMALS
Section
General Provisions
   
92.01   Definitions
   
92.02   Running at large; tethering
   
92.03   Killing, poisoning and injuring
   
92.04   Interference with police
   
92.05   Setback and survey requirement
Dogs
   
92.20   License and tax required; exemption; tags
   
92.21   Dog guides, hearing aid dogs and service dogs exempt from license tax
   
92.22   Collar or harness required
   
92.23   Removal of collar, harness or tags
   
92.24   Liability of owner
   
92.25   Barking and chasing; complaints
   
92.26   Dangerous dogs
Rabies
   
92.40   Proclamation of danger
 
   
92.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 92.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ANIMAL. Any vertebrate member of the animal kingdom other than an uncaptured
wild creature.
   ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER. Any person authorized by law or employed or
appointed for the purpose of aiding in the enforcement of this chapter or any
other law or ordinance relating to the licensing, control, seizure or
impoundment of animals.
   OWNER. Any person who owns, possesses, keeps, harbors or has charge, custody
or control of an animal or permits an animal to habitually remain or be lodged
or fed within his or her house, store, building, enclosure, yard, lot, grounds
or premises. OWNER does not include any veterinarian or kennel operator
temporarily maintaining on his or her premises an animal owned by another
person for not more than 30 days.
   RUN AT LARGE. Not being under the actual control of the owner by means of:
      (1)   A leash, cord, chain or other suitable means of physical restraint
which is securely fastened or tethered in a manner sufficient to keep the
animal on the premises where tethered;
      (2)   A leash, cord, chain or other suitable means of physical restraint
of six feet or less in length physically held by the owner;
      (3)   Being confined within a cage, receptacle, enclosed vehicle, fenced
enclosure or shelter; or
      (4)   Being within the real property limits of the owner and in the
owner’s presence and under direct and effective voice or other control.
§ 92.02 RUNNING AT LARGE; TETHERING.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the owner of any cow, hog, horse, mule,
sheep, goat, dog, chicken, turkey, goose or other animal, except a cat, to
permit the animal to run at large at any time on any of the public ways and
property or the property of another in the village, or to be tethered or staked
out in such a manner so as to allow the animal to reach or pass into any public
way or property or any property of another.
   (B)   The owner of a cat may permit the cat to run at large within the
corporate limits subject to any restrictions or prohibitions otherwise imposed
by the Board of Trustees.
   (C)   Any animal found running at large or tethered or staked out in
violation of this section is a public nuisance and may be impounded or
destroyed as provided in this chapter.
   (D)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to permit anyone to own an
animal in the corporate limits of the village that is prohibited by the Board
of Trustees.
Penalty, see §
92.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority to regulate, see Neb. RS 17-526 and 17-547
   Fine for permitting collarless dog to run at large, see Neb. RS 54-607
§ 92.03 KILLING, POISONING AND INJURING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to kill, administer, or cause to be
administered, poison of any sort to, or in any manner injure, maim or destroy,
or attempt to injure, maim or destroy, any animal or to place any poison or
poisoned food where it is accessible to an animal, except that:
   (A)   This section shall not apply to any law enforcement officer or animal
control officer acting within his or her power and duty;
   (B)   This section shall not apply if the animal is vicious, dangerous or
showing characteristics of rabies and cannot be captured without danger to the
persons attempting to effect a capture of the animal; and
   (C)   Any owner of a dog that he or she wishes to be destroyed may place the
dog in an animal pound or shelter or with a licensed veterinarian to be
humanely destroyed and disposed of according to the provisions in this chapter
or other provisions of law.
Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.04 INTERFERENCE WITH POLICE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to hinder, delay or interfere with any
police officer or animal control officer who is performing any duty enjoined
upon that person by the provisions of this chapter or to break open, or in any
manner directly or indirectly aid, counsel or advise the breaking open, of the
animal shelter, any ambulance wagon or any other vehicle used for the
collecting or conveying of animals to the shelter.
Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.05 SETBACK AND SURVEY REQUIREMENT.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any individual to keep an animal (other than
dogs, cats and other common household pets) in a confined area closer than 70
feet to a neighboring residence, whether said residence is inhabited or not and
said location has been surveyed by a licensed surveyor and said survey recorded
at the appropriate county office before such animals can be located on said
premises.
   (B)   Said setback requirement shall not apply to residences located on the
property housing said animals as long as the residence owner and animal owner
are the same.
(Ord. 18-3, passed 12-11-2018) Penalty, see §
92.99
DOGS
§ 92.20 LICENSE AND TAX REQUIRED; EXEMPTION; TAGS.
   (A)   (1)   Any owner of a dog over the age of six months within the village
shall, within 30 days after acquisition of the dog, acquire a license for the
dog annually by or before May 1 of each year. Licenses shall be issued by the
Village Clerk-Treasurer upon payment of a license tax in the amount established
by the Board of Trustees, plus the $1.25 fee required under Neb. RS 54-603(3).
      (2)   It shall be unlawful for the owner of a dog to wrongfully and
knowingly license an unspayed female dog as a male or spayed female dog if the
Board has established different license taxes for such dogs.
   (B)   The tax shall be delinquent from and after May 10. The owner of any
dog brought into or harbored within the corporate limits subsequent to May 1 of
any year shall be liable for payment of the dog tax, and such tax shall be
delinquent if not paid within ten days thereafter. The license shall not be
transferable, and no refund will be allowed in case of death, sale or other
disposition of the licensed dog.
   (C)   The owner shall state, at the time the application is made and upon
printed forms provided for such purpose, his or her name and address and the
name, breed, color, and sex of each dog owned by him or her. A certificate of
rabies vaccination, effective for the ensuing year of the license, shall be
presented when application for a license is made, and no license or tag shall
be issued until the certificate is shown.
   (D)   Every service animal shall be licensed as required by this section,
but no license tax shall be charged. Upon the retirement or discontinuance of
the animal as a service animal, the owner of the animal shall be liable for the
payment of the required license tax.
(Neb. RS 54-603)
   (E)   (1)   Upon payment of the license tax, the Clerk-Treasurer shall issue
to the owner of the dog a license certificate and a metallic tag, which shall
be valid until April 30 following such licensing. The Clerk-Treasurer shall
issue tags of a suitable design that are different in appearance each year.
      (2)   The metallic tag and the rabies tag shall be properly attached to
the collar or harness of the dog. It shall be unlawful for the owner of any dog
to permit or allow such dog to wear any licensing identification other than the
metallic tag issued by the Clerk-Treasurer.
      (3)   If a license tag is lost, upon satisfactory evidence that the
original tag was issued in accordance with the provisions of this section, the
Clerk-Treasurer shall issue a duplicate or new tag for the balance of the year
for which the license tax has been paid and shall charge and collect a fee
established by the Board of Trustees for each duplicate or new tag so issued.
   (F)   All license taxes, fees, and other collections shall be credited to
the General Fund of the village, except as otherwise provided by Neb. RS 54-
603.
Penalty, see §
92.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority to impose license tax, require rabies certificate, and destroy
unlicensed dogs, see Neb. RS 17-526, 54-603, and 71-4412
§ 92.21 DOG GUIDES, HEARING AID DOGS AND SERVICE DOGS EXEMPT FROM LICENSE TAX.
   (A)   Every dog guide for a blind or visually impaired person, hearing aid
dog for a deaf or hearing-impaired person and service dog for a physically
limited person shall be licensed as required by the municipal code, but no
license tax shall be charged upon a showing by the owner that the dog is a
graduate of a recognized training school for dog guides, hearing aid dogs or
service dogs.
   (B)   Upon the retirement or discontinuance of the dog as a dog guide,
hearing aid dog or service dog, the owner of the dog shall be liable for the
payment of the required license tax.
(Prior Code, § 6-102)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 54-603
§ 92.22 COLLAR OR HARNESS REQUIRED.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of every owner of a dog to securely place upon
the neck of the dog a good and sufficient collar with a metallic plate thereon.
The plate shall be plainly inscribed with the name of the owner.
(Neb. RS 54-605)
   (B)   The owner of a dog may use a harness instead of a collar as long as
the harness meets all other requirements of division (A) above.
Penalty, see §
92.99 
§ 92.23 REMOVAL OF COLLAR, HARNESS OR TAGS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to remove, or cause to be removed, the
collar, harness, metallic license tag or rabies tag from any dog without the
consent of the owner of the dog.
Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.24 LIABILITY OF OWNER.
   It shall be unlawful for the owner to allow a dog to injure or destroy any
real or personal property of any description belonging to another person. The
owner of the dog, in addition to the usual judgment upon conviction, may be
made to be liable to the person injured in an amount equal to the value of the
damage sustained.
Penalty, see §
92.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority to guard against injuries or annoyances, see Neb. RS 17-526
   Statutory liability for damages, see Neb. RS 54-601, 56-602 and 54-606
§ 92.25 BARKING AND CHASING; COMPLAINTS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the owner to allow a dog to annoy or disturb
any neighborhood or person by loud, continued or frequent barking, howling or
yelping or to habitually bark at or chase pedestrians, drivers or owners of
horses or vehicles while they are on any public sidewalks, streets or alleys in
the village.
   (B)   Upon the written complaint of two or more affected persons from
different households, filed within any 30-day period with the Village Clerk-
Treasurer or animal control officer, that any dog owned by the person named in
the complaint is an annoyance or disturbance, or otherwise violates the
provisions of this section, the village police or animal control officer shall
investigate the complaint, and if, in his or her opinion, the situation
warrants, notify the owner to silence and restrain the dog.
   (C)   The provisions of this section shall not be construed to apply to any
village animal shelter.
Penalty, see §
92.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority to guard against annoyances, see Neb. RS 17-526
§ 92.26 DANGEROUS DOGS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      ANIMAL CONTROL AUTHORITY. An entity authorized to enforce the animal
control laws of the village and includes any local law enforcement agency or
other agency designated by the village to enforce the animal control laws of
the village.
      ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER. Any individual employed, appointed or authorized
by an animal control authority for the purpose of aiding in the enforcement of
this section or any other law or ordinance relating to the licensing of
animals, control of animals or seizure and impoundment of animals, and includes
any state or local law enforcement or other employee whose duties, in whole or
in part, include assignments that involve the seizure and impoundment of any
animal.
      DANGEROUS DOG.
         (a)   Any dog that, according to the records of the animal control
authority:
            1.   Has killed a human being;
            2.   Has inflicted injury on a human being that requires medical
treatment;
            3.   Has killed a domestic animal without provocation; or
            4.   Has been previously determined to be a potentially dangerous
dog by an animal control authority, the owner has received notice of such
determination from an animal control authority or an animal control officer and
the dog inflicts an injury on a human being that does not require medical
treatment, injures a domestic animal or threatens the safety of humans or
domestic animals.
         (b)   A dog shall not be defined as a DANGEROUS DOG if the individual
was tormenting, abusing or assaulting the dog at the time of the injury or has,
in the past, been observed or reported to have tormented, abused or assaulted
the dog.
         (c)   A dog shall not be defined as a DANGEROUS DOG if the injury,
damage or threat was sustained by an individual who, at the time, was
committing a willful trespass as defined in Neb. RS 20-203, 28-520 or 28-521,
was committing any other tort upon the property of the owner of the dog, was
tormenting, abusing or assaulting the dog, or has, in the past, been observed
or reported to have tormented, abused or assaulted the dog, or was committing
or attempting to commit a crime.
         (d)   A dog shall not be defined as a DANGEROUS DOG if the dog is a
police animal as defined in Neb. RS 28-1008.
      DOMESTIC ANIMAL. A cat, a dog or livestock. Livestock includes buffalo,
deer, antelope, fowl and any other animal in any zoo, wildlife park, refuge,
wildlife area or nature center intended to be on exhibit.
      MEDICAL TREATMENT. Treatment administered by a physician or other
licensed health care professional that results in sutures or surgery or
treatment for one or more broken bones.
      OWNER. Any person, firm, corporation, organization, political subdivision
or department possessing, harboring, keeping or having control or custody of a
dog.
      POTENTIALLY DANGEROUS DOG.
         (a)   Any dog that, when unprovoked:
            1.   Inflicts an injury on a human being that does not require
medical treatment;
            2.   Injures a domestic animal; or
            3.   Chases or approaches a person upon streets, sidewalks or any
public grounds in a menacing fashion or apparent attitude of attack.
         (b)   Any specific dog with a known propensity, tendency or
disposition to attack when unprovoked, to cause injury or to threaten the
safety of humans or domestic animals.
(Neb. RS 54-617)
   (B)   (1)   A dangerous dog that has been declared as such shall be spayed
or neutered and implanted with a microchip identification number by a licensed
veterinarian within 30 days after such declaration. The cost of both procedures
is the responsibility of the owner of the dangerous dog. Written proof of both
procedures and the microchip identification number shall be provided to the
animal control authority after the procedures are completed.
      (2)   No owner of a dangerous dog shall permit the dog to go beyond the
property of the owner unless the dog is restrained securely by a chain or
leash.
      (3)   Except as provided in division (B)(4) below or for a reasonable
veterinary purpose, no owner of a dangerous dog shall transport such dog or
permit such dog to be transported to another county, city or village in this
state.
      (4)   An owner of a dangerous dog may transport such dog or permit such
dog to be transported to another county, city or village in this state for the
purpose of permanent relocation of the owner if the owner has obtained written
permission prior to such relocation from the animal control authority of the
county, city or village in which the owner resides and from the county, city or
village in which the owner will reside. Each animal control authority may grant
such permission based upon a reasonable evaluation of both the owner and the
dog, including if the owner has complied with the laws of this state and of the
county, city or village in which he or she resides with regards to dangerous
dogs after the dog was declared dangerous. An animal control authority shall
not grant permission under this section if the county, city or village has an
ordinance or resolution prohibiting the relocation of dangerous dogs. After the
permanent relocation, the animal control authority of the county, city or
village in which the owner resides shall monitor the owner and such dog for a
period of at least 30 days, but not to exceed 90 days, to ensure the owner’s
compliance with the laws of this state and of such county, city or village with
regards to dangerous dogs. Nothing in this division (B)(4) shall permit the
rescindment of the declaration of dangerous dog.
(Neb. RS 54-618)
   (C)   (1)   No person, firm, partnership, limited liability company or
corporation shall own, keep or harbor, or allow to be in or on any premises
occupied by him, her or it or under his, her or its charge or control, any
dangerous dog without such dog being confined so as to protect the public from
injury.
      (2)   While unattended on the owner’s property, a dangerous dog shall be
securely confined, in a humane manner, indoors or in a securely enclosed and
locked pen or structure suitably designed to prevent the entry of young
children and to prevent the dog from escaping. The pen or structure shall have
secure sides and a secure top. If the pen or structure has no bottom secured to
the sides, the sides shall be embedded into the ground at least one foot. The
pen or structure shall also protect the dog from the elements. The pen or
structure shall be at least ten feet from any property line of the owner. The
owner of a dangerous dog shall post warning signs on the property where the dog
is kept that are clearly visible from all areas of public access and that
inform persons that a dangerous dog is on the property. Each warning sign shall
be not less than ten inches by 12 inches and shall contain the words “warning”
and “dangerous animal” in high-contrast lettering at least three inches high on
a black background.
(Neb. RS 54-619)
   (D)   (1)   Any dangerous dog may be immediately confiscated by an animal
control officer if the owner is in violation of this section. The owner shall
be responsible for the reasonable costs incurred by the animal control
authority for the care of a dangerous dog confiscated by an animal control
officer or for the destruction of any dangerous dog if the action by the animal
control authority is pursuant to law and if the owner violated this section.
(Neb. RS 54-620)
      (2)   In addition to any other penalty, a court may order the animal
control authority to dispose of a dangerous dog in an expeditious and humane
manner.
(Neb. RS 54-621)
   (E)   If a dangerous dog of an owner with a prior conviction under this
section attacks or bites a human being or domestic animal, in addition to any
other penalty, the dangerous dog shall be immediately confiscated by an animal
control authority, placed in quarantine for the proper length of time and
thereafter destroyed in an expeditious and humane manner.
(Neb. RS 54-623)
Penalty, see §
92.99
Statutory reference:
   Owner felony liability; serious bodily injury second offense, see Neb. RS
54-622.01
   Prior conviction; ownership of dangerous dog prohibited for ten years after,
see Neb. RS 54-623
RABIES
§ 92.40 PROCLAMATION OF DANGER.
   Whenever, in its opinion, the danger to the public safety from a species of
rabid animals is great or imminent, the Board of Trustees shall issue a
proclamation ordering all owners of any such species to muzzle the animal or to
confine it for a period of not less than 30 days nor more than 90 days from the
date of the proclamation or until the danger is passed. The animal may be
harbored by any good and sufficient means in a house, garage or yard on the
premises on which the owner may reside. Upon issuance of a proclamation, all
owners of any such species shall muzzle or confine the animal as provided in
this section.
Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who shall violate or refuse to comply with the enforcement
of any of the provisions of this chapter, set forth at full length herein or
incorporated by reference, shall be deemed guilty of an offense and, upon
conviction thereof, shall be fined not more than $100 for each offense. A new
violation shall be deemed to have been committed every 24 hours of such failure
to comply.
(Prior Code, § 6-401)
   (B)   (1)   Whenever a nuisance exists as defined in this code, the
municipality may proceed by a suit in equity to enjoin and abate the same, in
the manner provided by law.
      (2)   Whenever, in any action, it is established that a nuisance exists,
the court may, together with the fine or penalty imposed, enter an order of
abatement as a part of the judgment in the case.
(Prior Code, § 6-402)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 18-1720 and 18-1722
CHAPTER 93: FIRE PREVENTION AND PROTECTION
Section
   
93.01   Open burning ban
 
   
93.99   Penalty
§ 93.01 OPEN BURNING BAN.
   (A)   There shall be a statewide open burning ban on all bonfires, outdoor
rubbish fires, and fires for the purpose of clearing land. The Fire Chief may
waive an open burning ban issued under the local fire department’s jurisdiction
by issuing an open burning permit to a person requesting permission to conduct
open burning. The permit issued by the Fire Chief shall at a minimum contain
the name and telephone number of the landowner, the burn location, the date and
beginning and ending time of the burn, a description of the material to be
burned, and the name and telephone number of the person responsible for the
burn. The local fire department may have additional requirements for a burn to
be permitted. The permit shall contain the signature, written or electronic, of
the Fire Chief and on a form provided by the State Fire Marshal.
   (B)   The Fire Chief may waive the open burning ban in the local fire
department’s jurisdiction when conditions are acceptable to the Fire Chief.
Anyone intending to burn in such jurisdiction when the open burning ban has
been waived must notify the Fire Chief of his or her intention to burn prior to
starting the burn. It shall be unlawful for any person to set fire to, burn or
cause to be burned any garbage, animal matter or vegetable matter. Fires set
while in possession of a burning permit or at a time the open burning ban has
been waived shall at all times be attended by the person setting the fire, and
said fire shall be located at least 20 feet from any building.
(Prior Code, § 7-101) Penalty, see §
93.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 81-520.01
§ 93.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who shall violate or refuse to comply with the enforcement of any
of the provisions of this chapter, set forth at full length herein or
incorporated by reference, shall be deemed guilty of an offense and, upon
conviction thereof, shall be fined not more than $100 for each offense. A new
violation shall be deemed to have been committed every 24 hours of such failure
to comply.
(Prior Code, § 7-201)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   BUSINESS LICENSING
      
111.   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
CHAPTER 110: BUSINESS LICENSING
Section
   
110.01   Occupation tax amounts
§ 110.01 OCCUPATION TAX AMOUNTS.
   For the purpose of raising revenue, an occupation tax is levied on the
following businesses:
   (A)   Class A liquor license: $10 per year;
   (B)   Class C liquor license: $300 per year; and
   (C)   Class D liquor license: $50 per year.
(Prior Code, § 10-301)
CHAPTER 111: ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
Section
General Provisions
   
111.01   Definitions
   
111.02   Sale or gift to minor or mentally incompetent person prohibited
   
111.03   Consumption in public places or places open to the public;
restrictions
   
111.04   Removal of intoxicated persons from public or quasi-public property
Licenses Required
   
111.15   Manufacture, sale, delivery and possession; general prohibitions;
exceptions
   
111.16   Acquisition and possession; restrictions
   
111.17   Licensee requirements
   
111.18   Licenses; village powers and duties
   
111.19   Licensed premises; inspections
   
111.20   License renewal; village powers and duties
   
111.21   Catering licenses
   
111.22   Display of license
   
111.23   Owner of premises or agent; liability
   
111.24   Licensee; liability for acts of officer, agent or employee
   
111.25   Citizen complaints
Retail Establishments
   
111.40   Location
   
111.41   Access to dwellings
   
111.42   Sanitary conditions
   
111.43   Hours of sale
   
111.44   Credit sales prohibited
   
111.45   Original package
   
111.46   Keg sales; requirements; prohibited acts
   
111.47   Spiking beer
 
   
111.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 111.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the definitions found in Neb. RS 53-103.01
through 53-103.51 shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires
a different meaning.
   STATE LIQUOR CONTROL ACT. See Neb. RS 53-101 et seq.
§ 111.02 SALE OR GIFT TO MINOR OR MENTALLY INCOMPETENT PERSON PROHIBITED.
   No person shall sell, furnish, give away, dispose of, exchange or deliver,
or permit the sale, gift or procuring of, any alcoholic liquors to or for any
minor or to any person who is mentally incompetent.
(Neb. RS 53-180) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.03 CONSUMPTION IN PUBLIC PLACES OR PLACES OPEN TO THE PUBLIC;
RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   Except when the State Liquor Control Commission has issued a license
as provided in Neb. RS 53-186(2) or as provided in Neb. RS 60-6,211.08, it is
unlawful for any person to consume alcoholic liquor upon property owned or
controlled by the state or any governmental subdivision thereof unless
authorized by the governing bodies having jurisdiction over such property.
(Neb. RS 53-186)
   (B)   It is unlawful for any person owning, operating, managing or
conducting any bottle club, dance hall, restaurant, café or club or any place
open to the general public to permit or allow any person to consume alcoholic
liquor upon the premises except as permitted by a license issued for such
premises pursuant to the State Liquor Control Act. It is unlawful for any
person to consume alcoholic liquor in any bottle club, dance hall, restaurant,
café or club or any place open to the general public except as permitted by a
license issued for such premises pursuant to the Act. This division (B) does
not apply to a retail licensee while lawfully engaged in the catering of
alcoholic beverages or to limousines or buses operated under Neb. RS 60-
6,211.08.
(Neb. RS 53-186.01)
Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.04 REMOVAL OF INTOXICATED PERSONS FROM PUBLIC OR QUASI-PUBLIC PROPERTY.
   (A)   Any law enforcement officer with the power to arrest for traffic
violations may take a person who is intoxicated and, in the judgment of the
officer, dangerous to himself, herself or others, or who is otherwise
incapacitated, from any public or quasi-public property. An officer removing an
intoxicated person from public or quasi-public property shall make a reasonable
effort to take the intoxicated person to his or her home or to place the person
in any hospital, clinic or mental health substance use treatment center, or
with a medical doctor as may be necessary to preserve life or to prevent
injury. The effort at placement shall be deemed reasonable if the officer
contacts such facilities or doctor which have previously represented a
willingness to accept and treat such individuals and which regularly do accept
such individuals. If these efforts are unsuccessful or not feasible, the
officer may then place the intoxicated person in civil protective custody,
except civil protective custody shall be used only as long as is necessary to
preserve life or to prevent injury, and under no circumstances longer than 24
hours.
   (B)   The placement of the person in civil protective custody shall be
recorded at the facility or jail at which he or she is delivered and
communicated to his or her family or next of kin, if they can be located, or to
the person designated by the person taken into civil protective custody.
   (C)   A law enforcement officer who acts in compliance with this section
shall be deemed to be acting in the course of his or her official duty and
shall not be criminally or civilly liable for these actions.
   (D)   The taking of an individual into civil protective custody under this
section shall not be considered an arrest. No entry or other record shall be
made to indicate that the person has been arrested or charged with a crime.
   (E)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      MENTAL HEALTH SUBSTANCE USE TREATMENT. Has the same meaning as found in
Neb. RS 71-423.
      PUBLIC PROPERTY. Any public right-of-way, street, highway, alley, park or
other state, county or village-owned property.
      QUASI-PUBLIC PROPERTY. Private or publicly owned property utilized for
proprietary or business uses which invites patronage by the public or which
invites public ingress and egress.
(Neb. RS 53-1,121) Penalty, see §
111.99
LICENSES REQUIRED
§ 111.15 MANUFACTURE, SALE, DELIVERY AND POSSESSION; GENERAL PROHIBITIONS;
EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   No person shall manufacture, bottle, blend, sell, barter, transport,
deliver, furnish or possess any alcoholic liquor for beverage purposes except
as specifically provided in this chapter and the State Liquor Control Act.
   (B)   Nothing in this chapter shall prevent:
      (1)   The possession of alcoholic liquor legally obtained as provided in
this chapter or the Act for the personal use of the possessor and his or her
family or guests;
      (2)   The making, transport and delivery of wine, cider, beer, mead,
perry or other alcoholic liquor by a person from fruits, vegetables, honey or
grains, or the product thereof by simple fermentation and without distillation:
         (a)    If made solely for the use of the maker and his or her family
and guests if such alcoholic liquor is not sold or offered for sale; or
         (b)   If made without a permit for an exhibition, festival or tasting
competition, including exhibitions, festivals or tasting competitions that are
for nonprofit organizations such as fundraising events, legally conducted under
the Act, if such alcoholic liquor is not sold or offered for sale. Alcoholic
liquor served pursuant to this division (B)(2)(b) shall clearly be identified
as alcoholic liquor that was manufactured under an exception to the rules and
regulations of the Commission by signage, and the location of the manufacturer
shall be available upon request. Free or reduced admission to the exhibition,
festival or tasting competition shall not be considered a sale of the alcoholic
liquor.
      (3)   Any duly licensed practicing physician or dentist from possessing
or using alcoholic liquor in the strict practice of his or her profession, any
hospital or other institution caring for sick and diseased persons from
possessing and using alcoholic liquor for the treatment of bona fide patients
of that hospital or other institution or any drug store employing a licensed
pharmacist from possessing or using alcoholic liquor in the compounding of
prescriptions of licensed physicians;
      (4)   The possession and dispensation of alcoholic liquor by an
authorized representative of any religion, on the premises of a place of
worship, for the purpose of conducting any bona fide religious rite, ritual or
ceremony;
      (5)   Persons who are 16 years old or older from carrying alcoholic
liquor from licensed establishments when they are accompanied by a person not a
minor;
      (6)   Persons who are 16 years old or older from handling alcoholic
liquor containers and alcoholic liquor in the course of their employment;
      (7)   Persons who are 16 years old or older from removing and disposing
of alcoholic liquor containers for the convenience of the employer and
customers in the course of their employment;
      (8)   Persons who are 16 years old or older from completing transactions
for the sale of alcoholic liquor in the course of their employment if they are
not handling or serving alcoholic liquor; or
      (9)   Persons who are 19 years old or older from serving or selling
alcoholic liquor in the course of their employment.
(Neb. RS 53-168.06) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.16 ACQUISITION AND POSSESSION; RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to purchase, receive, acquire,
accept or possess any alcoholic liquor acquired from any other person other
than one duly licensed to handle alcoholic liquor under this chapter and the
State Liquor Control Act unless within specific exemptions or exceptions
provided in this chapter or the Act.
(Neb. RS 53-175)
   (B)   (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this section, it shall be
unlawful for any person to transport, import, bring, ship or cause to be
transported, imported, brought or shipped into this state for the personal use
of the possessor, his or her family or guests a quantity of alcoholic liquor in
excess of nine liters in any one calendar month.
      (2)   Division (B)(1) above does not apply to a person importing
alcoholic liquor from a holder of a retail direct sales shipping license or its
equivalent, which alcoholic liquor is for personal use or for use by such
person’s family or guests, if the total amount imported by such person in any
one calendar year does not exceed 108 liters.
(Neb. RS 53-194.03)
Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.17 LICENSEE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   No license shall be issued to:
      (1)   A person who is not a resident of this state, except in case of
railroad, airline, boat or special party bus licenses;
      (2)   A person who is not of good character and reputation in the
community in which he or she resides;
      (3)   A person who is not a resident of this state and legally able to
work in this state;
      (4)   A person who has been convicted of or has pleaded guilty to a
felony under the laws of this state, any other state or the United States;
      (5)   A person who has been convicted of or has pleaded guilty to any
Class I misdemeanor pursuant to Neb. RS Chapter 28, Article 3, 4, 7, 8, 10, 11
or 12, or any similar offense under a prior criminal statute or in another
state, except that any additional requirements imposed by this division (A)(5)
on May 18, 1983, shall not prevent any person holding a license on that date
from retaining or renewing that license if the conviction or plea occurred
prior to May 18, 1983;
      (6)   A person whose license issued under the State Liquor Control Act
has been revoked for cause;
      (7)   A person who, at the time of application for renewal of any license
issued under the Act, would not be eligible for that license upon initial
application;
      (8)   A partnership, unless one of the partners is a resident of this
state and unless all the members of that partnership are otherwise qualified to
obtain a license;
      (9)   A limited liability company, unless one of the members is a
resident of this state and unless all the members of that company are otherwise
qualified to obtain a license;
      (10)   A corporation, if any officer or director of the corporation or
any stockholder owning in the aggregate more than 25% of the stock of that
corporation would be ineligible to receive a license under this section for any
reason other than the reasons stated in divisions (A)(1) and (A)(3) above, or
if a manager of a corporate licensee would be ineligible to receive a license
under this section for any reason. This division (A)(10) shall not apply to
railroad licenses;
      (11)   A person whose place of business is conducted by a manager or
agent, unless that manager or agent possesses the same qualifications required
of the licensee;
      (12)   A person who does not own the premises for which a license is
sought or does not have a lease or combination of leases on the premises for
the full period for which the license is to be issued;
      (13)   Except as provided in this division (A), an applicant whose spouse
is ineligible under this section to receive and hold a liquor license. Such an
applicant shall become eligible for a liquor license only if the State Liquor
Control Commission finds from the evidence that the public interest will not be
infringed upon if the license is granted. It shall be prima facie evidence that
when a spouse is ineligible to receive a liquor license, the applicant is also
ineligible to receive a liquor license. This prima facie evidence shall be
overcome if it is shown to the satisfaction of the Commission:
            (a)   The licensed business will be the sole property of the
applicant; and
            (b)   The licensed premises will be properly operated.
      (14)   A person seeking a license for premises which do not meet the
standards for fire safety as established by the State Fire Marshal;
      (15)   A law enforcement officer, except that this division (A) shall not
prohibit a law enforcement officer from holding membership in any nonprofit
organization holding a liquor license or from participating in any manner in
the management or administration of a nonprofit organization; or
      (16)   A person less than 21 years of age.
   (B)   When a trustee is the licensee, the beneficiary or beneficiaries of
the trust shall comply with the requirements of this section, but nothing in
this section shall prohibit any such beneficiary from being a minor or person
who is mentally incompetent.
(Neb. RS 53-125)
§ 111.18 LICENSES; VILLAGE POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   The Board of Trustees is authorized to regulate by ordinance, not
inconsistent with the State Liquor Control Act, the business of all retail,
bottle club, craft brewery and microdistillery licensees carried on within the
corporate limits of the village.
(Neb. RS 53-134.03)
   (B)   During the period of 45 days after the date of receipt by mail or
electronic delivery of such application from the State Liquor Control
Commission notice and a copy of an application for a new license to sell
alcoholic liquor at retail, a craft brewery license or a microdistillery
license, the Board of Trustees may make and submit to the Commission
recommendations relative to the granting or refusal to grant the license to the
applicant.
(Neb. RS 53-131)
   (C)   The Board of Trustees, with respect to licenses within the corporate
limits of the village, has the following powers, functions and duties with
respect to retail, bottle club, craft brewery and microdistillery licenses:
      (1)   To cancel or revoke for cause retail, craft brewery or
microdistillery licenses to sell or dispense alcoholic liquor or bottle club
licenses issued to persons for premises within its jurisdiction, subject to the
right of appeal to the State Liquor Control Commission;
      (2)   To enter or to authorize any law enforcement officer to enter at
any time upon any premises licensed under the State Liquor Control Act to
determine whether any provision of the Act, any rule or regulation adopted and
promulgated pursuant to the Act, or any ordinance, resolution, rule or
regulation adopted by the Board of Trustees has been or is being violated, and
at that time, examine the premises of the licensee in connection with such
determination. Any law enforcement officer who determines that any provision of
the Act, any rule or regulation adopted and promulgated pursuant to the Act, or
any ordinance, resolution, rule or regulation adopted by the local governing
body has been or is being violated shall report such violation in writing to
the Executive Director of the Commission:
         (a)   Within 30 days after determining that such violation has
occurred;
         (b)   Within 30 days after the conclusion of an ongoing police
investigation; or
         (c)   Within 30 days after the verdict in a prosecution related to
such an ongoing police investigation if the prosecuting attorney determines
that reporting such violation prior to the verdict would jeopardize such
prosecution, whichever is later.
      (3)   To receive a signed complaint from any citizen within its
jurisdiction that any provision of the Act, any rule or regulation adopted and
promulgated pursuant to the Act, or any ordinance, resolution, rule or
regulation relating to alcoholic liquor has been or is being violated and to
act upon these complaints in the manner provided in the Act;
      (4)   To receive retail, bottle club, craft brewery and microdistillery
license fees as provided in Neb. RS 53-124 and 53-124.01 and pay the same,
after the license has been delivered to the applicant, to the Village Clerk-
Treasurer;
      (5)   To examine or cause to be examined any applicant or any retail,
bottle club, craft brewery or microdistillery licensee upon whom notice of
cancellation or revocation has been served as provided in the Act, to examine
or cause to be examined the books and records of any applicant or licensee,
except as otherwise provided for bottle club licensees under state law, and to
hear testimony and to take proof for its information in the performance of its
duties. For the purpose of obtaining any of the information desired, the Board
of Trustees may authorize its agent or attorney to act on its behalf;
      (6)   To cancel or revoke on its own motion any license if, upon the same
notice and hearing as provided in §
111.25, it determines that the licensee has violated any of the provisions of
the State Liquor Control Act or any valid and subsisting ordinance, resolution,
rule or regulation duly enacted, adopted and promulgated relating to alcoholic
liquor. The order of cancellation or revocation may be appealed to the
Commission within 30 days after the date of the order by filing a notice of
appeal with the Commission. The Commission shall handle the appeal in the
manner provided for hearing on an application in Neb. RS 53-133;
      (7)   Upon receipt from the Commission of the notice and copy of
application as provided in Neb. RS 53-131, to fix a time and place for a
hearing at which the Board of Trustees shall receive evidence, either orally or
by affidavit, from the applicant and any other person bearing upon the
propriety of the issuance of a license. Notice of the time and place of the
hearing shall be published in a legal newspaper in or of general circulation in
the village one time not less than seven, and not more than 14, days before the
time of the hearing. The notice shall include, but not be limited to, a
statement that all persons desiring to give evidence before the Board of
Trustees in support of or in protest against the issuance of the license may do
so at the time of the hearing. The hearing shall be held not more than 45 days
after the date of receipt of the notice from the Commission, and after the
hearing, the Board of Trustees shall cause to be recorded in the minute record
of its proceedings a resolution recommending either issuance or refusal of the
license. The Village Clerk-Treasurer shall mail to the Commission by first-
class mail, postage prepaid, a copy of the resolution which shall state the
cost of the published notice, except that failure to comply with this provision
shall not void any license issued by the Commission. If the Commission refuses
to issue such a license, the cost of publication of the notice shall be paid by
the Commission from the security for costs;
      (8)   To review and authorize an application by a retail, bottle club,
craft brewery, farm winery or microdistillery licensee for a temporary
expansion of its licensed premises within the jurisdiction of the local
governing body to an immediately adjacent area owned or leased by the licensee
or to an immediately adjacent street, parking lot or alley, not to exceed 50
days for calendar year 2020, and for each calendar year thereafter, not to
exceed 15 days per calendar year as provided in Neb. RS 53-123.12 and 53-129;
and
      (9)   To review and authorize an application by a craft brewery, farm
winery or microdistillery licensee that holds a promotional farmers market
special designated license for a permit to use such promotional farmers market
special designated license to sell or dispense alcoholic liquor, which the
holder is licensed to produce, at a farmers market within the jurisdiction of
the local governing body as provided in Neb. RS 53-124.17. The local governing
body shall electronically notify the Commission within five days after
authorization of any permit pursuant to this division (C)(9).
(Neb. RS 53-134)
   (D)   (1)   When the State Liquor Control Commission mails or delivers to
the Village Clerk-Treasurer a retail, craft brewery or microdistillery license
issued or renewed by the Commission, the Clerk-Treasurer shall deliver the
license to the licensee upon receipt from the licensee of proof of payment of:
         (a)   The license fee if, by the terms of Neb. RS 53-124, the fee is
payable to the Village Clerk-Treasurer;
         (b)   Any fee for publication of notice of hearing before the Board of
Trustees upon the application for the license;
         (c)   The fee for publication of the notice of renewal, if applicable,
as provided in Neb. RS 53-135.01; and
         (d)   Occupation taxes, if any, imposed by the village, except that
Class J retail licensees shall not be subject to occupation taxes.
      (2)   Notwithstanding any ordinance or charter power to the contrary, the
village shall not impose an occupation tax on the business of any person, firm
or corporation licensed under the State Liquor Control Act and doing business
within the corporate limits of the village in any sum which exceeds two times
the amount of the license fee required to be paid under the Act to obtain that
license.
(Neb. RS 53-132)
§ 111.19 LICENSED PREMISES; INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   The Board of Trustees shall cause frequent inspection to be made on
the premises of all retail licensees and bottle club licensees. If it is found
that any such licensee is violating any provision of this chapter, the State
Liquor Control Act or the rules and regulations of the State Liquor Control
Commission, or is failing to observe in good faith the purposes of this chapter
or the Act, the license may be suspended, canceled or revoked after the
licensee is given an opportunity to be heard in his or her defense.
   (B)   The Board of Trustees may inspect a charter bus providing service
under a certificate of public convenience and necessity granted by the Public
Service Commission when the owner or operator of the charter allows the
consumption of alcoholic liquor in the charter bus by an individual who is 21
years of age or older so long as the inspection is performed when the bus has
stopped for the purpose of allowing passengers to embark or disembark.
(Neb. RS 53-116.01)
§ 111.20 LICENSE RENEWAL; VILLAGE POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   A retail or bottle club license issued by the State Liquor Control
Commission and outstanding may be automatically renewed by the Commission in
the absence of a written request by the Board of Trustees to require the
licensee to submit an application for renewal. Any licensed retail premises
located in an area which is annexed to the village shall file a formal
application for a license, and while the application is pending, the licensee
may continue all license privileges until the original license expires or is
canceled or revoked. If that license expires within 60 days following the
annexation date of the area, the license may be renewed by order of the
Commission for not more than one year.
(Neb. RS 53-135)
   (B)   The Village Clerk-Treasurer shall cause to be published in a legal
newspaper in or of general circulation in the village, one time between January
10 and January 30 of each year, individual notice in the form prescribed by law
of the right of automatic renewal of each retail liquor and beer license and
each bottle club license within the village, except that notice of the right of
automatic renewal of Class C licenses shall be published between the dates of
July 10 and July 30 of each year. If written protests to the issuance of
automatic renewal of a license are filed in the office of the Village Clerk-
Treasurer by three or more residents of the village on or before February 10,
or August 10 for Class C licenses, the Board of Trustees shall hold a hearing
to determine whether continuation of the license should be allowed. Upon the
conclusion of any hearing required by this section, the Board of Trustees may
request a licensee to submit an application as provided in Neb. RS 53-135.
(Neb. RS 53-135.01)
§ 111.21 CATERING LICENSES.
   (A)   The holder of a license to sell alcoholic liquor at retail issued
under Neb. RS 53-124, a craft brewery license, a microdistillery license or a
farm winery license may obtain an annual catering license by filing an
application and license fee with the State Liquor Control Commission.
   (B)   Upon receipt from the Commission of the notice and a copy of the
application as provided in Neb. RS 53-124.12, the Board of Trustees shall
process the application in the same manner as provided in §
111.18.
   (C)   The Board of Trustees, with respect to catering licensees within its
corporate limits, may cancel a catering license for cause for the remainder of
the period for which that catering license is issued. Any person whose catering
license is canceled may appeal to the District Court.
   (D)   The Board of Trustees may impose an occupation tax on the business of
a catering licensee doing business within the liquor license jurisdiction of
the Board of Trustees. The tax may not exceed double the license fee for a
catering license.
(Neb. RS 53-124.12)
§ 111.22 DISPLAY OF LICENSE.
   Every licensee under the State Liquor Control Act shall cause his or her
license to be framed and hung in plain view in a conspicuous place on the
licensed premises.
(Neb. RS 53-148) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.23 OWNER OF PREMISES OR AGENT; LIABILITY.
   If the owner of the licensed premises or any person from whom the licensee
derives the right to possession of the premises, or the agent of that owner or
person, knowingly permits the licensee to use the licensed premises in
violation of the terms of the State Liquor Control Act or any village
ordinance, that owner, agent or other person shall be deemed guilty of a
violation of the Act or ordinance to the same extent as the licensee and be
subject to the same punishment.
(Neb. RS 53-1,101) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.24 LICENSEE; LIABILITY FOR ACTS OF OFFICER, AGENT OR EMPLOYEE.
   Every act or omission of whatsoever nature constituting a violation of any
of the provisions of the State Liquor Control Act or any village ordinance by
any officer, director, manager or other agent or employee of any licensee, if
the act is committed or omission is made with the authorization, knowledge or
approval of the licensee, shall be deemed and held to be the act of the
employer or licensee, and the employer or licensee shall be punishable in the
same manner as if the act or omission had been done or omitted by the licensee
personally.
(Neb. RS 53-1,102) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.25 CITIZEN COMPLAINTS.
   Any five residents of the village shall have the right to file a complaint
with the Board of Trustees stating that any retail licensee or bottle club
licensee subject to the jurisdiction of the Board of Trustees has been or is
violating any provision of the State Liquor Control Act or the rules or
regulations issued pursuant to the Act. The complaint shall be in writing in
the form prescribed by the Board of Trustees and shall be signed and sworn to
by the parties complaining. The complaint shall state the particular provision,
rule or regulation believed to have been violated and the facts in detail upon
which belief is based. If the Board of Trustees is satisfied that the complaint
substantially charges a violation, and that from the facts alleged, there is
reasonable cause for that belief, it shall set the matter for hearing within
ten days from the date of the filing of the complaint and shall serve notice
upon the licensee of the time and place of the hearing and of the particular
charge in the complaint. The complaint shall in all cases be disposed of by the
Board of Trustees within 30 days from the date the complaint was filed by
resolution thereof, which resolution shall be deemed the final order for the
purpose of appeal to the State Liquor Control Commission as provided in Neb. RS
53-1,115.
(Neb. RS 53-134.04)
RETAIL ESTABLISHMENTS
§ 111.40 LOCATION.
   (A)   (1)   Except as otherwise provided in division (B) below, no license
shall be issued for the sale at retail of any alcoholic liquor or for a bottle
club within 150 feet of any church, school, hospital or home for indigent
persons or for veterans and their wives or children.
      (2)   This prohibition does not apply to any location within such
distance of 150 feet:
         (a)   For which a license to sell alcoholic liquor at retail or for a
bottle club has been granted by the State Liquor Control Commission for two
years continuously prior to the making of application for a license;
         (b)   To hotels offering restaurant service, to regularly organized
clubs or to restaurants, food shops or other places where the sale of alcoholic
liquor is not the principal business carried on, if such place of business so
exempted was established for such purposes prior to May 24, 1935; or
         (c)   To a college or university in the state which is subject to Neb.
RS 53-177.01.
   (B)   If a proposed location for the sale at retail of any alcoholic liquor
or for a bottle club is within 150 feet of any church, a license may be issued
if the Commission gives notice to the affected church and holds a hearing as
prescribed in Neb. RS 53-133 if the affected church submits a written request
for a hearing.
(Neb. RS 53-177)
   (C)   No alcoholic liquor shall be sold for consumption on the premises
within 300 feet from the campus of any college or university in the state,
except that this section:
      (1)   Does not prohibit a nonpublic college or university from
contracting with an individual or corporation holding a license to sell
alcoholic liquor at retail for the purpose of selling alcoholic liquor at
retail on the campus of such college or university at events sanctioned by such
college or university, but does prohibit the sale of alcoholic liquor at retail
by such licensee on the campus of such nonpublic college or university at
student activities or events; and
      (2)   Does not prohibit sales of alcoholic liquor by a community college
culinary education program pursuant to Neb. RS 53-124.15.
   (D)   Except as otherwise provided in division (F) below, the Commission may
waive the 300-foot restriction in division (C) above, taking into consideration
one or more of the following:
      (1)   The impact of retail sales of alcoholic liquor for consumption on
the premises on the academic mission of the college or university;
      (2)   The impact on students and prospective students if such sales were
permitted on or near campus;
      (3)   The impact on economic development opportunities located within or
in proximity to the campus; and
      (4)   The waiver would likely reduce the number of applications for
special designated licenses requested by the college or university or its
designee.
   (E)   (1)   To apply for a waiver under this section, the applicant shall
submit a written application to the Commission. The Commission shall notify the
governing body of the affected college or university when the Commission
receives an application for a waiver.
      (2)   The application shall include:
         (a)   The address of the location for which the waiver is requested;
         (b)   The name and type of business for which the waiver is requested;
and
         (c)   A description of the justification for the waiver explaining how
the proposed location complies with the findings prescribed in division (D)
above.
   (F)   The Commission shall not waive the 300-foot restriction in division
(C) above without written approval from the governing body of the college or
university or its designee if the physical location of the property which is
the subject of the requested waiver is:
      (1)   Surrounded by property owned by the college or university,
including any public or private easement, street or right-of-way adjacent to
the property owned by the college or university; or
      (2)   Adjacent to property on two or more sides owned by the college or
university, including any public or private easement, street or right-of-way
adjacent to the property owned by the college or university.
   (G)   No bottle club shall be operated within 300 feet from the campus of
any college or university in the state.
(Neb. RS 53-177.01)
Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.41 ACCESS TO DWELLINGS.
   Except in the case of hotels and clubs, no alcoholic liquor shall be
manufactured or sold at retail or wholesale upon any premises which have any
access which leads from the premises to any other portion of the same building
or structure used for dwelling or lodging purposes and permitted to be used or
kept accessible for use by the public. This section does not prevent any
connection between the premises and such other portion of the building or
structure which is used only by the licensee, his or her family or personal
guests.
(Neb. RS 53-178) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.42 SANITARY CONDITIONS.
   It shall be unlawful to open for public use any retail liquor establishment
that is not in a clean and sanitary condition. Toilet facilities shall be
adequate and convenient for customers and patrons. The licensed premises shall
be subject to any health inspections the Board of Trustees or the village
police may make or cause to be made. All applications for liquor licenses shall
be viewed in part from the standpoint of the sanitary conditions, and a report
concerning the sanitary conditions shall be made at all hearings concerning the
application for or renewal of a liquor license.
Penalty, see §
111.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority to regulate licensed premises, see Neb. RS 53-134.03
   State sanitary rules and regulations authorized, see Neb. RS 53-118
§ 111.43 HOURS OF SALE.
   (A)   No alcoholic liquor, including beer, shall be sold at retail or
dispensed on any day between the hours of 1:00 a.m. and 6:00 a.m., except that
the Board of Trustees, with respect to area inside the corporate limits of the
village, may by ordinance or resolution:
      (1)   Require closing prior to 1:00 a.m. on any day;
      (2)   If adopted by a vote of at least two-thirds of the members of the
Board of Trustees, permit retail sale or dispensing of alcoholic liquor for
consumption on the premises, excluding sales for consumption off the premises,
later than 1:00 a.m. and prior to 2:00 a.m. on any day;
      (3)   If adopted by a vote of at least two-thirds of the members of Board
of Trustees, permit retail sale of alcoholic liquor for consumption off the
premises later than 1:00 a.m. and prior to 2:00 a.m. on any day; or
      (4)   If adopted by a vote of at least two-thirds of the members of Board
of Trustees, permit retail sale or dispensing of alcoholic liquor for
consumption on the premises, excluding sales for consumption off the premises,
and permit retail sale of alcoholic liquor for consumption off the premises
later than 1:00 a.m. and prior to 2:00 a.m. on any day.
   (B)   Except as provided for and allowed by ordinance of the Board of
Trustees, no alcoholic liquor, including beer, shall be sold at retail or
dispensed inside the corporate limits of the village between the hours of 6:00
a.m. Sunday and 1:00 a.m. Monday. This division (B) shall not apply after 12:00
p.m., noon, on Sunday to a licensee which is a nonprofit corporation and the
holder of a Class C license or a Class I license.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful on property licensed to sell alcoholic liquor at
retail to allow alcoholic liquor in open containers to remain or be in
possession or control of any person for the purpose of consumption between the
hours of 15 minutes after the closing hour applicable to the licensed premises
and 6:00 a.m. on any day.
   (D)   Nothing in this section shall prohibit licensed premises from being
open for other business on days and hours during which the sale or dispensing
of alcoholic liquor is prohibited by this section.
(Neb. RS 53-179) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.44 CREDIT SALES PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person shall sell or furnish alcoholic liquor at retail to any
person on credit, on a passbook, on an order on a store, in exchange for any
goods, wares or merchandise, or in payment for any services rendered, and if
any person extends credit for any such purpose, the debt thereby attempted to
be created shall not be recoverable at law.
   (B)   Nothing in this section shall prevent the following:
      (1)   Any club holding a Class C license from permitting checks or
statements for alcoholic liquor to be signed by members or bona fide guests of
members and charged to the account of such members or guests in accordance with
the bylaws of such club;
      (2)   Any hotel or restaurant holding a retail license from permitting
checks or statements for liquor to be signed by regular guests residing at such
hotel or eating at such restaurant and charged to the accounts of such guests;
or
      (3)   Any licensed retailer engaged in the sale of wine or distilled
spirits from issuing tasting cards to customers.
(Neb. RS 53-183) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.45 ORIGINAL PACKAGE.
   No person, except a manufacturer or wholesaler, shall fill or refill, in
whole or in part, any original package of alcoholic liquor with the same or any
other kind or quality of alcoholic liquor. It shall be unlawful for any person
to have in his or her possession for sale at retail any bottles, casks or other
containers containing alcoholic liquor except in original packages. Nothing in
this section shall prohibit the refilling of original packages of alcoholic
liquor for strictly private use and not for resale.
(Neb. RS 53-184) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.46 KEG SALES; REQUIREMENTS; PROHIBITED ACTS.
   (A)   When any person licensed to sell alcoholic liquor at retail sells
alcohol for consumption off the premises in a container with a liquid capacity
of five or more gallons or 18.92 or more liters, the seller shall record the
date of the sale, the keg identification number, the purchaser’s name and
address, and the number of the purchaser’s motor vehicle operator’s license,
state identification card, tribal enrollment card as defined in Neb. RS 28-
1202.03, or military identification, if the military identification contains a
picture of the purchaser, together with the purchaser’s signature. This record
shall be on a form prescribed by the State Liquor Control Commission and shall
be kept by the licensee at the retail establishment where the purchase was made
for not less than six months. The records kept pursuant to this section shall
be available for inspection by any law enforcement officer during normal
business hours or at any other reasonable time. Any person violating this
section shall be guilty of an offense.
(Neb. RS 53-167.02)
   (B)   Any person who unlawfully tampers with, alters or removes the keg
identification number from a container described in division (A) above, or is
in possession of a container described in division (A) above with an altered or
removed keg identification number after the container has been taken from the
licensed premises pursuant to a retail sale and before its return to the
licensed premises or other place where returned kegs are accepted, shall be
guilty of an offense.
(Neb. RS 53-167.03)
Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.47 SPIKING BEER.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or for any licensee to sell or offer for
sale in this municipality any beer to which there has been added any alcohol or
to permit any person to add alcohol to any beer on the licensed premises of
such person or licensee.
(Prior Code, § 10-119)
§ 111.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who shall violate or refuse to comply with the enforcement of any
of the provisions of this chapter, set forth at full length herein or
incorporated by reference, shall be deemed guilty of an offense and, upon
conviction thereof, shall be fined not more than $100 for each offense. A new
violation shall be deemed to have been committed every 24 hours of such failure
to comply.
(Prior Code, § 10-401)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   PROPERTY OFFENSES
      
131.   OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC ORDER
      
132.   OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC HEALTH AND SAFETY
CHAPTER 130: PROPERTY OFFENSES
Section
   
130.01   Electrical interference
   
130.02   Posting
   
130.03   Removing dirt
§ 130.01 ELECTRICAL INTERFERENCE.
   Any person operating, or causing to be operated, any motor, sign or other
electrical apparatus that is connected with the light and power system shall
equip the apparatus with proper filtering attachments to eliminate
interference, provided that the provisions herein shall not apply to the use of
necessary medical equipment or apparatus where electrical interference cannot
be reasonably and safely eliminated. Any person who so operates or causes to be
operated any such electrical apparatus that interferes habitually with radio
and television reception shall be deemed to be guilty of an offense.
Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Provisions on nuisances, see Neb. RS 18-1720 and 28-1321
§ 130.02 POSTING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to use the streets, sidewalks or public
grounds of the village for signs, signposts or the posting of handbills or
advertisements without the written permission of the Board of Trustees.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.03 REMOVING DIRT.
   It is hereby declared unlawful for any person to remove, disturb or take
away from any street, alley or public grounds any dirt, earth, stones or other
materials forming a part of such street, alley or public grounds without first
having obtained written permission to do so from the governing body.
(Prior Code, § 6-311) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 131: OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC ORDER
Section
   
131.01   Disorderly conduct
   
131.02   Obstruction of public ways
   
131.03   False reporting
§ 131.01 DISORDERLY CONDUCT.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in conduct or behavior which
disturbs the peace and good order of the village by clamor or noise,
intoxication, drunkenness, fighting or using obscene or profane language in the
streets or other public places or otherwise violating the public peace by
indecent or disorderly conduct or lewd or lascivious behavior.
Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority to regulate noise, riots and routs, see Neb. RS 17-556
§ 131.02 OBSTRUCTION OF PUBLIC WAYS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to erect, maintain or suffer to remain
on any street or public sidewalk a stand, wagon, display or other obstruction
inconvenient to or inconsistent with the public use of the same.
Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Additional authority, see Neb. RS 17-555 and 17-557
   Penalties for injuring or obstructing roads, see Neb. RS 39-301 and 39-302
§ 131.03 FALSE REPORTING.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to:
      (1)   Furnish material information he or she knows to be false to any
peace officer or other official with the intent to instigate an investigation
of an alleged criminal matter or impede the investigation of an actual criminal
matter;
      (2)   Furnish information he or she knows to be false alleging the
existence of the need for the assistance of an emergency medical service or
emergency care provider, or an emergency in which human life or property are in
jeopardy, to any hospital, emergency medical service or other person or
governmental agency;
      (3)   Furnish any information, or cause information to be furnished or
conveyed by electric, electronic, telephonic or mechanical means, knowing the
same to be false concerning the need for the assistance of a fire department or
any personnel or equipment of such a department;
      (4)   Furnish any information he or she knows to be false concerning the
location of any explosive in any building or other property to any person; or
      (5)   Furnish material information he or she knows to be false to any
governmental department or agency with the intent to instigate an investigation
or to impede an ongoing investigation, and which actually results in causing or
impeding the investigation.
   (B)   A person who violates this section commits the offense of false
reporting.
(Neb. RS 28-907) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 132: OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC HEALTH AND SAFETY
Section
General Provisions
   
132.01   Maintaining a nuisance
   
132.02   Appliances in yard
   
132.03   Littering
   
132.04   Window peeping
   
132.05   Violence on or interference with a service dog
   
132.06   Inhaling or drinking, selling or offering for sale certain compounds
Motor Vehicle and Highway Offenses
   
132.20   Abandoned automobiles
   
132.21   Unlicensed or inoperable vehicles
Weapons Offenses
   
132.35   Discharge of firearms
   
132.36   Slingshots, air guns, BB guns
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 132.01 MAINTAINING A NUISANCE.
   (A)   A person commits the offense of maintaining a nuisance if he or she
erects, keeps up or continues and maintains any nuisance to the injury of any
part of the citizens of this village.
   (B)   The erecting, continuing, using or maintaining of any building,
structure or other place for the exercise of any trade, employment, manufacture
or other business which, by occasioning noxious exhalations or noisome or
offensive smells, becomes injurious and dangerous to the health, comfort or
property of individuals or the public; the obstructing or impeding, without
legal authority, of the passage of any navigable river, harbor or collection of
water; or the corrupting or rendering unwholesome or impure of any watercourse,
stream or water; or unlawfully diverting any such watercourse from its natural
course or state to the injury or prejudice of others; and the obstructing or
encumbering by fences, buildings, structures or otherwise of any of the public
highways or streets or alleys of the village, shall be deemed nuisances.
   (C)   A person guilty of erecting, continuing, using, maintaining or causing
any such nuisance shall be guilty of a violation of this section, and in every
such case, the offense shall be construed and held to have been committed in
any county whose inhabitants are or have been injured or aggrieved thereby.
   (D)   The court, in cases of conviction of such offense, shall order every
such nuisance to be abated or removed.
(Neb. RS 28-1321) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 132.02 APPLIANCES IN YARD.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to permit a refrigerator, icebox,
freezer or any other dangerous appliance to be in the open and accessible to
children, whether on private or public property, unless the person first
removes all doors and makes the same reasonably safe.
Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority to prohibit nuisances within zoning jurisdiction, see Neb. RS 18-
1720
§ 132.03 LITTERING.
   (A)   Any person who deposits, throws, discards or otherwise disposes of any
litter on any public or private property or in any waters commits the offense
of littering unless:
      (1)   The property is an area designated by law for the disposal of that
type of material and the person is authorized by the proper public authority to
so use the property; or
      (2)   The litter is placed in a receptacle or container installed on the
property for that purpose.
   (B)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      LITTER. Includes all waste material susceptible of being dropped,
deposited, discarded or otherwise disposed of by any person upon any property
in the state, but does not include wastes of primary processes of farming or
manufacturing.
      WASTE MATERIAL. Any material appearing in a place or in a context not
associated with that material’s function or origin.
   (C)   Whenever litter is thrown, deposited, dropped or dumped from any motor
vehicle or watercraft in violation of this section, the operator of the motor
vehicle or watercraft commits the offense of littering.
(Neb. RS 28-523) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 132.04 WINDOW PEEPING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to go upon the private premises of
another to look or peep into any window, door or other opening in a building
occupied by any other person.
(Prior Code, § 6-313) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 7-207
§ 132.05 VIOLENCE ON OR INTERFERENCE WITH A SERVICE DOG.
   (A)   A person commits the offense of violence on a service dog when he or
she intentionally injures, harasses or threatens to injure or harass or
attempts to intentionally injure, harass or threaten a dog that he or she knows
or has reason to believe is a dog guide for a blind or visually impaired
person, a hearing aid dog for a deaf or hearing-impaired person or a service
dog for a physically limited person.
   (B)   A person commits the offense of interference with a service dog when
he or she intentionally impedes, interferes or threatens to impede or interfere
or attempts to intentionally impede, interfere or threaten to impede or
interfere with a dog that he or she knows or has reason to believe is a dog
guide for a blind or visually impaired person, a hearing aid dog for a deaf or
hearing-impaired person, or a service dog for a physically limited person.
   (C)   Evidence that the defendant initiated or continued conduct toward a
dog as described in division (A) or (B) above after being requested to avoid or
discontinue such conduct by the blind, visually impaired, deaf, hearing-
impaired or physically limited person being served or assisted by the dog shall
create a rebuttable presumption that the conduct of the defendant was initiated
or continued intentionally.
   (D)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      BLIND PERSON. A person with totally impaired vision or with vision, with
or without correction, which is so severely impaired that the primary means of
receiving information is through other sensory input, including, but not
limited to, braille, mechanical reproduction, synthesized speech or readers.
      DEAF PERSON. A person with totally impaired hearing or with hearing, with
or without amplification, which is so severely impaired that the primary means
of receiving spoken language is through other sensory input, including, but not
limited to, lip reading, sign language, finger spelling or reading.
      HEARING-IMPAIRED PERSON. A person who is unable to hear air conduction
thresholds at an average of 40 decibels or greater in the person’s better ear.
      PHYSICALLY LIMITED PERSON. A person having limited ambulatory abilities,
including, but not limited to, having a permanent impairment or condition that
requires the person to use a wheelchair or to walk with difficulty or
insecurity to the extent that the person is insecure or exposed to danger.
      VISUALLY IMPAIRED PERSON. A person having a visual acuity of 20/200 or
less in the person’s better eye with correction or having a limitation to the
person’s field of vision so that the widest diameter of the visual field
subtends an angular distance not greater than 20 degrees.
(Prior Code, § 6-316)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 28-1009.01
§ 132.06 INHALING OR DRINKING, SELLING OR OFFERING FOR SALE CERTAIN COMPOUNDS.
   (A)   No person shall induce or entice any person to breathe, inhale or
drink any compound, liquid or chemical containing the substances described in
Neb. RS 28-419, as amended, for the purpose of inducing a condition of
intoxication, stupefaction, depression, giddiness, paralysis, inebriation,
excitement or irrational behavior, or in any manner changing, distorting or
disturbing the auditory, visual, mental or nervous processes.
   (B)   Nor shall any person knowingly sell or offer for sale, deliver or give
to any person any compound, liquid or chemical or any other substance which
will induce an intoxicated condition as described above, when the seller,
offerer or deliverer knows or has reason to know that such compound is intended
for use to induce such condition.
(Prior Code, § 6-315) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 28-419, 28-420, 28-423 and 28-424
MOTOR VEHICLE AND HIGHWAY OFFENSES
§ 132.20 ABANDONED AUTOMOBILES.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      ABANDONED VEHICLE.
         (a)   A motor vehicle is an ABANDONED VEHICLE:
            1.   If left unattended with no license plates or valid “In
Transit” stickers issued pursuant to the Motor Vehicle Registration Act affixed
thereto for more than six hours on any public property;
            2.   If left unattended for more than 24 hours on any public
property, except a portion thereof on which parking is legally permitted;
            3.   If left unattended for more than 48 hours after the parking of
such vehicle has become illegal if left on a portion of any public property on
which parking is legally permitted;
            4.   If left unattended for more than seven days on private
property if left initially without permission of the owner, or after permission
of the owner is terminated;
            5.   If left for more than 30 days in the custody of a village law
enforcement agency after the agency has sent a letter to the last registered
owner and lienholder under division (D) below; or
            6.   If removed from private property by the village pursuant to a
village ordinance or this code.
         (b)   An all-terrain vehicle or minibike is an ABANDONED VEHICLE:
            1.   If left unattended for more than 24 hours on any public
property, except a portion thereof on which parking is legally permitted;
            2.   If left unattended for more than 48 hours after the parking of
such vehicle has become illegal if left on a portion of any public property on
which parking is legally permitted;
            3.   If left unattended for more than seven days on private
property if left initially without permission of the owner, or after permission
of the owner is terminated;
            4.   If left for more than 30 days in the custody of a village law
enforcement agency after the agency has sent a letter to the last registered
owner and lienholder under division (D) below; or
            5.   If removed from private property by the village pursuant to a
village ordinance or this code.
         (c)   A mobile home is an ABANDONED VEHICLE if left in place on
private property for more than 30 days after a local governmental unit,
pursuant to an ordinance or resolution, has sent a certified letter to each of
the last registered owners and posted a notice on the mobile home stating that
the mobile home is subject to sale or auction or vesting of title as set forth
in Neb. RS 60-1903.
         (d)   No motor vehicle subject to forfeiture under Neb. RS 28-431
shall be an ABANDONED VEHICLE under this division (A).
      MOBILE HOME. A movable or portable dwelling constructed to be towed on
its own chassis, connected to utilities and designed with or without a
permanent foundation for year-round living. It may consist of one or more units
that can be telescoped when towed and expanded later for additional capacity,
or of two or more units separately towable but designed to be joined into one
integral unit and shall include a manufactured home as defined in Neb. RS 71-
4603. MOBILE HOME does not include a mobile home or manufactured home for which
an affidavit of affixture has been recorded pursuant to Neb. RS 60-169.
      PRIVATE PROPERTY. Any privately owned property which is not included
within the definition of public property.
      PUBLIC PROPERTY. Any public right-of-way, street, highway, alley or park
or other state, county or village-owned property.
(Neb. RS 60-1901)
   (B)   If an abandoned vehicle, at the time of abandonment, has no license
plates of the current year or valid “In Transit” stickers issued pursuant to
Neb. RS 60-376 affixed and is of a wholesale value, taking into consideration
the condition of the vehicle, of $500 or less, title shall immediately vest in
the village. Any certificate of title issued under this division (B) to the
village shall be issued at no cost to the village.
(Neb. RS 60-1902)
   (C)   (1)   Except for vehicles governed by division (B) above, the village
shall make an inquiry concerning the last registered owner of such vehicle as
follows:
         (a)   Abandoned vehicle with license plates affixed, to the
jurisdiction which issued such license plates; or
         (b)   Abandoned vehicle with no license plates affixed, to the
Department of Motor Vehicles.
      (2)   The village shall notify the last registered owner, if any, and any
lienholder, if any, within 15 business days that the vehicle in question has
been determined to be an abandoned vehicle and that, if unclaimed, either:
         (a)   It will be sold or will be offered at public auction after five
days from the date such notice was mailed; or
         (b)   Title will vest in the village 30 days after the date such
notice was mailed.
      (3)   If the agency described in division (C)(1)(a) or (C)(1)(b) above
also notifies the village that a lien or mortgage exists, such notice shall
also be sent to the lienholder or mortgagee. Any person claiming such vehicle
shall be required to pay the cost of removal and storage of such vehicle.
      (4)   Title to an abandoned vehicle, if unclaimed, shall vest in the
village:
         (a)   Five days after the date the notice is mailed if the vehicle
will be sold or offered at public auction under division (C)(2)(a) above;
         (b)   Thirty days after the date the notice is mailed if the village
will retain the vehicle; or
         (c)   If the last registered owner cannot be ascertained, when notice
of such fact is received.
      (5)   After title to the abandoned vehicle vests pursuant to division (C)
(4) above, the village may retain for use, sell or auction the abandoned
vehicle. If the village has determined that the vehicle should be retained for
use, the village shall, at the same time that the notice, if any, is mailed,
publish in a newspaper of general circulation in the jurisdiction an
announcement that the village intends to retain the abandoned vehicle for its
use and that title will vest in the village 30 days after the publication.
(Neb. RS 60-1903)
   (D)   (1)   If a village law enforcement agency has custody of a motor
vehicle for investigatory purposes and has no further need to keep it in
custody, it shall send a certified letter to each of the last registered
owners, if any, and lienholders, if any, within 15 calendar days stating that
the vehicle is in the custody of the law enforcement agency, that the vehicle
is no longer needed for law enforcement purposes, and that after 30 days, the
agency will dispose of the vehicle.
      (2)   This division (D) shall not apply to motor vehicles that are
subject to forfeiture under Neb. RS 28-431.
      (3)   (a)   No storage fees shall be assessed against the registered
owner of a motor vehicle held in custody for investigatory purposes under this
division (D) unless the registered owner or the person in possession of the
vehicle when it is taken into custody is charged with a felony or misdemeanor
related to the offense for which the law enforcement agency took the vehicle
into custody.
         (b)   If a registered owner or the person in possession of the vehicle
when it is taken into custody is charged with a felony or misdemeanor but is
not convicted, the registered owner shall be entitled to a refund of the
storage fees.
(Neb. RS 60-1903.01)
   (E)   (1)   A law enforcement agency is authorized to remove an abandoned or
trespassing vehicle from private property upon the request of the private
property owner on whose property the vehicle is located and upon information
indicating that the vehicle is an abandoned or trespassing vehicle. After
removal, the law enforcement agency with custody of the vehicle shall follow
the procedures in Neb. RS 60-1902 and 60-1903.
      (2)   A law enforcement agency is authorized to contact a private towing
service in order to remove an abandoned or trespassing vehicle from private
property upon the request of the private property owner on whose property the
vehicle is located and upon information indicating that the vehicle is an
abandoned or trespassing vehicle. A vehicle towed away under this division (E)
(2) is subject to Neb. RS 52-601.01 through 52-605 and 60-2410 by the private
towing service which towed the vehicle.
      (3)   A private property owner is authorized to remove or cause the
removal of an abandoned or trespassing vehicle from such property and may
contact a private towing service for such removal. A private towing service
that tows the vehicle shall notify, within 24 hours, the designated law
enforcement agency in the jurisdiction from which the vehicle is removed and
provide the registration plate number, the vehicle identification number, if
available, the make, model and color of the vehicle, and the name of the
private towing service and the location, if applicable, where the private
towing service is storing the vehicle. A vehicle towed away under this division
(E) is subject to Neb. RS 52-601.01 through 52-605 and 60-2410 by the private
towing service that towed the vehicle.
      (4)   For the purpose of this section, a TRESPASSING VEHICLE is a vehicle
that is parked without permission on private property that is not typically
made available for public parking.
(Neb. RS 60-1903.02)
   (F)   If a state agency caused an abandoned vehicle described in division
(A)(a)5. or (A)(b)4. above to be removed from public property in this village,
the state agency shall be entitled to custody of the vehicle. If a state agency
caused an abandoned vehicle described in division (A)(a)1., (A)(a)2., (A)(a)3.
or (A)(a)4. or (A)(b)1., (A)(b)2. or (A)(b)3. above to be removed from public
property in this village, the state agency shall deliver the vehicle to the
village, which shall have custody.
(Neb. RS 60-1904)
   (G)   Any proceeds from the sale of an abandoned vehicle in the village’s
custody, less any expenses incurred by the village, shall be held by the
village without interest for the benefit of the owner or lienholders of such
vehicle for a period of two years. If not claimed within such two-year period,
the proceeds shall be paid into the General Fund of the village.
(Neb. RS 60-1905)
   (H)   Neither the owner, owner’s agent, owner’s employee, lessee, nor
occupant of the premises from which any abandoned vehicle is removed, nor the
village, shall be liable for any loss or damage to such vehicle which occurs
during its removal or while in the possession of the village or its contractual
agent, while in the possession of a private towing service or as a result of
any subsequent disposition.
(Neb. RS 60-1906)
   (I)   No person shall cause any vehicle to be an abandoned vehicle as
described in division (A)(a)1., (A)(a)2., (A)(a)3. or (A)(a)4. or (A)(b)1., (A)
(b)2. or (A)(b)3. above.
(Neb. RS 60-1907)
   (J)   No person other than one authorized by the village or appropriate
state agency shall destroy, deface or remove any part of a vehicle which is
left unattended on a highway or other public place without license plates
affixed or which is abandoned. Anyone violating this division (J) shall be
guilty of an offense.
(Neb. RS 60-1908)
   (K)   The last registered owner of an abandoned vehicle shall be liable to
the village for the costs of removal and storage of such vehicle.
(Neb. RS 60-1909)
   (L)   Any person violating the provisions of this section shall be guilty of
an offense.
Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Motor Vehicle Registration Act, see Neb. RS 60-301
§ 132.21 UNLICENSED OR INOPERABLE VEHICLES.
   No person in charge or control of any property within the municipality,
other than municipal property, whether as owner, tenant, occupant, lessee or
otherwise, shall allow any partially dismantled, inoperable, wrecked, junked or
discarded vehicle to remain on such property longer than 30 days, absent
presenting proof of the vehicle insurance complying with the minimum standards
required under state law to the Village Clerk. No unlicensed/uninsured vehicle
shall be permitted to remain on any private or public property for any length
of time; provided, that this section shall not apply to a vehicle in an
enclosed building; to a vehicle on the premises of a business enterprise,
operated in a lawful place and manner, when such vehicle is necessary to the
lawful operation of the business; or to a vehicle in an appropriate storage
place or depository maintained in a lawful place and manner by the
municipality. Any vehicle allowed to remain in the property in violation of
this section shall constitute a nuisance and shall be abated, and any person
violating this section shall be guilty of an offense.
(Prior Code, § 6-310) (Ord. 21-1, passed 4-13-2021) Penalty, see §
10.99
WEAPONS OFFENSES
§ 132.35 DISCHARGE OF FIREARMS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, except an officer of the law in the
discharge of official duty, to fire or discharge any gun, pistol or other
fowling piece within the village, except that nothing in this section shall be
construed to apply to officially sanctioned public celebrations if the persons
so discharging firearms have written permission from the Board of Trustees.
Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority to regulate, see Neb. RS 17-556
§ 132.36 SLINGSHOTS, AIR GUNS, BB GUNS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to discharge a slingshot, air gun, BB
gun or the like loaded with rock or other dangerous missiles at any time or
under any circumstances within the village.
Penalty, see §
10.99
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   BUILDING REGULATIONS
      
151.   MOBILE HOMES
      
152.   PUBLIC WAYS AND PROPERTY
      
153.   TREES
CHAPTER 150: BUILDING REGULATIONS
Section
Building Permits and Regulations
   
150.01   Requirement
   
150.02   Duplicate to County Assessor
   
150.03   Expiration and reinstatement of permit
   
150.04   Violations
Moving of Buildings
   
150.15   Regulations
   
150.16   Deposit
Unsafe Buildings
   
150.30   Definition
   
150.31   Prohibitions
   
150.32   Determination; notice
   
150.33   Appeal; demolition; duty to inform county
   
150.34   Emergency
   
150.35   Special assessments
 
   
150.99   Penalty
BUILDING PERMITS AND REGULATIONS
§ 150.01 REQUIREMENT.
   (A)   Any person, firm or corporation desiring to erect, construct, enlarge,
alter, move, remove, convert or demolish any building or structure in the
village, or cause the same to be done, shall file with the Municipal Clerk-
Treasurer an application for a building permit. The application shall be in
writing on a form to be furnished by the Municipal Clerk-Treasurer for that
purpose. Every such application shall set forth the legal description of the
land upon which the construction or relocation is to take place, the nature of
the use or occupancy, the principal dimensions, the estimated cost, the names
of the owner, architect and contractor and such other information as may be
requested thereon. The application, plans and specifications so filed with the
Municipal Clerk-Treasurer shall be checked and examined by the governing body
and, if they are found to be in conformity with the requirements of this
chapter and all other ordinances applicable thereto, the governing body shall
authorize the Municipal Clerk-Treasurer to issue said applicant a permit upon
the payment of the permit fee of $20.
   (B)   Whenever there is a discrepancy between permit application procedures
contained in this chapter and those contained in any building code adopted by
reference, the provisions contained in this chapter shall govern.
(Prior Code, § 9-101) (Ord. 16-1, passed 6-14-2016)
§ 150.02 DUPLICATE TO COUNTY ASSESSOR.
   Whenever a building permit is issued for the erection, alteration or repair
of any building within the village’s corporate limits or extraterritorial
zoning jurisdiction, if the improvement is $2,500 or more, a duplicate of the
permit shall be issued to the County Assessor.
(Neb. RS 18-1743)
§ 150.03 EXPIRATION AND REINSTATEMENT OF PERMIT.
   (A)   Every permit issued shall become invalid unless the work on the site
authorized by such permit is commenced within 180 days after its issuance, if
the work authorized on the site by such permit is not completed within one year
after its issuance, or if the work authorized on the site by such permit is
commenced.
   (B)   The governing body is authorized to grant one or more extensions for
periods not more than 180 days each. The extension shall be requested in
writing and justifiable cause demonstrated. In the event a permit expires
without the work therein completed, the permit may be reinstated only upon the
written application of the original applicant pursuant to the provisions of §
150.01 and further explaining in writing the reason or reasons why the permit
should be reinstated.
   (C)   The governing body is in no way required to grant a reinstatement,
even if the request is timely made. The fee for a reinstatement, if granted, is
$20.
(Ord. 16-1, passed 6-14-2016)
§ 150.04 VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to erect,
construct, enlarge, alter, move, remove, convert or demolish any building or
structure in the village, or cause the same to be done without having first
obtained a building permit as provided in this code or if said building permit
has expired and neither been extended nor reinstated. Any person, firm or
corporation who shall violate any of the provisions of this chapter shall be
deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be fined in
any sum not to exceed $100. Each day that such violation is committed or
permitted to continue shall constitute a separate offense and shall be
punishable as such hereunder.
   (B)   Buildings or structures that have been partially constructed, but have
no building permit to continue construction, shall be deemed to be in violation
of this code. Each day that a partially constructed building or structure
exists without a building permit constitutes a new violation. The governing
body shall have the authority to exercise any powers granted under this code to
compel completion of a partially constructed building or structure, refer for
prosecution of a violation or seek demolition in accordance with this code and
applicable state law.
(Ord. 16-1, passed 6-14-2016) Penalty, see §
150.99
MOVING OF BUILDINGS
§ 150.15 REGULATIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to move any
building or structure within the village without a written permit to do so.
Application may be made to the Village Clerk-Treasurer and shall include the
present and future location of the building to be moved, the proposed route,
the equipment to be used and such other information as the Board of Trustees
may require. The application shall be accompanied by a certificate issued by
the County Treasurer to the effect that all the provisions regulating the
moving of buildings have been complied with on the part of the owner of the
real estate upon which the building is presently located.
   (B)   The Village Clerk-Treasurer shall refer the application to the Board
of Trustees or its designee for approval of the proposed route over which the
building is to be moved. Upon approval, the Village Clerk-Treasurer shall issue
the permit, provided that a good and sufficient corporate surety bond, check or
cash in an amount set by motion of the Board of Trustees, and conditioned upon
moving the building without doing damage to any private or village property, is
filed with the Village Clerk-Treasurer prior to the granting of any permit.
   (C)   No moving permit shall be required to move a building that is ten feet
wide or less, and 20 feet long or less, and when in a position to move, 15 feet
high or less.
   (D)   In the event it will be necessary for any licensed building mover to
interfere with the telephone or telegraph poles and wires, or a gas line, the
company or companies owning, using or operating the poles, wires or line shall,
upon proper notice of at least 24 hours, be present and assist by disconnecting
the poles, wires or line relative to the building moving operation. All expense
of the disconnection, removal or related work shall be paid in advance by the
licensee unless the disconnection or work is furnished on different terms as
provided in the company’s franchise.
   (E)   Whenever the moving of any building necessitates interference with a
water main, sewer main, pipes or wire belonging to the village, notice in
writing of the time and route of the building moving operation shall be given
to the various officials in charge of the village utility departments, who
shall proceed on behalf of the village and at the expense of the mover to make
such disconnections and do such work as is necessary.
Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.16 DEPOSIT.
   At such time as the building moving has been completed, the Building
Inspector or other designated official shall inspect the premises and report to
the Village Clerk-Treasurer as to the extent of damages, if any, resulting from
the relocation and whether any village laws have been violated during the
operation. Upon a satisfactory report from the Building Inspector or other
designated official, the Village Clerk-Treasurer shall return the corporate
surety bond, cash or check deposited by the applicant. In the event the
basement, foundation or portion thereof is not properly filled, covered or in a
clean and sanitary condition, the Board of Trustees may apply the money
deposited for the purpose of defraying the expense of correcting the condition.
If the expense of correcting the hazardous condition is greater than the amount
of the deposit set by the Board of Trustees, the Board of Trustees may recover
the excess expense by civil suit or otherwise as prescribed by law.
UNSAFE BUILDINGS
§ 150.30 DEFINITION.
   (A)   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      UNSAFE BUILDING. Includes any building, shed, fence or other human-made
structure:
         (a)   Which is dangerous to the public health because of its condition
and which may cause or aid in the spread of disease or injury to the health of
the occupants of it or neighboring structures;
         (b)   Which, because of faulty construction, age, lack of proper
repair or any other cause, is especially liable to fire and constitutes or
creates a fire hazard; or
         (c)   Which, by reason of faulty construction or any other cause, is
liable to cause injury or damage by the collapse or fall of all or any part of
the structure.
   (B)   Any such unsafe building in the village is hereby declared to be a
nuisance.
Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.31 PROHIBITIONS.
   It shall be unlawful to maintain or permit the existence of any unsafe
building in the village, and it shall be unlawful for the owner, occupant or
person in custody of any dangerous building to permit the same to remain in an
unsafe condition or to occupy the building or permit it to be occupied while it
is in an unsafe condition.
Penalty, see §
150.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority to prevent and abate nuisances, see Neb. RS 18-1720
§ 150.32 DETERMINATION; NOTICE.
   (A)   (1)   Whenever the Board of Trustees or its designee has made a
determination that a building or other structure in the village is an unsafe
building, it shall be the duty of the Village Clerk-Treasurer to post the
property accordingly and to file a copy of such determination or resolution in
the office of the County Register of Deeds to be recorded.
(Neb. RS 18-1722.01)
      (2)   The Clerk-Treasurer shall also serve written notice upon the owner
and any occupant of the building or other structure by certified mail or
personal service.
   (B)   (1)   This notice shall state that the building has been declared to
be in an unsafe condition, that the dangerous condition must be removed or
remedied by repairing or altering the building or by demolishing it, and that
the condition must be remedied within 60 days from the date of receipt.
      (2)   The notice may be in the following terms:
 
   “To __________________________________ (owner-occupant of premises), of the
premises known and described as _________________________________.
   “You are hereby notified that _______________________________ (describe building)
on the premises above mentioned has been determined to be an unsafe building and a
nuisance after inspection by ________________________________. The causes for this
decision are ________________________ (here insert the facts as to the dangerous
condition).
   “You must remedy this condition or demolish the building within 60 days from the
date of receipt of this notice or the village will proceed to do so. Appeal of this
determination may be made to the Board of Trustees, acting as the Board of Appeals,
by filing with the Village Clerk-Treasurer within ten days from the date of receipt
of this notice a request for a hearing.”
 
   (C)   If the person receiving the notice has not complied within 60 days
from the date of receipt of the notice, or taken an appeal from the
determination that a dangerous building exists within ten days from the time
when this notice is served upon that person by personal service or certified
mail, the Building Inspector or other designated official may, upon the orders
of the Board of Trustees, proceed to remedy the condition or demolish the
unsafe building.
§ 150.33 APPEAL; DEMOLITION; DUTY TO INFORM COUNTY.
   (A)   Upon receiving the notice to repair or demolish the building, the
owner of the building, within the time stipulated, may in writing to the
Village Clerk-Treasurer request a hearing before the Board of Trustees, sitting
as the Board of Appeals, to present reasons why the building should not be
repaired or demolished. The Board of Trustees shall grant such a hearing within
ten days from the date of receiving the request. A written notice of the Board
of Trustees’ decision following the hearing shall be sent to the property owner
by certified mail.
   (B)   If the Board of Trustees rejects the appeal, the owner shall have 60
days from the sending of the decision to begin repair or demolition and
removal. If, after the 60-day period, the owner has not begun work, the Board
of Trustees shall proceed to cause the work to be done, except that the
property owner may appeal the decision to the appropriate court for
adjudication, during which proceedings the decision of the Board of Trustees
shall be stayed.
   (C)   Any village police officer or member of the Board of Trustees shall at
once inform the County Treasurer of the removal or demolition of, or a levy of
attachment upon, any item of real property known to him or her.
(Neb. RS 77-1725.01)
§ 150.34 EMERGENCY.
   Where any unsafe building or structure poses an immediate danger to the
health, safety or general welfare of any person or persons and the owner fails
to remedy the situation in a reasonable time after notice to do so, the village
may summarily repair or demolish and remove that building or structure.
§ 150.35 SPECIAL ASSESSMENTS.
   (A)   If any owner of any building or structure fails, neglects or refuses
to comply with notice by or on behalf of the village to repair, rehabilitate or
demolish and remove a building or structure which is an unsafe building or
structure and a public nuisance, the village may proceed with the work
specified in the notice to the property owner. A statement of the cost of this
work shall be transmitted to the Board of Trustees.
   (B)   The Board of Trustees may:
      (1)   Levy the cost as a special assessment against the lot or real
estate upon which the building or structure is located. Such special assessment
shall be a lien on the real estate and shall be collected in the manner
provided for special assessments; or
      (2)   Collect the cost from the owner of the building or structure and
enforce the collection by civil action in any court of competent jurisdiction.
(Neb. RS 18-1722)
§ 150.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who shall violate or refuse to comply with the enforcement of any
of the provisions of this chapter unless otherwise provided herein, set forth
at full length herein or incorporated by reference, shall be deemed guilty of
an offense and, upon conviction thereof, shall be fined not more than $100 for
each offense. A new violation shall be deemed to have been committed every 24
hours of such failure to comply.
(Prior Code, § 9-501) (Ord. 16-1, passed 6-14-2016)
CHAPTER 151: MOBILE HOMES
Section
   
151.01   Definitions
   
151.02   Exception; manufactured homes
   
151.03   Building permit required
   
151.04   Standards
   
151.05   Required condition
§ 151.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   MOBILE HOME. Any vehicle, trailer or portable dwelling constructed to be
towed on its own chassis or propelled under its own power, having no
foundation, other than wheels, jacks or skirtings, and designed or constructed
to permit occupancy by one or more persons for dwelling purposes. The MOBILE
HOME may consist of one or more units, commonly called a double-wide mobile
home, which can be telescoped when towed and expanded later for additional
capacity or two or more units separately towable but designed to be joined as
only one unit.
(Prior Code, § 9-401)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 76-1463
§ 151.02 EXCEPTION; MANUFACTURED HOMES.
   This chapter shall not apply to prefabricated or precut houses or to those
manufactured in sections or parts away from the site and transported to the
site for erection on a permanent foundation.
(Prior Code, § 9-402)
§ 151.03 BUILDING PERMIT REQUIRED.
   After the effective date of this chapter, no person shall begin occupancy of
a mobile home as a dwelling unless the owner of the mobile home has first
secured a building permit from the governing body. Application for the building
permit must be filed with the Municipal Clerk-Treasurer at least 35 days prior
to the time of placement of the mobile home on any lot within the municipality.
(Prior Code, § 9-403) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 151.04 STANDARDS.
   The following standards must be met before a building permit may be granted.
   (A)   The mobile homes must comply with all provisions of the municipal
building codes which are on file in the Municipal Clerk-Treasurer’s office.
   (B)   The mobile home must be attached to municipal utility services for
electricity, water and sewer service.
   (C)   The mobile home must be securely anchored and fully skirted. If the
hitch of the mobile home is not removed, the hitch shall be skirted also.
(Prior Code, § 9-404)
§ 151.05 REQUIRED CONDITION.
   All mobile homes within the municipality and the premises upon which they
are situated shall be kept in a clean, sanitary and unoffensive condition and
shall not be allowed to become a nuisance.
(Prior Code, § 9-405)
CHAPTER 152: PUBLIC WAYS AND PROPERTY
Section
Village Property
   
152.01   Definitions
   
152.02   Maintenance and control
   
152.03   Regulation of snow, ice and other encroachments
   
152.04   Prohibited obstructions
   
152.05   Heavy equipment
Sale and Acquisition of Property; Public Works
   
152.20   Sale and conveyance; real property
   
152.21   Acquisition or construction of public buildings; election requirements
   
152.22   Acquisition of real property; appraisal
   
152.23   Acquisition of real property; public meeting; access for recreational
use
Sidewalks
   
152.35   Requirement to keep clean
   
152.36   Construction at owner’s initiative
   
152.37   Construction and repair at village direction
Streets and Alleys
   
152.50   Opening, widening, improving or vacating
   
152.51   Excavation
   
152.52   Driving stakes
   
152.53   Mixing concrete
   
152.54   Harmful liquids
 
   
152.99   Penalty
VILLAGE PROPERTY
§ 152.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   OVERSEER OF STREETS. The village official with general charge, direction and
control of streets and sidewalks. If one official is responsible for streets
and another official is responsible for sidewalks, OVERSEER OF STREETS shall
mean whichever one is appropriate in the context the term is used.
   SIDEWALK SPACE. The portion of a street between curblines and adjacent
property lines.
§ 152.02 MAINTENANCE AND CONTROL.
   The Board of Trustees shall have the care, supervision and control of all
public highways, bridges, streets, alleys, public squares and commons within
the village and shall cause such highways, bridges, streets, alleys, public
squares and commons to be kept open and in repair and free from nuisances.
(Neb. RS 17-567)
§ 152.03 REGULATION OF SNOW, ICE AND OTHER ENCROACHMENTS.
   (A)   The village shall have the power to prevent and remove all
encroachments, including snow, ice, mud or other obstructions, into and upon
all sidewalks, streets, avenues, alleys and other village property.
(Neb. RS 17-557)
   (B)   If the abutting property owner refuses or neglects, after five days’
notice by publication or, in place thereof, personal service of such notice, to
remove all encroachments from sidewalks as provided in division (A) above, the
village, through the proper officers, may cause such encroachments to be
removed, and the cost of removal shall be paid out of the Street Fund. The
Board of Trustees shall assess the cost of the notice and removal of the
encroachment against the abutting property as a special assessment. The special
assessment shall be known as a special sidewalk assessment and, together with
the cost of notice, shall be levied and collected as a special assessment in
addition to the general revenue taxes and shall be subject to the same
penalties as other special assessments and shall draw interest from the date of
the assessment. Upon payment of the assessment, the assessment shall be
credited to the Street Fund.
(Neb. RS 17-557.01)
§ 152.04 PROHIBITED OBSTRUCTIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to obstruct or encumber, by
fences, gates, buildings, structures or otherwise, any of the streets, alleys
or sidewalks.
   (B)   The public ways and property shall be considered to be obstructed when
the owner or occupant of the adjacent property permits or suffers to remain on
any premises owned or controlled by him or her any hedge, shrubbery, bush or
similar growth within two feet adjacent to the lot line, whether there is a
sidewalk abutting or adjoining the premises or not. It shall be the duty of
owners and occupants to at all times keep trimmed and pruned all such similar
growth.
   (C)   Trees and shrubs growing upon the lot line partially on public ground
and partially upon the abutting property, or wholly upon the abutting property,
and interfering with the use, making or construction of any public improvement,
or so that the roots thereof interfere with any utility wire or pipe, shall be
deemed an obstruction. Such trees and shrubs and their roots may be removed by
the village at the expense of the owner of the property upon which the trees or
shrubs are partially or wholly located if the owner fails or neglects, after
notice, to do so.
   (D)   When any obstruction described in this section is determined to exist,
the village may proceed against the owner or occupant of the property adjacent
to the sidewalk space as provided in §
91.16.
Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.05 HEAVY EQUIPMENT.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to move or operate heavy equipment
across any curb, gutter, bridge, culvert, sidewalk, crosswalk or crossing on
any unpaved street without first having protected such curb, gutter, bridge,
culvert, sidewalk, crosswalk or crossing with heavy plank sufficient in
strength to warrant against the breaking or damaging of such curb, gutter,
bridge, culvert, sidewalk, crosswalk or crossing.
   (B)   Except as provided in the traffic code, it shall be unlawful to run,
drive, move, operate or convey over or across any paved street a vehicle,
machine or implement with sharp discs or sharp wheels that bear upon the
pavement; with wheels having cutting edges; with wheels having lugs, any
protruding parts or bolts thereon that extend beyond a plain tire so as to cut,
mark, mar, indent or otherwise injure or damage any pavement, gutter or curb,
except that where heavy vehicles, structures and machines move along paved or
unpaved streets, the village police are hereby authorized and empowered to
choose the route over which the moving of such vehicles, structures or machines
will be permitted and allowed.
Penalty, see §
152.99
SALE AND ACQUISITION OF PROPERTY; PUBLIC WORKS
§ 152.20 SALE AND CONVEYANCE; REAL PROPERTY.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (G) below, the power of the village to
convey any real property owned by it, including land used for park purposes and
public squares, except real property used in the operation of public utilities,
shall be exercised by resolution, directing the sale at public auction or by
sealed bid of that property and the manner and terms of such sales, except that
the property shall not be sold at public auction or by sealed bid when:
      (1)   The property is being sold in compliance with the requirements of
federal or state grants or programs;
      (2)   The property is being conveyed to another public agency; or
      (3)   The property consists of streets and alleys.
   (B)   The Board of Trustees may establish a minimum price for real property
at which bidding shall begin or shall serve as a minimum for a sealed bid.
   (C)   After the passage of the resolution directing the sale, notice of all
proposed sales of property described in division (A) above and the terms of
such sales shall be published once each week for three consecutive weeks in a
legal newspaper in or of general circulation in the village.
   (D)   (1)   If, within 30 days after the third publication of the notice, a
remonstrance petition against the sale conforms to Neb. RS 32-628; is signed by
registered voters of the village equal in number to 30% of the registered
voters of the village voting at the last regular village election held therein;
and is filed with the Board of Trustees, that property shall not then, nor
within one year thereafter, be sold. If the date for filing the petition falls
upon a Saturday, Sunday or legal holiday, the signatures shall be collected
within the 30-day period, but the filing shall be considered timely if filed or
postmarked on or before the next business day.
      (2)   Upon receipt of the petition, the Board of Trustees, with the aid
and assistance of the Election Commissioner or County Clerk, shall determine
the validity and sufficiency of signatures on the petition. The Board of
Trustees shall deliver the petition to the Election Commissioner or County
Clerk by hand carrier, by use of law enforcement officials or by certified
mail, return receipt requested.
      (3)   Upon receipt of the petition, the Election Commissioner or County
Clerk shall issue to the Board of Trustees a written receipt that the petition
is in the custody of the Election Commissioner or County Clerk. The Election
Commissioner or County Clerk shall compare the signature of each person signing
the petition with the voter registration records to determine if each signer
was a registered voter on or before the date on which the petition was filed
with the Board of Trustees. The Election Commissioner or County Clerk shall
also compare the signer’s printed name, street and number or voting precinct,
and village or post office address with the voter registration records to
determine whether the signer was a registered voter. The signature and address
shall be presumed to be valid only if the Election Commissioner or County Clerk
determines that the printed name, street and number or voting precinct, and
village or post office address match the registration records and that the
registration was received on or before the date on which the petition was filed
with the Board of Trustees. The determinations of the Election Commissioner or
County Clerk may be rebutted by any credible evidence which the Board of
Trustees finds sufficient. The express purpose of the comparison of names and
addresses with the voter registration records, in addition to helping to
determine the validity of the petition, the sufficiency of the petition and the
qualifications of the signer, shall be to prevent fraud, deception and
misrepresentation in the petition process.
      (4)   Upon completion of the comparison of names and addresses with the
voter registration records, the Election Commissioner or County Clerk shall
prepare in writing a certification under seal setting forth the name and
address of each signer found not to be a registered voter and the signature
page number and line number where the name is found, and if the reason for the
invalidity of the signature or address is other than the nonregistration of the
signer, the Election Commissioner or County Clerk shall set forth the reason
for the invalidity of the signature. If the Election Commissioner or County
Clerk determines that a signer has affixed his or her signature more than once
to the petition and that only one person is registered by that name, the
Election Commissioner or County Clerk shall prepare in writing a certification
under seal setting forth the name of the duplicate signature and shall count
only the earliest dated signature.
      (5)   The Election Commissioner or County Clerk shall certify to the
Board of Trustees the number of valid signatures necessary to constitute a
valid petition. The Election Commissioner or County Clerk shall deliver the
petition and the certifications to the Board of Trustees within 40 days after
the receipt of the remonstrance from the Board of Trustees. The delivery shall
be by hand carrier, by use of law enforcement officials or by certified mail,
return receipt requested. Not more than 20 signatures on one signature page
shall be counted.
      (6)   The Board of Trustees shall, within 30 days after the receipt of
the petition and certifications from the Election Commissioner or County Clerk,
hold a public hearing to review the remonstrance and certifications and receive
testimony regarding them. The Board of Trustees shall, following the hearing,
vote on whether or not the remonstrance is valid and shall uphold the petition
if sufficient valid signatures have been received.
   (E)   Real estate now owned or hereafter owned by the village may be
conveyed without consideration to the state for state armory sites or, if
acquired for state armory sites, shall be conveyed strictly in accordance with
the conditions of Neb. RS 18-1001 through 18-1006.
   (F)   Following passage of the resolution directing a sale, publishing of
the notice of the proposed sale, and passing of the 30-day right-of-
remonstrance period, the property shall then be sold. The sale shall be
confirmed by passage of an ordinance stating the name of the purchaser and
terms of the sale.
(Neb. RS 17-503)
   (G)   Divisions (A) through (F) above shall not apply to the sale of real
property if the authorizing resolution directs the sale of real property the
total fair market value of which is less than $5,000. Following passage of the
resolution directing the sale of the property, notice of the sale shall be
posted in three prominent places within the village for a period of not less
than seven days prior to the sale of the property. The notice shall give a
general description of the property offered for sale and state the terms and
conditions of sale. Confirmation of the sale by passage of an ordinance may be
required.
(Neb. RS 17-503.01)
§ 152.21 ACQUISITION OR CONSTRUCTION OF PUBLIC BUILDINGS; ELECTION
REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The village is authorized and empowered to purchase, accept by gift or
devise, purchase real estate upon which to erect and erect a building or
buildings for an auditorium, fire station, village building or community house
for housing village enterprises and social and recreation purposes, and other
public buildings, including the construction of buildings authorized to be
constructed by Neb. RS Chapter 72, Article 14, and including the construction
of buildings to be leased, in whole or in part, by the village to any other
political or governmental subdivision of the state authorized by law to lease
such buildings, and maintain, manage and operate the same for the benefit of
the inhabitants of the village.
   (B)   Except as provided in division (C) below, before any such purchase can
be made or building erected, the question shall be submitted to the electors of
the village at a general village election or at an election duly called for
that purpose, or as set forth in division (D) below, and be adopted by a
majority of the electors voting on such question.
(Neb. RS 17-953)
   (C)   If the funds to be used to finance the purchase or construction of a
building pursuant to this section are available other than through a bond
issue, then either:
      (1)   Notice of the proposed purchase or construction shall be published
in a legal newspaper in or of general circulation in the village, and no
election shall be required to approve the purchase or construction unless,
within 30 days after the publication of the notice, a petition against the
purchase or construction is signed by registered voters of the village equal in
number to 15% of the registered voters of the village voting at the last
regular village election held therein and is filed with the Board of Trustees.
If the date for filing the petition falls upon a Saturday, Sunday or legal
holiday, the signatures shall be collected within the 30-day period, but the
filing shall be considered timely if filed or postmarked on or before the next
business day. If a petition with the necessary number of qualified signatures
is timely filed, the question shall be submitted to the voters of the village
at a general village election or a special election duly called for that
purpose. If the purchase or construction is not approved, the property involved
shall not then, nor within one year following the election, be purchased or
constructed; or
      (2)   The Board of Trustees may proceed without providing the notice and
right of petition required in division (C)(1) above if the property can be
purchased below the fair market value as determined by an appraisal, there is a
willing seller, and the purchase price is less than $25,000. The purchase shall
be approved by the Board of Trustees after notice and public hearing as
provided in §
152.23.
(Neb. RS 17-953.01)
   (D)   (1)   The Board of Trustees adopting the proposition to make such
purchase or erect such building or buildings for the purposes set forth in
division (A) above shall have the power to borrow money and pledge the property
and credit of the village upon its negotiable bonds. No such bonds shall be
issued until after the same have been authorized by a majority vote of the
electors voting on the proposition of their issuance, at a general village
election or at a special election called for the submission of such
proposition. The question of such purchase or erection of such building or
buildings, as set forth in division (A) above, and the question of the issuance
of the negotiable bonds referred to in this division (D) may be submitted as
one question at a general village or special election if so ordered by
resolution or ordinance.
      (2)   Notice of the time and place of the election shall be given by
publication in some legal newspaper printed in or of general circulation in the
village three successive weeks immediately prior thereto.
      (3)   No such election for the issuance of such bonds shall be called
until a petition therefor signed by at least 10% of the legal voters of the
village has been presented to the Board of Trustees. The number of voters
voting at the last regular village election prior to the presenting of the
petition shall be deemed the number of votes in the village for the purpose of
determining the sufficiency of the petition.
      (4)   The question of bond issues for such purpose in the village when
defeated shall not be resubmitted for six months from and after the date of
such election.
      (5)   When the building to be constructed is to be used by the state or
its agency or agencies under a lease authorized by Neb. RS Chapter 72, Article
14, or the building is to be leased by any other political or governmental
subdivision of the state, when the combined area of the building to be leased
by the state or its agency or agencies and the political or governmental
subdivision of the state is more than 50% of the area of the building, and when
such sum does not exceed $2,000,000, then no such vote of the electors will be
required.
(Neb. RS 17-954)
§ 152.22 ACQUISITION OF REAL PROPERTY; APPRAISAL.
   Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the village shall not purchase,
lease-purchase or acquire for consideration real property having an estimated
value of $100,000 or more unless an appraisal of such property has been
performed by a certified real property appraiser.
(Neb. RS 13-403)
§ 152.23 ACQUISITION OF REAL PROPERTY; PUBLIC MEETING; ACCESS FOR RECREATIONAL
USE.
   (A)   The village shall acquire an interest in real property by purchase or
eminent domain only after the Board of Trustees has authorized the acquisition
by action taken in a public meeting after notice and public hearing.
   (B)   (1)   The village shall provide to the public a right of access for
recreational use to real property acquired for public recreational purposes.
Such access shall be at designated access points and shall be equal to the
right of access for recreational use held by adjacent landowners.
      (2)   The right of access granted to the public for recreational use
shall meet or exceed such right held by a private landowner adjacent to the
real property.
(Neb. RS 18-1755)
SIDEWALKS
§ 152.35 REQUIREMENT TO KEEP CLEAN.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the occupant of any lot or lots or the owner
of any vacant lot or lots within the corporate limits to allow snow, sleet,
mud, ice or other substance to accumulate on the sidewalks or to permit any
snow, sleet, ice, mud or other substance to remain upon the sidewalk.
   (B)   Unless the Board of Trustees has provided otherwise, all sidewalks
within the Business District shall be cleaned within five hours after the
cessation of a storm unless the storm or fall of snow shall have taken place
during the night, in which case, the sidewalk shall be cleaned before 9:00 a.m.
the following day, and sidewalks within the residential areas of the village
shall be cleaned within 24 hours after the cessation of the storm.
Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.36 CONSTRUCTION AT OWNER’S INITIATIVE.
   (A)   Any person desiring to construct, or cause to be constructed, any
sidewalk shall do so only as provided in this section. It shall be unlawful for
any person to construct any sidewalk without first having obtained a permit.
   (B)   The owner shall make application in writing for a permit and file such
application in the office of the Village Clerk-Treasurer. The permit shall give
a description of the lot or piece of land along which the sidewalk is to be
constructed. The Overseer of Streets shall issue the desired permit unless good
cause appears why the permit should be denied, except that if it is desired to
construct the sidewalk at any other than the regularly prescribed location,
grade or elevation, the Overseer of Streets shall submit the application to the
Board of Trustees for determination as to whether the permit should be granted
or denied. It shall be unlawful for any person to construct, or cause to be
constructed, such sidewalk at any other location, grade or elevation than so
designated by the village. All sidewalks shall be built and constructed on the
established grade or elevation, and if there is no established grade, then on
the grade or elevation indicated by the Overseer of Streets.
Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.37 CONSTRUCTION AND REPAIR AT VILLAGE DIRECTION.
   (A)   (1)   The Board of Trustees may construct and repair sidewalks or
cause the construction and repair of sidewalks in such manner as the Board of
Trustees deems necessary and assess the expense of such construction or repairs
on the property in front of which such construction or repairs are made, after
having given notice:
         (a)   By publication in one issue of a legal newspaper in or of
general circulation in the village; and
         (b)   By either causing a written notice to be served upon the
occupant in possession of the property involved or to be posted upon such
premises ten days prior to the commencement of such construction or repair.
      (2)   The powers conferred under this section are in addition to those
provided in Neb. RS 17-509 through 17-521 and may be exercised without creating
an improvement district.
      (3)   If the owner of any property abutting any street or avenue or part
thereof fails to construct or repair any sidewalk in front of the owner’s
property within the time and in the manner as directed and requested by the
Board of Trustees, after having received due notice to do so, the Board of
Trustees may cause the sidewalk to be constructed or repaired and may assess
the cost of such construction or repairs against the property.
(Neb. RS 17-522)
   (B)   All sidewalks shall be constructed and repaired in conformity with
such plans and specifications as may be approved by the Board of Trustees.
   (C)   Assessments made under the provisions of this section shall be made
and assessed in the following manner:
      (1)   Such assessment shall be made by the Board of Trustees at a special
meeting by a resolution, taking into account the benefits derived or injuries
sustained in consequence of such improvements and the amount charged against
the same, which, with the vote, shall be recorded in the minutes. Notice of the
time of holding such meeting and the purpose for which it is to be held shall
be published in a legal newspaper in or of general circulation in the village
at least four weeks before the same shall be held or, in lieu thereof, personal
service may be made upon persons owning or occupying property to be assessed;
and
      (2)   All such assessments shall be known as special assessments for
improvements and shall be levied and collected as a separate tax, in addition
to the taxes for general revenue purposes, and shall be placed on the tax roll
for collection, subject to the same penalties and collected in like manner as
other village taxes.
(Neb. RS 17-524)
Statutory reference:
   Authority to improve through sidewalk district, see Neb. RS 19-2417 through
19-2419
STREETS AND ALLEYS
§ 152.50 OPENING, WIDENING, IMPROVING OR VACATING.
   (A)   (1)   The village shall have the power to open, widen or otherwise
improve or vacate any street, avenue, alley or lane within the limits of the
village and also to create, open and improve any new street, avenue, alley or
lane. All damages sustained by the citizens of the village, or by the owners of
the property therein, shall be ascertained in that manner as shall be provided
by ordinance.
      (2)   Whenever any street, avenue, alley or lane is vacated, such street,
avenue, alley or lane shall revert to the owners of the abutting real estate,
one-half on each side thereof, and become a part of that property unless the
village reserves title in the ordinance vacating such street or alley. If title
is retained by the village, such property may be sold, conveyed, exchanged or
leased upon such terms and conditions as shall be deemed in the best interests
of the village.
      (3)   When a portion of a street, avenue, alley or lane is vacated only
on one side of the center thereof, the title to the land shall vest in the
owner of the abutting property and become a part of that property unless the
village reserves title in the ordinance vacating a portion of such street,
avenue, alley or lane. If title is retained by the village, such property may
be sold, conveyed, exchanged or leased upon such terms and conditions as shall
be deemed in the best interests of the village.
      (4)   When the village vacates all or any portion of a street, avenue,
alley or lane, the village shall, within 30 days after the effective date of
the vacation, file a certified copy of the vacating ordinance with the Register
of Deeds for the county in which the vacated property is located, to be indexed
against all affected lots.
      (5)   The title to property vacated pursuant to this section shall be
subject to the following:
         (a)   There is reserved to the village the right to maintain, operate,
repair and renew public utilities existing at the time title to the property is
vacated there; and
         (b)   There is reserved to the village, any public utilities and any
cable television systems the right to maintain, repair, renew and operate water
mains, gas mains, pole lines, conduits, electrical transmission lines, sound
and signal transmission lines, and other similar services and equipment and
appurtenances, including lateral connections or branch lines, above, on or
below the surface of the ground that are existing as valid easements at the
time title to the property is vacated for the purposes of serving the general
public or the abutting properties, and to enter upon the premises to accomplish
such purposes at any and all reasonable times.
(Neb. RS 17-558)
   (B)   The village shall have the power to create, open, widen or extend any
street, avenue, alley, off-street parking area or other public way, or to
annul, vacate or discontinue such street, avenue, alley, area or public way.
(Neb. RS 17-559)
§ 152.51 EXCAVATION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to make an excavation in any street or
streets for any purpose whatsoever unless a written permit is issued by the
Overseer of Streets authorizing those excavations.
Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.52 DRIVING STAKES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to drive any peg or stake of any kind
into the pavement in any street or alley without first procuring the written
consent of the Overseer of Streets.
Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.53 MIXING CONCRETE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to mix any concrete or plastering
material directly on the street pavement for any reason whatsoever.
Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.54 HARMFUL LIQUIDS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to place or permit to leak in the gutter
of any street any waste gasoline, kerosene or high lubricating oils, which
damage or act as a solvent upon the streets.
Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who shall violate or refuse to comply with the enforcement of any
of the provisions of this chapter, set forth at full length herein or
incorporated by reference, shall be deemed guilty of an offense and, upon
conviction thereof, shall be fined not more than $100 for each offense. A new
violation shall be deemed to have been committed every 24 hours of such failure
to comply.
(Prior Code, § 8-501)
CHAPTER 153: TREES
Section
   
153.01   Definitions
   
153.02   Street tree species
   
153.03   Distances and clearances for planting
   
153.04   Public tree care
   
153.05   Permits required
   
153.06   Compensatory payments
   
153.07   Topping
   
153.08   Clearance over streets and walkways
   
153.09   Dead or hazard tree removal
   
153.10   Interference with Tree Board
   
153.11   Access
   
153.12   Arborist certification and insurance
§ 153.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COMMUNITY FOREST MANAGER. The official (public employee) representative of
the Tree Board and as such is responsible for administration of the community
forestry program.
   PARK TREES. Trees, shrubs, bushes and all other woody vegetation in public
parks.
   PRIVATE COMMUNITY FOREST. All trees within municipal boundaries but not
owned by the municipality.
   PUBLIC COMMUNITY FOREST. All street and park trees and other trees owned by
the municipality as a total resource.
   STREET TREES. Trees, shrubs, bushes and all other woody vegetation on land
lying between the property lines on either side of all streets and avenues
within the municipality.
(Prior Code, § 8-401)
§ 153.02 STREET TREE SPECIES.
   The village shall maintain an extensive list of recommended trees for
planting in public areas, The purpose of this listing will be to maintain
diversity in the total tree population. This list shall be available to
residents of the municipality upon request to aid in the selection of trees for
private and public properties. The list of recommended trees shall be updated
periodically to reflect new developments or species that will affect the
population of the community forest.
(Prior Code, § 8-402)
§ 153.03 DISTANCES AND CLEARANCES FOR PLANTING.
   (A)   Street trees may be planted in the tree lawn where there is more than
six feet between the edge of the sidewalk and the curb of the street. Street
trees shall be planted no closer than three feet from a sidewalk, driveway or
street. No street tree shall be planted closer than 35 feet from any street
corner, measured from the point of the nearest intersection of curbs or
curblines. No street tree shall be planted closer than ten feet from any
fireplug.
   (B)   Special permission must be obtained from the Community Forest Manager
when planting street trees within ten feet of any point on a line on the ground
immediately below any overhead utility wire.
(Prior Code, § 8-403)
§ 153.04 PUBLIC TREE CARE.
   (A)   The municipality shall have the right to plant, prune, maintain and
remove trees, plants and shrubs within the right-of-way or bounds of all
streets, alleys, lanes, squares and public grounds, as may be necessary to
ensure the public safety.
   (B)   The municipality may remove, or cause or order to be removed, any tree
or part thereof which is in an unsafe condition or which by reason of its
nature is injurious to electric power lines or other public improvements or is
seriously affected with any fatal disease.
   (C)   The abutting property owners shall have the right to perform normal
tree care on all street trees.
(Prior Code, § 8-404)
§ 153.05 PERMITS REQUIRED.
   No person shall plant a street tree without first obtaining a permit from
the Community Forest Manager. There will be no fee for such permit.
(Prior Code, § 8-405)
§ 153.06 COMPENSATORY PAYMENTS.
   (A)   No person shall remove any public tree without replacing such tree
with a tree or trees of equivalent dollar value in the vicinity of the removed
tree. The value of trees shall be determined by the Community Forest Manager in
accordance with regulations considering the species, location, size and
condition of trees adopted by the Tree Board.
   (B)   If no suitable location exists in the vicinity of the tree removed or
if the replacement tree is of lesser value, the person causing the tree to be
removed shall make a compensatory payment to the municipality equal to the
difference in value between the tree removed and any replacement tree. Such
compensatory payment shall be paid into a fund established by the Municipal
Clerk-Treasurer and used solely for the purpose of enhancing the community
forest.
(Prior Code, § 8-406) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 153.07 TOPPING.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      TOPPING, ROUNDING OFF or POLLARDING. The systematic cutting back of limbs
within the tree’s crown to such a degree as to remove the normal canopy and
disfigure the tree.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful as a normal practice for any person, firm or
municipal department to top any street tree, park tree or other tree on public
property.
   (C)   Trees severely damaged by storms or other causes, or certain trees
under utility wires or other obstructions where other pruning practices are
impractical may be exempted from this section at the determination of the Tree
Board or the Community Forest Manager.
(Prior Code, § 8-407) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 153.08 CLEARANCE OVER STREETS AND WALKWAYS.
   (A)   Clearance over streets and walkways shall be the responsibility of the
abutting property owner. A clearance of eight feet must be maintained over
walkways and a clearance of 12 feet must be maintained over streets and alleys.
   (B)   Property owners are responsible for trees on their own property as
well as trees on the public way that abuts their property.
(Prior Code, § 8-408)
§ 153.09 DEAD OR HAZARD TREE REMOVAL.
   The municipality shall have the right to cause to be removed any tree within
the corporate limits that is dead or has been declared a hazard. Hazard trees
are defined as trees with severe structural defects or splits. The municipality
will notify in writing the owners of such trees. Removal is the responsibility
of the owners of such trees and shall be accomplished within time limits set by
the Community Forest Manager.
(Prior Code, § 8-409)
§ 153.10 INTERFERENCE WITH TREE BOARD.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to prevent, delay or interfere with the
Tree Board or any of its representatives or agents, while engaging in and about
the planting, cultivating, mulching, pruning, spraying or removing of any trees
within the public community forest.
(Prior Code, § 8-410) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 153.11 ACCESS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to prevent, delay or interfere with
access to private property by the municipality or its representative in the
legal performance of any section of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 8-411) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 153.12 ARBORIST CERTIFICATION AND INSURANCE.
   Persons or firms engaged in the business or occupation of pruning, treating
or removing any street tree, park tree or other privately owned tree must be
recognized by the State Arborists Association as a certified arborist or tree
technician. Tree technicians must carry evidence of liability insurance and
worker’s compensation. No certification shall be required by any public
employee doing such work in the pursuit of his or her public service endeavors.
(Prior Code, § 8-412)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   Table
      
I.   FRANCHISES
TABLE I: FRANCHISES
 
Ord. Date   Description
No.  Passed
            Granting to the Kansas-Nebraska Natural Gas Company, Inc. the
            authority to construct, maintain and operate a gas transmission and
-    - -    distribution system within the municipality. Actual details of the
            agreement and the present gas rates, charges and fees are available
            at the Municipal Clerk-Treasurer’s office.
            (Prior Code, § 10-201)
            Granting to the Glenwood Telephone, Inc. the authority to maintain
            and operate a telephone system within the municipality. Actual
-    - -    details of the agreement and the present telephone rates, charges
            and fees are available at the Municipal Clerk-Treasurer’s office.
            (Prior Code, § 10-202)
            Granting to Glenwood Telecommunications, the authority to
            construct, operate and maintain a community antenna television
-    - -    system in the municipality. Actual details of the agreement and the
            charges, rates and fees are available at the Municipal Clerk-
            Treasurer’s office.
            (Prior Code, § 10-203)
           
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Nebraska Revised Statutes
References to Prior Code
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO NEBRASKA REVISED STATUTES
Neb. RS Section Code Section
Neb. RS Section              Code Section
3-501                        34.46
7-207                        132.04
9-601 et seq.                34.01
10-101 through 10-143        34.12
11-101                       30.03;
                             31.02
11-104                       31.01
11-105                       31.01
11-109                       31.01
11-110                       31.01
11-111                       31.01
11-112                       31.01
11-113                       31.01
11-114                       31.01
11-115                       31.01
11-116                       31.01
11-117                       31.01
11-118                       31.01
13-403                       152.22
13-501 to 13-513             34.29—
                             34.32
13-503                       34.01
13-504                       34.28
13-505                       34.28
13-506                       34.29
13-507                       34.29
13-508                       34.30
13-509                       34.30;
                             34.48
13-509.01                    34.27
13-509.02                    34.27
13-518 through 13-522        34.29;
                             34.30
13-519                       33.04
13-606                       34.02
13-609                       34.14
13-801                       34.46
13-801 to 1-827              30.02
13-903                       34.05
13-2001 et seq.              51.10
13-2003 through 13-2016.01   51.01
                             51.02;
                             51.06;
13-2020                      51.09;
                             51.10;
                             51.12
13-2023                      51.10;
                             51.12
13-2026                      51.10;
                             51.12
13-2027                      51.04
13-2501                      34.46
13-3401 et seq.              34.48
16-318(3)                    31.18
16-714 through 16-716        34.10
17-202                       30.01
17-203                       30.01
17-204                       30.03;
                             31.38
17-205                       31.38
17-207                       30.02
                             31.15;
17-208                       32.01;
                             91.01
17-209                       31.03
                             30.01;
17-209.02                    31.03;
                             31.16;
                             31.19
17-210                       30.04;
                             30.25
17-213.01                    31.22
17-502                       11.01
17-503                       152.20
17-503.01                    152.20
17-505                       30.20
17-509 through 17-521        152.37
17-522                       152.37
17-524                       152.37
                             92.02;
17-526                       92.20;
                             92.24;
                             92.25
17-531                       52.02
17-534                       52.02
17-536                       52.10
                             52.03;
                             52.05;
                             52.07;
17-537                       52.08;
                             52.12;
                             52.16;
                             52.17
17-538                       50.04
17-539                       52.11
17-540                       34.11;
                             52.18
17-542                       52.06
17-547                       92.02
17-555                       91.18;
                             131.02
17-556                       131.01;
                             132.35
17-557                       131.02;
                             152.03
17-557.01                    152.03
17-558                       152.50
17-559                       152.50
17-563                       91.16;
                             91.19
17-567                       152.02
17-568                       31.22
17-568.01                    31.22;
                             34.03
17-568.02                    34.03
17-601.01                    33.09
17-601.02                    33.09
17-601.03                    33.09
17-602                       33.03
                             31.01;
17-604                       31.03;
                             31.15
17-605                       31.17
17-606                       31.18
17-606(2)                    31.18
17-607                       34.09
17-608                       34.11
17-609                       34.11
17-610                       31.20
17-611                       31.03
17-612                       31.03
                             30.23;
17-613                       30.25—
                             30.27;
                             34.03
                             10.15;
17-614                       30.23;
                             30.24;
                             30.28
17-615                       30.26
17-616                       30.24
17-701                       34.25
17-702                       34.08;
                             34.47
17-703                       34.06
17-706                       34.31
17-708                       34.04
17-710                       34.07
17-711                       34.04
17-714                       34.05
17-715                       34.05
17-720                       34.10
17-901                       53.03
                             53.03;
                             54.04;
17-902                       54.07—
                             54.09;
                             54.13
17-902 through 17-904        54.01
17-906                       54.01
17-909                       54.01
17-919                       31.22
17-925.01                    50.04;
                             53.01
17-925.02                    53.25
17-948                       90.01
17-948 through 17-952        90.01
17-949                       90.01
17-951                       90.01
17-952                       90.01
17-953                       90.16;
                             152.21
17-953 through 17-955        90.15
17-953.01                    152.21
17-954                       152.21
17-1001                      91.16
18-131                       30.25
18-132                       30.20
18-305 through 18-312        31.04
18-412.01                    34.03
                             50.04;
18-503                       53.04;
                             53.20;
                             53.21
18-1001 through 18-1006      152.20
18-1214                      34.49
18-1216                      34.06
17-1237 et seq.              34.11
17-1269 et seq.              34.11
18-1701                      31.17
                             30.02;
                             91.16;
                             91.17;
18-1720                      91.99;
                             92.99;
                             130.01;
                             132.02;
                             150.31
                             91.99;
18-1722                      92.99;
                             150.35
18-1722.01                   150.32
18-1736                      71.25;
                             71.26
                             71.26;
18-1737                      71.27;
                             71.33
18-1741.01                   71.25;
                             71.34
18-1741.04                   71.34
18-1741.06                   71.34
18-1743                      150.02
18-1755                      152.23
18-1756                      34.03
18-1801 through 18-1805      34.12
18-2101 et seq.              34.46
                             34.25;
18-2801 et seq.              34.28;
                             34.32
18-2803                      34.32
18-2804                      34.02;
                             34.32
18-2805                      34.32
18-2806                      34.32
18-2807                      34.32
18-2808                      34.32
18-3301                      31.22
19-404                       54.06
19-915                       30.28
19-922                       30.20
19-1101                      31.18
19-1102                      31.17
19-1103                      31.17;
                             31.18
19-1301                      34.08
19-1302                      34.08
19-1303                      34.08
19-1304                      34.08
19-1305                      52.02
19-1309                      34.45
19-1310                      34.45
19-1311                      34.45
19-1312                      34.45
                             54.04;
19-1404                      54.07—
                             54.11
19-2101 through 19-2106      51.13
19-2417 through 19-2419      152.37
19-2701                      52.15;
                             53.02
19-2902                      34.02
19-2903                      34.02
19-2904                      34.02
19-2905                      34.02
19-2906 through 19-2909      34.02
19-3701                      30.27
19-3801                      31.21
20-203                       92.26
23-122                       31.17
25-505.01                    33.11
25-2703                      30.20
Chapter 28, Article 3        111.17
Chapter 28, Article 4        111.17
28-419                       132.06
28-420                       132.06
28-423                       132.06
28-424                       132.06
28-431                       132.20
28-519                       54.14
28-520                       92.26
28-521                       92.26
28-523                       90.02;
                             132.03
Chapter 28, Article 7        111.17
Chapter 28, Article 8        111.17
28-907                       131.03
Chapter 28, Article 10       111.17
28-1008                      92.26
28-1009.01                   132.05
Chapter 28, Article 11       111.17
Chapter 28, Article 12       111.17
28-1202.03                   111.46
                             91.16;
28-1321                      130.01;
                             132.01
29-422                       70.10
29-424                       70.10
                             33.01;
32-101 to 32-1551            33.04;
                             33.06;
                             34.08
32-101                       30.01;
                             34.46
32-110                       33.03
32-115                       33.03
32-404                       33.01;
                             33.05
32-405                       33.04;
                             33.11
32-532                       30.01
32-554                       30.01
32-556                       33.01
32-557                       30.01;
                             33.06
32-558                       33.14
32-559                       33.04
32-560                       30.06
32-560 through 32-572        30.06
32-561                       30.06
32-562                       33.11
32-564                       33.04
32-567 through 32-570        33.11
32-569                       30.06
32-574                       33.11
32-602                       30.01
32-604                       30.01
32-607                       33.15
32-608                       33.08;
                             33.10
32-615                       33.10
32-616                       33.10
32-617                       33.10
32-618                       33.10
32-621                       33.10
32-625                       33.15
32-625(2)                    33.10
32-627                       33.10
32-628                       33.10;
                             152.20
32-628 through 32-631        34.46
32-629                       33.10;
                             33.11
32-630                       33.10;
                             33.11
32-710                       33.10
32-802                       33.02;
                             34.46
32-805                       33.07
32-807                       33.07
32-918                       33.12
32-952 through 32-959        33.04
32-1033                      33.14
32-1122                      33.13
32-1202                      33.04
32-1301                      33.11
32-1302                      33.11
32-1303                      33.11
32-1304                      33.11
32-1305                      33.11
32-1306                      33.11
32-1307                      33.11
32-1308                      30.06;
                             33.11
32-1309                      33.11
32-1525                      33.12
33-141                       31.18
39-301                       131.02
39-302                       131.02
45-601 et seq.               34.13
45-623                       34.13
48-1503                      34.03
49-801(16)                   10.05
49-1408                      31.04
49-1425                      31.04
49-1499.03 through 49-14,103 31.04
49-1499.04                   31.04
49-14,102                    31.04
49-14,103.01                 31.04
49-14,103.02                 31.04
49-14,103.03                 31.04
49-14,103.04                 31.04
49-14,103.05                 31.04
49-14,103.06                 31.04
51-201                       34.46
51-215                       34.08
51-216                       34.08
51-501                       34.46
52-601.01 through 52-605     132.20
53-101 et seq.               111.01
53-103.01 through 53-103.51  111.01
53-116.01                    111.19
53-118                       111.42
53-123.12                    111.18
53-124                       111.18;
                             111.21
53-124.01                    111.18
53-124.12                    111.21
53-124.15                    111.40
53-124.17                    111.18
53-125                       111.17
53-129                       111.18
53-131                       111.18
53-132                       111.18
53-133                       111.18;
                             111.40
53-134                       111.18
53-134.03                    111.18;
                             111.42
53-134.04                    111.25
53-135                       111.20
53-135.01                    111.18;
                             111.20
53-148                       111.22
53-167.02                    111.46
53-167.03                    111.46
53-168.06                    111.15
53-175                       111.16
53-177                       111.40
53-177.01                    111.40
53-178                       111.41
53-179                       111.43
53-180                       111.02
53-183                       111.44
53-184                       111.45
53-186                       111.03
53-186(2)                    111.03
53-186.01                    111.03
53-194.03                    111.16
53-1,101                     111.23
53-1,102                     111.24
53-1,115                     111.25
53-1,121                     111.04
54-601                       92.24
54-603                       92.20;
                             92.21
54-603(3)                    92.20
54-605                       92.22
54-606                       92.24
54-607                       92.02
54-617                       92.26
54-618                       92.26
54-619                       92.26
54-620                       92.26
54-621                       92.26
54-622.01                    92.26
54-623                       92.26
55-133                       70.01
56-602                       92.24
60-101 et seq.               34.49
60-169                       132.20
60-301                       34.49;
                             132.20
60-311.14                    71.26;
                             71.27
60-323                       71.05
60-376                       132.20
60-3,104                     34.49
60-3,113.06                  71.26;
                             71.27
60-462                       70.06
60-606 through 60-676        70.01
60-607                       70.01
60-610                       70.01
60-613                       70.01
60-624                       70.01
60-631                       70.01
60-638                       70.01
60-646                       70.01
60-654                       70.01
60-656                       70.01
60-658.01                    70.01
60-661                       70.01
60-669                       70.01
60-670                       70.01
60-671                       70.01
60-672                       70.01
60-676                       70.01
                             70.03;
60-680                       70.04;
                             71.01
60-681                       70.02
60-683                       70.06
60-6,118                     70.01
60-6,119                     70.07
60-6,121                     70.05
60-6,127                     70.08
60-6,165                     71.11
60-6,167                     71.10
60-6,185                     70.25
60-6,186                     70.26
60-6,187                     70.26
60-6,188                     70.26
60-6,211.08                  111.03
60-6,305                     70.26
60-6,313                     70.26
60-1901                      132.20
60-1902                      132.20
60-1903                      132.20
60-1903.01                   132.20
60-1903.02                   132.20
60-1904                      132.20
60-1905                      132.20
60-1906                      132.20
60-1907                      132.20
60-1908                      132.20
60-1909                      132.20
60-2410                      132.20
70-624.04                    31.04
70-1601                      50.01
70-1602                      50.03
70-1603                      50.03
70-1604                      50.03
70-1607                      50.03
70-1608 through 70-1614      50.03
70-1615                      50.03
71-423                       111.04
71-1637                      34.46
71-4412                      92.20
71-4603                      132.20
Chapter 72, Article 14       152.21
73-101 et seq.               34.03
76-1463                      151.01
77-1601                      34.48
77-1606                      34.46;
                             34.48
77-1632                      34.48
77-1633                      34.48
77-1702                      34.14
77-1725.01                   150.33
77-2201                      31.18
77-2201 through 77-2215      31.18
77-2202                      31.18
77-2209                      31.18
77-2210                      31.18
77-2212                      31.18
77-2341                      34.11
77-2362                      34.09
77-2363                      34.09
77-2364                      34.09
77-2365.01                   34.09;
                             34.10
77-2366                      34.09;
                             34.10
77-2386                      34.09
77-23,109 et seq.            34.11
77-3442                      34.46;
                             90.01
77-3443                      34.46
77-3444                      33.04;
                             34.46
79-3401 et seq.              34.48
80-202                       34.46
81-145 through 81-162        34.03
81-520.01                    93.01
81-1501 et seq.              51.10
84-304                       34.02
84-712 through 84-712.09     31.17;
                             31.18
84-712(2)                    31.17
84-1201 et seq.              31.17
84-1407 to 84-1414           31.36;
                             31.42
84-1408                      31.36
84-1409                      31.35
84-1410                      31.41
                             31.36;
84-1411                      31.37;
                             31.39;
                             31.40
84-1411(8)                   31.36
84-1412                      31.42
84-1413                      31.44
                             
 
 
REFERENCES TO PRIOR CODE
Prior Code Section 2024 Code Section
Prior Code Section 2024 Code Section
1-203              31.19
1-207              31.21
1-401              11.01
1-711              33.13
1-712              33.14
1-713              33.15
1-715              33.07
1-1001             10.99
2-101              30.05
2-202              32.02
2-301              32.99
3-101              52.02
3-102              52.01
3-103              52.03
3-104              52.15
3-105              52.04
3-106              52.05
3-107              52.06
3-108              52.17
3-109              52.18
3-110              52.07
3-111              52.08
3-112              52.09
3-113              52.10
3-114              52.11
3-115              52.12
3-116              52.16
3-117              52.13
3-118              52.14
3-119              52.30
3-120              52.31
3-121              52.32
3-122              52.33
3-123              52.34
3-124              52.35
3-125              52.36
3-126              52.37
3-127              52.38
3-128              52.39
3-129              52.40
3-201              53.01
3-202              53.02
3-203              53.03
3-204              53.04
3-205              53.20
3-206              53.21
3-207              53.22
3-208              53.25
3-209              53.26
3-210              53.27
3-211              53.23
3-212              53.24
3-213              53.05
3-214              53.06
3-301              54.01
3-302              54.02
3-303              54.03
3-304              54.04
3-305              54.05
3-306              54.06
3-307              54.07
3-308              54.08
3-309              54.09
3-310              54.10
3-311              54.11
3-312              54.12
3-313              54.13
3-314              54.14
3-402              50.02
3-601              51.13
3-701              90.15
3-702              90.16
3-801              50.99
4-201              51.01
4-202              51.02
4-203              51.03
4-204              51.04
4-205              51.05
4-206              51.06
4-207              51.07
4-208              51.08
4-209              51.10
4-210              51.09
4-211              51.11
4-212              51.10
4-213              51.12
4-304              91.17
4-401              91.99
4-402              91.99
5-102              70.02;
                   Chapter 72, Sched. I
5-103              70.03
5-104              70.04
5-106              70.08
5-203              70.10
5-317              71.05
5-318              71.07
5-319              71.08
5-401              70.99
6-102              92.21
6-310              132.21
6-311              130.03
6-313              132.04
6-315              132.06
6-316              132.05
6-401              92.99
6-402              92.99
7-101              93.01
7-201              93.99
8-401              153.01
8-402              153.02
8-403              153.03
8-404              153.04
8-405              153.05
8-406              153.06
8-407              153.07
8-408              153.08
8-409              153.09
8-410              153.10
8-411              153.11
8-501              152.99
9-101              150.01
9-401              151.01
9-402              151.02
9-403              151.03
9-404              151.04
9-405              151.05
9-501              150.99
10-119             111.45
10-201             TSO Table I
10-202             TSO Table I
10-203             TSO Table I
10-301             110.01
10-401             111.99
                   
 
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Neb. RS Section Code Section
Neb. RS Section              Code Section
3-501                        34.46
7-207                        132.04
9-601 et seq.                34.01
10-101 through 10-143        34.12
11-101                       30.03;
                             31.02
11-104                       31.01
11-105                       31.01
11-109                       31.01
11-110                       31.01
11-111                       31.01
11-112                       31.01
11-113                       31.01
11-114                       31.01
11-115                       31.01
11-116                       31.01
11-117                       31.01
11-118                       31.01
13-403                       152.22
13-501 to 13-513             34.29—
                             34.32
13-503                       34.01
13-504                       34.28
13-505                       34.28
13-506                       34.29
13-507                       34.29
13-508                       34.30
13-509                       34.30;
                             34.48
13-509.01                    34.27
13-509.02                    34.27
13-518 through 13-522        34.29;
                             34.30
13-519                       33.04
13-606                       34.02
13-609                       34.14
13-801                       34.46
13-801 to 1-827              30.02
13-903                       34.05
13-2001 et seq.              51.10
13-2003 through 13-2016.01   51.01
                             51.02;
                             51.06;
13-2020                      51.09;
                             51.10;
                             51.12
13-2023                      51.10;
                             51.12
13-2026                      51.10;
                             51.12
13-2027                      51.04
13-2501                      34.46
13-3401 et seq.              34.48
16-318(3)                    31.18
16-714 through 16-716        34.10
17-202                       30.01
17-203                       30.01
17-204                       30.03;
                             31.38
17-205                       31.38
17-207                       30.02
                             31.15;
17-208                       32.01;
                             91.01
17-209                       31.03
                             30.01;
17-209.02                    31.03;
                             31.16;
                             31.19
17-210                       30.04;
                             30.25
17-213.01                    31.22
17-502                       11.01
17-503                       152.20
17-503.01                    152.20
17-505                       30.20
17-509 through 17-521        152.37
17-522                       152.37
17-524                       152.37
                             92.02;
17-526                       92.20;
                             92.24;
                             92.25
17-531                       52.02
17-534                       52.02
17-536                       52.10
                             52.03;
                             52.05;
                             52.07;
17-537                       52.08;
                             52.12;
                             52.16;
                             52.17
17-538                       50.04
17-539                       52.11
17-540                       34.11;
                             52.18
17-542                       52.06
17-547                       92.02
17-555                       91.18;
                             131.02
17-556                       131.01;
                             132.35
17-557                       131.02;
                             152.03
17-557.01                    152.03
17-558                       152.50
17-559                       152.50
17-563                       91.16;
                             91.19
17-567                       152.02
17-568                       31.22
17-568.01                    31.22;
                             34.03
17-568.02                    34.03
17-601.01                    33.09
17-601.02                    33.09
17-601.03                    33.09
17-602                       33.03
                             31.01;
17-604                       31.03;
                             31.15
17-605                       31.17
17-606                       31.18
17-606(2)                    31.18
17-607                       34.09
17-608                       34.11
17-609                       34.11
17-610                       31.20
17-611                       31.03
17-612                       31.03
                             30.23;
17-613                       30.25—
                             30.27;
                             34.03
                             10.15;
17-614                       30.23;
                             30.24;
                             30.28
17-615                       30.26
17-616                       30.24
17-701                       34.25
17-702                       34.08;
                             34.47
17-703                       34.06
17-706                       34.31
17-708                       34.04
17-710                       34.07
17-711                       34.04
17-714                       34.05
17-715                       34.05
17-720                       34.10
17-901                       53.03
                             53.03;
                             54.04;
17-902                       54.07—
                             54.09;
                             54.13
17-902 through 17-904        54.01
17-906                       54.01
17-909                       54.01
17-919                       31.22
17-925.01                    50.04;
                             53.01
17-925.02                    53.25
17-948                       90.01
17-948 through 17-952        90.01
17-949                       90.01
17-951                       90.01
17-952                       90.01
17-953                       90.16;
                             152.21
17-953 through 17-955        90.15
17-953.01                    152.21
17-954                       152.21
17-1001                      91.16
18-131                       30.25
18-132                       30.20
18-305 through 18-312        31.04
18-412.01                    34.03
                             50.04;
18-503                       53.04;
                             53.20;
                             53.21
18-1001 through 18-1006      152.20
18-1214                      34.49
18-1216                      34.06
17-1237 et seq.              34.11
17-1269 et seq.              34.11
18-1701                      31.17
                             30.02;
                             91.16;
                             91.17;
18-1720                      91.99;
                             92.99;
                             130.01;
                             132.02;
                             150.31
                             91.99;
18-1722                      92.99;
                             150.35
18-1722.01                   150.32
18-1736                      71.25;
                             71.26
                             71.26;
18-1737                      71.27;
                             71.33
18-1741.01                   71.25;
                             71.34
18-1741.04                   71.34
18-1741.06                   71.34
18-1743                      150.02
18-1755                      152.23
18-1756                      34.03
18-1801 through 18-1805      34.12
18-2101 et seq.              34.46
                             34.25;
18-2801 et seq.              34.28;
                             34.32
18-2803                      34.32
18-2804                      34.02;
                             34.32
18-2805                      34.32
18-2806                      34.32
18-2807                      34.32
18-2808                      34.32
18-3301                      31.22
19-404                       54.06
19-915                       30.28
19-922                       30.20
19-1101                      31.18
19-1102                      31.17
19-1103                      31.17;
                             31.18
19-1301                      34.08
19-1302                      34.08
19-1303                      34.08
19-1304                      34.08
19-1305                      52.02
19-1309                      34.45
19-1310                      34.45
19-1311                      34.45
19-1312                      34.45
                             54.04;
19-1404                      54.07—
                             54.11
19-2101 through 19-2106      51.13
19-2417 through 19-2419      152.37
19-2701                      52.15;
                             53.02
19-2902                      34.02
19-2903                      34.02
19-2904                      34.02
19-2905                      34.02
19-2906 through 19-2909      34.02
19-3701                      30.27
19-3801                      31.21
20-203                       92.26
23-122                       31.17
25-505.01                    33.11
25-2703                      30.20
Chapter 28, Article 3        111.17
Chapter 28, Article 4        111.17
28-419                       132.06
28-420                       132.06
28-423                       132.06
28-424                       132.06
28-431                       132.20
28-519                       54.14
28-520                       92.26
28-521                       92.26
28-523                       90.02;
                             132.03
Chapter 28, Article 7        111.17
Chapter 28, Article 8        111.17
28-907                       131.03
Chapter 28, Article 10       111.17
28-1008                      92.26
28-1009.01                   132.05
Chapter 28, Article 11       111.17
Chapter 28, Article 12       111.17
28-1202.03                   111.46
                             91.16;
28-1321                      130.01;
                             132.01
29-422                       70.10
29-424                       70.10
                             33.01;
32-101 to 32-1551            33.04;
                             33.06;
                             34.08
32-101                       30.01;
                             34.46
32-110                       33.03
32-115                       33.03
32-404                       33.01;
                             33.05
32-405                       33.04;
                             33.11
32-532                       30.01
32-554                       30.01
32-556                       33.01
32-557                       30.01;
                             33.06
32-558                       33.14
32-559                       33.04
32-560                       30.06
32-560 through 32-572        30.06
32-561                       30.06
32-562                       33.11
32-564                       33.04
32-567 through 32-570        33.11
32-569                       30.06
32-574                       33.11
32-602                       30.01
32-604                       30.01
32-607                       33.15
32-608                       33.08;
                             33.10
32-615                       33.10
32-616                       33.10
32-617                       33.10
32-618                       33.10
32-621                       33.10
32-625                       33.15
32-625(2)                    33.10
32-627                       33.10
32-628                       33.10;
                             152.20
32-628 through 32-631        34.46
32-629                       33.10;
                             33.11
32-630                       33.10;
                             33.11
32-710                       33.10
32-802                       33.02;
                             34.46
32-805                       33.07
32-807                       33.07
32-918                       33.12
32-952 through 32-959        33.04
32-1033                      33.14
32-1122                      33.13
32-1202                      33.04
32-1301                      33.11
32-1302                      33.11
32-1303                      33.11
32-1304                      33.11
32-1305                      33.11
32-1306                      33.11
32-1307                      33.11
32-1308                      30.06;
                             33.11
32-1309                      33.11
32-1525                      33.12
33-141                       31.18
39-301                       131.02
39-302                       131.02
45-601 et seq.               34.13
45-623                       34.13
48-1503                      34.03
49-801(16)                   10.05
49-1408                      31.04
49-1425                      31.04
49-1499.03 through 49-14,103 31.04
49-1499.04                   31.04
49-14,102                    31.04
49-14,103.01                 31.04
49-14,103.02                 31.04
49-14,103.03                 31.04
49-14,103.04                 31.04
49-14,103.05                 31.04
49-14,103.06                 31.04
51-201                       34.46
51-215                       34.08
51-216                       34.08
51-501                       34.46
52-601.01 through 52-605     132.20
53-101 et seq.               111.01
53-103.01 through 53-103.51  111.01
53-116.01                    111.19
53-118                       111.42
53-123.12                    111.18
53-124                       111.18;
                             111.21
53-124.01                    111.18
53-124.12                    111.21
53-124.15                    111.40
53-124.17                    111.18
53-125                       111.17
53-129                       111.18
53-131                       111.18
53-132                       111.18
53-133                       111.18;
                             111.40
53-134                       111.18
53-134.03                    111.18;
                             111.42
53-134.04                    111.25
53-135                       111.20
53-135.01                    111.18;
                             111.20
53-148                       111.22
53-167.02                    111.46
53-167.03                    111.46
53-168.06                    111.15
53-175                       111.16
53-177                       111.40
53-177.01                    111.40
53-178                       111.41
53-179                       111.43
53-180                       111.02
53-183                       111.44
53-184                       111.45
53-186                       111.03
53-186(2)                    111.03
53-186.01                    111.03
53-194.03                    111.16
53-1,101                     111.23
53-1,102                     111.24
53-1,115                     111.25
53-1,121                     111.04
54-601                       92.24
54-603                       92.20;
                             92.21
54-603(3)                    92.20
54-605                       92.22
54-606                       92.24
54-607                       92.02
54-617                       92.26
54-618                       92.26
54-619                       92.26
54-620                       92.26
54-621                       92.26
54-622.01                    92.26
54-623                       92.26
55-133                       70.01
56-602                       92.24
60-101 et seq.               34.49
60-169                       132.20
60-301                       34.49;
                             132.20
60-311.14                    71.26;
                             71.27
60-323                       71.05
60-376                       132.20
60-3,104                     34.49
60-3,113.06                  71.26;
                             71.27
60-462                       70.06
60-606 through 60-676        70.01
60-607                       70.01
60-610                       70.01
60-613                       70.01
60-624                       70.01
60-631                       70.01
60-638                       70.01
60-646                       70.01
60-654                       70.01
60-656                       70.01
60-658.01                    70.01
60-661                       70.01
60-669                       70.01
60-670                       70.01
60-671                       70.01
60-672                       70.01
60-676                       70.01
                             70.03;
60-680                       70.04;
                             71.01
60-681                       70.02
60-683                       70.06
60-6,118                     70.01
60-6,119                     70.07
60-6,121                     70.05
60-6,127                     70.08
60-6,165                     71.11
60-6,167                     71.10
60-6,185                     70.25
60-6,186                     70.26
60-6,187                     70.26
60-6,188                     70.26
60-6,211.08                  111.03
60-6,305                     70.26
60-6,313                     70.26
60-1901                      132.20
60-1902                      132.20
60-1903                      132.20
60-1903.01                   132.20
60-1903.02                   132.20
60-1904                      132.20
60-1905                      132.20
60-1906                      132.20
60-1907                      132.20
60-1908                      132.20
60-1909                      132.20
60-2410                      132.20
70-624.04                    31.04
70-1601                      50.01
70-1602                      50.03
70-1603                      50.03
70-1604                      50.03
70-1607                      50.03
70-1608 through 70-1614      50.03
70-1615                      50.03
71-423                       111.04
71-1637                      34.46
71-4412                      92.20
71-4603                      132.20
Chapter 72, Article 14       152.21
73-101 et seq.               34.03
76-1463                      151.01
77-1601                      34.48
77-1606                      34.46;
                             34.48
77-1632                      34.48
77-1633                      34.48
77-1702                      34.14
77-1725.01                   150.33
77-2201                      31.18
77-2201 through 77-2215      31.18
77-2202                      31.18
77-2209                      31.18
77-2210                      31.18
77-2212                      31.18
77-2341                      34.11
77-2362                      34.09
77-2363                      34.09
77-2364                      34.09
77-2365.01                   34.09;
                             34.10
77-2366                      34.09;
                             34.10
77-2386                      34.09
77-23,109 et seq.            34.11
77-3442                      34.46;
                             90.01
77-3443                      34.46
77-3444                      33.04;
                             34.46
79-3401 et seq.              34.48
80-202                       34.46
81-145 through 81-162        34.03
81-520.01                    93.01
81-1501 et seq.              51.10
84-304                       34.02
84-712 through 84-712.09     31.17;
                             31.18
84-712(2)                    31.17
84-1201 et seq.              31.17
84-1407 to 84-1414           31.36;
                             31.42
84-1408                      31.36
84-1409                      31.35
84-1410                      31.41
                             31.36;
84-1411                      31.37;
                             31.39;
                             31.40
84-1411(8)                   31.36
84-1412                      31.42
84-1413                      31.44
                             
 
 
