CEDAR CREEK, NEBRASKA
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2022 S-1 Supplement contains:
Local legislation current through Ordinance No. 2007-02, passed 7-7-2020
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing Corporation
525 Vine Street * Suite 310 * Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-800-445-5588 * www.amlegal.com
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
      
11.   VILLAGE STANDARDS
CHAPTER 10: RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
Section
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Interpretation
   
10.03   Application to future ordinances
   
10.04   Captions
   
10.05   Definitions
   
10.06   Rules of interpretation
   
10.07   Severability
   
10.08   Reference to other sections
   
10.09   Reference to offices
   
10.10   Errors and omissions
   
10.11   Official time
   
10.12   Reasonable time
   
10.13   Ordinances repealed
   
10.14   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.15   Repeal or modification of ordinance
   
10.16   Section histories; statutory references
   
10.17   Local changes to this code of ordinances
 
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01 TITLE OF CODE.
   This codification of ordinances shall be designated as the “Cedar Creek Code
of Ordinances” and may be so cited.
§ 10.02 INTERPRETATION.
   Unless otherwise provided herein, or by law or implication required, the
same rules of construction, definition and application shall govern the
interpretation of this code as those governing the interpretation of state law.
§ 10.03 APPLICATION TO FUTURE ORDINANCES.
   All provisions of Title I compatible with future legislation shall apply to
ordinances hereafter adopted amending or supplementing this code unless
otherwise specifically provided.
§ 10.04 CAPTIONS.
   Headings and captions used in this code other than the title, chapter and
section numbers are employed for reference purposes only and shall not be
deemed a part of the text of any section.
§ 10.05 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   General rule. Words and phrases shall be taken in their plain,
ordinary and usual sense. However, technical words and phrases having a
peculiar and appropriate meaning in law shall be understood according to their
technical import.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this code, the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      BOARD OF TRUSTEES, VILLAGE BOARD or GOVERNING BODY. The Board of Trustees
of Cedar Creek, Nebraska.
      CODE, THIS CODE or THIS CODE OF ORDINANCES. This village code, as
modified by amendment, revision and adoption of new titles, chapters or
sections.
      COUNTY. Cass County, Nebraska.
      MAY. The act referred to is permissive.
      MONTH. A calendar month.
      OATH. Includes an affirmation in all cases in which, by law, an
affirmation may be substituted for an oath and, in such cases, the words SWEAR
and SWORN shall be equivalent to the words AFFIRM and AFFIRMED.
      OFFICER, OFFICE, EMPLOYEE, COMMISSION or DEPARTMENT. An officer, office,
employee, commission or department of the village unless the context clearly
requires otherwise.
      PERSON. Includes bodies politic and corporate, societies, communities,
the public generally, individuals, partnerships, limited liability companies,
joint-stock companies and associations.
(Neb. RS 49-801(16))
      PRECEDING or FOLLOWING. Next before or next after, respectively.
      SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory.
      SIGNATURE or SUBSCRIPTION. Includes a mark when the person cannot write.
      STATE. The State of Nebraska.
      SUBCHAPTER. A division of a chapter, designated in this code by a heading
in the chapter analysis and a capitalized heading in the body of the chapter,
setting apart a group of sections related by the subject matter of the heading.
Not all chapters have SUBCHAPTERS.
      VILLAGE, MUNICIPAL CORPORATION or MUNICIPALITY. The Village of Cedar
Creek, Nebraska.
      WRITTEN. Any representation of words, letters or figures, whether by
printing or otherwise.
      YEAR. A calendar year, unless otherwise expressed.
§ 10.06 RULES OF INTERPRETATION.
   The construction of all ordinances of the village shall be by the following
rules, unless that construction is plainly repugnant to the intent of the
Village Board or of the context of the same ordinance.
   (A)   AND or OR. Either conjunction shall include the other as if written
“and/or”, if the sense requires it.
   (B)   Acts by assistants. When a statute or ordinance requires an act to be
done which, by law, an agent or deputy as well may do as the principal, the
requisition shall be satisfied by the performance of the act by an authorized
agent or deputy.
   (C)   Gender; singular and plural; tenses. Words denoting the masculine
gender shall be deemed to include the feminine and neuter genders; words in the
singular shall include the plural, and words in the plural shall include the
singular; the use of a verb in the present tense shall include the future, if
applicable.
   (D)   General term. A general term following specific enumeration of terms
is not to be limited to the class enumerated unless expressly so limited.
§ 10.07 SEVERABILITY.
   If any provision of this code as now or later amended or its application to
any person or circumstance is held invalid, the invalidity does not affect
other provisions that can be given effect without the invalid provision or
application.
§ 10.08 REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   Whenever a section refers to another section hereof, that reference shall
extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently amended, revised,
recodified or renumbered unless the subject matter is materially altered by the
amendment or revision.
§ 10.09 REFERENCE TO OFFICES.
   Reference to a public office or officer shall be deemed to apply to any
office, officer or employee of the village exercising the powers, duties or
functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any transfer of
functions or change in the official title of the functionary.
§ 10.10 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error is discovered, consisting of the misspelling of any
words; the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention of
the provisions affected; the use of a word or words to which no meaning can be
attached; or the use of a word or words when another word or words was clearly
intended to express the intent, the spelling shall be corrected and the word or
words supplied, omitted or substituted as will conform with the manifest
intention, and the provisions shall have the same effect as though the correct
words were contained in the text as originally published. No alteration shall
be made or permitted if any question exists regarding the nature or extent of
the error.
§ 10.11 OFFICIAL TIME.
   The official time, as established by applicable state/federal laws, shall be
the official time within the village for the transaction of all village
business.
§ 10.12 REASONABLE TIME.
   (A)   In all cases where an ordinance requires an act to be done in a
reasonable time or requires reasonable notice to be given, REASONABLE TIME OR
NOTICE shall be deemed to mean the time which is necessary for a prompt
performance of the act or the giving of the notice.
   (B)   The time within which an act is to be done, as herein provided, shall
be computed by excluding the first day and including the last. If the last day
is Sunday, it shall be excluded.
§ 10.13 ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   This code contains all of the provisions of a general nature pertaining to
the subjects enumerated and embraced in this code. All prior ordinances
pertaining to the subjects treated by this code are repealed; except that,
nothing shall affect any rights acquired under, actions involving or fines,
penalties, forfeitures or liabilities incurred pursuant to those ordinances
prior to repeal.
§ 10.14 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not embraced in this code, including ordinances
specified in this section, shall remain in full force and effect unless
repealed expressly or by necessary implication:
   (A)   Vacating or setting the boundaries of streets, alleys or other public
places;
   (B)   Annexing or detaching territory;
   (C)   Granting or accepting easements, plats or dedication of land to public
use;
   (D)   Providing for the acquisition or conveyance of real or personal
property;
   (E)   Authorizing or directing public improvements to be made;
   (F)   Levying taxes or special assessments;
   (G)   Appropriating money;
   (H)   Granting franchises or special licenses; or
   (I)   Providing for the issuance of bonds or other instruments of
indebtedness.
§ 10.15 REPEAL OR MODIFICATION OF ORDINANCE.
   (A)   Whenever any ordinance or part of an ordinance is repealed or modified
by a subsequent ordinance, the ordinance or part of an ordinance thus repealed
or modified shall continue in force until the publication of the ordinance
repealing or modifying it to give effect thereto.
   (B)   No suit, proceedings, right, liability, fine, forfeiture or penalty
instituted, created, given, secured or accrued under any ordinance previous to
its repeal shall in any way be affected, released or discharged, but may be
prosecuted, enjoyed and recovered as fully as if the ordinance had continued in
force, unless it is otherwise expressly provided.
   (C)   When any ordinance repealing a former ordinance, clause or provision
is itself repealed, the repeal shall not be construed to revive the former
ordinance, clause or provision, unless it is expressly provided.
Statutory reference:
   Requirements for amendments and revisions, see Neb. RS 17-614 
§ 10.16 SECTION HISTORIES; STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   A statutory cite included in the history indicates that the text of
the section reads substantially the same as the statute. Example: (Neb. RS 18-
132)
   (B)   A statutory cite set forth as a “statutory reference” following the
text of the section indicates that the reader should refer to that statute for
further information. Example:
      § 39.01 PUBLIC RECORDS AVAILABLE.
         This municipality shall make available to any person for inspection or
copying all public records, unless otherwise exempted by state law.
      Statutory reference:
         Inspection of public records, see Neb. RS 84-712 et seq.
§ 10.17 LOCAL CHANGES TO THIS CODE OF ORDINANCES.
   Any provision of this code of ordinances may be repealed, modified or
superseded by an ordinance passed by the Village Board.
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   (A)   (1)   Any person, firm or corporation, their agents or servants, who
shall violate any of the provisions of this village code, unless otherwise
specifically provided herein, shall be deemed guilty of an offense and, upon
conviction thereof, shall be fined in any sum not exceeding $500. A new
violation shall be deemed to have been committed every 24 hours of failure to
comply with the provisions of this code.
(Prior Code, § 0-006)
      (2)   In any case where any person, including a partnership or
corporation, shall have been found guilty of the violation of any ordinance of
the village, such person shall pay the costs of prosecution and court costs and
shall stand committed until the same shall have been paid in full.
(Prior Code, § 0-007)
      (3)   The term “village police” shall apply in all instances to all other
law enforcement officials, including Nebraska State Patrol Officers and the
Cass County Sheriff and his or her Deputies. Whenever this code empowers the
village police to take any action, such empowerment shall extend to and apply
equally to any Nebraska State Patrol Officer or the Cass County Sheriff or his
or her Deputies.
(Prior Code, § 0-008)
   (B)   The following schedule shall be adopted as the fine schedule for
tickets paid by to which defendants plead guilty and pay a fine by waiver in
writing:
Description Fine
Description                             Fine
Animal Calls
Barking and offensive                   $25
Cruelty to animals                      No waiver
Dangerous dog confined                  $100
Dangerous dog restrained                $50
Enclosures                              $25
Failure to comply                       $50
Fighting dogs                           No waiver
Killing and poisoning                   No waiver
Liability of owner                      No waiver
Rabies vaccination                      $25
Removal of collar                       $25
Running at large                        $25
Snakes and fowl                         $50
Un-collared                             $25
Unlicensed kennels; nuisance            $40
ATVs and Golf Carts
ATV equipment                           $25
ATV operation conditions                $25
ATV operation requirements              $25
ATV permit required                     $25
ATV prohibitions                        $25
ATV violations; penalty                 $50
Golf cart violations; penalty           $50
Golf cart; application                  $25
Golf cart; permit and conditions        $25
Misdemeanors
Abandoned vehicles                      $50
Appliances in yard                      $50
Discharge of firearm                    $25
Disorderly conduct                      $25
Disturbing the peace                    $50
Excessive noise                         $50
Littering                               $25
Malicious mischief                      $25
Nuisance regulations                    No waiver
Obstructing traffic                     $50
Prohibited fences                       $25
Slingshots, paintball guns and the like $50
Substance detrimental to health         $25
Trespassing                             $25
Vehicles unattended                     $25
 
   (C)   (1)   Whenever a nuisance exists as defined in Titles IX and XIII of
this code, the village may proceed by a suit in equity to enjoin and abate the
same, in the manner provided by law.
      (2)   Whenever, in any action, it is established that a nuisance exists,
the court may, together with the fine or penalty imposed, enter an order of
abatement as a part of the judgment in the case.
(Ord. 2008-02, passed 10-7-2008)
Statutory reference:
   Authority to abate nuisances, see Neb. RS 18-1720 and 18-1722
   Authority to impose fines, see Neb. RS 17-207 and 17-505
CHAPTER 11: VILLAGE STANDARDS
Section
   
11.01   Corporate existence
   
11.02   Corporate seal
§ 11.01 CORPORATE EXISTENCE.
   The Village of Cedar Creek, Nebraska, having a population of less than 800
inhabitants, is hereby declared to be a village, and shall be governed in all
respects by the laws regulating villages.
(Prior Code, § 1-101)
§ 11.02 CORPORATE SEAL.
   There shall be owned by the village, in the office of the Village Clerk/
Treasurer, a common seal of the corporation, having engraved thereon the words
“Village of Cedar Creek, Nebraska, Seal”. The Village Clerk/Treasurer shall
affix an impression of said seal on all papers or documents executed by him or
her in his or her official capacity.
(Prior Code, § 1-102)
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   ELECTED OFFICIALS; ORDINANCES
      
31.   APPOINTED VILLAGE OFFICIALS
      
32.   ORGANIZATIONS
      
33.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
34.   ELECTIONS
      
35.   FINANCE AND REVENUE
CHAPTER 30: ELECTED OFFICIALS; ORDINANCES
Section
Board of Trustees
   
30.01   Election; terms; qualifications
   
30.02   General powers
   
30.03   Oath; organization; Chairperson
   
30.04   Chairperson; powers and duties; absence
   
30.05   Standing committees
   
30.06   Vacancy; general provisions
   
30.07   Vacancy due to unexcused absences
Ordinances, Resolutions and Motions
   
30.35   Grant of power
   
30.36   Procedure for resolutions and motions
   
30.37   Introduction of ordinances
   
30.38   Ordinances; style, title
   
30.39   Reading and passage of ordinances, resolutions, orders, bylaws
   
30.40   Publication or posting
   
30.41   Certificate of publication or posting
   
30.42   Effective date; emergency ordinances
   
30.43   Amendments and revisions
BOARD OF TRUSTEES
§ 30.01 ELECTION; TERMS; QUALIFICATIONS.
   (A)   The Village Board shall consist of five members who shall be citizens
of the United States and residents of the village and who shall be registered
voters. Every Trustee so elected and so qualified shall hold his or her office
for the term of four years; provided, a Trustee’s term shall expire and the
office will become vacant upon a change of residence from the village. The
Board of Trustees shall, before entering upon the duties of their office, take
an oath to support the Constitution of the United States and the Constitution
of the State of Nebraska and faithfully and impartially discharge the duties of
their office. The Board of Trustees shall qualify and meet on the first Tuesday
in December, organize, elect a Chair of the Board and appoint the village
officers required by law.
(Prior Code, § 1-103)
   (B)   (1)   The term of office of each member of the Board of Trustees is
four years. All general and special elections from and after the effective date
of this division (B) shall be held in conjunction with the statewide primary or
general election and shall be governed by the provisions of the Nebraska
Election Act.
      (2)   No later than July 1 of each even-numbered year, the Village Board
shall certify to the Election Commissioner/County Clerk, on forms provided by
the Nebraska Secretary of State, the name of the village, the number of
officers to be elected, the length of terms of office, the vacancies to be
filled by the election and the length of remaining term and the number of votes
to be cast by a registered voter for each office.
(Prior Code, § 1-104)
(Ord. 2005-03, passed 3-1-2005)
Statutory reference:
   Ability to elect Trustees at large or by ward, see Neb. RS 32-554
   Ability to provide for a partisan ballot, see Neb. RS 32-557
   Election Act, see Neb. RS 32-101
   Holding other office or employment, see Neb. RS 17-209.02 and 32-604
§ 30.02 GENERAL POWERS.
   (A)   The village Board of Trustees shall have the power to pass ordinances:
      (1)   To prevent and remove nuisances within the village or within its
one-mile zoning jurisdiction;
      (2)   To restrain and prohibit gambling;
      (3)   To provide for licensing and regulating theatrical and other
amusements within the village;
      (4)   To prevent the introduction and spread of contagious diseases;
      (5)   To establish and regulate markets;
      (6)   To erect and repair bridges;
      (7)   To erect, repair and regulate wharves;
      (8)   To regulate the landing of watercraft;
      (9)   To provide for the inspection of building materials to be used or
offered for sale in the village;
      (10)   To govern the planting and protection of shade trees in the
streets and the building of structures projecting upon or over and adjoining
and all excavations through and under, the sidewalks of the village;
      (11)   To maintain the peace, good government and welfare of the village
and its trade and commerce; and
      (12)   To enforce all ordinances by inflicting penalties upon inhabitants
or other persons for violation of such ordinances not exceeding $500 for any
one offense, recoverable with costs.
(Neb. RS 17-207)
   (B)   The village has the power and authority by ordinance to define,
regulate, suppress and prevent nuisances and to declare what constitutes a
nuisance and to abate and remove the same. The village may exercise this power
and authority within its zoning jurisdiction.
(Neb. RS 18-1720)
§ 30.03 OATH; ORGANIZATION; CHAIRPERSON.
   Every village Trustee, before entering upon the duties of his or her office,
shall take an oath to support the Constitution of the United States and the
Constitution of Nebraska and faithfully and impartially to discharge the duties
of his or her office. All Trustees elected to office shall qualify and meet on
the first regular meeting of the Board of Trustees in December thereafter,
organize, elect a Chairperson of the Board of Trustees and appoint the officers
required by law.
(Neb. RS 17-204)
Statutory reference:
   Oath, see Neb. RS 11-101
§ 30.04 CHAIRPERSON; POWERS AND DUTIES; ABSENCE.
   (A)   The Chairperson shall preside at all meetings of the Board of Trustees
and perform all duties of his or her office in accordance with the laws of the
state and the ordinances of the village.
   (B)   The Chairperson of the Board of Trustees shall cause the ordinances of
the Board to be printed and published for the information of the inhabitants
and cause such ordinances to be carried into effect. In the absence of the
Chairperson from any meeting of the Board, the Board shall have power to
appoint a Chairperson pro tempore, who shall exercise and have the powers and
perform the same duties as the regular Chairperson.
(Neb. RS 17-210)
   (C)   The Chairperson and the Chairperson pro tempore shall have the same
powers and privileges as other members of the Board of Trustees.
§ 30.05 STANDING COMMITTEES.
   (A)   At the organizational meeting of the Board of Trustees each year, the
Chairperson shall appoint members of those standing committees as the Board may
create by ordinance or resolution. The membership of the standing committees
may be changed at any time by the Chairperson. The Chairperson shall be an ex
officio member of each standing committee. The members of the standing
committees shall serve terms of office of one year, unless reappointed.
   (B)   The standing committees shall be appointed or reappointed each year
until changed by the Board of Trustees.
§ 30.06 VACANCY; GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Every elective office shall be vacant upon the happening of any of the
events specified in Neb. RS 32-560, except as provided in Neb. RS 32-561.
   (B)   (1)   Except as otherwise provided in divisions (C) or (D) below,
vacancies in village elected offices shall be filled by the Board of Trustees
for the balance of the unexpired term. Notice of a vacancy, except a vacancy
resulting from the death of the incumbent, shall be in writing and presented to
the Board at a regular or special meeting and shall appear as a part of the
minutes of that meeting. The Board shall at once give public notice of the
vacancy by causing to be published in a newspaper of general circulation within
the village or by posting in three public places in the village the office
vacated and the length of the unexpired term.
      (2)   The Chairperson of the Board shall call a special meeting of the
Board or place the issue of filling the vacancy on the agenda at the next
regular meeting at which time the Chairperson shall submit the name of a
qualified registered voter to fill the vacancy for the balance of the unexpired
term. The regular or special meeting shall occur upon the death of the
incumbent or within four weeks after the meeting at which such notice of
vacancy has been presented. The Board shall vote upon the nominee and if a
majority votes in favor of the nominee, the vacancy shall be declared filled.
If the nominee fails to receive a majority of the votes, the nomination shall
be rejected and the Chairperson shall, at the next regular or special meeting,
submit the name of another qualified registered voter to fill the vacancy. If
the subsequent nominee fails to receive a majority of the votes, the
Chairperson shall continue at that meeting to submit the names of qualified
registered voters in nomination and the Board shall continue to vote upon the
nominations at such meeting until the vacancy is filled. All Trustees present
shall cast a ballot for or against the nominee. Any member of the Board who has
been appointed to fill a vacancy on the Board shall have the same rights,
including voting, as if that person were elected.
   (C)   The Chairperson and Board of Trustees may, in lieu of filling a
vacancy in a village elected office as provided in division (B) above, call a
special election to fill that vacancy.
   (D)   If vacancies exist in the offices of one-half or more of the members
of the Board of Trustees, the Secretary of State shall conduct a special
village election to fill those vacancies.
(Neb. RS 32-569)
Statutory reference:
   Additional and similar provisions, see Neb. RS 32-560 through 32-572
   Ineligibility of official subjected to recall, see Neb. RS 32-1308
§ 30.07 VACANCY DUE TO UNEXCUSED ABSENCES.
   In the event that an elected official of the village shall be absent for
five consecutive meetings, the Village Board at its next regular meeting shall
hold a hearing to determine whether such absences shall be excused. Notice of
such in writing shall be delivered to the absent member at least ten days prior
to such hearing and he or she shall be given the opportunity to present
evidence and testimony to support a determination that such absences should be
excused. After such hearing, the Village Board shall vote to either excuse such
absences or to determine that such absences are unexcused and declare the seat
vacant. In the event the seat is determined vacant, the vacancy shall be filled
pursuant to §
30.06 of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 1-120) (Ord. 2002-4, passed 12-3-2002)
ORDINANCES, RESOLUTIONS AND MOTIONS
§ 30.35 GRANT OF POWER.
   In addition to its special powers, the village shall have the power to make
all ordinances, bylaws, rules, regulations and resolutions, not inconsistent
with the laws of the state, as may be expedient for maintaining the peace, good
government and welfare of the village and its trade, commerce and manufactories
and to enforce all ordinances by inflicting fines or penalties for the breach
thereof, not exceeding $500 for any one offense, recoverable with costs.
(Neb. RS 17-505)
Statutory reference:
   Adoption of standard codes, see Neb. RS 18-132 and 19-922
   Prosecution in county court, see Neb. RS 25-2703
§ 30.36 PROCEDURE FOR RESOLUTIONS AND MOTIONS.
   Unless the Board of Trustees has specified other procedures, resolutions and
motions shall be introduced in one of the methods prescribed in §
30.37 for the introduction of ordinances. The issue raised by the resolution or
motion shall be disposed of in accordance with the usage of parliamentary law
adopted for the guidance of the Board of Trustees. A majority vote shall be
required to pass any resolution or motion. The vote on any resolution or motion
shall be by roll call vote.
§ 30.37 INTRODUCTION OF ORDINANCES.
   Unless the Board of Trustees has specified other procedures, ordinances
shall be introduced by members of the Board of Trustees in one of the following
ways:
   (A)   With the recognition of the Chairperson, a member may, in the presence
and hearing of a majority of the members elected to the Board of Trustees, read
aloud the substance of the proposed ordinance and file a copy with the Village
Clerk/Treasurer for future consideration; or
   (B)   With the recognition of the Chairperson, a member may present the
proposed ordinance to the Clerk/Treasurer who, in the presence and hearing of a
majority of the members elected to the Board of Trustees, shall read aloud the
substance of the ordinance and file it for future consideration.
§ 30.38 ORDINANCES; STYLE, TITLE.
   (A)   The style of all village ordinances shall be: “Be it ordained by the
Chairperson and Board of Trustees of the Village of Cedar Creek, Nebraska:....”
(Neb. RS 17-613)
   (B)   No ordinance shall contain a subject which is not clearly expressed in
the title.
(Neb. RS 17-614)
§ 30.39 READING AND PASSAGE OF ORDINANCES, RESOLUTIONS, ORDERS, BYLAWS.
   (A)   All ordinances and resolutions or orders for the appropriation or
payment of money shall require for their passage or adoption the concurrence of
a majority of all members elected to the Board of Trustees. Ordinances of a
general or permanent nature shall be read by title on three different days
unless three-fourths of the Board of Trustees vote to suspend this requirement.
Such requirement shall not be suspended for any ordinance for the annexation of
territory, or the redrawing of boundaries for Village Board of Trustees
election districts or wards, except as otherwise provided in Neb. RS 17-614(3)
or as otherwise provided by law. In case this requirement is suspended, the
ordinance shall be read by title and then moved for final passage. Three-
fourths of the Board of Trustees may require a reading of any such ordinance in
full before enactment under either procedure set out in this section.
(Neb. RS 17-614)
   (B)   On the passage or adoption of every bylaw or ordinance and every
resolution or order to enter into a contract by the Board of Trustees, the yeas
and nays shall be called and recorded. To pass or adopt any bylaw, ordinance or
any such resolution or order a concurrence of a majority of the whole number of
members elected to the Board of Trustees shall be required. All appointments of
the officers by the Board of Trustees shall be made viva voce and the
concurrence of a like majority shall be required and the names of those and for
whom they voted, on the vote resulting in an appointment, shall be recorded.
The requirements of a roll call or viva voce vote shall be satisfied by a
village which utilizes an electronic voting device which allows the yeas and
nays of each member of the Board of Trustees to be readily seen by the public.
(Neb. RS 17-616)
Statutory reference:
   Adjustments to boundaries of election districts, see Neb. RS 17-614
§ 30.40 PUBLICATION OR POSTING.
   All ordinances of a general nature shall, before they take effect, be
published within 15 days after they are passed:
   (A)   In legal newspaper in or of general circulation in the village or, if
no paper is published in the village, then by posting a written or printed copy
in each of three public places in the village; or
   (B)   In book, pamphlet or electronic form.
(Neb. RS 17-613)
Statutory reference:
   Additional provisions, see Neb. RS 18-131
   Chairperson of Board of Trustees; duties, see Neb. RS 17-210
§ 30.41 CERTIFICATE OF PUBLICATION OR POSTING.
   The passage, approval and publication or posting of an ordinance shall be
sufficiently proved by a certificate under the seal of the village from the
Village Clerk/Treasurer showing that the ordinance was passed and approved and
when and in what paper the ordinance was published or when and by whom and
where the ordinance was posted.
(Neb. RS 17-613)
Statutory reference:
   Passage; rules and regulations, see Neb. RS 17-615
§ 30.42 EFFECTIVE DATE; EMERGENCY ORDINANCES.
   (A)   Except as provided in §
30.40 of this chapter and division (B) below, an ordinance for the government
of the village which has been adopted by the Board of Trustees without
submission to the voters of the village shall not go into effect until 15 days
after the passage of the ordinance.
(Neb. RS 19-3701)
   (B)   In the case of riot, infectious or contagious diseases or other
impending danger, failure of a public utility or any other emergency requiring
its immediate operation, an ordinance shall take effect upon the proclamation
of the Chairperson and the posting thereof in at least three of the most public
places in the village. The emergency ordinance shall recite the emergency, be
passed by a three-fourths’ vote of the Board of Trustees and be entered of
record on the Village Clerk/Treasurer’s minutes.
(Neb. RS 17-613)
§ 30.43 AMENDMENTS AND REVISIONS.
   No ordinance or section thereof shall be revised or amended unless the new
ordinance contains the entire ordinance or section as revised or amended and
the ordinance or section so amended is repealed; except that, an ordinance
revising all the ordinances of the village and modifications to zoning or
building districts may be adopted as otherwise provided by law.
(Neb. RS 17-614)
Statutory reference:
   Modifications to zoning or building districts, see Neb. RS 19-915
   Ordinances revising all the ordinances of the village, see Neb. RS 17-614
CHAPTER 31: APPOINTED VILLAGE OFFICIALS
Section
   
31.01   Appointment; terms; removal; powers; duties
   
31.02   Qualification for office
   
31.03   Merger of offices
   
31.04   Village Clerk; duties
   
31.05   Village Treasurer
   
31.06   Village Attorney
   
31.07   Overseer of Streets
   
31.08   Village Chief of Police
   
31.09   Fire Chief
   
31.10   Water Commissioner/Public Works Commissioner
   
31.11   Village Engineer; Special Engineer
§ 31.01 APPOINTMENT; TERMS; REMOVAL; POWERS; DUTIES.
   (A)   (1)   The Board of Trustees may appoint a Village Clerk, Treasurer,
Attorney, Engineer, Overseer of the Streets and Chief of Police and other such
officers as shall be required by ordinance or otherwise required by law.
Pursuant to division (A)(2) below, the Village Chief of Police or any other
police officer may appeal to the Village Board his or her removal, demotion or
suspension with or without pay. After a hearing, the Village Board of Trustees
may uphold, reverse or modify the action.
      (2)   The Village Board of Trustees shall by ordinance adopt rules and
regulations governing the removal, demotion or suspension with or without pay
of any police officer, including the Chief of Police, in accordance with the
requirements of Neb. RS 17-208. Nothing in this section shall be construed to
prevent the preemptory suspension or immediate removal from duty of an officer
by the appropriate authority, pending the hearing authorized by this section,
in cases of gross misconduct, neglect of duty or disobedience of orders.
      (3)   Division (A)(2) above does not apply to a police officer during his
or her probationary period.
   (B)   The Village Clerk, Treasurer, Attorney, Overseer of the Streets,
members of the Board of Health and other appointed officers, except regular
police officers, shall hold office for one year unless removed by the
Chairperson of the Village Board with the advice and consent of the Trustees.
(Neb. RS 17-208)
   (C)   (1)   The village may enact ordinances or bylaws to regulate and
prescribe the powers and duties of officers not provided for in state law.
(Neb. RS 17-604)
      (2)   If the Village Board of Trustees appoints any of the officials
specified in this chapter or any other officials, the officials shall have the
powers and duties, if any, provided in this chapter or as otherwise provided by
village ordinances and state law.
§ 31.02 QUALIFICATION FOR OFFICE.
   Each appointive officer who is required to give bond shall qualify by filing
the required bond and oath as provided in §§
33.30 and
33.31 of this code of ordinances. Each appointive officer who is not required
to give bond shall qualify by filing the required oath as provided in §
33.31 of this code of ordinances.
§ 31.03 MERGER OF OFFICES.
   (A)   (1)   The Board of Trustees may, by ordinance, combine or merge any
elective or appointive village office or village employment or any combination
of duties of any such offices or employments, except that the office of Trustee
shall not be combined or merged with any other village office or village
employment except as provided in division (B) below.
      (2)   The village offices or village employments combined or merged shall
always be construed to be separate, and the effect of the combination or merger
shall be limited to a consolidation of official duties only.
   (B)   (1)   The office of Trustee shall not be combined or merged with any
other village office or village employment, except that a member of the Board
of Trustees may receive compensation to perform seasonal or emergency work upon
approval by the Board of Trustees.
      (2)   No member of the Board of Trustees shall receive compensation from
the village in excess of the maximum amount provided by law.
   (C)   For purposes of this section, volunteer firefighters and volunteer
rescue squad personnel shall not be considered village officers.
(Neb. RS 17-209.02)
§ 31.04 VILLAGE CLERK; DUTIES.
   (A)   The Village Clerk shall attend all meetings of the Board of Trustees
and keep a correct journal of the proceedings of the Board. He or she shall
keep a record of all outstanding bonds against the village and when any bonds
are sold, purchased, paid or canceled, said record shall show the fact. He or
she shall make at the end of the fiscal year a report of the business of the
village transacted through his or her office for the year. That record shall
describe particularly the bonds issued and sold during the year, and the terms
of the sales with each and every item and expense thereof. He or she shall file
all official bonds after the same shall have been properly executed and
approved. He or she shall make the proper certificate of passage which shall be
attached to original copies of all bond ordinances hereafter enacted by the
Board of Trustees.
   (B)   The Village Clerk shall issue and sign all licenses, permits and
occupation tax receipts authorized by law and required by the village
ordinances. He or she shall collect all occupation taxes and license money,
except where some other village officer is specifically charged with that duty.
He or she shall keep a register of all licenses granted in the village and the
purpose for which they have been issued. The Village Clerk shall permit no
records, public papers or other documents of the village kept and preserved in
his or her office to be taken therefrom, except by such officers of the village
as may be entitled to the use of the same, but only upon their leaving a
receipt therefor. He or she shall keep all the records of his or her office,
including a record of all licenses issued in a record book with a proper index.
He or she shall include as part of the records all petitions under which the
Board of Trustees shall order public work to be done at the expense of the
property fronting thereon, together with references to all resolutions and
ordinances relating to the same. He or she shall endorse the date and hour of
filing upon every paper or document so filed in his or her office. All such
filings shall be properly docketed. Included in his or her records shall be all
standard codes, amendments thereto and other documents incorporated by
reference.
   (C)   The Village Clerk shall maintain a list of the news media requesting
notification of meetings and shall make reasonable efforts to provide advance
notice to them of time and place of each meeting and the subjects to be
discussed at that meeting.
   (D)   (1)   The Village Clerk shall keep and preserve the proceedings of the
Board of Trustees in two separate and distinct record books. The minute records
shall contain a record of all the miscellaneous and informal doings of the
Board of Trustees. The minute record shall not include the passage and approval
of ordinances, except resolutions incorporating by reference the ordinance
record into the minute record. The ordinance record shall contain the formal
proceedings of the Board of Trustees in the matter of passing, approving,
publishing, posting and certifying of ordinances. After the formalities for the
legal enactment of an ordinance have been completed, the Village Clerk shall
record and spread at large in the ordinance record his or her ordinance minutes
of printed forms.
      (2)   In all cases hereafter where single ordinances are introduced for
the consideration of the Board of Trustees, the Village Clerk shall cause to be
introduced an appropriate resolution incorporating by reference the ordinance
record into the minute record.
      (3)   Minutes shall be written and available for inspection within ten
working days or prior to the next convened meeting, whichever occurs earlier.
   (E)   The Village Clerk shall keep an accurate and complete account of the
appropriation of the several funds, draw, sign and attest all warrants ordered
for the payment of money on the particular fund from which the same is payable.
At the end of each month, he or she shall then make a report of the amounts
appropriated to the various funds and the amounts of the warrants drawn
thereon. Nothing herein shall be construed to prevent any citizen, official or
other person from examining any public records at all reasonable times.
   (F)   The Village Clerk shall deliver all warrants, ordinances and
resolutions under his or her charge to the Chair of the Board of Trustees for
his or her signature. He or she shall also deliver to officers, employees and
committees all resolutions and communications which are directed at said
officers, employees or committees. With the seal of the village, he or she
shall duly attest the Chair’s signature to all ordinances, deeds and papers
required to be attested to when ordered to do so by the Board of Trustees.
   (G)   Within 30 days after any meeting of the Board of Trustees, the Village
Clerk shall prepare and publish the official proceedings of the Village Board,
including the amount of each claim allowed, the purpose of the claim and the
name of the claimant; except that, the aggregate amount of all payroll claims
may be included as one item, in a legal newspaper of general circulation in the
village and which was duly designated as such by the Board of Trustees;
provided, the charge for such publication shall not exceed the rates provided
by the statutes of the State of Nebraska. Said publication shall be charged
against the General Fund.
   (H)   (1)   Between July 15 and August 15 each year, the names of all
employees and their current annual, monthly or hourly salaries shall be
published. Any changes in salaries or the hiring of new employees during the
calendar quarter preceding the months of October, January and April shall be
published during the months of November, April and May. The Village Clerk shall
then keep in a book with a proper index copies of all notices required to be
published or posted by him/her by order of the Board of Trustees or under the
ordinances of the village.
      (2)   To each of the file copies of said notices shall be attached the
printer’s affidavit of publication, if the said notices are required to be
published or the Village Clerk’s certificate under seal where the same are
required to be posted only.
   (I)   (1)   The Village Clerk may charge a reasonable fee for certified
copies of any record in his or her office as set by resolution of the Board of
Trustees.
      (2)   He or she shall care for the village records under the direction of
the State Records Administrator, pursuant to the Records Management Act;
provided, the Board of Trustees shall not have the authority to destroy the
minutes of the Village Clerk, the permanent ordinances and resolution books or
any other records classified as permanent by the State Records Administrator.
   (J)   The Village Treasurer is also required to publish or cause to be
published in a legal weekly newspaper published in or of general circulation in
said village within 60 days following the end of the fiscal year a report of
the activities of his or her office, which said report shall show in detail all
receipts, disbursements, warrants outstanding and the debit or credit balance
of the village.
(Prior Code, § 1-204) (Ord. 2004-02, passed 4-6-2004)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS. 17-605, 17-606, 17-609, 19-1101, 19-1102,
19-1104, 84-712, 84-1201, 84-1220, 84-1411 and 84-1413
§ 31.05 VILLAGE TREASURER.
   (A)   (1)   The Village Treasurer shall be the custodian of all money
belonging to the village. He or she shall keep a separate account of each fund
or appropriation and the debts and credits belonging thereto. He or she shall
give every person paying money into the treasury a receipt for such money,
specifying the date of payment and on what account paid. He or she shall also
file copies of such receipts with his or her monthly reports. The Treasurer
shall, at the end of every month and as often as may be required, render an
account to the Board of Trustees, under oath, showing the state of the treasury
at the date of such account and the balance of money in the treasury. He or she
shall also accompany such accounts with a statement of all receipts and
disbursements, together with all warrants redeemed and paid by him or her,
which warrants, with any and all vouchers held by him or her, shall be filed
with his or her account in the Village Clerk’s office. If the Treasurer fails
to render his or her account within 20 days after the end of the month or by a
later date established by the Board of Trustees, the Chairperson with the
advice and consent of the Board may use this failure as cause to remove the
Treasurer from office.
      (2)   The Treasurer shall keep a record of all outstanding bonds against
the village, showing the number and amount of each bond, for and to whom the
bonds were issued and the date upon which any bond is purchased, paid or
canceled. He or she shall accompany the annual statement submitted pursuant to
Neb. RS 19-1101 with a description of the bonds issued and sold in that year
and the terms of sale, with every item of expense thereof.
      (3)   The Treasurer shall annually complete continuing education through
a program approved by the Auditor of Public Accounts and proof of completion of
such program shall be submitted to the Auditor of Public Accounts.
(Neb. RS 17-606)
   (B)   (1)   The Treasurer shall prepare and publish annually within 60 days
after the close of the village fiscal year a statement of the receipts and
expenditures of funds of the village for the preceding fiscal year. The
statement shall also include the information required by Neb. RS 16-318(3) or
Neb. RS 17-606(2). Not more than the legal rate provided for in Neb. RS 33-141
shall be charged and paid for such publication.
(Neb. RS 19-1101)
      (2)   Publication shall be made in one legal newspaper of general
circulation in the village. If no legal newspaper is published in the village,
then such publication shall be made in one legal newspaper published or of
general circulation within the county in which the village is located.
(Neb. RS 19-1103)
   (C)   (1)   All warrants upon the Treasurer shall be paid in the order of
their presentation therefor and as otherwise provided in Neb. RS 77-2201
through 77-2215.
(Neb. RS 77-2201)
      (2)   The Treasurer shall keep a warrant register, which register shall
show in columns arranged for that purpose the number, the date and the amount
of each warrant presented and registered, the particular fund upon which the
same is drawn, the date of presentation, the name and address of the person in
whose name the warrant is registered, the date of payment, the amount of
interest and the total amount paid thereon, with the date when notice to the
person in whose name such warrant is registered is mailed.
(Neb. RS 77-2202)
      (3)   The Treasurer shall make duplicate receipts for all sums which
shall be paid into his or her office, which receipts shall show the source from
which such funds are derived and shall, by distinct lines and columns, show the
amount received to the credit of each separate fund and whether the same was
paid in cash, in warrants or otherwise. The Treasurer shall deliver one of the
duplicates to the person making the payment and retain the other in his or her
office.
(Neb. RS 77-2209)
      (4)   The Treasurer shall daily, as money is received, foot the several
columns of the cash book and of the register and carry the amounts forward and
at the close of each year, in case the amount of money received by the
Treasurer is insufficient to pay the warrants registered, he or she shall close
the account for that year in the register and shall carry forward the excess.
(Neb. RS. 77-2210)
      (5)   The cash book, register and retained receipts of the Treasurer
shall at all times be open to the inspection of any person in whose name any
warrants are registered and unpaid.
(Neb. RS 77-2212)
   (D)   The Treasurer shall permit any person to examine and copy the public
records in the Treasurer’s custody and may charge a fee for providing copies of
a public record, as provided in Neb. RS 84-712 through 84-712.09.
   (E)   The Treasurer shall keep all money belonging to the village separate
and distinct from his or her own money. He or she shall cancel all bonds,
coupons, warrants and other evidences of debt against the village, whenever
paid by him or her, by writing or stamping on the face thereof, “Paid by the
Village Treasurer”, with the date of payment written or stamped thereon. He or
she shall collect all special taxes, allocate special assessments to the
several owners and obtain from the County Treasurer a monthly report as to the
collection of delinquent taxes.
§ 31.06 VILLAGE ATTORNEY.
   (A)   The Village Attorney shall be the legal advisor of the Board of
Trustees. He or she shall commence, prosecute and defend all suits and actions
necessary to be commenced, prosecuted or defended on behalf of the village or
that may be ordered by the Board. When requested, he or she shall attend
meetings of the Board and give them his or her opinion upon any matters
submitted to him or her, either orally or in writing, as may be required. He or
she shall draft or review for legal correctness ordinances, contracts,
franchises and other instruments as may be required and he or she shall perform
such other duties as may be imposed upon him or her by general law or
ordinance. The Board shall have the right to pay the Village Attorney
compensation for legal services performed by him or her for it on such terms as
the Board and Attorney may agree and to employ additional legal assistance and
to pay for such legal assistance out of the funds of the village.
(Neb. RS 17-610)
   (B)   The Village Attorney shall also examine, when requested to do so by
the Board of Trustees, the ordinance records and advise and assist the Village
Clerk/Treasurer as much as may be necessary to the end that each procedural
step will be taken in the passage of each ordinance to insure that it will be a
valid and subsisting local law in so far as its passage and approval are
concerned.
§ 31.07 OVERSEER OF STREETS.
   The Overseer of Streets shall, subject to the order of the Board of
Trustees, have general charge, direction and control of all works on streets,
sidewalks, culverts and bridges of the village and shall perform such other
duties as the Board may direct.
(Neb. RS 17-214)
Statutory reference:
   Incentive payments to street superintendents, see Neb. RS 39-2512
§ 31.08 VILLAGE CHIEF OF POLICE.
   (A)   The Village Chief of Police shall at all times have power to make or
order an arrest, with proper process, for any offense against the laws of the
state or ordinances of the village and bring the offender to trial before the
proper officer and to arrest without process in all cases where any such
offense shall be committed or attempted to be committed in his or her presence.
(Neb. RS 17-213)
   (B)   The Village Chief of Police shall direct the police work of the
village and shall be responsible for the maintenance of law and order. Unless
the Board of Trustees provides otherwise, he or she shall act as Health
Inspector and Building Inspector. He or she shall file the necessary complaints
in cases arising out of violations of village ordinances and shall make all
necessary reports required by the village ordinances or the laws of the state.
   (C)   If the village has an agreement with the County Sheriff for law
enforcement purposes, the County Sheriff shall have all the powers and duties
of the Village Chief of Police and village police officers as specified in the
agreement.
§ 31.09 FIRE CHIEF.
   The Fire Chief shall be elected by the members of the Fire Department. He or
she shall enforce all laws and ordinances covering the prevention of fires, the
storage and use of explosives and flammable substances, the installation of
fire alarm systems, the maintenance of fire extinguishing equipment, the
regulation of fire escapes and the inspection of all premises requiring
adequate fire escapes.
§ 31.10 WATER COMMISSIONER/PUBLIC WORKS COMMISSIONER.
   (A)   (1)   As soon as a system of waterworks or mains or portion or
extension of any system of waterworks or water supply has been established by
the village, the Chairperson shall nominate and by and with the advice and
consent of the Board of Trustees shall appoint any competent person who shall
be known as the Water Commissioner of the village and whose term of office
shall be for one fiscal year or until his or her successor is appointed and
qualified. Annually at the first regular meeting of the Board of Trustees in
December, the Water Commissioner shall be appointed as provided in this
section.
      (2)   The Water Commissioner may at any time, for sufficient cause, be
removed by a two- thirds’ vote of the Board of Trustees. Any vacancy occurring
in the office of Water Commissioner by death, resignation, removal from office
or removal from the village may be filled in the manner provided in this
section for the appointment of the Commissioner.
      (3)   The Water Commissioner shall, before he or she enters upon the
discharge of his or her duties, execute a bond or provide evidence of
equivalent insurance to the village in a sum to be fixed by the Board of
Trustees, but not less than $5,000, conditioned upon the faithful discharge of
his or her duties and such bond shall be signed by two or more good and
sufficient sureties, to be approved by the Board of Trustees or executed by a
corporate surety.
      (4)   The Water Commissioner, subject to the supervision of the Board of
Trustees, shall have the general management and control of the system of
waterworks or mains or portion or extension of any system of waterworks or
water supply in the village.
      (5)   In a village where no Board of Public Works exists and the village
has other public utilities than its waterworks system, the Board of Trustees
shall by ordinance designate Water Commissioner as Public Works Commissioner
with authority to manage not only the system of waterworks but also other
public utilities and all of the provisions of this division (A) applying to the
Water Commissioner shall apply to the Public Works Commissioner.
(Neb. RS 17-541)
   (B)   (1)   The Water Commissioner shall collect all money received by the
village on account of its system of waterworks and shall faithfully account for
and pay over the same to the Village Treasurer, taking his or her receipt
therefor in duplicate, filing one of the same with the Village Clerk.
      (2)   He or she shall make a detailed report to the Board of Trustees, at
least once every six months, of the condition of the water system, of all
mains, pipes, hydrants, reservoirs and machinery and such improvements, repairs
and extension thereof as he or she may think proper. The report shall show the
amount of receipts and expenditures on account thereof for the preceding six
months. No money shall be expended for improvements, repairs or extension of
the waterworks system, except upon recommendation of the Water Commissioner.
      (3)   The Water Commissioner shall perform such other duties as may be
prescribed by ordinance.
      (4)   The Water Commissioner shall be paid such salary as the Board of
Trustees may by ordinance provide and upon his or her written recommendation,
the Board shall employ such laborers and clerks as may to them seem necessary.
      (5)   If the village owns public utilities other than the waterworks
system and the Water Commissioner has been designated by ordinance as the
Public Works Commissioner under the authority of division (A) above, then all
provisions of this division (B) in reference to a Water Commissioner shall
apply to the Public Works Commissioner.
(Neb. RS 17-543)
§ 31.11 VILLAGE ENGINEER; SPECIAL ENGINEER.
   (A)   The Village Engineer shall, when requested by the Board of Trustees,
make estimates of the cost of labor and material which may be done or furnished
by contract with the village and make all surveys, estimates and calculations
necessary to be made for the establishment of grades, the building of culverts,
sewers, electric light systems, waterworks, power plants, public heating
systems, bridges, curbing and gutters, the improvement of streets and the
erection and repair of buildings and shall perform such other duties as the
Board may require.
(Neb. RS 17-568.01)
   (B)   The Village Engineer, when ordered to do so by the Village Board of
Trustees, shall make surveys, estimates and calculations necessary to be made
for the establishment and maintenance of public works by the village.
(Neb. RS 17-213)
   (C)   The Board of Trustees may employ a special engineer to make or assist
in making, any estimate necessary or to perform any other duty provided for in
Neb. RS 17-568.01. Any work executed by such special engineer shall have the
same validity and serve in all respects as though executed by the Village
Engineer.
(Neb. RS 17-568)   
   (D)   The Village Engineer shall make a record of the minutes of his or her
surveys and of all work done for the village and, when directed by the Board of
Trustees, shall accurately make such plats, sections, profiles and maps as may
be necessary in the prosecution of any public work, which shall be public
records and belong to the village and be turned over to his or her successor.
Statutory reference:
   Duties related to areas to be annexed, see Neb. RS 17-405.01
   Duties related to sewerage systems, see Neb. RS 17-919
CHAPTER 32: ORGANIZATIONS
Section
Boards and Commissions
   
32.01   Board of Health
   
32.02   Planning Commission
   
32.03   Board of Adjustment
   
32.04   Board of Park Commissioners
   
32.05   Tree Board
Fire Department
   
32.35   Operation and funding
   
32.36   Fire Chief
   
32.37   Membership
   
32.38   Records
   
32.39   Fires
   
32.40   Distant fires
   
32.41   Inspections
   
32.42   Notice of violation
   
32.43   Power of arrest
   
32.44   Fire investigation
BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS
§ 32.01 BOARD OF HEALTH.
   (A)   (1)   The Board of Trustees shall appoint a Board of Health consisting
of three members: The Chairperson of the Board of Trustees, who shall be
chairperson and two other members. One member shall be a physician or health
care provider, if one can be found who is willing to serve. Such physician or
health care provider, if appointed, shall be the Board of Health’s medical
advisor. If the Board of Trustees has appointed a Chief of Police, the Chief of
Police may be appointed to the Board of Health and serve as secretary and
quarantine officer.
      (2)   A majority of the Board of Health shall constitute a quorum and
shall enact rules and regulations, which shall have the force and effect of
law, to safeguard the health of the people of such village and prevent
nuisances and unsanitary conditions. The Board of Health shall enforce such
rules and regulations and provide fines and punishments for violations.
      (3)   The appointees shall hold office for one year unless removed by the
Chairperson of the Board of Trustees with the advice and consent of the
Trustees.
(Neb. RS 17-208)
   (B)   The Board of Health shall reorganize, at its meeting each year after
the Board of Trustees’ meeting when appointments are regularly made, and, if
necessary, select a member to serve as secretary. No member of the Board of
Health shall hold more than one Board of Health position. The secretary shall
keep full and correct minutes and records of all meetings and file the same
with the Village Clerk/Treasurer where they shall be available for public
inspection during office hours.
   (C)   The Board shall meet at such times as the Board of Trustees may
designate. Special meetings may be held upon the call of the Chairperson or any
two members of the Board of Health.
   (D)   The members of the Board of Health shall serve without compensation.
The Board of Health shall be funded by the Board of Trustees from time to time
out of the General Fund.
   (E)   The Board of Health may regulate, suppress and prevent the occurrence
of nuisances and enforce all laws of the state and ordinances of the village
relating to nuisances and to matters of sanitation which affect the health and
safety of the people. The Board shall regularly inspect such premises and
businesses as the Board of Trustees may direct.
   (F)   All members of the Board of Health shall be responsible for making
such reports and performing such other duties as the Board of Trustees may,
from time to time, designate.
§ 32.02 PLANNING COMMISSION.
   The Village Board may appoint a Planning Commission. If such a commission is
appointed, it shall consist of five members who shall represent, insofar as is
possible, the different professions or occupations in the village and who shall
be residents of the village. Two of the regular members may be residents of the
area over which the village is authorized to exercise extraterritorial zoning
and subdivision regulations. The members of the Commission shall serve a three-
year term of office, unless reappointed. The Commission shall serve without
compensation and may be required, in the discretion of the Village Board, to
give a bond sum set by resolution of the Village Board and conditioned upon the
faithful performance of their duties. At the time of the Commission’s first
meeting in June of each year, the Commission shall organize by selecting from
its membership a Chairperson and Secretary. No member of the Planning
Commission shall serve in the capacity of both the Chair and Secretary of the
Commission. It shall be the duty of the Secretary to keep the full and correct
minutes and records of all meetings and to file the same with the Village
Clerk/Treasurer where they shall be available for public inspection at any
reasonable time. The Planning Commission shall be funded by the Village Board
from time to time out of the General Fund. A majority of the Commission shall
constitute as a quorum for the purpose of doing business. Special meetings may
be held upon the call of the Chair or any three members of the Commission. It
shall be the duty of the Commission to make and adopt plans for the physical
development of the village, including any areas outside its boundaries which,
in the Commission’s judgment, bear relation to the planning of the village. All
actions by the Commission shall be subject to the review and supervision of the
Village Board. Recommendations from the Commission shall be received by the
Village Board within 30 days after the Commission begins consideration of a
matter relating to the comprehensive development plan, capital improvements,
building codes, subdivision development, the annexation of territory or zoning.
The Commission shall be responsible for making such reports and performing such
other duties as the Village Board may, from time to time designate. No member
of the Village Board or other village official, except where otherwise
specifically provided, shall serve as a member of the Planning Commission while
serving any other term of office.
(Prior Code, § 1-801) (Ord. 98-21, passed - -1998; Ord. 2015, passed 5-5-2015)
Statutory reference: 
   Other provisions on planning commissions, see Neb. RS 19-925 through 19-933
§ 32.03 BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT.
   (A)   If the Board of Trustees adopts zoning or other regulations pursuant
to Neb. RS 19-901 et seq., except as provided in division (C) below, the Board
shall provide for the appointment of a Board of Adjustment. Any actions taken
by the Board of Adjustment shall not exceed the powers granted by division (G)
below.
(Neb. RS 19-907)
   (B)   Notwithstanding the provisions of divisions (A) above and (D) below,
the Board of Trustees may, except as set forth in division (C) below, provide
by ordinance that it shall constitute a Board of Adjustment and in the
regulations and restrictions adopted pursuant to the authority of Neb. RS 19-
901 to 19-905 may provide that as such Board of Adjustment it may exercise only
the powers granted to boards of adjustment by division (G) below. As such Board
of Adjustment, it shall adopt rules and procedures that are in harmony with
divisions (A) above and (D), (F) and (G) below and shall have the powers and
duties therein provided for the Board of Adjustment and other parties shall
have all the rights and privileges therein provided for. The concurring vote of
two-thirds of the members of the Board of Trustees acting as a Board of
Adjustment shall decide any question upon which it is required to pass as such
Board.
(Neb. RS 19-911)
   (C)   If the county has adopted a comprehensive development plan, as defined
by Neb. RS 23-114.02 and is enforcing zoning regulations based upon such a
plan, the Zoning Board of Adjustment of the county shall, upon request of the
Board of Trustees, serve as the zoning Board of Adjustment for the village. If
the village is located in more than one county, it shall be served by request
or otherwise only by the county’s Zoning Board of Adjustment of the county in
which the greatest area of the village is located and the jurisdiction of such
county Zoning Board of Adjustment shall include all portions of the village and
its extraterritorial control, regardless of county lines.
(Neb. RS 19-912.01)
   (D)   (1)   The Board of Adjustment shall consist of five regular members,
plus one additional member designated as an alternate who shall attend and
serve only when one of the regular members is unable to attend for any reason,
each to be appointed for a term of three years and removable for cause by the
appointing authority upon written charges and after public hearings. Vacancies
shall be filled for the unexpired term of any member whose term becomes vacant.
One member only of the Board of Adjustment shall be appointed from the
membership of the Planning Commission and the loss of membership on the
Planning Commission by such member shall also result in his or her immediate
loss of membership on the Board of Adjustment and the appointment of another
Planning Commissioner to the Board of Adjustment. The first vacancy occurring
on the Board of Adjustment shall be filled by the appointment of a person who
resides in the extraterritorial zoning jurisdiction of the village at such time
as more than 200 persons reside within such area. Thereafter, at all times, at
least one member of the Board of Adjustment shall reside outside of the
corporate boundaries of the village, but within its extraterritorial zoning
jurisdiction.
      (2)   The Board of Adjustment shall adopt rules in accordance with the
provisions of any ordinance adopted pursuant to Neb. RS 19-901 to 19-914.
Meetings of the Board of Adjustment shall be held at the call of the
Chairperson and at such other times as the Board may determine. Such
Chairperson or, in his or her absence, the Acting Chairperson, may administer
oaths and compel the attendance of witnesses. All meetings of the Board shall
be open to the public. The Board shall keep minutes of its proceedings, showing
the vote of each member upon each question, or, if absent or failing to vote,
indicating such fact and shall keep records of its examinations and other
official actions, all of which shall be immediately filed in the office of the
Board and shall be a public record.
(Neb. RS 19-908)
   (E)   A number of members equal to a majority of the number of regular
members appointed to the Board of Adjustment shall constitute a quorum for the
transaction of any business. All members of an appointed Board of Adjustment
shall serve without compensation and shall hold no other village office, except
for the member of the Planning Commission appointed to serve on the Board of
Adjustment. No member of the Board of Adjustment shall serve in the capacity of
both Chairperson and Secretary of the Board. The Secretary shall keep the full
and correct minutes and records of all meetings and file them with the Village
Clerk/Treasurer where they shall be available for public inspection during
office hours.
   (F)   Appeals to the Board of Adjustment may be taken by any person
aggrieved or by any officer, department, board or bureau of the village
affected by any decision of the administrative officer. Such appeal shall be
taken within a reasonable time, as provided by the rules of the Board, by
filing with the officer from whom the appeal is taken and with the Board of
Adjustment a notice of appeal specifying the grounds thereof. The officer from
whom the appeal is taken shall forthwith transmit to the Board all the papers
constituting the record upon which the action appealed from was taken. An
appeal stays all proceedings in furtherance of the action appealed from, unless
the officer from whom the appeal is taken certifies to the Board of Adjustment,
after the notice of appeal shall have been filed with him or her, that by
reason of facts stated in the certificate a stay would, in his or her opinion,
cause imminent peril to life or property. In such case proceedings shall not be
stayed otherwise than by a restraining order which may be granted by the Board
of Adjustment or by a court of record on application on notice to the officer
from whom the appeal is taken and on due cause shown. The Board of Adjustment
shall fix a reasonable time for the hearing of the appeal, give public notice
thereof, as well as due notice to the parties in interest and decide the same
within a reasonable time. Upon the hearing, any party may appear in person or
by agent or by attorney.
(Neb. RS 19-909)
   (G)   (1)   The Board of Adjustment shall, subject to such appropriate
conditions and safeguards as may be established by the Board of Trustees, have
only the following powers:
         (a)   To hear and decide appeals when it is alleged there is error in
any order, requirement, decision or determination made by an administrative
official or agency based on or made in the enforcement of any zoning regulation
or any regulation relating to the location or soundness of structures; except
that, the authority to hear and decide appeals shall not apply to decisions
made by the Board of Trustees or Planning Commission regarding a conditional
use or special exception under Neb. RS 19-929(3);
         (b)   To hear and decide, in accordance with the provisions of any
zoning regulation, requests for interpretation of any map; and
         (c)   When by reason of exceptional narrowness, shallowness or shape
of a specific piece of property at the time of the enactment of the zoning
regulations or by reason of exceptional topographic conditions or other
extraordinary and exceptional situation or condition of such piece of property,
the strict application of any enacted regulation under Neb. RS 19-901 and 19-
903 to 19-904.01 and divisions (D) above and this (G) would result in peculiar
and exceptional practical difficulties to or exceptional and undue hardships
upon the owner of such property, to authorize, upon an appeal relating to the
property, a variance from such strict application so as to relieve such
difficulties or hardship, if such relief may be granted without substantial
detriment to the public good and without substantially impairing the intent and
purpose of any ordinance or resolution.
      (2)   (a)   No such variance shall be authorized by the Board unless it
finds that:
            1.   The strict application of the zoning regulation would produce
undue hardship;
            2.   Such hardship is not shared generally by other properties in
the same zoning district and the same vicinity;
            3.   The authorization of such variance will not be of substantial
detriment to adjacent property and the character of the district will not be
changed by the granting of the variance; and
            4.   The granting of such variance is based upon reason of
demonstrable and exceptional hardship as distinguished from variations for
purposes of convenience, profit or caprice.
         (b)   No variance shall be authorized unless the Board finds that the
condition or situation of the property concerned or the intended use of the
property is not of so general or recurring a nature as to make reasonably
practicable the formulation of a general regulation to be adopted as an
amendment to the zoning regulations.
      (3)   In exercising the powers granted in this division (G), the Board
may, in conformity with Neb. RS 19-901 to 19-915, reverse or affirm, wholly or
partly or may modify the order, requirement, decision or determination appealed
from and may make such order, requirement, decision or determination as ought
to be made and to that end shall have all the powers of the officer from whom
the appeal is taken. The concurring vote of four members of the board shall be
necessary to reverse any order, requirement, decision or determination of any
such administrative official or to decide in favor of the applicant on any
matter upon which it is required to pass under any such regulation or to effect
any variation in such regulation.
(Neb. RS 19-910)
   (H)   Any person or persons, jointly or severally, aggrieved by any decision
of the Board of Adjustment or any taxpayer or any officer, department, board or
bureau of the village, may present to the district court a petition duly
verified, setting forth that such decision is illegal, in whole or in part and
specifying the grounds of such illegality. Such petition must be presented to
the court within 15 days after the filing of the decision in the office of the
Board. Upon the filing of such petition a summons shall be issued and be served
upon the Board of Adjustment, together with a copy of the petition. Return of
service shall be made within four days after the issuance of the summons.
Within ten days after the return day of such summons, the Board of Adjustment
shall file an answer to the petition which shall admit or deny the substantial
averments of the petition and shall state the contentions of the Board with
reference to the matters in dispute as disclosed by the petition. The answer
shall be verified in like manner as required for the petition. At the
expiration of the time for filing answer, the court shall proceed to hear and
determine the cause without delay and shall render judgment thereon according
to the forms of law. If, upon the hearing, it appears to the court that
testimony is necessary for the proper disposition of the matter, it may take
evidence or appoint a referee to take such evidence as it may direct and report
the same to the court with his or her findings of fact and conclusions of law,
which shall constitute a part of the proceedings upon which the determination
of the court shall be made. The court may reverse or affirm, wholly or partly
or may modify the decision brought up for review. The appeal to the district
court shall not stay proceedings upon the decision appealed from, but the court
may, on application, on notice to the Board and on due cause shown, grant a
restraining order. Any appeal from such judgment of the district court shall be
prosecuted in accordance with the general laws of the state regulating appeals
in actions at law.
(Neb. RS 19-912)
§ 32.04 BOARD OF PARK COMMISSIONERS.
   (A)   If the Board of Trustees has provided for the creation of a Board of
Park Commissioners or Board of Park and Recreation Commissioners pursuant to
Neb. RS 17-952, the Board shall be composed of not less than three members, who
shall be residents of the village and who shall have charge of all parks and
recreational facilities belonging to the village and shall have the power to
establish rules for the management, care and use of the same.
(Neb. RS 17-952)
   (B)   No member of the Board of Trustees shall serve as a member of the Park
Board while serving a term of office as member of the Board of Trustees. The
members of the Park Board shall serve terms of office of the length specified
by the Board of Trustees and may be reappointed.
   (C)   The Park Board shall organize at its meeting after appointments are
regularly considered by the Board of Trustees and select members to serve as
Chairperson and Secretary. No member of the Park Board shall hold more than one
Board position. The Secretary shall keep full and correct minutes and records
of all meetings and file the same with the Village Clerk/Treasurer where they
shall be available for public inspection during office hours.
   (D)   The Park Board shall meet at such times as the Board of Trustees may
designate. Special meetings may be held upon the call of the Chairperson of the
Park Board or any two members of the Board. A majority of the Park Board
members shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business.
   (E)   The members of the Park Board shall serve without compensation. The
Park Board shall be funded by the Board of Trustees from time to time out of
the General Fund.
   (F)   All members of the Park Board shall be responsible for making such
reports and performing such other duties as the Board of Trustees may, from
time to time, designate.
§ 32.05 TREE BOARD.
   (A)   Creation and establishment of Village Tree Board. There is hereby
created and established a Tree Board for the village, which shall consist of
three members, citizens and residents of the village, who shall be appointed by
the Chair with the approval of the Board of Trustees.
(Prior Code, § 1-601)
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      PARK TREES. Trees, shrubs, bushes and all other woody vegetation in
public parks having individual names and all areas owned by the village or to
which the public has free access as a park.
      STREET TREES. Trees, shrubs, bushes and all other woody vegetation on
land lying between property lines on either side of all streets, avenues or
ways within the village.
(Prior Code, § 1-602)
   (C)   Term of office. The term of the three persons to be appointed by the
Chair of the Board of Trustees shall be three years; except that, the term of
one of the members appointed to the first Tree Board shall be for only one year
and the term of two members of the first Tree Board shall be for two years.
Terms shall commence July 1 of each year. In the event that a vacancy shall
occur during the term of any member, his or her successor shall be appointed
for the unexpired portion of the term.
(Prior Code, § 1-603)
   (D)   Compensation. Members of the Tree Board shall serve without
compensation.
(Prior Code, § 1-604)
   (E)   Duties and responsibilities. It shall be the responsibility of the
Tree Board to study, investigate, counsel and develop and/or update annually
and administer a written plan for the care, preservation, pruning, planting,
replanting, removal or disposition of trees and shrubs in parks, along streets
and in other public areas. Such plan will be presented annually to the Village
Board of Trustees and, upon its acceptance and approval, shall constitute the
official comprehensive Village Tree Plan. The Tree Board, when requested by the
Board of Trustees, shall consider, investigate, make finding, report and
recommend upon any special matter of question coming within the scope of its
work.
(Prior Code, § 1-605)
   (F)   Operation. The Tree Board shall choose its own officers, make its own
rules and regulations and keep a minute book of its proceedings. A majority of
its members shall be a quorum for the transaction of business.
(Prior Code, § 1-606)
   (G)   Street tree species to be planted. The tree list adopted by the Tree
Board and published by it constitutes the official street tree species for the
village. No species other than those included in this list may be planted as
street trees without written permission of the Village Tree Board.
(Prior Code, § 1-607)
   (H)   Spacing. The spacing of street trees will be in accordance with the
three species size classes listed in the tree list. No trees may be planted
closer together than the following: small trees, 30 feet; medium trees, 40
feet; and large trees, 50 feet, except in special plantings designed or
approved by a landscape architect.
(Prior Code, § 1-608)
   (I)   Distance from curb and sidewalk. The distance which trees may be
planted from curbs or curb lines and sidewalks will be in accordance with the
three species size classes listed in the tree list, and no trees may be planted
closer to any curb or sidewalk than the following: small trees, two feet;
medium trees, three feet; and large trees, four feet.
(Prior Code, § 1-609)
   (J)   Distance from street corners and fireplugs. No street tree shall be
planted closer than 35 feet to any street corner, measured from the point of
nearest intersecting curbs or curb lines. No street tree shall be planted
closer than ten feet to any fire hydrant.
(Prior Code, § 1-610)
   (K)   Utilities. No street trees other than those species listed as small
trees in the tree list may be planted under or within ten lateral feet of any
overhead utility wire, or over or within five lateral feet of any underground
water line, sewer line, transmission line or other utility.
(Prior Code, § 1-611)
   (L)   Public tree care. The village shall have the right to plant, subject
to division (M) below, prune, maintain and remove trees, plants and shrubs
within the lines of all streets, alleys, avenues, lanes, squares and public
grounds, as may be necessary to ensure public safety or to preserve or enhance
the symmetry and beauty of such public grounds. This section does not prohibit
the planting of street trees by adjacent property owners; providing that, the
selection and location of said trees is in accordance with this section.
(Prior Code, § 1-612)
   (M)   Consent of property owner. The Village Tree Board shall plant no trees
on public right-of-way without the consent of the adjacent property owners.
Such consent shall be in writing and shall be maintained as part of the
official Tree Board records.
(Prior Code, § 1-613)
   (N)   Tree topping. It shall be unlawful as a normal practice for any
person, firm or village department to top any street tree, park tree or other
tree on public property. TOPPING is defined as the severe cutting back of limbs
to stubs larger than three inches in diameter within the tree’s crown to such a
degree as to remove the normal canopy and disfigure the tree. Trees severely
damaged by storms or other causes or certain trees under utility wires or other
obstructions where other pruning practices are impractical may be exempted from
this section at the determination of the Village Tree Board.
(Prior Code, § 1-614)
   (O)   Pruning; corner clearance. Every owner of any tree overhanging any
street or right-of-way within the village shall prune the branches so that such
branches shall not obstruct the light from any street light or obstruct the
view of any street intersection and so that there shall be a clear space of
eight feet above the surface of the street or sidewalk.
(Prior Code, § 1-615)
   (P)   Dead or diseased tree removal on private property.
      (1)   All trees that are in a diseased, dying or dead condition are
declared to be a public nuisance and shall be removed by the property owner
from the private property on which they are located. For the purpose of
carrying out the provisions of this section, the Village Tree Board shall have
the authority to enter on private property to inspect the trees thereon. In the
event that the trees are diseased or dead, notice shall be given to the owner
of the property by mail or personal service and such notice shall allow the
said owner 30 days to remove the said tree or trees.
      (2)   In the event that the owner is a non-resident, notice shall be made
by publication in a newspaper of general circulation or by certified mail if
the name and address are known. The person charged with the removal may enter
into an agreement with the village that such work be accomplished by the
village and the expense shall be declared to be a lien upon such property from
the time the same becomes due until paid. If the owner fails, neglects or
refuses to enter into such an agreement or to remove the trees, the Village
Tree Board may enter upon the property and proceed to direct the removal of the
trees; the cost thereof shall be chargeable to the property owner. If the owner
fails to reimburse the village after being properly billed, the costs shall be
assessed against the property and certified by the Village Clerk to the County
Treasurer to be collected in the manner prescribed by law.
      (3)   In the event the property owner is a non-resident of the county in
which the property lies, the village shall, before levying any special
assessment against that property, send a copy of any notice required by law to
be published by means of certified mail, return receipt requested, to the last
known address of the non-resident property owner. The last known address shall
be that address listed on the current tax rolls at the time such required
notice was first published.
(Prior Code, § 1-616)
   (Q)   Removal of stumps. All stumps of street and park trees shall be
removed below the surface of the ground so that the top of the stump shall not
project above the surface of the ground.
(Prior Code, § 1-617)
   (R)   Interference with Village Tree Board. It shall be unlawful for any
person to prevent, delay or interfere with the Village Tree Board, or any of
its agents, while engaging in the planting, cultivating, mulching, pruning,
spraying or removing of any street trees, park trees or trees on private
grounds, as authorized in this section.
(Prior Code, § 1-618)
   (S)   Arborist’s license. It shall be unlawful for any person or firm to
engage in the business or occupation of pruning, treating or removing street
trees within the village without first applying for and procuring a license.
The license fee shall be $25 annually in advance; provided, however, that, no
license shall be required of any public service company or village employee
doing such work in the pursuit of their public service endeavors. Before any
license shall be issued, each applicant shall first file evidence of possession
of liability insurance in the minimum amounts of $50,000 for bodily injury and
$100,000 for property damage, indemnifying the village or any person injured or
damaged as a result of the pursuit of such endeavors, as herein described.
(Prior Code, § 1-619)
   (T)   Review by Village Board of Trustees. The Board of Trustees shall have
the right to review the conduct, acts and decisions of the Village Tree Board.
Any person may appeal any ruling or order of the Village Tree Board to the
Board of Trustees, who may hear the matter and make a final decision.
(Prior Code, § 1-620)
FIRE DEPARTMENT
§ 32.35 OPERATION AND FUNDING.
   (A)   The village may operate a Fire Department through the Fire Chief and
firefighters.
   (B)   If the village has only a voluntary fire department or companies, the
Board of Trustees may levy a tax annually of not more than $0.07 on each $100
upon the taxable value of all the taxable property within the village for the
maintenance and benefit of the Fire Department or companies. The amount of such
tax shall be established at the beginning of the year and shall be included in
the adopted budget statement. Upon collection of such tax, the Village Clerk/
Treasurer shall disburse the same upon the order of the Fire Chief with the
approval of the Board of Trustees.
(Neb. RS 17-718)
Statutory reference:
   Fire station acquisition, construction and maintenance, see Neb. RS 17-953
et seq.
§ 32.36 FIRE CHIEF.
   The Fire Chief shall manage the Fire Department and it shall be his or her
duty to inform the Board of Trustees when any of the fire engines, hose,
ladders or other apparatus needs repair. Upon the written consent and directive
of the Board of Trustees, the Fire Chief shall cause the repair, improvement or
maintenance of the equipment and shall personally supervise and approve of the
same. It shall be the duty of the Fire Chief to come before the Board of
Trustees at the regular meeting in January of each year to give an annual
report to the Board of Trustees of the general condition and the proposed
additions or improvements recommended by him or her.
§ 32.37 MEMBERSHIP.
   The Fire Chief shall appoint no more than 25 members per each fire
department company, subject to the review and approval of the Village Board.
All vacancies shall be filled in this manner. Said members shall be considered
to be employees of the village for the purpose of providing them with worker’s
compensation and other benefits. Each member shall be entitled to a term life
insurance policy in the amount of at least $10,000 for death from any cause to
age 65 and such policy shall, at the option of the individual firefighter, be
convertible to a permanent form of life insurance at age 65; provided, the
firefighters covered are actively and faithfully performing the duties of their
position. The Fire Department shall consist of so many members as may be
decided by the Board of Trustees. The members may organize themselves in any
way they may decide, subject to the review of the Board of Trustees. They may
hold meetings and engage in social activities with the approval of the Board of
Trustees. The Secretary of the Fire Department shall keep a record of all
meetings and shall make a report to the Board of Trustees of all meetings and
activities of the Fire Department. The Board of Trustees may, for services
rendered, compensate or reward any member of members of the Fire Department in
an amount set by resolution. All members of the Fire Department shall be
subject to such rules and regulations and shall perform such duties as may be
prescribed or required of them by the Fire Chief or the Board of Trustees. The
members of the Fire Department shall, during the time of a fire or great public
danger, have and exercise the powers and duties of police officers and shall
have the full power and authority to arrest all persons guilty of any violation
of the municipal code or the laws of the State of Nebraska.
(Prior Code, § 7-102) (Ord. 2004-01, passed 4-6-2004)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 35-101 through 35-103, 48-115
§ 32.38 RECORDS.
   The Fire Chief shall keep or cause to be kept a record of all meetings of
the Fire Department, the attendance record of all members and a record of all
fires and shall make a full report of these records to the Village Clerk/
Treasurer during the last week in April each year. The record of any fire shall
include the cause, origin, circumstances, property involved and whether
criminal conduct may have been involved. In the event of sizable property
damage, the Fire Chief shall include the information of whether the losses were
covered by insurance and if so, in what amount. All records shall be available
to the public at any reasonable time.
§ 32.39 FIRES.
   It shall be the duty of the Fire Department to use all proper means for the
extinguishment of fires, to protect property within the village and to secure
the observance of all ordinances, laws and other rules and regulations with
respect to fires and fire prevention.
§ 32.40 DISTANT FIRES.
   (A)   Upon the permission of the Chairperson of the Board of Trustees or the
Fire Chief or pursuant to any agreement with a rural fire district for mutual
aid protection, such fire equipment of the village as may be designated by the
Board of Trustees as rural equipment may be used beyond the corporate limits to
extinguish reported fires.
   (B)   The firefighters of the village shall be considered as acting in the
performance and within the scope of their duties in fighting fire or saving
property or life outside the corporate limits of the village when directed to
do so by the Board of Trustees or the Fire Chief or some person authorized to
act for the Chief and in so doing, may take such fire equipment of the village
as may be designated by the Board of Trustees.
§ 32.41 INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   The Fire Chief where a Fire department is established or the
Chairperson of the Board of Trustees where no Fire Department exists, at all
reasonable hours, may enter into all buildings and upon all premises within his
or her jurisdiction for the purposes of examination, in harmony with Neb. RS
81-501.01 to 81-531, the Nebraska Natural Gas Pipeline Safety Act of 1969,
being Neb. RS 81-542 et seq., the Petroleum Products and Hazardous Substances
Storage and Handling Act, being Neb. RS 81-15,117 et seq., and any other
statutory duties imposed upon the State Fire Marshal.
(Neb. RS 81-512)
   (B)   It shall be the duty of the Fire Chief, when directed to do so by the
Board of Trustees, to inspect or cause to be inspected by Fire Department
officers, members or some other official as often as may be necessary, but not
less than two times a year, all buildings, premises and public thoroughfares,
except the interiors of private dwellings, for the purpose of ascertaining and
causing to be corrected any conditions liable to create a fire hazard. The
inspection shall be of the storage, sale and use of flammable liquids,
combustibles and explosives; electric wiring and heating; the means and
adequacy of exits, in case of fire in schools, churches, hotels, halls,
theaters, factories, hospitals and all other buildings in which numbers of
persons congregate from time to time for any purpose whether publicly or
privately owned; the design, construction, location, installation and operation
of equipment for storing, handling and utilizing liquefied petroleum gases,
specifying the odorization of such gases and the degree thereof; and chemicals,
prozylin plastics, nitrocellulose films or any other hazardous material that
may now or hereafter exist.
§ 32.42 NOTICE OF VIOLATION.
   (A)   Upon the finding that the village code has been violated, the Fire
Chief shall notify or cause to be notified, the owner, occupant or manager of
the premises where a violation has occurred. Notice may be made personally or
by delivering a copy to the premise and affixing it to the door of the main
entrance of the premises. Whenever it may be necessary to serve such an order
upon the owner, the order may be served personally or by mailing a copy to the
owner’s last known post office address if the owner is absent from the
jurisdiction.
   (B)   Any such order shall be immediately complied with by the owner,
occupant or manager of the premises or building. The owner, occupant or manager
may, within five days after such an order by the Fire Chief or his or her
agent, appeal the order with the Board of Trustees requesting a review and it
shall be the duty of the Board of Trustees to hear the same within not less
than five days, nor more than ten days, from the time when the request was
filed in writing with the Village Clerk/Treasurer. The Board of Trustees shall
then affirm, modify or rescind the order as safety and justice may require and
the decision shall then be final, subject only to any remedy which the
aggrieved person may have at law or equity. The order shall be modified or
rescinded only where it is evident that reasonable safety exists and that
conditions necessitate a variance due to the probable hardship in complying
literally with the order of the Fire Chief. A copy of any decision so made
shall be sent to both the Fire Chief and the owner, occupant or manager making
the appeal.
§ 32.43 POWER OF ARREST.
   The Fire Chief or the Assistant Fire Chief shall have the power, during the
time of a fire and for a period of 36 hours after its extinguishment, to arrest
any suspected arsonist or other person hindering or resisting the firefighting
effort or any person who conducts himself or herself in a noisy or disorderly
manner. The officials shall be severally vested with the usual powers and
authority of village police officers to command all persons to assist them in
the performance of their duties. Failure to obey a lawful order of the Fire
Chief or Assistant Fire Chief shall be an offense.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 32.44 FIRE INVESTIGATION.
   The Fire Chief shall investigate or cause to be investigated the cause,
origin and circumstances of every fire occurring in the village by which
property has been destroyed or damaged. All fires of unknown origin shall be
reported and such officer shall especially make an investigation and report as
to whether such fire was the result of carelessness, accident or design. The
investigation shall begin immediately after the occurrence of the fire and the
State Fire Marshal shall have the right to supervise and direct the
investigation whenever he or she deems it expedient or necessary. The officer
making the investigation of fires occurring in the village shall forthwith
notify the State Fire Marshal and shall within one week of the occurrence of
the fire furnish him or her a written statement of all the facts relating to
the cause and origin of the fire and such further information as he or she may
call for.
(Neb. RS 81-506)
CHAPTER 33: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
Meetings
   
33.01   Definitions
   
33.02   Open to public; notice; agenda
   
33.03   Notice to news media
   
33.04   Village Board meetings; when; where; quorum
   
33.05   Emergency meetings
   
33.06   Attendance other than in person
   
33.07   Closed sessions
   
33.08   Prohibited acts; exempt events
   
33.09   Public participation
   
33.10   Village Board; order of business
   
33.11   Votes
   
33.12   Village Board; parliamentary procedure
   
33.13   Minutes
   
33.14   Village Board; change in office
Bonds and Oaths
   
33.30   Bonds; requirements
   
33.31   Oath of office; village officials
Compensation; Conflicts of Interest
   
33.45   Compensation; how fixed; limitations
   
33.46   Conflict of interest involving contracts
Notices
   
33.60   Publication of notices
MEETINGS
§ 33.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   MEETING. All regular, special or called meetings, formal or informal, of any
public body for the purposes of briefing, discussion of public business,
formation of tentative policy or the taking of any action of the public body.
   PUBLIC BODY.
      (1)   (a)   The Board of Trustees;
         (b)   All independent boards, commissions, bureaus, committees,
councils, subunits or any other bodies created by the Constitution of Nebraska,
statute, ordinance or otherwise pursuant to law; and
         (c)   Advisory committees of the bodies listed above.
      (2)   PUBLIC BODY does not include subcommittees of such bodies unless a
quorum of the public body attends a subcommittee meeting or unless the
subcommittees are holding hearings, making policy or taking formal action on
behalf of their parent body.
(Neb. RS 84-1409)
§ 33.02 OPEN TO PUBLIC; NOTICE; AGENDA.
   (A)   The formation of public policy is public business and may not be
conducted in secret. Every meeting of a public body shall be open the public in
order that citizens may exercise their democratic privilege of attending and
speaking at meetings of public bodies; except as otherwise provided by the
Constitution of Nebraska, federal statutes and the Open Meetings Act.
(Neb. RS 84-1408)
   (B)   (1)   Each public body shall give reasonable advance publicized notice
of the time and place of each meeting as provided in division (B)(2) below. The
notice shall be transmitted to all members of the public body and to the
public.
      (2)   The notice shall be published by:
         (a)   Publication in a newspaper of general circulation within the
public body’s jurisdiction and, if available, on such newspaper’s website; or
         (b)   Posting written notice in three conspicuous public places in the
village. The notice shall be posted in the same three places for each meeting.
      (3)   In addition to a method of notice required by division (B)(2)
above, the notice shall also be provided by any other appropriate method
designated by the public body.
      (4)   Each public body shall record the methods and dates of the notice
in its minutes.
      (5)   The notice shall contain an agenda of subjects known at the time of
the publicized notice or a statement that the agenda, which shall be kept
continually current, is readily available for public inspection at the office
of the public body during normal business hours. Agenda items shall be
sufficiently descriptive to give the public reasonable notice of the matters to
be considered at the meeting. Except for items of an emergency nature, the
agenda shall not be altered later than 24 hours before the scheduled
commencement of the meeting or 48 hours before the scheduled commencement of a
meeting of the Board scheduled outside the corporate limits of the city. The
public body shall have the right to modify the agenda to include items of an
emergency nature only at such public meeting.
(Neb. RS 84-1411)
Statutory reference: 
   Videoconferencing when emergency is declared by the Governor under the
Emergency Management Act, see Neb. RS 84-1411(7)
§ 33.03 NOTICE TO NEWS MEDIA.
   The Village Clerk/Treasurer, in the case of the Board of Trustees, and the
secretary or other designee of each other public body shall maintain a list of
the news media requesting notification of meetings and shall make reasonable
efforts to provide advance notification to them of the time and place of each
meeting and the subjects to be discussed at that meeting.
(Neb. RS 84-1411)
§ 33.04 VILLAGE BOARD MEETINGS; WHEN; WHERE; QUORUM.
   (A)   (1)   The Village Board of Trustees shall, by ordinance, fix the time
and place of holding its stated meetings and may be convened at any time by the
Chairperson.
(Neb. RS 17-204)
      (2)   Unless otherwise provided by the Board, special meetings may also
be called by any three members of the Board of Trustees. The object of a
special meeting shall be submitted to the Village Clerk/Treasurer in writing.
The call and object, as well as the disposition thereof, shall be entered upon
the journal by the Clerk/Treasurer. On filing the call for a special meeting,
the Clerk/Treasurer shall notify the members of the Board of Trustees of the
special meeting, stating the time and its purpose.
   (B)   At the hour specified for a meeting, the Village Clerk/Treasurer shall
proceed to call the roll of members and announce whether a quorum is present.
If a quorum is present, the Board shall be called to order by the Chairperson.
   (C)   (1)   At all meetings of the Village Board of Trustees, a majority of
the trustees shall constitute a quorum to do business. A smaller number may
adjourn from day to day and may compel the attendance of absent members in such
manner and under such penalties as prescribed by the Village Board of Trustees.
(Neb. RS 17-205)
      (2)   Unless otherwise provided by the Board, on the request of any two
members, whether a quorum is present or not, all absent members shall be sent
for and compelled to attend.
§ 33.05 EMERGENCY MEETINGS.
   When it is necessary to hold an emergency meeting without reasonable advance
public notice, the nature of the emergency shall be stated in the minutes and
any formal action taken in that meeting shall pertain only to the emergency.
Such emergency meetings may be held by means of electronic or telecommunication
equipment. The provisions of §
33.03 of this chapter shall be complied with in conducting emergency meetings.
Complete minutes of such emergency meetings specifying the nature of the
emergency and any formal action taken at the meeting shall be made available to
the public by no later than the end of the next regular business day.
(Neb. RS 84-1411)
§ 33.06 ATTENDANCE OTHER THAN IN PERSON.
   A public body may allow a member of the public or any other witness other
than a member of the public body to appear before the public body by means of
video or telecommunications equipment.
(Neb. RS 84-1411)
§ 33.07 CLOSED SESSIONS.
   (A)   (1)   Any public body may hold a closed session by the affirmative
vote of a majority of its voting members if a closed session is clearly
necessary for the protection of the public interest or for the prevention of
needless injury to the reputation of an individual and if that individual has
not requested a public meeting. The subject matter and the reason necessitating
the closed session shall be identified in the motion to close. Closed sessions
may be held for, but shall not be limited to, such reasons as:
         (a)   Strategy sessions with respect to collective bargaining, real
estate purchases, pending litigation or litigation which is imminent as
evidenced by communication of a claim or threat of litigation to or by the
public body;
         (b)   Discussion regarding deployment of security personnel or
devices;
         (c)   Investigative proceedings regarding allegations of criminal
misconduct; or
         (d)   Evaluation of the job performance of a person when necessary to
prevent needless injury to the reputation of a person and if that person has
not requested a public meeting.
      (2)   Nothing in this section shall permit a closed meeting for
discussion of the appointment or election of a new member to any public body.
   (B)   The vote to hold a closed session shall be taken in open session. The
entire motion, the vote of each member on the question of holding a closed
session and the time when the closed session commenced and concluded shall be
recorded in the minutes. If the motion to close passes, then the presiding
officer immediately prior to the closed session shall restate on the record the
limitation of the subject matter at the closed session. The public body holding
such a closed session shall restrict its consideration of matters during the
closed portions to only those purposes set forth in the motion to close as the
reason for the closed session. The meeting shall be reconvened in open session
before any formal action may be taken. For purposes of this section, formal
action means a collective decision or a collective commitment or promise to
make a decision on any question, motion, proposal, resolution, order or
ordinance or formation of a position or policy, but shall not include
negotiating guidance given by members of the public body to legal counsel or
other negotiators in closed sessions authorized under division (A)(1)(a) above.
   (C)   Any member of any public body shall have the right to challenge the
continuation of a closed session if the member determines that the session has
exceeded the reason stated in the original motion to hold a closed session or
if the member contends that the closed session is neither clearly necessary for
the protection of the public interest or the prevention of needless injury to
the reputation of an individual. Such challenge shall be overruled only by a
majority vote of the members of the public body. The challenge and its
disposition shall be recorded in the minutes.
   (D)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to require that any meeting
be closed to the public.
(Neb. RS 84-1410)
§ 33.08 PROHIBITED ACTS; EXEMPT EVENTS.
   (A)   No person or public body shall fail to invite a portion of its members
to a meeting and no public body shall designate itself a subcommittee of the
whole body for the purpose of circumventing this subchapter or the Open
Meetings Act, being Neb. RS 84-1407 et seq. No closed session, informal
meeting, chance meeting, social gathering, email, fax or electronic
communication shall be used for the purpose of circumventing the requirements
of this subchapter or the Act.
   (B)   This subchapter and the Act do not apply to chance meetings or to
attendance at or travel to conventions or workshops of members of a public body
at which there is no meeting of the body then intentionally convened, if there
is no vote or other action taken regarding any matter over which the public
body has supervision, control, jurisdiction or advisory power.
(Neb. RS 84-1410)
§ 33.09 PUBLIC PARTICIPATION.
   (A)   Subject to this subchapter and the Open Meetings Act, the public has
the right to attend and the right to speak at meetings of public bodies and all
or any part of a meeting of a public body, except for closed sessions called
pursuant to §
33.07 of this chapter, may be videotaped, televised, photographed, broadcast or
recorded by any person in attendance by means of a tape recorder, a camera,
video equipment or any other means of pictorial or sonic reproduction or in
writing.
   (B)   It shall not be a violation of division (A) above for any public body
to make and enforce reasonable rules and regulations regarding the conduct of
persons attending, speaking at, videotaping, televising, photographing,
broadcasting or recording its meetings, including meetings held by virtual
conferencing. A body may not be required to allow citizens to speak at each
meeting, but it may not forbid public participation at all meetings.
   (C)   No public body shall require members of the public to identify
themselves as a condition for admission to the meeting, nor shall such body
require that the name of any member of the public be placed on the agenda prior
to such meeting in order to speak about items on the agenda. The body shall
require any member of the public desiring to address the body to identify
himself or herself, including an address and the name of any organization
represented by such person unless the address requirement is waived to protect
the security of the individual.
   (D)   No public body shall, for the purpose of circumventing this subchapter
or the Open Meetings Act, hold a meeting in a place known by the body to be too
small to accommodate the anticipated audience.
   (E)   No public body shall be deemed in violation of this section if it
holds its meeting in its traditional meeting place which is located in the
state.
   (F)   No public body shall be deemed in violation of this section if it
holds a meeting outside of this state if, but only if, a member entity of the
public body is located outside of the state and the other requirements of Neb.
RS 84-1412 are met.
   (G)   The public body shall, upon request, make a reasonable effort to
accommodate the public’s right to hear the discussion and testimony presented
at the meeting.
   (H)   Public bodies shall make available at the meeting, for examination and
copying by members of the public, at least one copy of all reproducible written
material to be discussed at an open meeting, either in paper or electronic
form. Public bodies shall make available at least one current copy of the Open
Meetings Act posted in the meeting room at a location accessible to members of
the public. At the beginning of the meeting, the public shall be informed about
the location of the posted information.
(Neb. RS 84-1412)
§ 33.10 VILLAGE BOARD; ORDER OF BUSINESS.
   Promptly at the hour set by law on the day of each regular meeting, the
members of the Village Board, the Village Clerk/Treasurer and such other
village officials that may be required shall take their regular stations in the
meeting place and the business of the village shall be taken up for
consideration and disposition in the order prescribed by the official agenda on
file at the office of the Village Clerk/Treasurer.
§ 33.11 VOTES.
   (A)   Any action taken on any question or motion duly moved and seconded
shall be by roll call vote of the public body in open session and the record
shall state how each member voted or if the member was absent or not voting.
The requirements of a roll call or viva voce vote shall be satisfied by a
village which utilizes an electronic voting device which allows the yeas and
nays of each member of the Board of Trustees to be readily seen by the public.
   (B)   The vote to elect leadership within a public body may be taken by
secret ballot, but the total number of votes for each candidate shall be
recorded in the minutes.
(Neb. RS 84-1413)
§ 33.12 VILLAGE BOARD; PARLIAMENTARY PROCEDURE.
   Unless the Board of Trustees provides otherwise, the rules of parliamentary
procedure specified in this section shall apply to meetings of the Board of
Trustees. The Chairperson shall preserve order during meetings of the Board of
Trustees and shall decide all questions of order, subject to an appeal to the
Board. When any person is called to order, he or she shall be seated until the
point is decided. When the Chairperson is putting the question, no person shall
leave the meeting room. Every person present, previous to speaking, shall rise
from his or her seat and address the presiding officer and while speaking shall
confine his or her comments to the question. When two or more persons rise at
once, the Chairperson shall recognize the one who spoke first. All resolutions
or motions shall be reduced to writing before being acted upon, if requested by
the Village Clerk/Treasurer or any member of the Board. Every member of the
Board who is present when a question is voted upon shall cast his or her vote
unless excused by a majority of the members of the Board present. No motion
shall be put or debated unless seconded. When seconded, it shall be stated by
the Chairperson before being debatable. In all cases where a motion or
resolution is entered on the minutes, the name of the member of the Board
making the motion or resolution shall be entered also. After each vote, the
“yeas” and “nays” shall be taken and entered in the minutes. Before the vote is
actually taken, any resolution, motion or proposed ordinance may be withdrawn
from consideration by the sponsor with the consent of the member of the Board
seconding the resolution, motion or ordinance. When, in the consideration of an
ordinance, different times or amounts are proposed, the question shall be put
on the largest sum or the longest time. A question to reconsider shall be in
order when made by a member voting with the majority, but the motion to
reconsider must be made before the expiration of the third regular meeting
after the initial consideration of the question. When any question is under
debate, no motion shall be made, entertained or seconded except the previous
question, a motion to table and to adjourn. Each of those motions shall be
decided without debate. Any of the rules of the Board for meetings may be
suspended by a two-thirds’ vote of the members present. In all cases in which
provisions are not made by these rules, Robert’s Rules of Order is the
authority by which the Board shall decide all procedural disputes that may
arise.
§ 33.13 MINUTES.
   (A)   Each public body shall keep minutes of all meetings showing the time,
place, members present and absent and the substance of all matters discussed.
   (B)   The minutes of all meetings and evidence and documentation received or
disclosed in open session shall be public records and open to public inspection
during normal business hours.
   (C)   Minutes shall be written and available for inspection within ten
working days or prior to the next convened meeting, whichever occurs earlier,
except that the village may have an additional ten working days if the employee
responsible for writing the minutes is absent due to a serious illness or
emergency.
(Neb. RS 84-1413)
§ 33.14 VILLAGE BOARD; CHANGE IN OFFICE.
   (A)   The Board of Trustees shall meet at the time and place of the regular
meeting in December in each election year and the outgoing officers and the
outgoing members of the Board shall present their reports. Upon the outgoing
Board having completed its business, the outgoing Trustees shall surrender
their offices to the incoming Trustees and the outgoing officers shall
thereupon each surrender to their successors in office all property, records,
papers and moneys belonging to the same.
   (B)   The newly elected Trustees and those continuing in office shall
convene immediately after the prior Board adjourns and proceed to organize
themselves for the ensuing year. The Chairperson pro tempore shall call the
meeting to order. The Clerk/Treasurer shall report to the Board the names of
all Trustees-elect who have qualified for their respective offices. The Board
shall examine the credentials of its members and any other elective officers of
the village to see that each has been duly and properly elected and to see that
such oaths and bonds as are required have been given. The Clerk/Treasurer’s
report shall be spread upon the minutes of the meeting preceding the roll call.
   (C)   After ascertaining that all Trustees and officers are duly qualified
and after the Clerk/Treasurer has called the roll, the Board shall elect a
Chairperson and shall appoint the officers required by state law or village
ordinance. The Chairperson shall then proceed with the regular order of
business.
BONDS AND OATHS
§ 33.30 BONDS; REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The village may enact ordinances or bylaws to require from all
officers and servants, elected or appointed, bonds and security or evidence of
equivalent insurance for the faithful performance of their duties. The village
may pay the premium for such bonds or insurance coverage.
(Neb. RS 17-604)
   (B)   (1)   All official bonds of officers of the village shall be in form
joint and several and made payable to the village in such penalty as the Board
of Trustees may fix.
      (2)   In place of the individual bonds required to be furnished by
municipal officers, a schedule, position, blanket bond or undertaking or
evidence of equivalent insurance may be given by municipal officers or a single
corporate surety fidelity, schedule, position or blanket bond or undertaking or
evidence of insurance coverage covering all the officers, including officers
required by law to furnish an individual bond or undertaking, may be furnished.
The municipality may pay the premium for the bond or insurance coverage. The
bond or insurance coverage shall be, at a minimum, an aggregate of the amounts
fixed by law or by the Board of Trustees and with such terms and conditions as
may be required.
(Neb. RS 11-104)
      (3)   The penalty amount on any bond shall not fall below the legal
minimum, when one has been set by the state, for each particular official.
   (C)   (1)   Official bonds, with the oath endorsed thereon, shall be filed
in the Village Clerk/Treasurer’s office within the following time:
         (a)    Of all officers elected at any general election, following
receipt of their election certificate and not later than ten days before the
first Thursday after the first Tuesday in January next succeeding the election;
         (b)   Of all appointed officers, within 30 days after their
appointment; and
         (c)   Of officers elected at any special election and village
officers, within 30 days after the canvass of the votes of the election at
which they were chosen.
      (2)   The filing of the bond with the oath endorsed thereon does not
authorize a person to take any official action prior to the beginning of his or
her term of office pursuant to Article XVII, § 5, of the Constitution of
Nebraska.
(Neb. RS 11-105)
   (D)   All official bonds of village officers shall be executed by the
principal named in such bonds and by at least two sufficient sureties who shall
be freeholders of the county in which such bonds are given or any official bond
of a village officer may be executed by the officer as principal and by a
guaranty, surety, fidelity or bonding company as surety or by two or more such
companies. Only such companies as are legally authorized to transact business
in this state shall be eligible to suretyship on the bond of a village officer.
(Neb. RS 11-109)
   (E)   The Village Clerk/Treasurer shall carefully record and preserve the
bonds in his or her office and shall give certified copies thereof, when
required, under the seal of his or her office and shall be entitled to receive
for the same the usual fee allowed by law for certified copies of records in
other cases.
(Neb. RS 11-110)
   (F)   (1)   The approval of each official bond shall be endorsed upon such
bond by the officer approving the same and no bond shall be filed and recorded
until so approved.
(Neb. RS 11-111)
      (2)   No bond shall be deemed to be given or complete until the approval
of the Board of Trustees and all sureties are endorsed in writing on the
instrument by the Chairperson and Village Clerk/Treasurer pursuant to the
approval of the Board of Trustees.
   (G)   All official bonds shall obligate the principal and sureties for the
faithful discharge of all duties required by law of such principal and shall
inure to the benefit of any persons injured by a breach of the conditions of
such bonds.
(Neb. RS 11-112)
   (H)   No official bond shall be rendered void by reason of any informality
of irregularity in its execution or approval.
(Neb. RS 11-113)
   (I)   No village official shall be taken as security on the bond of any
administrator, executor or other officer from whom by law bond is or may be
required.
(Neb. RS 11-114)
   (J)   If any person elected or appointed to any office neglects to have his
or her official bond executed and approved as provided by law and filed for
record within the time limited by this section, the Village Clerk/Treasurer
shall immediately issue an order to such person to show cause why he or she has
failed to properly file such bond and why his or her office should not be
declared vacant. If such person properly files the official bond within ten
days of the issuance of the show cause order for appointed officials or before
the date for taking office for elected officials, such filing shall be deemed
to be in compliance with this section. If such person does not file the bond
within ten days of the issuance of such order for appointed officials or before
the date for taking office for elected officials and sufficient cause is not
shown within that time, his or her office shall thereupon ipso facto become
vacant and such vacancy shall thereupon immediately be filled by election or
appointment as the law may direct in other cases of vacancy in the same office.
(Neb. RS 11-115)
   (K)   Any person appointed to fill a vacancy, before entering upon the
duties of the office, must give a bond corresponding in substance and form with
the bond required of the officer originally elected or appointed, as herein
provided.
(Neb. RS 11-116)
   (L)   When the incumbent of an office is reelected or reappointed, he or she
shall qualify by taking the oath and giving the bond as above directed, but
when such officer has had public funds or property in his or her control, his
or her bond shall not be approved until he or she has produced and fully
accounted for such funds and property. When it is ascertained that the
incumbent of an office holds over by reason of the non-election or non-
appointment of a successor or of the neglect or refusal of the successor to
qualify, he or she shall qualify anew within ten days from the time at which
his or her successor, if elected, should have qualified.
(Neb. RS 11-117)
   (M)   No person shall be surety for the same officer for more than two
successive terms of the same office, but this provision shall not apply to
incorporated surety companies.
(Neb. RS 11-118)
   (N)   If the sureties on the official bond of any appointed officer of the
village, in the opinion of the Board of Trustees, become insufficient, the
Board may, by resolution, fix a reasonable time within which the officer may
give a new bond or additional sureties as directed. If the officer fails,
refuses or neglects to give a new bond or additional sureties to the
satisfaction and approval of the Board, the office shall, by such failure,
refusal or neglect, become vacant and it shall be the duty of the Board to
appoint a competent and qualified person to fill the office.
§ 33.31 OATH OF OFFICE; VILLAGE OFFICIALS.
   (A)   All officials of the village, whether elected or appointed, except
when a different oath is specifically provided herein, shall before entering
upon their respective duties take and subscribe the following oath, which shall
be endorsed upon their respective bonds:
“I, ______________________________, do solemnly swear that I will support the
constitution of the United States and the constitution of the State of
Nebraska, against all enemies foreign and domestic; that I will bear true faith
and allegiance to the same; that I take this obligation freely and without
mental reservation or for the purpose of evasion; and that I will faithfully
and impartially perform the duties of the office of ____________________,
according to law and to the best of my ability. And I do further swear that I
do not advocate nor am I a member of any political party or organization that
advocates the overthrow of the government of the United States or of this state
by force or violence; and that during such time as I am in this position I will
not advocate nor become a member of any political party or organization that
advocates the overthrow of the government of the United States or of this state
by force or violence. So help me God.”
   (B)   If any such officer is not required to give bond, the oath shall be
filed with the Village Clerk/Treasurer.
(Neb. RS 11-101)
COMPENSATION; CONFLICTS OF INTEREST
§ 33.45 COMPENSATION; HOW FIXED; LIMITATIONS.
   (A)   The appointive officials and other employees of the village shall
receive such compensation as the Board of Trustees shall designate by
ordinance; and the annual salary of the Chairperson and other members of the
Board of Trustees shall be fixed by ordinance.
(Neb. RS 17-209)
   (B)   Trustees may perform and upon Village Board of Trustees approval
receive compensation for seasonal or emergency work subject to §
33.46 of this chapter.
(Neb. RS 17-209.02)
   (C)   The village may enact ordinances or bylaws to regulate and prescribe
the compensation of officers not provided for in state law.
(Neb. RS 17-604)
   (D)   No officer shall receive any pay or perquisites from the village other
than his or her salary. The Board of Trustees shall not pay or appropriate any
money or other valuable thing to any person not an officer for the performance
of any act, service or duty, the doing or performance of which shall come
within the proper scope of the duties of any officer of the village.
(Neb. RS 17-611)
   (E)   The salary of any elective officer shall not be increased or
diminished during the term for which he or she shall have been elected, except
when there has been a combination and merger of offices as provided in §
31.03 of this code of ordinances; except that, when there are officers elected
to the Board of Trustees or any other board or commission having more than one
member and the terms of one or more members commence and end at different
times, the compensation of all members of such board or commission may be
increased or diminished at the beginning of the full term of any member
thereof. No person who shall have resigned or vacated any office shall be
eligible to the same during the time for which he or she was elected if during
the same time the salary was increased.
(Neb. RS 17-612)
§ 33.46 CONFLICT OF INTEREST INVOLVING CONTRACTS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      BUSINESS ASSOCIATION.
         (a)   A business:
            1.   In which the individual is a partner, limited liability
company member, director or officer; or
            2.   In which the individual or a member of the individual’s
immediate family is a stockholder of closed corporation stock worth $1,000 or
more at fair market value or which represents more than a 5% equity interest or
is a stockholder of publicly traded stock worth $10,000 or more at fair market
value or which represents more than 10% equity interest.
         (b)   An individual who occupies a confidential professional
relationship protected by law shall be exempt from this definition. This
definition shall not apply to publicly traded stock under a trading account if
the filer reports the name and address of the stockbroker.
(Neb. RS 49-1408)
      IMMEDIATE FAMILY. A child residing in an individual’s household, a spouse
of an individual or an individual claimed by that individual or that
individual’s spouse as a dependent for federal income tax purposes.
(Neb. RS 49-1425)
      OFFICER.
         (a)   Includes:
            1.   A member of any board or commission of the village which
spends and administers its own funds, who is dealing with a contract made by
that board or commission; or
            2.   Any elected village official.
         (b)   OFFICER does not mean volunteer firefighters or ambulance
drivers with respect to their duties as firefighters or ambulance drivers.
   (B)   (1)   Except as provided in Neb. RS 49-1499.04 or 70-624.04, no
officer may have an interest in any contract to which his or her governing body
or anyone for its benefit, is a party. The existence of such an interest in any
contract shall render the contract voidable by decree of a court of competent
jurisdiction as to any person who entered into the contract or took assignment
of the contract with actual knowledge of the prohibited conflict. An action to
have a contract declared void under this section may be brought by the County
Attorney, the governing body or any resident within the jurisdiction of the
governing body and shall be brought within one year after the contract is
signed or assigned. The decree may provide for the reimbursement of any person
for the reasonable value of all money, goods, material, labor or services
furnished under the contract, to the extent that the governing body has
benefitted thereby.
      (2)   The prohibition in this division (B) shall apply only when the
officer or his or her parent, spouse or child:
         (a)   Has a business association with the business involved in the
contract; or
         (b)   Will receive a payment, fee or commission as a result of the
contract.
   (C)   Division (B) above does not apply if the contract is an agenda item
approved at a meeting of the governing body and the interested officer:
      (1)   Makes a declaration on the record to the governing body responsible
for approving the contract regarding the nature and extent of his or her
interest prior to official consideration of the contract;
      (2)   Does not vote on the matters of granting the contract, making
payments pursuant to the contract or accepting performance of work under the
contract or similar matters relating to the contract; except that, if the
number of members of the governing body declaring an interest in the contract
would prevent the body with all members present from securing a quorum on the
issue, then all members may vote on the matters; and
      (3)   Does not act for the governing body which is a party to the
contract as to inspection or performance under the contract in which he or she
has an interest.
   (D)   The receiving of deposits, cashing of checks and buying and selling of
warrants and bonds of indebtedness of any such governing body by a financial
institution shall not be considered a contract for purposes of this section.
The ownership of less than 5% of the outstanding shares of a corporation shall
not constitute an interest within the meaning of this section.
   (E)   If an officer’s parent, spouse or child is an employee of the
officer’s governing body, the officer may vote on all issues of the contract
which are generally applicable to all employees or all employees within a
classification and do not single out his or her parent, spouse or child for
special action.
   (F)   Neb. RS 49-14,102 does not apply to contracts covered by this section.
(Neb. RS 49-14,103.01)
   (G)   (1)   The person charged with keeping records for the governing body
shall maintain separately from other records a ledger containing the
information listed in divisions (G)(1)(a) through (G)(1)(e) below about every
contract entered into by the governing body in which an officer of the body has
an interest and for which disclosure is made pursuant to division (C) above.
This information shall be kept in the ledger for five years from the date of
the officer’s last day in office and shall include:
         (a)   The names of the contracting parties;
         (b)   The nature of the interest of the officer in question;
         (c)   The date that the contract was approved by the governing body;
         (d)   The amount of the contract; and
         (e)   The basic terms of the contract.
      (2)   The information supplied relative to the contract shall be provided
no later than ten days after the contract has been signed by both parties. The
ledger kept pursuant to this division (G) shall be available for public
inspection during the normal working hours of the office in which it is kept.
(Neb. RS 49-14,103.02)
   (H)   (1)   An open account established for the benefit of any governing
body with a business in which an officer has an interest shall be deemed a
contract subject to this section.
      (2)   The statement required to be filed by division (G) above shall be
filed within ten days after the account is opened.
      (3)   Thereafter, the person charged with keeping records for the
governing body shall maintain a running account of amounts purchased on the
open account.
      (4)   Purchases made from petty cash or a petty cash fund shall not be
subject to this section.
(Neb. RS 49-14,103.03)
   (I)   Notwithstanding divisions (A) through (H) above, the governing body
may prohibit contracts over a specific dollar amount in which an officer of the
governing body may have an interest.
(Neb. RS 49-14,103.05)
   (J)   The governing body may exempt from divisions (A) through (H) above,
contracts involving $100 or less in which an officer of that body may have an
interest.
(Neb. RS 49-14,103.06)
Statutory reference:
   Other provisions on conflicts of interest, see Neb. RS 18-305 through 18-312
and 49-1499.03 through 49-14,103
   Penalty for violation of restrictions on contracts, see Neb. RS 49-14,103.04
NOTICES
§ 33.60 PUBLICATION OF NOTICES.
   If the village is required to publish a notice or advertisement in a legal
newspaper in or of general circulation in the village and if there is no legal
newspaper in or of general circulation in the village, then the village shall
publish such notice or advertisement in a legal newspaper in or of general
circulation in the county in which the village is located. If there is no legal
newspaper in or of general circulation in such county, then the village shall
publish such notice or advertisement by posting a written or printed copy
thereof in each of three public places in the village for the same period of
time the village is required to publish the notice or advertisement in a legal
newspaper.
CHAPTER 34: ELECTIONS
Section
   
34.01   Generally
   
34.02   Notice
   
34.03   Registered voters; qualifications
   
34.04   Special elections
   
34.05   Election of officers; certification
   
34.06   Partisan ballot; when allowed; requirements
   
34.07   Candidate filing forms; deadlines; filing officer
   
34.08   Filing fee
   
34.09   Caucus candidates
   
34.10   Petition, write-in and other candidates for general election ballot;
procedures
   
34.11   Recall procedure
   
34.12   Exit polls; poll watchers
Statutory reference:
   Election Act, see Neb. RS 32-101
§ 34.01 GENERALLY.
   (A)   (1)   All village issues and offices shall be combined on the
statewide primary and general election ballots whenever possible. The issuance
of separate ballots shall be avoided in a statewide election if village offices
or issues can reasonably be combined with the non-partisan ballot and state law
does not require otherwise.
      (2)   All village elections involving the election of officers shall be
held in accordance with the Election Act and in conjunction with the statewide
primary or general election.
(Neb. RS 32-556)
   (B)   When the village holds an election in conjunction with the statewide
primary or general election, the election shall be held as provided in the
Election Act. Any other election held by the village shall be held as provided
in the Election Act unless otherwise provided by the charter, code or bylaws of
the village.
(Neb. RS 32-404)
§ 34.02 NOTICE.
   The notice of election required to be published by the Election Commissioner
or County Clerk pursuant to Neb. RS 32-802 shall serve as the notice
requirement for all village elections which are held in conjunction with the
statewide primary or general election.
§ 34.03 REGISTERED VOTERS; QUALIFICATIONS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      REGISTERED VOTER. An elector who has a current voter registration record
on file with the Election Commissioner or County Clerk in the county of his or
her residence.
(Neb. RS 32-115)
   (B)   All registered voters residing within the corporate limits of the
village on or before election day shall be entitled to vote at all village
elections.
(Neb. RS 17-602)
Statutory reference:
   Definition of elector, see Neb. RS 32-110
§ 34.04 SPECIAL ELECTIONS.
   (A)   (1)   Except as provided in Neb. RS 77-3444, any issue to be submitted
to the registered voters at a special election by the village shall be
certified by the Village Clerk/Treasurer to the Election Commissioner or County
Clerk at least 50 days prior to the election. A special election may be held by
mail as provided in Neb. RS 32-952 through 32-959. Any other special election
under this section shall be subject to division (B) below.
      (2)   In lieu of submitting the issue at a special election, the village
may submit the issue at a statewide primary or general election or at any
scheduled county election; except that, no such issue shall be submitted at a
statewide election or scheduled county election unless the issue to be
submitted has been certified by the Village Clerk/Treasurer to the Election
Commissioner or County Clerk by March 1 for the primary election and by
September 1 for the general election.
      (3)   After the Election Commissioner or County Clerk has received the
certification of the issue to be submitted, he or she shall be responsible for
all matters relating to the submission of the issue to the registered voters;
except that, the Village Clerk/Treasurer shall be responsible for the
publication or posting of any required special notice of the submission of the
issue other than the notice required to be given of the statewide election
issues. The Election Commissioner or County Clerk shall prepare the ballots and
issue ballots for early voting and shall also conduct the submission of the
issue, including the receiving and counting of ballots on the issue. The
election returns shall be made to the Election Commissioner or County Clerk.
The ballots shall be counted and canvassed at the same time and in the same
manner as the other ballots. Upon completion of the canvass of the vote by the
County Canvassing Board, the Election Commissioner or County Clerk shall
certify the election results to the Board of Trustees. The canvass by the
County Canvassing Board shall have the same force and effect as if made by the
Board of Trustees.
(Neb. RS 32-559)
   (B)   Any special election under the Election Act shall be held on the first
Tuesday following the second Monday of the selected month unless otherwise
specifically provided. No special election shall be held under the Election Act
in April, May, June, October, November or December of an even-numbered year
unless it is held in conjunction with the statewide primary or general
election. No special election shall be held under the Election Act in September
of an even-numbered year, except for a special election by a political
subdivision pursuant to Neb. RS 13-519 or Neb. RS 77-3444 to approve a property
tax levy or exceed a property tax levy limitation.
(Neb. RS 32-405)
§ 34.05 ELECTION OF OFFICERS; CERTIFICATION.
   No later than June 15 of each even-numbered year, the Village Board shall
certify to the Secretary of State, the Election Commissioner or the County
Clerk, the name of the village, the number of officers to be elected, the
length of the terms of office, the vacancies to be filled by election and
length of remaining term and the number of votes to be cast by a registered
voter for each office. The Secretary of State, Election Commissioner and County
Clerk shall prescribe the forms to be used for certification to him or her.
(Neb. RS 32-404)
§ 34.06 PARTISAN BALLOT; WHEN ALLOWED; REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   All elective village officers shall be nominated and elected on a non-
partisan basis unless the village provides for a partisan ballot by ordinance.
   (B)   No ordinance providing for nomination and election on a partisan
ballot shall permit affiliation with any party not recognized as a political
party for purposes of the Election Act, being Neb. RS 32-101 et seq.
   (C)   Such ordinance providing for nomination and election on a partisan
ballot shall be adopted and effective not less than 60 days prior to the filing
deadline.
(Neb. RS 32-557)
§ 34.07 CANDIDATE FILING FORMS; DEADLINES; FILING OFFICER.
   (A)   Any candidate for the Board of Trustees may place his or her name on
the general election ballot by filing a candidate filing form prescribed by the
Secretary of State as provided in division (B) below. If a candidate is an
incumbent of an elective office, the filing period for filing the candidate
filing form shall be between January 5 and July 15 prior to the date of the
primary election. No incumbent who resigns from elective office prior to the
expiration of his or her term shall file for any office after February 15 of
that election year. All other candidates shall file for office between January
5 and August 1 prior to the date of the general election.
(Neb. RS 32-606)
   (B)   Candidate filing forms shall be filed in the office of the Election
Commissioner or County Clerk.
(Neb. RS 32-607)
Statutory reference:
   Filling of vacancy on ballot, see Neb. RS 32-625 and 32-627
   Withdrawal after filing, see Neb. RS 32-622
§ 34.08 FILING FEE.
   (A)   Except as provided in divisions (D) or (E) below, a filing fee shall
be paid to the Village Clerk/Treasurer by or on behalf of each candidate for
village office prior to filing for office. The fee shall be placed in the
General Fund of the village. No candidate filing forms shall be filed until the
proper payment or the proper receipt showing the payment of such filing fee is
presented to the filing officer. On the day of the filing deadline, the Village
Clerk/Treasurer’s office shall remain open to receive filing fees until the
hour of the filing deadline.
   (B)   Except as provided in divisions (D) or (E) below, the filing fee shall
be a sum equal to 1% of the annual salary as of November 30 of the year
preceding the election for the office for which he or she files as a candidate.
   (C)   All declared write-in candidates shall pay the filing fees that are
required for the office at the time that they present the write-in affidavit to
the filing officer.
   (D)   No filing fee shall be required for any candidate filing for an office
in which a per diem is paid rather than a salary or for which there is a salary
of less than $500 per year.
   (E)   (1)   No filing fee shall be required of any candidate completing an
affidavit requesting to file for elective office in forma pauperis.
      (2)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall
apply unless the cont
ext clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
         AVAILABLE RESOURCES. Includes every type of property or interest in
property that an individual owns and may convert into cash, except:
            1.   Real property used as a home;
            2.   Household goods of a moderate value used in the home; and
            3.   Assets to a maximum value of $3,000 used by a recipient in a
planned effort directed towards self-support.
         PAUPER. A person whose income and other resources for maintenance are
found under assistance standards to be insufficient for meeting the cost of his
or her requirements and whose reserve of cash or other available resources does
not exceed the maximum available resources that an eligible individual may own.
   (F)   If any candidate dies prior to an election, the spouse of the
candidate may file a claim for refund of the filing fee with the Board of
Trustees prior to the date of the election. Upon approval of the claim by the
Board of Trustees, the filing fee shall be refunded.
(Neb. RS 32-608)
§ 34.09 CAUCUS CANDIDATES.
   (A)   The Board of Trustees may, by ordinance, call a caucus for the purpose
of nomination of candidates for offices to be filled in the village election.
This caucus shall be held at least ten days before the filing deadline for that
election and the Board of Trustees shall publish notice of the caucus in at
least one legal newspaper in or of general circulation in the county at least
once each week for two consecutive weeks before the caucus.
(Neb. RS 17-601.01)
   (B)   The chairperson of the caucus at which candidates are nominated shall
notify the Village Clerk/Treasurer in writing of the candidates so nominated,
not later than two days following the caucus. The Village Clerk/Treasurer shall
then notify the persons so nominated of their nomination, this notification to
take place not later than five days after the caucus. No candidate so nominated
shall have his or her name placed upon the ballot unless, not more than ten
days after the holding of the caucus, he or she files with the Village Clerk/
Treasurer a written statement accepting the nomination of the caucus and pays
the filing fee, if any, for the office for which he or she was nominated.
(Neb. RS 17-601.02)
   (C)   The provisions of this section shall not preclude in any manner any
person from filing for the offices to which this section is applicable, either
by direct filing or by petition.
(Neb. RS 17-601.03)
§ 34.10 PETITION, WRITE-IN AND OTHER CANDIDATES FOR GENERAL ELECTION BALLOT;
PROCEDURES.
   (A)   (1)   Any registered voter who was not a candidate in the primary
election and who was not registered to vote with a party affiliation on or
after March 1 and before the general election in the calendar year of the
general election may have his or her name placed on the general election ballot
for a partisan office by filing petitions as prescribed in this section and
Neb. RS 32-621 or by nomination by political party convention or committee
pursuant to Neb. RS 32-627 or 32-710.
      (2)   Any candidate who was defeated in the primary election and any
registered voter who was not a candidate in the primary election may have his
or her name placed on the general election ballot if a vacancy exists on the
ballot under Neb. RS 32-625(2) and the candidate files for the office by
petition as prescribed in divisions (B) and (C) below, files as a write-in
candidate as prescribed in Neb. RS 32-615 or is nominated by political party
convention or committee pursuant to Neb. RS 32-710.
(Neb. RS 32-616)
   (B)   Petitions for nomination shall conform to the requirements of Neb. RS
32-628. Petitions shall state the office to be filled and the name and address
of the candidate. Petitions for partisan office shall also indicate the party
affiliation of the candidate. A sample copy of the petition shall be filed with
the filing officer prior to circulation. Petitions shall be signed by
registered voters residing in the village, if candidates are chosen at large or
in the ward in which the officer is to be elected, if candidates are chosen by
ward and shall be filed with the filing officer in the same manner as provided
for candidate filing forms in §
34.07 of this chapter. Petition signers and petition circulators shall conform
to the requirements of Neb. RS 32-629 and 32-630. No petition for nomination
shall be filed unless there is attached thereto a receipt showing the payment
of the filing fee required pursuant to Neb. RS 32-608. The petitions shall be
filed by September 1 in the year of the general election.
(Neb. RS 32-617)
   (C)   (1)   The number of signatures of registered voters needed to place
the name of a candidate upon the non-partisan ballot for the general election
shall be at least 10% of the total number of registered voters voting for
Governor or President of the United States at the immediately preceding general
election in the village or in the ward in which the officer is to be elected,
not to exceed 2,000.
      (2)   The number of signatures of registered voters needed to place the
name of a candidate for an office upon the partisan ballot for the general
election shall be as follows:
         (a)   For each partisan office to be filled by the registered voters
of the entire state, at least 4,000 and at least 750 signatures shall be
obtained in each congressional district in the state;
         (b)   For each partisan office to be filled by the registered voters
of a county, at least 20% of the total number of registered voters voting for
Governor or President of the United States at the immediately preceding general
election within the county, not to exceed 2,000, except that the number of
signatures shall not be required to exceed 25% of the total number of
registered voters voting for the office at the immediately preceding general
election; and
         (c)   For each partisan office to be filled by the registered voters
of a political subdivision other than a county, at least 20% of the total
number of registered voters voting for Governor or President of the United
States at the immediately preceding general election within the political
subdivision, not to exceed 2,000.
(Neb. RS 32-618)
§ 34.11 RECALL PROCEDURE.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      FILING CLERK. The Election Commissioner or County Clerk.
(Neb. RS 32-1301)
   (B)   Any member of the Board of Trustees may be removed from office by
recall pursuant to this section.
(Neb. RS 32-1302)
   (C)   (1)   A petition demanding that the question of removing a member of
the Board of Trustees be submitted to the registered voters shall be signed by
registered voters equal in number to at least 45% of the total vote cast for
the person receiving the most votes for that office in the last general
election. The signatures shall be affixed to petition papers and shall be
considered part of the petition.
      (2)   Petition circulators shall conform to the requirements of Neb. RS
32-629 and 32-630.
      (3)   The petition papers shall be procured from the filing clerk. Prior
to the issuance of such petition papers, a recall petition filing form shall be
signed and filed with the filing clerk by at least one registered voter. Such
voter or voters shall be deemed to be the principal circulator or circulators
of the recall petition. The filing form shall state the name and office of the
Trustee sought to be removed, shall include in concise language of 60 words or
less the reason or reasons for which recall is sought and shall request that
the filing clerk issue initial petition papers to the principal circulator for
circulation. The filing clerk shall notify the Trustee by any method specified
in Neb. RS 25-505.01 or, if notification cannot be made with reasonable
diligence by any of the methods specified in Neb. RS 25-505.01, by leaving a
copy of the filing form at the Trustee’s usual place of residence and mailing a
copy by first-class mail to the Trustee’s last-known address. If the Trustee
chooses, he or she may submit a defense statement in concise language of 60
words or less for inclusion on the petition. Any such defense statement shall
be submitted to the filing clerk within 20 days after the Trustee receives the
copy of the filing form. The filing clerk shall prepare the petition papers
within five business days after receipt of the defense statement. The principal
circulator or circulators shall gather the petition papers within 20 days after
being notified by the filing clerk that the petition papers are available. The
filing clerk shall notify the principal circulator or circulators that the
necessary signatures must be gathered within 30 days from the date of issuing
the petitions.
      (4)   The filing clerk, upon issuing the initial petition papers or any
subsequent petition papers, shall enter in a record, to be kept in his or her
office, the name of the principal circulator or circulators to whom the papers
were issued, the date of issuance and the number of papers issued. The filing
clerk shall certify on the papers the name of the principal circulator or
circulators to whom the papers were issued and the date they were issued. No
petition paper shall be accepted as part of the petition unless it bears such
certificate. The principal circulator or circulators who check out petitions
from the filing clerk may distribute such petitions to persons who may act as
circulators of such petitions.
      (5)   Petition signers shall conform to the requirements of Neb. RS 32-
629 and 32-630. Each signer of a recall petition shall be a registered voter
and qualified by his or her place of residence to vote for the office in
question.
(Neb. RS 32-1303)
   (D)   Each petition paper shall conform to the requirements of Neb. RS 32-
1304.
   (E)   (1)   The principal circulator or circulators shall file, as one
instrument, all petition papers comprising a recall petition for signature
verification with the filing clerk within 30 days after the filing clerk issues
the initial petition papers to the principal circulator or circulators as
provided in division (C) above.
      (2)   Within 15 business days after the filing of the petition, the
filing clerk shall ascertain whether or not the petition is signed by the
requisite number of registered voters. No new signatures may be added after the
initial filing of the petition papers. No signatures may be removed unless the
filing clerk receives an affidavit signed by the person requesting his or her
signature be removed before the petitions are filed with the filing clerk for
signature verification. If the petition is found to be sufficient, the filing
clerk shall attach to the petition a certificate showing the result of such
examination. If the requisite number of signatures has not been gathered, the
filing clerk shall file the petition in his or her office without prejudice to
the filing of a new petition for the same purpose.
(Neb. RS 32-1305)
   (F)   (1)   If the recall petition is found to be sufficient, the filing
clerk shall notify the Trustee whose removal is sought and the Board of
Trustees that sufficient signatures have been gathered. Notification of the
Trustee may be by any method specified in Neb. RS 25-505.01 or, if notification
cannot be made with reasonable diligence by any of the methods specified in
Neb. RS 25-505.01, by leaving such notice at the Trustee’s usual place of
residence and mailing a copy by first-class mail to the Trustee’s last-known
address.
      (2)   The Board of Trustees shall, within 21 days after receipt of the
notification from the filing clerk pursuant to division (F)(1) above, order an
election. The date of the election shall be the first available date that
complies with Neb. RS 32-405 and that can be certified to the Election
Commissioner or County Clerk at least 50 days prior to the election; except
that, if any other election is to be held in the village within 90 days after
such notification, the Board shall provide for the holding of the recall
election on the same day.
      (3)   All resignations shall be tendered as provided in Neb. RS 32-562.
If the Trustee whose removal is sought resigns before the recall election is
held, the Board may cancel the recall election if the Board notifies the
Election Commissioner or County Clerk of the cancellation at least 24 days
prior to the election, otherwise the recall election shall be held as
scheduled.
      (4)   (a)   If the Board of Trustees fails or refuses to order a recall
election within the time required, the election may be ordered by the district
court having jurisdiction over a county in which the Trustee serves.
         (b)   If a filing clerk is subject to a recall election, the Secretary
of State shall conduct the recall election.
(Neb. RS 32-1306)
   (G)   The form of the official ballot at a recall election held pursuant to
division (F) above shall conform to the requirements of Neb. RS 32-1307.
   (H)   (1)   If a majority of the votes cast at a recall election are against
the removal of the Trustee named on the ballot or the election results in a
tie, the Trustee shall continue in office for the remainder of his or her term,
but may be subject to further recall attempts as provided in division (I)
below.
      (2)   If a majority of the votes cast at a recall election are for the
removal of the Trustee named on the ballot, he or she shall, regardless of any
technical defects in the recall petition, be deemed removed from office unless
a recount is ordered. If the Trustee is deemed removed, the removal shall
result in a vacancy in the office which shall be filled as otherwise provided
in this section and Neb. RS 32-567 to 32-570 and 32-574.
      (3)   If the election results show a margin of votes equal to 1% or less
between the removal or retention of the Trustee in question, the Secretary of
State, Election Commissioner or County Clerk shall order a recount of the votes
cast unless the Trustee files a written statement with the filing clerk that he
or she does not want a recount.
      (4)   If there are vacancies in the offices of one-half or more of the
members of the Board of Trustees at one time due to the recall of such members,
a special election to fill such vacancies shall be conducted as expeditiously
as possible by the Secretary of State, Election Commissioner or County Clerk.
      (5)   No Trustee who is removed at a recall election or who resigns after
the initiation of the recall process shall be appointed to fill the vacancy
resulting from his or her removal or the removal of any other member of the
Board of Trustees during the remainder of his or her term of office.
(Neb. RS 32-1308)
   (I)   No recall petition filing form shall be filed against an elected
Trustee within 12 months after a recall election has failed to remove him or
her from office or within six months after the beginning of his or her term of
office or within six months prior to the incumbent filing deadline for the
office.
(Neb. RS 32-1309)
§ 34.12 EXIT POLLS; POLL WATCHERS.
   (A)   No person shall conduct an exit poll, a public opinion poll or any
other interview with voters on election day seeking to determine voter
preference within 20 feet of the entrance of any polling place, or, if inside
the polling place or building, within 100 feet of any voting booth.
   (B)   (1)   No poll watcher shall interfere with any voter in the
preparation or casting of such voter’s ballot or prevent any election worker
from performing the worker’s duties.
      (2)   A poll watcher shall not provide assistance to a voter as described
in Neb. RS 32-918 unless selected by the voter to provide assistance as
provided in Neb. RS 32-918.
      (3)   A poll watcher shall not engage in electioneering as defined in
Neb. RS 32-1524 while engaged in observing at a polling place.
      (4)   A poll watcher shall maintain a distance of at least eight feet
from the sign-in table, the sign-in register, the polling booths, the ballot
box and any ballots which have not been cast, except that if the polling place
is not large enough for a distance of eight feet, the judge of election shall
post a notice of the minimum distance the poll watcher must maintain from the
sign-in table, the sign-in register, the polling booths, the ballot box and any
ballots which have not been cast. The posted notice shall be clearly visible to
the voters and shall be posted prior to the opening of the polls on election
day. The minimum distance shall not be determined to exclude a poll watcher
from being in the polling place.
(Neb. RS 32-1525) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 35: FINANCE AND REVENUE
Section
General Provisions
   
35.01   Definitions
   
35.02   Annual audit; financial statements
   
35.03   Contracts and purchases; bidding and other requirements
   
35.04   Orders or warrants for money; contracts; expenditures; requirements
   
35.05   Claims and accounts payable
   
35.06   Collection of special assessments; procedure
   
35.07   Special assessment fund
   
35.08   Sinking funds; gifts of money or property
   
35.09   Deposit of funds
   
35.10   Certificates of deposit; time deposits; conditions
   
35.11   Investment and use of surplus funds
   
35.12   Bond issues
   
35.13   Debt collection; authority to contract with collection agency
   
35.14   Credit cards; authority to accept
Annual Budget
   
35.25   Fiscal year
   
35.26   Budget procedures
   
35.27   Expenditures prior to adoption of budget
   
35.28   Proposed budget statement; contents; availability; correction
   
35.29   Proposed budget statement; hearing; adoption; certification of tax
amount
   
35.30   Adopted budget statement; filing; certification of tax amount
   
35.31   Appropriation bill
   
35.32   General Fund
   
35.33   Transfer of funds
   
35.34   Budget revision
   
35.35   Proprietary functions; fiscal year; budget statements; filing; hearing;
adoption; reconciliation
Tax Levies
   
35.45   Property tax levy for general revenue purposes
   
35.46   Levies for other taxes and special assessments
   
35.47   All-purpose levy; extraordinary levies; allocation; abandonment
   
35.48   Property tax levy; maximum; authority to exceed
   
35.49   Property tax levy; certification of amount; collection
   
35.50   Property tax request; procedure for setting
   
35.51   Property tax request; increase by more than allowable growth
percentage; procedure for setting
   
35.52   Motor vehicle fee
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 35.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BIENNIAL BUDGET. A budget by the village that provides for a biennial period
to determine and carry on the city’s financial and taxing affairs.
   BIENNIAL PERIOD. The two fiscal years comprising a biennium commencing in
odd-numbered or even-numbered years used by the village in determining and
carrying on its financial and taxing affairs.
   PUBLIC FUNDS. All money, including non-tax money, used in the operation and
functions of governing bodies. If the village has a lottery established under
the Nebraska County and Village Lottery Act, only those net proceeds which are
actually received by the village from a licensed lottery operator shall be
considered PUBLIC FUNDS and PUBLIC FUNDS shall not include amounts awarded as
prizes.
(Neb. RS 13-503)
§ 35.02 ANNUAL AUDIT; FINANCIAL STATEMENTS.
   (A)   (1)   For the purpose of this division (A), the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
         ACCOUNTANT. A duly licensed public accountant or certified public
accountant who otherwise is not an employee of or connected in any way with the
village.
         ANNUAL AUDIT REPORT. The written report of the accountant and all
appended statements and schedules relating thereto presenting or recording the
findings of an examination or audit of the financial transactions, affairs or
financial condition of the village and its proprietary functions for the fiscal
year immediately prior to the making of the annual report.
         FISCAL YEAR. The fiscal year for the village or the fiscal year
established in Neb. RS 18-2804 for a proprietary function if different than the
village fiscal year.
(Neb. RS 19-2902)
      (2)   The Board of Trustees shall cause an audit of the village’s
accounts to be made by a recognized independent and qualified accountant as
expeditiously as possible following the close of the fiscal year and to cover
all financial transactions and affairs of the village for that preceding fiscal
year. The audit shall be made on a cash or accrual method at the discretion of
the Board of Trustees. The audit shall be completed and the annual audit report
made by the accountant shall be submitted within six months after the close of
the fiscal year in any event, unless an extension of time is granted by a
written resolution adopted by the Board of Trustees. The Board of Trustees may
request a waiver of the audit requirement subject to the requirements of Neb.
RS 84-304. If the village is required to conduct an audit under Neb. RS 84-304
and owns or operates any type of public utility or other enterprise which
substantially generates its own revenue, the Board of Trustees shall have that
phase of the village’s affairs reported separately from the other functions of
the village. The result of that audit shall appear separately in the annual
audit report made by the accountant to the village and the audit shall be on a
cash or accrual basis at the discretion of the Board of Trustees.
(Neb. RS 19-2903)
      (3)   (a)   The annual audit report shall set forth, insofar as possible,
the financial position and results of financial operations for each fund or
group of accounts of the village.
         (b)   When the accrual method is selected for the annual audit report,
the report shall be in accordance with generally accepted accounting
principles.
         (c)   The annual audit report shall also include the professional
opinion of the accountant with respect to the financial statements, or, if an
opinion cannot be expressed, a declaration that the accountant is unable to
express such an opinion with an explanation of the reasons why he or she cannot
do so.
(Neb. RS 19-2904)
      (4)   At least three copies of such annual audit report shall be properly
signed and attested by the accountant; two copies shall be filed with the
Village Clerk/Treasurer and one copy shall be filed with the Auditor of Public
Accounts. The annual audit report filed, together with any accompanying comment
or explanation, shall become a part of the public records of the Village Clerk/
Treasurer and shall at all times thereafter be open and subject to public
inspection.
(Neb. RS 19-2905)
   (B)   The Board of Trustees shall provide and file with the Village Clerk/
Treasurer, not later than August 1 of each year, financial statements showing
the village’s actual and budgeted figures for the most recently completed
fiscal year.
(Neb. RS 13-606)
Statutory reference:
   Other provisions on audits, Neb. RS 19-2906 through 19-2909
§ 35.03 CONTRACTS AND PURCHASES; BIDDING AND OTHER REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Except as provided in Neb. RS 18-412.01 for a contract with a public
power district to operate, renew, replace or add to the electric distribution,
transmission or generation system of the village, no contract for enlargement
or general improvements, such as water extensions, sewers, public heating
systems, bridges, work on streets or any other work or improvement when the
cost of the enlargement or improvement is assessed to the property, costing
over $30,000, shall be made unless it is first approved by the Board of
Trustees.
   (B)   Except as provided in Neb. RS 18-412.01, before the Board of Trustees
makes any contract in excess of $30,000 for enlargement or general
improvements, such as water extensions, sewers, public heating systems,
bridges, work on streets or any other work or improvement when the cost of the
enlargement or improvement is assessed to the property, an estimate of the cost
shall be made by the Village Engineer and submitted to the Board of Trustees.
In advertising for bids as provided in divisions (C) and (E) below, the Board
of Trustees may publish the amount of the estimate.
   (C)   Advertisements for bids shall be required for any contract costing
over $30,000 entered into:
      (1)   For enlargement or general improvements, such as water extensions,
sewers, public heating systems, bridges, work on streets or any other work or
improvement when the cost of the enlargement or improvement is assessed to the
property; or
      (2)   For the purchase of equipment used in the construction of the
enlargement or general improvements.
   (D)   A village electric utility may enter into a contract for the
enlargement or improvement of the electric system or for the purchase of
equipment used for the enlargement or improvement without advertising for bids
if the price is:
      (1)   $30,000 or less;
      (2)   $60,000 or less and the village electric utility has gross annual
revenue from retail sales in excess of $1,000,000;
      (3)   $90,000 or less and the village electric utility has gross annual
revenue from retail sales in excess of $5,000,000; or
      (4)   $120,000 or less and the village electric utility has gross annual
revenue from retail sales in excess of $10,000,000.
   (E)   The advertisement provided for in division (C) above shall be
published at least seven days prior to the bid closing in a legal newspaper
published in or of general circulation in the village. In case of a public
emergency resulting from infectious or contagious diseases, destructive
windstorms, floods, snow, war or an exigency or pressing necessity or
unforeseen need calling for immediate action or remedy to prevent a serious
loss of or serious injury or damage to life, health or property, estimates of
costs and advertising for bids may be waived in the emergency ordinance
authorized by Neb. RS 17-613 when adopted by a three-fourths’ vote of the Board
of Trustees and entered of record.
   (F)   If, after advertising for bids as provided in this section, the Board
of Trustees receives fewer than two bids on a contract or if the bids received
by the Board of Trustees contain a price which exceeds the estimated cost, the
Board of Trustees may negotiate a contract in an attempt to complete the
proposed enlargement or general improvements at a cost commensurate with the
estimate given.
   (G)   If the materials are of such a nature that, in the opinion of the
manufacturer and with the concurrence of the Board of Trustees, no cost can be
estimated until the materials have been manufactured or assembled to the
specific qualifications of the village, the Board of Trustees may authorize the
manufacture and assemblage of those materials and may thereafter approve the
estimated cost expenditure when it is provided by the manufacturer.
(Neb. RS 17-568.01)
   (H)   Any village bidding procedure may be waived by the Board of Trustees:
      (1)   When materials or equipment are purchased at the same price and
from the same seller as materials or equipment which have formerly been
obtained pursuant to the state bidding procedure in Neb. RS 81-145 through 81-
162;
      (2)   When the contract is negotiated directly with a sheltered workshop
pursuant to Neb. RS 48-1503; or
      (3)   When required to comply with any federal grant, loan or program.
(Neb. RS 17-568.02)
   (I)   (1)   Notwithstanding any other provisions of law or a home rule
charter, a village which has established, by an interlocal agreement with any
county, a joint purchasing division or agency may purchase personal property
without competitive bidding if the price for the property has been established
by the Federal General Services Administration or the Materiel Division of the
Department of Administrative Services.
      (2)   For the purpose of this division (I), the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
         PERSONAL PROPERTY. Includes, but is not limited to, supplies,
materials and equipment used by or furnished to any officer, office,
department, institution, board or other agency.
         PURCHASING or PURCHASE. The obtaining of personal property by sale,
lease or other contractual means.
(Neb. RS 18-1756)
Statutory reference:
   Requirements for public lettings, see Neb. RS 73-101 et seq.
§ 35.04 ORDERS OR WARRANTS FOR MONEY; CONTRACTS; EXPENDITURES; REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The Board of Trustees shall have no power to appropriate, issue or
draw any order or warrant on the Village Treasurer for money, unless the same
has been appropriated or ordered by ordinance or the claim for the payment of
which such order or warrant is issued has been allowed according to the
provisions of §
35.05 of this chapter and funds for the class or object out of which such claim
is payable have been included in the adopted budget statement or transferred
according to law.
(Neb. RS 17-708)
   (B)   No contract shall be hereafter made by the Board of Trustees or any
committee or member thereof and no expense shall be incurred by any of the
officers or departments of the village, whether the object of the expenditures
shall have been ordered by the Board of Trustees or not, unless an
appropriation shall have been previously made concerning such expense, except
as otherwise expressly provided in division (A) above.
(Neb. RS 17-709)
   (C)   All warrants drawn upon the Village Clerk/Treasurer must be signed by
the Chairperson and countersigned by the Village Clerk/Treasurer, stating the
particular fund to which the same is chargeable, the person to whom payable and
for what particular object. No money shall be otherwise paid than upon such
warrants so drawn. Each warrant shall specify the amount included in the
adopted budget statement for such fund upon which it is drawn and the amount
already expended of such fund.
(Neb. RS 17-711)
§ 35.05 CLAIMS AND ACCOUNTS PAYABLE.
   (A)   (1)   All liquidated and unliquidated claims and accounts payable
against the village shall:
         (a)   Be presented in writing;
         (b)   State the name and address of the claimant and the amount of the
claim; and
         (c)   Fully and accurately identify the items or services for which
payment is claimed or the time, place, nature and circumstances giving rise to
the claim.
      (2)   As a condition precedent to maintaining an action for a claim,
other than a tort claim as defined in Neb. RS 13-903, the claimant shall file
such claim within 90 days of the accrual of the claim in the office of the
Village Clerk/Treasurer.
      (3)   The Village Clerk/Treasurer shall notify the claimant or his or her
agent or attorney by letter mailed to the claimant’s address within five days
if the claim is disallowed by the Board of Trustees.
      (4)   No costs shall be recovered against the village in any action
brought against it for any claim or for any claim allowed in part which has not
been presented to the Board of Trustees to be audited, unless the recovery is
for a greater sum than the amount allowed with the interest due.
(Neb. RS 17-714)
   (B)   Upon the allowance of claims by the Board of Trustees, the order for
their payment shall specify the particular fund or appropriation out of which
they are payable as specified in the adopted budget statement; and no order or
warrant shall be drawn in excess of 85% of the current levy for the purpose for
which it is drawn, unless there is sufficient money in the treasury at the
credit of the proper fund for its payment; provided that if there exists at the
time such warrant is drawn, obligated funds from the federal government or the
state or both from the federal government and the state, for the general
purpose or purposes of such warrant, then such warrant may be drawn in excess
of 85% of the current levy for the purpose for which it is drawn to the
additional extent of 100% of such obligated federal or state funds. No claim
shall be audited or allowed unless an order or warrant for the payment thereof
may legally be drawn.
(Neb. RS 17-715)
§ 35.06 COLLECTION OF SPECIAL ASSESSMENTS; PROCEDURE.
   (A)   The village shall have authority to collect the special assessments
which it levies and to perform all other necessary functions related thereto
including foreclosure.
   (B)   The Board of Trustees of any village collecting its own special
assessments shall direct that notice that special assessments are due shall be
mailed or otherwise delivered to the last known address of the person against
whom those special assessments are assessed or to the lending institution or
other party responsible for paying those special assessments. Failure to
receive the notice shall not relieve the taxpayer from any liability to pay the
special assessments and any interest or penalties accrued thereon.
   (C)   A village collecting its own assessments shall:
      (1)   File notice of the assessments and the amount of assessment being
levied for each lot or tract of land to the Register of Deeds; and
      (2)   File a release of assessment upon final payment of each assessment
with the Register of Deeds.
(Neb. RS 18-1216)
Statutory reference: 
   Refunding erroneously paid special assessments, see Neb. RS 17-703
§ 35.07 SPECIAL ASSESSMENT FUND.
   All money received on special assessments shall be held by the Village
Clerk/Treasurer as a special fund to be applied to the payment of the
improvement for which the assessment was made and this money shall be used for
no other purpose whatever, unless to reimburse the village for money expended
for any such improvement.
(Neb. RS 17-710)
§ 35.08 SINKING FUNDS; GIFTS OF MONEY OR PROPERTY.
   (A)   The village is hereby empowered to receive money or property by
donation, bequest, gift, devise or otherwise for the benefit of any one or more
of the public purposes for which sinking funds are established by the
provisions of this section, as stipulated by the donor. Title to any money or
property so donated shall vest in the Board of Trustees or in its successors in
office, who shall become the owners thereof in trust to the uses of the sinking
fund or funds; provided. In the event of a donation of real estate, the Board
of Trustees may manage the real estate as in the case of real estate donated to
the village for village library purposes under the provisions of Neb. RS 51-215
and 51-216.
(Neb. RS 19-1301)
   (B)   The Board of Trustees, subject to all the limitations set forth in
this section, shall have the power to levy a tax of not to exceed $0.105 on
each $100 in any one year upon the taxable value of all the taxable property
within the village for a term of not to exceed ten years, in addition to the
amount of tax which may be annually levied for the purposes of the adopted
budget statement of the village, for the purpose of establishing a sinking fund
for the construction, purchase, improvement, extension, original equipment or
repair, not including maintenance, of any one or more of the following public
improvements, including acquisition of any land incident to the making thereof:
village libraries; village auditoriums or community houses for social or
recreational purposes; village halls; village public libraries, auditoriums or
community houses in a single building; village swimming pools; village jails;
village fire stations, together with firefighting equipment or apparatus;
village parks; village cemeteries; village medical buildings, together with
furnishings and equipment; or village hospitals. The village shall not be
authorized to levy the tax or to establish the sinking fund as provided in this
division (B) if, having bonded indebtedness, such village has been in default
in the payment of interest thereon or principal thereof for a period of ten
years prior to the date of the passage of the resolution providing for the
submission of the proposition for establishment of the sinking fund as required
in division (C) below.
(Neb. RS 19-1302)
   (C)   Before any sinking fund or funds are established or before any annual
tax is levied for any such planned village improvements mentioned in division
(B) above by the village, the Board of Trustees shall declare its purpose by
resolution to submit to the qualified electors of the village at the next
general village election the proposition to provide the village with the
specific village improvement planned under this section. The resolution of
submission shall, among other things, set forth a clear description of the
improvement planned, the estimated cost according to the prevailing costs, the
amount of annual levy over a definite period of years, not exceeding ten years,
required to provide such cost and the specific name or designation for the
sinking fund sought to be established to carry out the planned improvement,
together with a statement of the proposition for placement upon the ballot at
the election. Notice of the submission of the proposition, together with a copy
of the official ballot containing the same, shall be published in its entirety
three successive weeks before the day of the election in a legal newspaper in
or of general circulation in the village or, if no legal newspaper is in or of
general circulation in the village, in a legal newspaper in or of general
circulation in the county in which the village is located. No such sinking fund
shall be established unless the same has been authorized by a majority or more
of the legal votes of the village cast for or against the proposition. If less
than a majority of the legal votes favor the establishment of the sinking fund,
the planned improvement shall not be made, no annual tax shall be levied
therefor and no sinking fund or sinking funds shall be established in
connection therewith, but such resolution of submission shall immediately be
repealed. If the proposition shall carry at such election in the manner
prescribed in this division (C), the Board of Trustees and its successors in
office shall proceed to do all things authorized under such resolution of
submission but never inconsistent with this section. The election provided for
under this section shall be conducted as provided under the Election Act, being
Neb. RS 32-101 et seq.
(Neb. RS 19-1303)
   (D)   (1)   All funds received by the Village Clerk/Treasurer, by donation
or by tax levy, as hereinbefore provided, shall, as they accumulate, be
immediately invested by the Clerk/Treasurer, with the written approval of the
Board of Trustees, in the manner provided in §
35.11 of this chapter.
      (2)   Whenever investments of such sinking fund or funds are made, as
aforesaid, the nature and character of the same shall be reported to the Board
of Trustees and the investment report shall be made a matter of record by the
Village Clerk/Treasurer in the proceedings of the Village Board.
      (3)   The sinking fund or sinking funds, accumulated under the provisions
of this section, shall constitute a special fund or funds, for the purpose or
purposes for which the same was authorized and shall not be used for any other
purpose unless authorized by 60% of the qualified electors of the village
voting at a general election favoring such change in the use of the sinking
fund or sinking funds; provided that, the question of the change in the use of
the sinking fund or sinking funds, when it fails to carry, shall not be
resubmitted in substance for a period of one year from and after the date of
such election.
(Neb. RS 19-1304)
Statutory reference:
   Additional levy limitations, see Neb. RS 17-702
§ 35.09 DEPOSIT OF FUNDS.
   (A)   (1)   The Village Clerk/Treasurer shall deposit and at all times keep
on deposit, for safekeeping, in banks, capital stock financial institutions or
qualifying mutual financial institutions of approved and responsible standing,
all money collected, received or held by him or her as Village Clerk/Treasurer.
These deposits shall be subject to all regulations imposed by law or adopted by
the Board of Trustees for the receiving and holding thereof. The fact that a
stockholder, director or other officer of the bank, capital stock financial
institution or qualifying mutual financial institution is also serving as a
member of the Board of Trustees or as any other officer of the village shall
not disqualify the bank, capital stock financial institution or qualifying
mutual financial institution from acting as a depository for the village funds.
      (2)   The Board of Trustees shall require from all banks, capital stock
financial institutions or qualifying mutual financial institutions a bond in
such penal sum as may be the maximum amount on deposit at any time less the
amount insured or guaranteed by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation or,
in lieu thereof, security given as provided in the Public Funds Deposit
Security Act, being Neb. RS 77-2386 et seq., to secure the payment of all such
deposits and accretions. The Board of Trustees shall approve this bond or
giving of security. The Village Clerk/Treasurer shall not be liable for any
loss of any money sustained by reason of the failure of any such depository so
designated and approved.
(Neb. RS 17-607)
   (B)   The insurance afforded to depositors in banks, capital stock financial
institutions or qualifying mutual financial institutions through the Federal
Deposit Insurance Corporation shall be deemed and construed to be a surety bond
or bonds to the extent that the deposits are insured or guaranteed by that
corporation and for deposits so insured or guaranteed, no other surety bond or
bonds or other security shall be required.
(Neb. RS 77-2362)
   (C)   Neb. RS 77-2366 shall apply to deposits in capital stock financial
institutions. Neb. RS 77-2365.01 shall apply to deposits in qualifying mutual
financial institutions.
(Neb. RS 17-607 and 77-2362)
Statutory reference: 
   Other provisions on deposits of public funds, see Neb. RS 77-2363 and 77-
2364
   Public Funds Deposit Security Act, see Neb. RS 77-2386
§ 35.10 CERTIFICATES OF DEPOSIT; TIME DEPOSITS; CONDITIONS.
   The Village Clerk/Treasurer may, upon resolution of the Board of Trustees
authorizing the same, purchase certificates of deposit from and make time
deposits in any bank, capital stock financial institution or qualifying mutual
financial institution in the state to the extent that those certificates of
deposit or time deposits are insured or guaranteed by the Federal Deposit
Insurance Corporation. Deposits may be made in excess of the amounts so secured
by the corporation and the amount of the excess deposit shall be secured by a
bond or by security given in the same manner as is provided for cities of the
first class in Neb. RS 16-714 through 16-716 as of the time the deposit is
made. Neb. RS 77-2366 shall apply to deposits in capital stock financial
institutions. Neb. RS 77-2365.01 shall apply to deposits in qualifying mutual
financial institutions.
(Neb. RS 17-720)
§ 35.11 INVESTMENT AND USE OF SURPLUS FUNDS.
   (A)   When the Village Treasurer holds funds of the village in excess of the
amount required for maintenance or set aside for betterments and improvements,
the Board of Trustees may, by resolution, direct and authorize the Clerk/
Treasurer to invest the surplus funds in the outstanding bonds or registered
warrants of the village, bonds and debentures issued either singly or
collectively by any of the 12 federal land banks, the 12 intermediate credit
banks or the 13 banks for cooperatives under the supervision of the Farm Credit
Administration or in interest-bearing bonds or the obligations of the United
States. The interest on such bonds or warrants shall be credited to the fund
out of which the bonds or warrants were purchased.
(Neb. RS 17-608)
   (B)   All income received by the village from public utilities and from the
payment and collection of water taxes, rents, rates or assessments shall be
applied to the payment of running expenses, interest on bonds or money borrowed
and the erection and construction of public utilities; should there be any
surplus, it shall be annually created into a sinking fund for the payment of
public utility bonds or for the improvements of the works or into the General
Fund as the Board may direct. The surplus remaining, if any, may, if the Board,
be invested in interest-bearing bonds or obligations of the United States.
(Neb. RS 17-540)
   (C)   The Board of Trustees may, by resolution, direct and authorize the
Clerk/Treasurer to dispose of the surplus electric light, water or gas funds or
the funds arising from the sale of electric light, water or natural gas
distribution properties, by the payment of outstanding electric light, water or
gas distribution bonds or water warrants then due. The excess, if any, after
such payments, may be transferred to the General Fund of the village.
(Neb. RS 17-609)
   (D)   (1)   Whenever the village has accumulated a surplus of any fund in
excess of its current needs or has accumulated a sinking fund for the payment
of its bonds and the money in such sinking fund exceeds the amount necessary to
pay the principal and interest of any such bonds which become due during the
current year, the Board of Trustees may invest any such surplus in excess of
current needs or such excess in its sinking fund in certificates of deposit, in
time deposits and in any securities in which the State Investment Officer is
authorized to invest pursuant to the Nebraska Capital Expansion Act and the
Nebraska State Funds Investment Act and as provided in the authorized
investment guidelines of the Nebraska Investment Council in effect on the date
the investment is made. The State Investment Officer shall upon request furnish
a copy of current authorized investment guidelines of the Nebraska Investment
Council.
      (2)   Nothing in division (D)(1) shall be construed to authorize
investments in venture capital.
(Neb. RS 77-2341)
§ 35.12 BOND ISSUES.
   The Board of Trustees may, after meeting all the requirements of state law,
issue bonds, fund bonds and retire bonds for such purposes as may be permitted
by state law. The Board of Trustees shall have the authority to levy special
assessments for the payment of interest and principal on these bonds and may
spread the payments up to the maximum number of years permitted by state law.
Statutory reference:
   Bonds in general, see Neb. RS 18-1801 through 18-1805
   General provisions, see Neb. RS 10-101 through 10-143
§ 35.13 DEBT COLLECTION; AUTHORITY TO CONTRACT WITH COLLECTION AGENCY.
   (A)   The village may contract to retain a collection agency licensed
pursuant to the Collection Agency Act, within or without this state, for the
purpose of collecting public debts owed by any person to the village.
   (B)   No debt owed pursuant to division (A) of this section may be assigned
to a collection agency unless:
      (1)   There has been an attempt to advise the debtor by first-class mail,
postage prepaid, at the last known address of the debtor:
         (a)   Of the existence of the debt; and
         (b)   That the debt may be assigned to a collection agency for
collection if the debt is not paid.
      (2)   At least 30 days have elapsed from the time the notice was sent.
   (C)   A collection agency which is assigned a debt under this section shall
have only those remedies and powers which would be available to it as an
assignee of a private creditor.
   (D)   For purposes of this section, debt shall include all delinquent fees
or payments except delinquent property taxes on real estate. In the case of
debt arising as a result of an order or judgment of a court in a criminal or
traffic matter, a collection fee may be added to the debt. The collection fee
shall be $25 or 4.5% of the debt, whichever is greater. The collection fee
shall be paid by the person who owes the debt directly to the person or agency
providing the collection service.
(Neb. RS 45-623)
§ 35.14 CREDIT CARDS; AUTHORITY TO ACCEPT.
   (A)   If authorized by the Board of Trustees, any village official may
accept credit cards, charge cards or debit cards, whether presented in person
or electronically or electronic funds transfers as a method of cash payment of
any tax, levy, excise, duty, custom, toll, interest, penalty, fine, license,
fee or assessment of whatever kind or nature, whether general or special, as
provided by Neb. RS 77-1702.
   (B)   The total amount of the taxes, levies, excises, duties, customs,
tolls, interest, penalties, fines, licenses, fees or assessments of whatever
kind or nature, whether general or special, paid for by credit card, charge
card, debit card or electronic funds transfer shall be collected by the village
official.
   (C)   With respect to a facility which it operates in a proprietary
capacity, the Board of Trustees may choose to accept credit cards, charge cards
or debit cards, whether presented in person or electronically or electronic
funds transfers as a means of cash payment and may adjust the price for
services to reflect the handling and payment costs.
   (D)   The village official shall obtain, for each transaction, authorization
for use of any credit card, charge card or debit card used pursuant to this
section from the financial institution, vending service company, credit card or
charge card company or third-party merchant bank providing that service.   
   (E)   The types of credit cards, charge cards or debit cards accepted and
the payment services provided shall be determined by the State Treasurer and
the Director of Administrative Services with the advice of a committee convened
by the State Treasurer and the director. The committee shall consist of the
State Treasurer, the Tax Commissioner, the director and representatives from
counties, cities and other political subdivisions as may be appropriate. The
committee shall develop recommendations for the contracting of such services.
The State Treasurer and the director shall contract with one or more credit
card, charge card or debit card companies or third-party merchant banks for
services on behalf of the state and those counties, cities and political
subdivisions that choose to participate in the state contract for such
services. The State Treasurer and the director shall consider, for purposes of
this section, any negotiated discount, processing or transaction fee imposed by
a credit card, charge card or debit card company or third-party merchant bank
as an administrative expense. If the Board of Trustees chooses not to
participate in the state contract, it may choose types of credit cards, charge
cards and debit cards and may negotiate and contract independently or
collectively as a governmental entity with one or more financial institutions,
vending service companies, credit card, charge card or debit card companies or
third-party merchant banks for the provision of these services.
   (F)   Subject to the direction of the Board of Trustees, a village official
authorizing acceptance of credit card or charge card payments shall be
authorized but not required to impose a surcharge or convenience fee upon the
person making a payment by credit card or charge card so as to wholly or
partially offset the amount of any discount or administrative fees charged to
the village, but the surcharge or convenience fee shall not exceed the
surcharge or convenience fee imposed by the credit card or charge card
companies or third-party merchant banks which have contracted under division
(E) of this section. The surcharge or convenience fee shall be applied only
when allowed by the operating rules and regulations of the credit card or
charge card involved or when authorized in writing by the credit card or charge
card company involved. When a person elects to make a payment to the village by
credit card or charge card and such a surcharge or convenience fee is imposed,
the payment of the surcharge or convenience fee shall be deemed voluntary by
that person and shall be in no case refundable. If a payment is made
electronically by credit card, charge card, debit card or electronic funds
transfer as part of a system for providing or retrieving information
electronically, the village official shall be authorized but not required to
impose an additional surcharge or convenience fee upon the person making a
payment.
   (G)   For the purpose of this section, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      ELECTRONIC FUNDS TRANSFER. The movement of funds by non-paper means,
usually through a payment system, including, but not limited to, an automated
clearinghouse or the Federal Reserve’s Fedwire system.
(Neb. RS 13-609)
ANNUAL BUDGET
§ 35.25 FISCAL YEAR.
   The fiscal year of the village and any public utility of the village
commences on October 1 and extends through the following September 30, except
as provided in the Municipal Proprietary Function Act.
(Neb. RS 17-701)
§ 35.26 BUDGET PROCEDURES.
   The budget instruction manual prepared by the Auditor of Public Accounts is
incorporated by reference for the purpose of proper budget preparation.
§ 35.27 EXPENDITURES PRIOR TO ADOPTION OF BUDGET.
   (A)   On and after the first day of its fiscal year in 1993 and of each
succeeding year or on or after the first day of its biennial period and until
the adoption of the budget by the Board of Trustees in September, the Board of
Trustees may expend any balance of cash on hand for the current expenses of the
village. Except as provided in division (B) below, the expenditures shall not
exceed an amount equivalent to the total amount expended under the last budget
in the equivalent period of the prior budget year or biennial period. The
expenditures shall be charged against the appropriations for each individual
fund or purpose as provided in the budget when adopted.
(Neb. RS 13-509.01)
   (B)   The restriction on expenditures in division (A) above may be exceeded
upon the express finding of the Board of Trustees that expenditures beyond the
amount authorized are necessary to enable the village to meet its statutory
duties and responsibilities. The finding and approval of the expenditures in
excess of the statutory authorization shall be adopted by the Board of Trustees
in open public session. Expenditures authorized by this section shall be
charged against appropriations for each individual fund or purpose as provided
in the budget when adopted and nothing in this section shall be construed to
authorize expenditures by the village in excess of that authorized by any other
statutory provision.
(Neb. RS 13-509.02)
§ 35.28 PROPOSED BUDGET STATEMENT; CONTENTS; AVAILABILITY; CORRECTION.
   (A)   The Board of Trustees shall annually or biennially prepare a proposed
budget statement on forms prescribed and furnished by the Auditor of Public
Accounts. The proposed budget statement shall be made available to the public
prior to publication of the notice of the hearing on the proposed budget
statement pursuant to §
35.29 of this chapter. A proposed budget statement shall contain the following
information, except as provided by state law:
      (1)   For the immediately preceding fiscal year or biennial period, the
revenue from all sources, including motor vehicle taxes, other than revenue
received from personal and real property taxation, allocated to the funds and
separately stated as to each such source: the unencumbered cash balance at the
beginning and end of the year or biennial period; the amount received by
taxation of personal and real property; and the amount of actual expenditures;
      (2)   For the current fiscal year or biennial period, actual and
estimated revenue from all sources, including motor vehicle taxes, allocated to
the funds and separately stated as to each such source: the actual unencumbered
cash balance available at the beginning of the year or biennial period; the
amount received from personal and real property taxation; and the amount of
actual and estimated expenditures, whichever is applicable. This statement
shall contain the cash reserve for each fiscal year or biennial period and
shall note whether or not the reserve is encumbered. The cash reserve
projections shall be based upon the actual experience of prior years or
biennial periods. The cash reserve shall not exceed 50% of the total budget
adopted exclusive of capital outlay items;
      (3)   For the immediately ensuing fiscal year or biennial period, an
estimate of revenue from all sources, including motor vehicle taxes, other than
revenue to be received from taxation of personal and real property, separately
stated as to each such source: the actual or estimated unencumbered cash
balances, whichever is applicable, to be available at the beginning of the year
or biennial period; the amounts proposed to be expended during the year or
biennial period; and the amount of cash reserve, based on actual experience of
prior years or biennial periods, which cash reserve shall not exceed 50% of the
total budget adopted exclusive of capital outlay items;
      (4)   A statement setting out separately the amount sought to be raised
from the levy of a tax on the taxable value of real property:
         (a)   For the purpose of paying the principal or interest on bonds
issued by the Board of Trustees; and
         (b)   For all other purposes.
      (5)   A uniform summary of the proposed budget statement, including each
proprietary function fund included in a separate proprietary budget statement
prepared pursuant to the Municipal Proprietary Function Act and a grand total
of all funds maintained by the Board of Trustees; and
      (6)   A list of the proprietary functions which are not included in the
budget statement. These proprietary functions shall have a separate budget
statement which is approved by the Board of Trustees as provided in the
Municipal Proprietary Function Act, being Neb. RS 18-2801 et seq.
   (B)   The actual or estimated unencumbered cash balance required to be
included in the budget statement by this section shall include deposits and
investments of the village as well as any funds held by the County Treasurer
for the village and shall be accurately stated on the proposed budget
statement.
   (C)   The village shall correct any material errors in the budget statement
detected by the Auditor of Public Accounts or by other sources.
(Neb. RS 13-504)
   (D)   The estimated expenditures plus the required cash reserve for the
ensuing fiscal year or biennial period less all estimated and actual
unencumbered balances at the beginning of the year or biennial period and less
the estimated income from all sources, including motor vehicle taxes, other
than taxation of personal and real property shall equal the amount to be
received from taxes and that amount shall be shown on the proposed budget
statement pursuant to this section. The amount to be raised from taxation of
personal and real property, as determined above, plus the estimated revenue
from other sources, including motor vehicle taxes and the unencumbered balances
shall equal the estimated expenditures, plus the necessary required cash
reserve, for the ensuing year or biennial period.
(Neb. RS 13-505)
§ 35.29 PROPOSED BUDGET STATEMENT; HEARING; ADOPTION; CERTIFICATION OF TAX
AMOUNT.
   (A)   The Board of Trustees shall each year or biennial period conduct a
public hearing on its proposed budget statement. Such hearing shall be held
separately from any regularly scheduled meeting of the governing body and shall
not be limited by time. Notice of the place and time of the hearing, together
with a summary of the proposed budget statement, shall be published at least
four calendar days prior to the date set for hearing in a newspaper of general
circulation within the village’s jurisdiction. For purposes of such notice, the
four calendar days shall include the day of publication but not the day of
hearing. When the total operating budget, not including reserves, does not
exceed $10,000 per year or $20,000 per biennial period, the proposed budget
summary may be posted at the Board of Trustee’s principal headquarters. At such
hearing, the governing body shall make at least three copies of the proposed
budget statement available to the public and shall make a presentation
outlining key provisions of the proposed budget statement, including, but not
limited to, a comparison with the prior year’s budget. Any member of the public
desiring to speak on the proposed budget statement shall be allowed to address
the governing body at the hearing and shall be given a reasonable amount of
time to do so.
   (B)   After the hearing, the proposed budget statement shall be adopted or
amended and adopted as amended and a written record shall be kept of the
hearing. The amount to be received from personal and real property taxation
shall be certified to the levying board after the proposed budget statement is
adopted or is amended and adopted as amended. The certification of the amount
to be received from personal and real property taxation shall specify
separately the amount to be applied to the payment of principal or interest on
bonds issued by the Board of Trustees and the amount to be received for all
other purposes.
   (C)   If the adopted budget statement reflects a change from that shown in
the published proposed budget statement, a summary of the changes shall be
published within 20 calendar days after its adoption in the manner provided in
this section, but without provision for hearing, setting forth the items
changed and the reasons for the changes.
   (D)   Upon approval by Board of Trustees, the budget shall be filed with the
Auditor of Public Accounts. The Auditor may review the budget for errors in
mathematics, improper accounting and non- compliance with the Nebraska Budget
Act or Neb. RS 13-518 to 13-522. If the Auditor detects such errors, he or she
shall immediately notify the Board of such errors. The Board shall correct any
such error as provided in §
35.34 of this chapter. Warrants for the payment of expenditures provided in the
budget adopted under this section shall be valid notwithstanding any errors or
non-compliance for which the Auditor has notified the Board.
(Neb. RS 13-506)
   (E)   When a levy increase has been authorized by vote of the electors, the
adopted budget statement shall indicate the amount of the levy increase.
(Neb. RS 13-507)
§ 35.30 ADOPTED BUDGET STATEMENT; FILING; CERTIFICATION OF TAX AMOUNT.
   (A)   (1)   After publication and hearing on the proposed budget statement
and within the time prescribed by law, the Board of Trustees shall file with
and certify to the levying board or boards on or before September 30 of each
year or September 30 of the final year of a biennial period and file with the
Auditor of Public Accounts a copy of the adopted budget statement which
complies with Neb. RS 13-518 to 13-522, together with the amount of the tax
required to fund the adopted budget, setting out separately:
         (a)   The amount to be levied for the payment of principal or interest
on bonds issued by the Board of Trustees; and
         (b)   The amount to be levied for all other purposes.
      (2)   Proof of publication shall be attached to the statements.
   (B)   If the prime rate published by the Federal Reserve Board is 10% or
more at the time of the filing and certification required under this division
(B), the Board of Trustees, in certifying the amount required, may make
allowance for delinquent taxes not exceeding 5% of the amount required plus the
actual percentage of delinquent taxes for the preceding tax year or biennial
period and for the amount of estimated tax loss from any pending or anticipated
litigation which involves taxation and in which tax collections have been or
can be withheld or escrowed by court order. For purposes of this section,
anticipated litigation shall be limited to the anticipation of an action being
filed by a taxpayer who or which filed a similar action for the preceding year
or biennial period which is still pending. Except for such allowances, the
Board of Trustees shall not certify an amount of tax more than 1% greater or
lesser than the amount determined under §
35.28 of this chapter.
   (C)   The Board of Trustees shall use the certified taxable values as
provided by the County Assessor pursuant to Neb. RS 13-509 for the current year
in setting or certifying the levy. The Board of Trustees may designate one of
its members to perform any duty or responsibility required of the Board by this
section.
(Neb. RS 13-508)
§ 35.31 APPROPRIATION BILL.
   The Board of Trustees shall adopt a budget statement pursuant to the
Nebraska Budget Act, to be termed, “The Annual Appropriation Bill”, in which
the Board may appropriate those sums of money as may be deemed necessary to
defray all necessary expenses and liabilities of the village.
(Neb. RS 17-706)
§ 35.32 GENERAL FUND.
   If the village has not decided to follow the all-purpose levy method of
financing for the fiscal year, all money not specifically appropriated in the
annual appropriation bill shall be deposited in and known as the General Fund.
§ 35.33 TRANSFER OF FUNDS.
   (A)   Whenever during the current fiscal year it becomes apparent to the
Board of Trustees that due to unforeseen emergencies there is temporarily
insufficient money in a particular fund to meet the requirements of the adopted
budget of expenditures for that fund, the Board may by a majority vote, unless
otherwise provided by state law, transfer money from other funds to such fund.
   (B)   No expenditure during any fiscal year shall be made in excess of the
amounts indicated in the adopted budget statement, except as authorized in §
35.34 of this chapter or by state law.
   (C)   Any officer or officers of the Board who obligate funds contrary to
the provisions of this section shall be guilty of an offense.
(Neb. RS 13-510) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 35.34 BUDGET REVISION.
   (A)   (1)   Unless otherwise provided by law, the Board of Trustees may
propose to revise the previously adopted budget statement and shall conduct a
public hearing on that proposal whenever, during the current fiscal year, it
becomes apparent to the Board of Trustees that:
         (a)   There are circumstances which could not reasonably have been
anticipated at the time the budget for the current year was adopted;
         (b)   The budget adopted violated Neb. RS 13-518 through 13-522, such
that the revenue of the current fiscal year for any fund thereof will be
insufficient, additional expenses will be necessarily incurred or there is a
need to reduce the budget requirements to comply with Neb. RS 13-518 through
13-522; or
         (c)   The Board of Trustees has been notified by the Auditor of Public
Accounts of a mathematical or accounting error or non-compliance with the
Nebraska Budget Act, being Neb. RS 13-501 et seq.
      (2)   The public hearing requirement shall not apply to emergency
expenditures pursuant to Neb. RS 81-829.51.
   (B)   Notice of the time and place of the hearing shall be published at
least four calendar days prior to the date set for hearing in a newspaper of
general circulation within the Board’s jurisdiction. For purposes of such
notice, the four calendar days shall include the day of publication but not the
day of hearing. This published notice shall set forth:
      (1)   The time and place of the hearing;
      (2)   The amount in dollars of additional or reduced money required and
for what purpose;
      (3)   A statement setting forth the nature of the unanticipated
circumstances and, if the budget requirements are to be increased, the reasons
why the previously adopted budget of expenditures cannot be reduced during the
remainder of the current year to meet the need for additional money in that
manner;
      (4)   A copy of the summary of the originally adopted budget previously
published; and
      (5)   A copy of the summary of the proposed revised budget.
   (C)   At the hearing any taxpayer may appear or file a written statement
protesting any application for additional money. A written record shall be kept
of all such hearings.
   (D)   Upon conclusion of the public hearing on the proposed revised budget
and approval of the proposed revised budget by the Board of Trustees, the Board
shall file with the County Clerk of the county or counties in which the Board
of Trustees is located and with the Auditor of Public Accounts, a copy of the
revised budget, as adopted. The Board of Trustees may then issue warrants in
payment for expenditures authorized by the adopted revised budget. These
warrants shall be referred to as registered warrants and shall be repaid during
the next fiscal year from funds derived from taxes levied therefor.
   (E)   Within 30 days after the adoption of the budget under §
35.29 of this chapter, the Board of Trustees may or within 30 days after
notification of an error by the Auditor of Public Accounts, the Board shall
correct an adopted budget which contains a clerical, mathematical or accounting
error which does not affect the total amount budgeted by more than 1% or
increase the amount required from property taxes. No public hearing shall be
required for such a correction. After correction, the Board of Trustees shall
file a copy of the corrected budget with the County Clerk of the county or
counties in which the Board of Trustees is located and with the Auditor of
Public Accounts. The Board of Trustees may then issue warrants in payment for
expenditures authorized by the budget.
(Neb. RS 13-511)
§ 35.35 PROPRIETARY FUNCTIONS; FISCAL YEAR; BUDGET STATEMENTS; FILING; HEARING;
ADOPTION; RECONCILIATION.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      PROPRIETARY FUNCTION. A water supply or distribution utility, a
wastewater collection or treatment utility, an electric generation,
transmission or distribution utility, a gas supply, transmission or
distribution utility, an integrated solid waste management collection, disposal
or handling utility or a hospital or a nursing home owned by the village.
(Neb. RS 18-2803)
      SUBSIDIZATION. The costs of operation of a proprietary function are
regularly financed by appropriations from the village’s General Fund in excess
of the amount paid by the village to the proprietary function for actual
service or services received.
(Neb. RS 18-2804)
   (B)   The Board of Trustees may establish a separate fiscal year for each
proprietary function, except that any proprietary function which is subsidized
by appropriations from the village’s General Fund shall have the same fiscal
year as the village.
   (C)   (1)   At least 30 days prior to the start of the fiscal year of each
proprietary function, a proposed proprietary budget statement shall be prepared
in writing and filed with the Village Clerk/Treasurer containing the following
information:
         (a)   For the immediately preceding fiscal year, the revenue from all
sources, the unencumbered cash balance at the beginning and end of the year,
the amount received by taxation and the amount of actual expenditure;
         (b)   For the current fiscal year, actual and estimated revenue from
all sources separately stated as to each such source, the actual unencumbered
cash balance available at the beginning of the year, the amount received from
taxation and the amount of actual and estimated expenditure, whichever is
applicable;
         (c)   For the immediately ensuing fiscal year, an estimate of revenue
from all sources separately stated as to each such source, the actual or
estimated unencumbered cash balance, whichever is applicable, to be available
at the beginning of the year, the amounts proposed to be expended during the
fiscal year and the amount of cash reserve based on actual experience of prior
years; and
         (d)   A uniform summary of the proposed budget statement which shall
include a total of all funds maintained for the proprietary function.
      (2)   The statement shall contain the estimated cash reserve for each
fiscal year and shall note whether or not the reserve is encumbered. The cash
reserve projections shall be based upon the actual experience of prior years.
      (3)   Each proprietary budget statement shall be filed on forms
prescribed and furnished by the Auditor of Public Accounts following
consultation with representatives of such governing bodies as operate
proprietary functions subject to the provisions of the Municipal Proprietary
Function Act.
(Neb. RS 18-2805)
   (D)   (1)   After a proposed proprietary budget statement is filed with the
Village Clerk/Treasurer, the Board of Trustees shall conduct a public hearing
on the statement. Notice of the time and place of the hearing, a summary of the
proposed proprietary budget statement and notice that the full proposed
proprietary budget statement is available for public review with the Village
Clerk/Treasurer during normal business hours shall be published one time at
least five days prior to the hearing in a legal newspaper in or of general
circulation within the Board’s jurisdiction or by mailing to each resident
within the Board’s jurisdiction.
      (2)   After the hearing, the proposed proprietary budget statement shall
be adopted or amended and adopted as amended and a written record shall be kept
of the hearing. If the adopted proprietary budget statement reflects a change
from the proposed proprietary statement presented at the hearing, a copy of the
adopted proprietary budget statement shall be filed with the Village Clerk/
Treasurer within 20 days after its adoption and published in a legal newspaper
in or of general circulation within the Board’s jurisdiction or by mailing to
each resident within the Board’s jurisdiction.
(Neb. RS 18-2806)
   (E)   If the actual expenditures for a proprietary function exceed the
estimated expenditures in the proprietary budget statement during its fiscal
year, the Board of Trustees shall adopt a proprietary function reconciliation
statement within 90 days after the end of the fiscal year which reflects any
difference between the adopted proprietary budget statement for the previous
fiscal year and the actual expenditures and revenue for that fiscal year. After
the adoption of a proprietary function reconciliation statement, it shall be
filed with the Village Clerk/Treasurer and published in a legal newspaper in or
of general circulation within the Board’s jurisdiction or by mailing to each
resident within the Board’s jurisdiction. If the difference between the adopted
proprietary budget for the previous fiscal year and the actual expenditures and
revenues for that fiscal year is greater than 10%, the proprietary function
reconciliation statement shall only be adopted following a public hearing.
(Neb. RS 18-2807)
   (F)   If the budget of a proprietary function is included in the village
budget statement created pursuant to the Nebraska Budget Act, the Municipal
Proprietary Function Act, being Neb. RS 18-2801 et seq., need not be followed
for that proprietary function. Any income from a proprietary function which is
transferred to the General Fund of the village shall be shown as a source of
revenue in the village budget statement created pursuant to the Nebraska Budget
Act.
(Neb. RS 18-2808)
TAX LEVIES
§ 35.45 PROPERTY TAX LEVY FOR GENERAL REVENUE PURPOSES.
   The village shall have power to levy taxes for general revenue purposes in
any one year not to exceed $0.35 on each $100 upon the taxable value of all the
taxable property in the village. The valuation of such property shall be
ascertained from the books or assessment rolls of the County Assessor.
(Neb. RS 17-506)
§ 35.46 LEVIES FOR OTHER TAXES AND SPECIAL ASSESSMENTS.
   The village shall have power to levy any other tax or special assessment
authorized by law.
(Neb. RS 17-507)
§ 35.47 ALL-PURPOSE LEVY; EXTRAORDINARY LEVIES; ALLOCATION; ABANDONMENT.
   (A)   Notwithstanding provisions in the statutes of Nebraska and this code
to the contrary, for any fiscal year the Board of Trustees may decide to
certify to the County Clerk for collection 1 all-purpose levy required to be
raised by taxation for all village purposes instead of certifying a schedule of
levies for specific purposes added together. Subject to the limits in §
35.48 of this chapter, the all-purpose levy shall not exceed an annual levy of
$1.05 on each $100 upon the taxable valuation of all the taxable property in
the village. Otherwise authorized extraordinary levies to service and pay
bonded indebtedness of the village may be made by the village in addition to
such all-purpose levy.
(Neb. RS 19-1309)
   (B)   If the method provided in division (A) above is followed in village
financing, the village shall allocate the amount so raised to the several
departments of the village in its annual budget and appropriation ordinance or
in other legal manner, as the Board of Trustees deems wisest and best.
(Neb. RS 19-1310)
   (C)   If the village elects to follow the method provided in division (A)
above, it shall be bound by that election during the ensuing fiscal year, but
may abandon such method in succeeding fiscal years.
(Neb. RS 19-1311)
   (D)   If it is necessary to certify the amount to county officers for
collection, the same shall be certified as a single amount for General Fund
purposes.
(Neb. RS 19-1312)
§ 35.48 PROPERTY TAX LEVY; MAXIMUM; AUTHORITY TO EXCEED.
   (A)   Property tax levies for the support of the village for fiscal years
beginning on or after 7-1-1998, shall be limited to the amounts set forth in
this division (A), except as provided in division (C) below. The village may
levy a maximum levy of $0.45 per $100 of taxable valuation of property subject
to the levy plus an additional $0.05 per $100 of taxable valuation to provide
financing for the village’s share of revenue required under an agreement or
agreements executed pursuant to the Interlocal Cooperation Act, being Neb. RS
13-801 et seq., or the Joint Public Agency Act, being Neb. RS 13-2501 et seq.
The maximum levy shall include amounts levied to pay for sums to support a
library pursuant to Neb. RS 51-201, museum pursuant to Neb. RS 51-501, visiting
community nurse, home health nurse or home health agency pursuant to Neb. RS
71-1637 or statue, memorial or monument pursuant to Neb. RS 80-202. Property
tax levies for judgments, except judgments or orders from the Commission of
Industrial Relations, obtained against the village which require or obligate
the village to pay that judgment, to the extent the judgment is not paid by
liability insurance coverage of the village, for preexisting lease- purchase
contracts approved prior to 7-1-1998, for bonded indebtedness approved
according to law and secured by a levy on property and for payments by a public
airport to retire interest-free loans from the Department of Aeronautics in
lieu of bonded indebtedness at a lower cost to the public airport are not
included in the levy limits established by this division (A). The limitations
on tax levies provided in this division (A) are to include all other general or
special levies provided by law. Notwithstanding other provisions of law, the
only exceptions to the limits in this division (A) are those provided by or
authorized by this section. Tax levies in excess of the limitations in this
section shall be considered unauthorized levies under Neb. RS 77-1606 unless
approved under division (C) below.
(Neb. RS 77-3442)
   (B)   (1)   All city airport authorities established under the Cities
Airport Authorities Act and community redevelopment authorities established
under the Community Development Law may be allocated property taxes as
authorized by law which are authorized by the village and are counted in the
village levy limit provided by division (A) above; except that, such limitation
shall not apply to property tax levies for preexisting lease-purchase contracts
approved prior to 7-1-1998, for bonded indebtedness approved according to law
and secured by a levy on property and for payments by a public airport to
retire interest-free loans from the Department of Aeronautics in lieu of bonded
indebtedness at a lower cost to the public airport. The Board of Trustees shall
review and approve or disapprove the levy request of the political subdivisions
subject to this division (B). The Board of Trustees may approve all or a
portion of the levy request and may approve a levy request that would allow a
levy greater than that permitted by law. The levy allocated by the village may
be exceeded as provided in division (C) below.
      (2)   On or before August 1, all political subdivisions subject to
village levy authority under this division (B) shall submit a preliminary
request for levy allocation to the Board of Trustees. The preliminary request
of the political subdivision shall be in the form of a resolution adopted by a
majority vote of members present of the political subdivision’s governing body.
The failure of a political subdivision to make a preliminary request shall
preclude that political subdivision from using procedures set forth in Neb. RS
77-3444 to exceed the final levy allocation as determined in this division (B).
      (3)   (a)   The Board of Trustees shall:
            1.   Adopt a resolution by a majority vote of members present which
determines a final allocation of levy authority to its political subdivisions;
and
            2.   Forward a copy of that resolution to the chairperson of the
governing body of each of its political subdivisions.
         (b)   No final levy allocation shall be changed after September 1,
except by agreement between both the Board of Trustees and the governing body
of the political subdivision whose final levy allocation is at issue.
(Neb. RS 77-3443)
   (C)   (1)   The village may exceed the limits provided in division (A) above
by an amount not to exceed a maximum levy approved by a majority of registered
voters voting on the issue in a primary, general or special election at which
the issue is placed before the registered voters. A vote to exceed the limits
must be approved prior to October 10 of the fiscal year which is to be the
first to exceed the limits.
      (2)   The Board of Trustees may call for the submission of the issue to
the voters:
         (a)   By passing a resolution calling for exceeding the limits by a
vote of at least two-thirds of the members of the Board of Trustees and
delivering a copy of the resolution to the County Clerk or Election
Commissioner of every county which contains all or part of the village; or
         (b)   Upon receipt of a petition by the County Clerk or Election
Commissioner of every county containing all or part of the village requesting
an election signed by at least 5% of the registered voters residing in the
village.
      (3)   The resolution or petition shall include the amount of levy which
would be imposed in excess of the limits provided in division (A) above and the
duration of the excess levy authority. The excess levy authority shall not have
a duration greater than five years. Any resolution or petition calling for a
special election shall be filed with the County Clerk or Election Commissioner
no later than 30 days prior to the date of the election and the time of
publication and providing a copy of the notice of election required in Neb. RS
32-802 shall be no later than 20 days prior to the election.
      (4)   The County Clerk or Election Commissioner shall place the issue on
the ballot at an election as called for in the resolution or petition which is
at least 30 days after receipt of the resolution or petition. The election
shall be held pursuant to the Election Act. For petitions filed with the County
Clerk or Election Commissioner on or after 5-1-1998, the petition shall be in
the form as provided in Neb. RS 32-628 through 32-631.
      (5)   Any excess levy authority approved under this division (C) shall
terminate pursuant to its terms, on a vote of the Board of Trustees to
terminate the authority to levy more than the limits, at the end of the fourth
fiscal year following the first year in which the levy exceeded the limit or as
provided in division (C)(9) below, whichever is earliest.
      (6)   The Board of Trustees may pass no more than one resolution calling
for an election pursuant to this division (C) during any one calendar year.
Only one election may be held in any one calendar year pursuant to a petition
initiated under this division (C). The ballot question may include any terms
and conditions set forth in the resolution or petition and shall include the
language specified in Neb. RS 77-3444.
      (7)   If a majority of the votes cast upon the ballot question are in
favor of the tax, the County Board shall authorize a tax in excess of the
limits in division (A) above, but the tax shall not exceed the amount stated in
the ballot question. If a majority of those voting on the ballot question are
opposed to the tax, the Board of Trustees shall not impose the tax.
      (8)   In lieu of the election procedures in this division (C), the
village may approve a levy in excess of the limits in division (A) above for a
period of one year at a meeting of the residents of the village, called after
notice is published in a newspaper of general circulation in the village at
least 20 days prior to the meeting. At least 10% of the registered voters
residing in the village shall constitute a quorum for purposes of taking action
to exceed the limits or final levy allocation. A record shall be made of the
registered voters residing in the political subdivision or village who are
present at the meeting. The method of voting at the meeting shall protect the
secrecy of the ballot. If a majority of the registered voters present at the
meeting vote in favor of exceeding the limits, a copy of the record of that
action shall be forwarded to the County Board prior to October 10 and the
County Board shall authorize a levy as approved by the residents for the year.
If a majority of the registered voters present at the meeting vote against
exceeding the limits, the limit shall not be exceeded and the village shall
have no power to call for an election under this division (C).
      (9)   (a)   The village may rescind or modify a previously approved
excess levy authority prior to its expiration by a majority of registered
voters voting on the issue in a primary, general or special election at which
the issue is placed before the registered voters. A vote to rescind or modify
must be approved prior to October 10 of the fiscal year for which it is to be
effective.
         (b)   The Board of Trustees may call for the submission of the issue
to the voters:
            1.   By passing a resolution calling for the rescission or
modification by a vote of at least two-thirds of the members of the Board of
Trustees and delivering a copy of the resolution to the County Clerk or
Election Commissioner of every county which contains all or part of the
village; or
            2.   Upon receipt of a petition by the County Clerk or Election
Commissioner of every county containing all or part of the village requesting
an election signed by at least 5% of the registered voters residing in the
village.
         (c)   The resolution or petition shall include the amount and the
duration of the previously approved excess levy authority and a statement that
either the excess levy authority will be rescinded or the excess levy authority
will be modified. If the excess levy authority will be modified, the amount and
duration of the modification shall be stated. The modification shall not have a
duration greater than five years. The County Clerk or Election Commissioner
shall place the issue on the ballot at an election as called for in the
resolution or petition which is at least 30 days after receipt of the
resolution or petition and the time of publication and providing a copy of the
notice of election required in Neb. RS 32-802 shall be no later than 20 days
prior to the election. The election shall be held pursuant to the Election Act.
(Neb. RS 77-3444)
§ 35.49 PROPERTY TAX LEVY; CERTIFICATION OF AMOUNT; COLLECTION.
   The Board of Trustees shall, at the time and in the manner provided by law,
cause to be certified to the County Clerk the amount of tax to be levied upon
the taxable value of all the taxable property of the village which the village
requires for the purposes of the adopted budget statement for the ensuing year,
including all special assessments and taxes assessed as otherwise provided. The
County Clerk shall place the same on the property tax lists to be collected in
the manner provided by law for the collection of county taxes in the county
where the village is situated. In all sales for any delinquent taxes for
municipal purposes, if there are other delinquent taxes due from the same
person or a lien on the same property, the sale shall be for all the delinquent
taxes. Such sales and all sales made under or by virtue of this section or the
provision of law herein referred to shall be of the same validity and in all
respects be deemed and treated as though such sales had been made for the
delinquent county taxes exclusively.
(Neb. RS 17-702)
§ 35.50 PROPERTY TAX REQUEST; PROCEDURE FOR SETTING.
   (A)   If the annual assessment of property would result in an increase in
the total property taxes levied by a county, municipality, school district,
learning community, sanitary and improvement district, natural resources
district, educational service unit or community college, as determined using
the previous year’s rate of levy, the village’s property tax request for the
current year shall be no more than its property tax request in the prior year
and the village’s rate of levy for the current year shall be decreased
accordingly when such rate is set by the County Board of Equalization pursuant
to Neb. RS 77-1601. The Board of Trustees shall pass a resolution or ordinance
to set the amount of its property tax request after holding the public hearing
required in division (C) below. If the Board of Trustees seeks to set its
property tax request at an amount that exceeds its property tax request in the
prior year, it may do so after holding the public hearing required in division
(C) below and by passing a resolution or ordinance that complies with division
(D) below. If any county, city, school district or community college seeks to
increase its property tax request by more than the allowable growth percentage,
such political subdivision shall comply with the requirements of Neb. RS 77-
1633 in lieu of the requirements in divisions (C) and (D) below.
   (B)   If the annual assessment of property would result in no change or a
decrease in the total property taxes levied by a county, city, village, school
district, learning community, sanitary and improvement district, natural
resources district, educational service unit or community college, as
determined using the previous year’s rate of levy, the village’s property tax
request for the current year shall be no more than its property tax request in
the prior year and the Board of Trustee’s rate of levy for the current year
shall be adjusted accordingly when such rate is set by the County Board of
Equalization pursuant to Neb. RS 77-1601. The Board of Trustees shall pass a
resolution or ordinance to set the amount of its property tax request after
holding the public hearing required in division (C) below. If the Board of
Trustees seeks to set its property tax request at an amount that exceeds its
property tax request in the prior year, it may do so after holding the public
hearing required in division (C) below and by passing a resolution or ordinance
that complies with division (D) below. If any county, city, school district or
community college seeks to increase its property tax request by more than the
allowable growth percentage, such political subdivision shall comply with the
requirements of Neb. RS 77-1633 in lieu of the requirements in divisions (C)
and (D) below.
   (C)   The resolution or ordinance required under this section shall only be
passed after a special public hearing called for the purpose is held and after
notice is published in a newspaper of general circulation in the area of the
village at least four calendar days prior to the hearing. For purposes of such
notice, the four calendar days shall include the day of publication but not the
day of hearing. If the village’s total operating budget, not including
reserves, does not exceed $10,000 per year or $20,000 per biennial period, the
notice may be posted at the Board of Trustee’s principal headquarters.
   (D)   The hearing notice shall contain the following information:
      (1)   The certified taxable valuation under Neb. RS 13-509 for the prior
year, the certified taxable valuation under Neb. RS 13-509 for the current year
and the percentage increase or decrease in such valuations from the prior year
to the current year;
      (2)   The dollar amount of the prior year’s tax request and the property
tax rate that was necessary to fund that tax request;
      (3)   The property tax rate that would be necessary to fund last year’s
tax request if applied to the current year’s valuation;
      (4)   The proposed dollar amount of the tax request for the current year
and the property tax rate that will be necessary to fund that tax request;
      (5)   The percentage increase or decrease in the property tax rate from
the prior year to the current year; and
      (6)   The percentage increase or decrease in the total operating budget
from the prior year to the current year.
   (E)   Any resolution or ordinance setting a village’s property tax request
under Neb. RS 77-1632 at an amount that exceeds the village’s property tax
request in the prior year shall include, but not be limited to, the following
information:
      (1)   The name of the village;
      (2)   The amount of the property tax request;
      (3)   The following statements:
         (a)   The total assessed value of property differs from last year’s
total assessed value by        percent;
         (b)   The tax rate which would levy the same amount of property taxes
as last year, when multiplied by the new total assessed value of property,
would be $        per $100 of assessed value;
         (c)   The (name of village) proposes to adopt a property tax request
that will cause its tax rate to be $        per $100 of assessed value; and
         (d)   Based on the proposed property tax request and changes in other
revenue, the total operating budget of (name of village) will exceed last
year’s by        percent.
      (4)   The record vote of the Board of Trustees in passing such resolution
or ordinance.
   (F)   Any resolution or ordinance setting a property tax request under this
section shall be certified and forwarded to the County Clerk on or before
October 15 of the year for which the tax request is to apply.
   (G)   Any tax levy which is not in compliance with this section and Neb. RS
77-1601 shall be construed as an unauthorized levy under Neb. RS 77-1606.
(Neb. RS 77-1632)
§ 35.51 PROPERTY TAX REQUEST; INCREASE BY MORE THAN ALLOWABLE GROWTH
PERCENTAGE; PROCEDURE FOR SETTING.
   (A)   For purposes of this section, POLITICAL SUBDIVISION means any county,
city, school district or community college.
   (B)   If any political subdivision seeks to increase its property tax
request by more than the allowable growth percentage, such political
subdivision may do so if:
      (1)   A public hearing is held and notice of such hearing is provided in
compliance with division (C) below; and
      (2)   The governing body of such political subdivision passes a
resolution or an ordinance that complies with division (D) below.
   (C)   (1)   Each political subdivision within a county that seeks to
increase its property tax request by more than the allowable growth percentage
shall participate in a joint public hearing. Each such political subdivision
shall designate one representative to attend the joint public hearing on behalf
of the political subdivision. If a political subdivision includes area in more
than one county, the political subdivision shall be deemed to be within the
county in which the political subdivision’s principal headquarters are located.
At such hearing, there shall be no items on the agenda other than discussion on
each political subdivision’s intent to increase its property tax request by
more than the allowable growth percentage.
      (2)   The joint public hearing shall be held on or after September 17 and
prior to September 29 and before any of the participating political
subdivisions file their adopted budget statement pursuant to Neb. RS 13-508.
      (3)   The joint public hearing shall be held after 6:00 p.m. local time
on the relevant date.
      (4)   At the joint public hearing, the representative of each political
subdivision shall give a brief presentation on the political subdivision’s
intent to increase its property tax request by more than the allowable growth
percentage and the effect of such request on the political subdivision’s
budget. The presentation shall include:
         (a)   The name of the political subdivision;
         (b)   The amount of the property tax request; and
         (c)   The following statements:
            1.   The total assessed value of property differs from last year’s
total assessed value by         percent;
            2.   The tax rate which would levy the same amount of property
taxes as last year, when multiplied by the new total assessed value of
property, would be $       per $100 of assessed value;
            3.   The (name of political subdivision) proposes to adopt a
property tax request that will cause its tax rate to be $       per $100 of
assessed value;
            4.   Based on the proposed property tax request and changes in
other revenue, the total operating budget of (name of political subdivision)
will exceed last year’s by        percent; and
            5.   To obtain more information regarding the increase in the
property tax request, citizens may contact the (name of political subdivision)
at (telephone number and email address of political subdivision).
      (5)   Any member of the public shall be allowed to speak at the joint
public hearing and shall be given a reasonable amount of time to do so.
      (6)   Notice of the joint public hearing shall be provided:
         (a)   By sending a postcard to all affected property taxpayers. The
postcard shall be sent to the name and address to which the property tax
statement is mailed;
         (b)   By posting notice of the hearing on the homepage of the relevant
county’s website, except that this requirement shall only apply if the county
has a population of more than 25,000 inhabitants; and
         (c)   By publishing notice of the hearing in a legal newspaper in or
of general circulation in the relevant county.
      (7)   Each political subdivision that participates in the joint public
hearing shall send the information prescribed in division (C)(8) below to the
County Clerk by September 5. The County Clerk shall transmit the information to
the County Assessor not later than September 10. The County Clerk shall notify
each participating political subdivision of the date, time and location of the
joint public hearing. The County Assessor shall mail the postcards required in
this division (C). Such postcards shall be mailed at least seven calendar days
before the joint public hearing. The cost of creating and mailing the
postcards, including staff time, materials and postage, shall be divided among
the political subdivisions participating in the joint public hearing.
      (8)   (a)   The postcard sent under this division (C) and the notice
posted on the county’s website, if required under division (C)(6)(b) above, and
published in the newspaper shall include the date, time and location for the
joint public hearing, a listing of and telephone number for each political
subdivision that will be participating in the joint public hearing and the
amount of each participating political subdivision’s property tax request.
         (b)   The postcard shall also contain the following information:
            1.   The following words in capitalized type at the top of the
postcard: “NOTICE OF PROPOSED TAX INCREASE”;
            2.   The name of the county that will hold the joint public
hearing, which shall appear directly underneath the capitalized words described
in division (C)(8)(b)1. above;
            3.   The following statement: “The following political subdivisions
are proposing a revenue increase as a result of property taxes in (insert
current tax year). This notice contains estimates of the tax on your property
and the proposed tax increase on your property as a result of this revenue
increase. These estimates are calculated on the basis of the proposed (insert
current tax year) data. The actual tax on your property and tax increase on
your property may vary from these estimates”;
            4.   The parcel number for the property;
            5.   The name of the property owner and the address of the
property;
            6.   The property’s assessed value in the previous tax year;
            7.   The amount of property taxes due in the previous tax year for
each participating political subdivision;
            8.   The property’s assessed value for the current tax year;
            9.   The amount of property taxes due for the current tax year for
each participating political subdivision;
            10.   The change in the amount of property taxes due for each
participating political subdivision from the previous tax year to the current
tax year; and
            11.   The following statement: “To obtain more information
regarding the tax increase, citizens may contact the political subdivision at
the telephone number provided in this notice”.
   (D)   (1)   After the joint public hearing required in division (C) above,
the governing body of each participating political subdivision shall pass an
ordinance or resolution to set such political subdivision’s property tax
request.
      (2)   If the political subdivision is increasing its property tax request
over the amount from the prior year, including any increase in excess of the
allowable growth percentage, then such ordinance or resolution shall include,
but not be limited to, the following information:
         (a)   The name of the political subdivision;
         (b)   The amount of the property tax request;
         (c)   The following statements:
            1.   The total assessed value of property differs from last year’s
total assessed value by        percent;
            2.   The tax rate which would levy the same amount of property
taxes as last year, when multiplied by the new total assessed value of
property, would be $       per $100 of assessed value;
            3.   The (name of political subdivision) proposes to adopt a
property tax request that will cause its tax rate to be $       per $100 of
assessed value; and
            4.   Based on the proposed property tax request and changes in
other revenue, the total operating budget of (name of political subdivision)
will exceed last year’s by       percent.
         (d)   The record vote of the governing body in passing such resolution
or ordinance.
   (E)   Any resolution or ordinance setting a property tax request under this
section shall be certified and forwarded to the County Clerk on or before
October 15 of the year for which the tax request is to apply.
   (F)   (1)   The County Clerk, or his or her designee, shall prepare a report
which shall include:
         (a)   The names of the representatives of the political subdivisions
participating in the joint public hearing; and
         (b)   The name and address of each individual who spoke at the joint
public hearing, unless the address requirement is waived to protect the
security of the individual, and the name of any organization represented by
each such individual.
      (2)   Such report shall be delivered to the political subdivisions
participating in the joint public hearing within ten days after such hearing.
(Neb. RS 77-1633)
§ 35.52 MOTOR VEHICLE FEE.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      LIMITS OF THE VILLAGE. Includes the extraterritorial zoning jurisdiction
of the village.
      PERSON. Includes bodies corporate, societies, communities, the public
generally, individuals, partnerships, limited liability companies, joint-stock
companies, cooperatives and associations. Person does not include any federal,
state or local government or any political subdivision thereof.
   (B)   (1)   Except as otherwise provided in division (D) below, the
governing body of the village shall have power to require any individual whose
primary residence or person who owns a place of business which is within the
limits of the village and that owns and operates a motor vehicle within such
limits to pay an annual motor vehicle fee and to require the payment of such
fee upon the change of ownership of such vehicle. All such fees which may be
provided for under this section shall be used exclusively for constructing,
repairing, maintaining or improving streets, roads, alleys, public ways or
parts thereof or for the amortization of bonded indebtedness when created for
such purposes.
      (2)   To ensure compatibility with the Vehicle Title and Registration
System maintained by the Department of Motor Vehicles:
         (a)   Any village that collects the annual motor vehicle fee
authorized under this section shall use the plate types listed under Neb. RS
60-3,104 and, as applicable, weight categories listed under the Motor Vehicle
Registration Act when reporting information to the Vehicle Title and
Registration System; and
         (b)   Any village that adopts an annual motor vehicle fee under this
section or that modifies an existing motor vehicle fee shall notify the
Department of Motor Vehicles of such new or modified fee within ten business
days after the passage of the ordinance authorizing such new or modified fee
and at least 60 days prior to the implementation of such new or modified fee.
   (C)   No motor vehicle fee shall be required under this section if:
      (1)   A vehicle is used or stored but temporarily in the village for a
period of six months or less in a 12-month period;
      (2)   An individual does not have a primary residence or a person does
not own a place of business within the limits of the village and does not own
and operate a motor vehicle within the limits of the village; or
      (3)   An individual is a full-time student attending a postsecondary
institution within the limits of the village and the motor vehicle’s situs
under the Motor Vehicle Certificate of Title Act, being Neb. RS 60-101 et seq.,
is different from the place at which he or she is attending such institution.
   (D)   After 12-31-2012, no motor vehicle fee shall be required of any
individual whose primary residence is or person who owns a place of business
within the extraterritorial zoning jurisdiction of the village.
   (E)   The fee shall be paid to the County Treasurer of the county in which
the village is located when the registration fees as provided in the Motor
Vehicle Registration Act are paid. These fees shall be credited by the County
Treasurer to the Road Fund of the village.
(Neb. RS 18-1214)
Statutory reference:
   Motor Vehicle Registration Act, see Neb. RS 60-301
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
51.   GARBAGE
CHAPTER 50: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
50.01   Denial of service; when prohibited
   
50.02   Utilities provided by contract
   
50.03   Diversion of services, meter tampering, unauthorized reconnection
prohibited; evidence
   
50.04   Diversion of services; civil action
 
   
50.99   Penalty
§ 50.01 DENIAL OF SERVICE; WHEN PROHIBITED.
   No applicant for the services of a public or private utility company
furnishing water, natural gas or electricity at retail in the village shall be
denied service because of unpaid bills for similar service which are not
collectible at law because of statutes of limitations or discharge in
bankruptcy proceedings.
(Neb. RS 70-1601)
§ 50.02 UTILITIES PROVIDED BY CONTRACT.
   The village does not own or operate any utilities. All utilities are
provided by contract as follows.
   (A)   Water is provided through a contract with Otoe County Rural Water #3.
   (B)   Trash service is provided through a contract with Gretna Sanitation.
   (C)   Electric is provided through a contract with Omaha Public Power
District (OPPD).
§ 50.03 DIVERSION OF SERVICES, METER TAMPERING, UNAUTHORIZED RECONNECTION
PROHIBITED; EVIDENCE.
   (A)   It is an offense for any person to do any of the following:
      (1)   To connect any instrument, device or contrivance with any wire
supplying or intended to supply electricity or electric current or to connect
any pipe or conduit supplying gas or water, without the knowledge and consent
of the supplier of such products or services, in such a manner that any portion
thereof may be supplied to any instrument by or at which electricity, electric
current, gas or water may be consumed without passing through the meter made or
provided for measuring or registering the amount or quantity thereof passing
through it;
      (2)   To knowingly use or knowingly permit the use of electricity,
electric current, gas or water obtained unlawfully pursuant to this section;
      (3)   To reconnect electrical, gas or water service without the knowledge
and consent of the supplier of such service if the service has been
disconnected pursuant to Neb. RS 70-1601 through 70-1615; or
      (4)   To willfully injure, alter or by any instrument, device or
contrivance in any manner interfere with or obstruct the action or operation of
any meter made or provided for measuring or registering the amount or quantity
of electricity, electric current, gas or water passing through it, without the
knowledge and consent of the supplier of the electricity, electric current, gas
or water passing or intended to pass through the meter.
   (B)   Proof of the existence of any wire, pipe or conduit connection or
reconnection or of any injury, alteration, interference or obstruction of a
meter is prima facie evidence of the guilt of the person in possession of the
premises where that connection, reconnection, injury, alteration, interference
or obstruction is proved to exist.
(Neb. RS 28-515.02) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.04 DIVERSION OF SERVICES; CIVIL ACTION.
   (A)   For purposes of this section, the definitions found in Neb. RS 25-
21,275 shall apply.
   (B)   (1)   A utility may bring a civil action for damages against any
person who commits, authorizes, solicits, aids, abets or attempts bypassing,
tampering or unauthorized metering when that act results in damages to the
utility. A utility may bring a civil action for damages pursuant to this
section against any person receiving the benefit of utility service through
means of bypassing, tampering or unauthorized metering.
      (2)   In any civil action brought pursuant to this section, the utility
shall be entitled, upon proof of willful or intentional bypassing, tampering or
unauthorized metering, to recover as damages:
         (a)   The amount of actual damage or loss if the amount of the damage
or loss is susceptible of reasonable calculation; or
         (b)   Liquidated damages of $750 if the amount of actual damage or
loss is not susceptible of reasonable calculation.
      (3)   In addition to damage or loss under divisions (B)(2)(a) or (B)(2)
(b) above, the utility may recover all reasonable expenses and costs incurred
on account of the bypassing, tampering or unauthorized metering including, but
not limited to, disconnection, reconnection, service calls, equipment, costs of
the suit and reasonable attorneys’ fees in cases within the scope of Neb. RS
25-1801.
(Neb. RS 25-21,276)
   (C)   (1)   There shall be a rebuttable presumption that a tenant or
occupant at any premises where bypassing, tampering or unauthorized metering is
proven to exist caused or had knowledge of that bypassing, tampering or
unauthorized metering if the tenant or occupant had access to the part of the
utility supply system on the premises where the bypassing, tampering or
unauthorized metering is proven to exist and was responsible or partially
responsible for payment, either directly or indirectly, to the utility or to
any other person for utility services to the premises.
      (2)   There shall be a rebuttable presumption that a customer at any
premises where bypassing, tampering or unauthorized metering is proven to exist
caused or had knowledge of that bypassing, tampering or unauthorized metering
if the customer controlled access to the part of the utility supply system on
the premises where the bypassing, tampering or unauthorized metering was proven
to exist.
(Neb. RS 25-21,277)
   (D)   The remedies provided by this section shall be deemed to be
supplemental and additional to powers conferred by existing laws. The remedies
provided in this section are in addition to and not in limitation of any other
civil or criminal statutory or common-law remedies.
(Neb. RS 25-21,278)
Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.99 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm, association or corporation violating any of the provisions
of this Title V for which no other penalty is imposed shall, upon conviction,
be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and be fined in an amount of not more than
$500. Each day’s maintenance of the same shall constitute a separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 6-301)
CHAPTER 51: GARBAGE
Section
   
51.01   Dumping prohibited
   
51.02   Garbage collection; contract; regulations
§ 51.01 DUMPING PROHIBITED.
   It is hereby unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to dump garbage,
refuse, tin cans, other food receptacles or papers anywhere within the village,
other than for the purposes of pickup and disposal by the regularly authorized
person, firm or corporation hired for such purpose.
(Prior Code, § 6-201) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 51.02 GARBAGE COLLECTION; CONTRACT; REGULATIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to engage in
the business of collecting, hauling or transporting refuse, garbage, trash or
rubbish in the village without first obtaining approval and a contract from the
Village Board to engage in such business. All provisions and regulations of
this section shall be complied with before such approval and contract shall be
issued.
   (B)   All persons, firms or corporation applying for permits to engage in
the business of collecting, hauling or transporting refuse, garbage, trash or
rubbish shall provide satisfactory proof that they own or have continuing
access and dumping rights to appropriate landfill disposal sites or processing
facilities as hereinafter required for the deposit therein of matter collected,
transported or hauled, and the manner of collection must comply with all legal
requirements. All refuse or matter which consists in whole or in part of
garbage shall be disposed of only in a legal landfill site or legal
incinerator. Refuse or matter which contains no garbage shall be disposed of in
a legal dump, a legal landfill site or legal incinerator.
   (C)   As used herein, the term LEGAL shall mean fully approved by the
village and complying with all requirements of the Nebraska Environmental
Protection Act, as amended, and the officially adopted rules and regulations
thereunder of the Nebraska Department of Environment and Energy and the
Environmental Protection Agency, and at all times operated in accordance with
the applicable rules and regulations of the Health Department of the State of
Nebraska and the county or other political subdivision having jurisdiction over
the facility or site.
   (D)   Before any person, firm or corporation shall engage in the business of
collecting, hauling or transporting refuse, garbage, trash or rubbish, he, she
or they shall submit the equipment proposed to be used for inspection by the
Village Board. Any vehicular equipment used for the transporting of garbage,
trash, refuse or rubbish over the streets, avenues or alleys in the village
shall have attached thereto a metal body of the totally enclosed water-tight
sanitary refuse collection type. The floor shall be of such pitch and shall so
meet the sides and front so as to prevent the leakage and dripping of liquids.
The body shall be maintained clean and odor-free.
(Prior Code, § 6-202) Penalty, see §
50.99
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
71.   TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
      
72.   PARKING REGULATIONS
      
73.   RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
CHAPTER 70: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
70.01   Definitions
   
70.02   Traffic regulations; general authority
   
70.03   Regulation of highways; police powers
   
70.04   Prohibitions on operation of vehicles
   
70.05   Ordinances contrary to state law prohibited
   
70.06   Placement and maintenance of traffic-control devices
   
70.07   Enforcement of rules and laws
   
70.08   Failure or refusal to obey order
   
70.09   Obedience to traffic-control devices; exceptions
   
70.10   Authorized emergency vehicles; privileges
   
70.11   Traffic officers
 
   
70.99   Penalty
Statutory reference:
   Nebraska Rules of the Road, see Neb. RS 60-601
§ 70.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this title, the following definitions and the other
definitions in Neb. RS 60-606 through 60-676 shall apply unless the context
clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
    ALLEY. A highway intended to provide access to the rear or side of lots or
buildings and not intended for the purpose of through vehicular traffic.
(Neb. RS 60-607)
   AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLE. Such fire department vehicles, police
vehicles, rescue vehicles and ambulances as are publicly owned, such other
publicly- or privately-owned vehicles as are designated by the Director of
Motor Vehicles, and such publicly owned military vehicles of the National Guard
as are designated by the Adjutant General pursuant to Neb. RS 55-133.
(Neb. RS 60-610)
   BUSINESS DISTRICT. The territory contiguous to and including a highway when
within any 600 feet along such highway there are buildings in use for business
or industrial purposes, including, but not limited to, hotels, banks, office
buildings, railroad stations or public buildings which occupy at least 300 feet
of frontage on one side or 300 feet collectively on both sides of a highway.
(Neb. RS 60-613)
   HIGHWAY. The entire width between the boundary limits of any street, road,
avenue, boulevard or way which is publicly maintained when any part thereof is
open to the use of the public for purposes of vehicular travel.
(Neb. RS 60-624)
   MANUAL. The Manual on Uniform Traffic-Control Devices, adopted by the
Department of Transportation pursuant to Neb. RS 60-6,118.
(Neb. RS 60-631)
   MOTOR VEHICLE. Every self-propelled land vehicle, not operated upon rails,
except bicycles, mopeds, self-propelled chairs used by persons who are disabled
and electric personal assistive mobility devices.
(Neb. RS 60-638)
   PEACE OFFICER. The Village Marshal or other chief law enforcement official,
any village police officer or any other person authorized to enforce village
ordinances. With respect to directing traffic only, PEACE OFFICER shall also
include any person authorized to direct or regulate traffic.
(Neb. RS 60-646)
   RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT. The territory contiguous to and including a highway
not comprising a business district when the property on such highway for a
distance of 300 feet or more is in the main improved with residences or
residences and buildings in use for business.
(Neb. RS 60-654)
   ROADWAY. The portion of a highway improved, designed or ordinarily used for
vehicular travel, exclusive of the berm or shoulder. If a highway includes two
or more separate roadways, the term ROADWAY shall refer to any such roadway
separately but not to all such roadways collectively.
(Neb. RS 60-656)
   SCHOOL CROSSING ZONE. The area of a roadway designated to the public by the
Board of Trustees as a school crossing zone through the use of a sign or
traffic-control device as specified by the Board in conformity with the Manual
but does not include any area of a freeway. A SCHOOL CROSSING ZONE starts at
the location of the first sign or traffic-control device identifying the school
crossing zone and continues until a sign or traffic-control device indicates
that the school crossing zone has ended.
(Neb. RS 60-658.01)
   SHOULDER. The part of the highway contiguous to the roadway and designed for
the accommodation of stopped vehicles, for emergency use, and for lateral
support of the base and surface courses of the roadway.
(Neb. RS 60-661)
   TRAFFIC. Pedestrians, ridden or herded animals, and vehicles and other
conveyances either singly or together while using any highway for purposes of
travel.
(Neb. RS 60-669)
   TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICE. Any sign, signal, marking or other device not
inconsistent with the Nebraska Rules of the Road placed or erected by authority
of the Board of Trustees or any official having jurisdiction for the purpose of
regulating, warning or guiding traffic.
(Neb. RS 60-670)
   TRAFFIC-CONTROL SIGNAL. Any signal, whether manually, electrically or
mechanically operated, by which traffic is alternately directed to stop and
permitted to proceed.
(Neb. RS 60-671)
   TRAFFIC INFRACTION. The violation of any provision of the Nebraska Rules of
the Road or of any law, ordinance, order, rule or regulation regulating traffic
which is not otherwise declared to be a misdemeanor or a felony or, in this
title, an offense.
(Neb. RS 60-672)
   VEHICLE. Every device in, upon or by which any person or property is or may
be transported or drawn upon a highway, except devices moved solely by human
power or used exclusively upon stationary rails or tracks.
(Neb. RS 60-676)
§ 70.02 TRAFFIC REGULATIONS; GENERAL AUTHORITY.
   (A)   The Board of Trustees may, in its jurisdiction, enact regulations
permitting, prohibiting and controlling the use of motor vehicles, minibikes,
motorcycles, off-road recreation vehicles of any and all types, other powered
vehicles, electric personal assistive mobility devices, and vehicles which are
not self-propelled. Any person who operates any of such vehicles without the
permission of the Board or its designated representative or in a place, time or
manner which has been prohibited by the Board shall be guilty of an offense.
   (B)   The Board may further authorize the supervising official of any area
under its ownership or control to permit, control, or prohibit operation of any
motor vehicle, minibike, motorcycle, off-road recreational vehicle of any or
all types, other powered vehicle, electric personal assistive mobility device
or vehicle which is not self-propelled on all or any portion of any area under
its ownership or control at any time by posting or, in case of an emergency, by
personal notice. Any person operating any such vehicle where prohibited, where
not permitted, or in a manner so as to endanger the peace and safety of the
public or as to harm or destroy the natural features or human-made features of
any such area shall be guilty of an offense.
(Neb. RS 60-678) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.03 REGULATION OF HIGHWAYS; POLICE POWERS.
   (A)   The Board of Trustees with respect to highways under its jurisdiction
and within the reasonable exercise of the police power may:
      (1)   Regulate or prohibit stopping, standing or parking;
      (2)   Regulate traffic by means of peace officers or traffic-control
devices;
      (3)   Regulate or prohibit processions or assemblages on the highways;
      (4)   Designate highways or roadways for use by traffic moving in one
direction;
      (5)   Establish speed limits for vehicles in public parks;
      (6)   Designate any highway as a through highway or designate any
intersection as a stop or yield intersection;
      (7)   Restrict the use of highways as authorized in §
70.04 of this chapter;
      (8)   Regulate operation of bicycles and require registration and
inspection of such, including requirement of a registration fee;
      (9)   Regulate operation of electric personal assistive mobility devices;
      (10)   Regulate or prohibit the turning of vehicles or specified types of
vehicles;
      (11)   Alter or establish speed limits authorized in the Nebraska Rules
of the Road;
      (12)   Designate no-passing zones;
      (13)   Prohibit or regulate use of controlled-access highways by any
class or kind of traffic except those highways which are a part of the state
highway system;
      (14)   Prohibit or regulate use of heavily traveled highways by any class
or kind of traffic it finds to be incompatible with the normal and safe
movement of traffic; except that, such regulations shall not be effective on
any highway which is part of the state highway system unless authorized by the
Department of Transportation;
      (15)   Establish minimum speed limits as authorized in the Rules;
      (16)   Designate hazardous railroad grade crossings as authorized in the
Rules;
      (17)   Designate and regulate traffic on play streets;
      (18)   Prohibit pedestrians from crossing a roadway in a business
district or any designated highway, except in a crosswalk as authorized in the
Rules;
      (19)   Restrict pedestrian crossings at unmarked crosswalks as authorized
in the Rules;
      (20)   Regulate persons propelling push carts;
      (21)   Regulate persons upon skates, coasters, sleds and other toy
vehicles;
      (22)   Notwithstanding any other provision of law, adopt and enforce an
ordinance or resolution prohibiting the use of engine brakes on the National
System of Interstate and Defense Highways that has a grade of less than five
degrees within its jurisdiction. An ENGINE BRAKE is a device that converts a
power producing engine into a power-absorbing air compressor, resulting in a
net energy loss;
      (23)   Adopt and enforce such temporary or experimental regulations as
may be necessary to cover emergencies or special conditions; and
      (24)   Adopt other traffic regulations, except as prohibited by state law
or contrary to state law.
   (B)   The Board of Trustees shall not erect or maintain any traffic-control
device at any location so as to require the traffic on any state highway or
state-maintained freeway to stop before entering or crossing any intersecting
highway unless approval in writing has first been obtained from the Department
of Transportation.
   (C)   No ordinance or regulation enacted under divisions (A)(4), (A)(5), (A)
(6), (A)(7), (A)(10), (A)(11), (A)(12), (A)(13), (A)(14), (A)(16), (A)(17) or
(A)(19) above shall be effective until traffic- control devices giving notice
of such local traffic regulations are erected upon or at the entrances to such
affected highway or part thereof affected as may be most appropriate.
(Neb. RS 60-680)
§ 70.04 PROHIBITIONS ON OPERATION OF VEHICLES.
   (A)   The Board of Trustees may by ordinance or resolution prohibit the
operation of vehicles upon any highway or impose restrictions as to the weight
of vehicles, for a total period not to exceed 180 days in any one calendar
year, when operated upon any highway under the jurisdiction of and for the
maintenance of which the Board is responsible whenever any such highway by
reason of deterioration, rain, snow or other climatic condition will be
seriously damaged or destroyed unless the use of vehicles thereon is prohibited
or the permissible weight thereof reduced. The Board shall erect or cause to be
erected and maintained signs designating the provisions of the ordinance or
resolution at each end of that portion of any highway affected thereby, and the
ordinance or resolution shall not be effective until such signs are erected and
maintained.
   (B)   The Board may also, by ordinance or resolution, prohibit the operation
of trucks or other commercial vehicles or impose limitations as to the weight
thereof on designated highways, which prohibitions and limitations shall be
designated by appropriate signs placed on such highways.
(Neb. RS 60-681)
§ 70.05 ORDINANCES CONTRARY TO STATE LAW PROHIBITED.
   The Board of Trustees shall not enact or enforce any ordinance directly
contrary to the Nebraska Rules of the Road unless expressly authorized by the
Legislature.
(Neb. RS 60-6,108)
§ 70.06 PLACEMENT AND MAINTENANCE OF TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES.
   The Board of Trustees shall place and maintain such traffic-control devices
upon highways under its jurisdiction as it deems necessary to indicate and to
carry out the provisions of this title or to regulate, warn or guide traffic.
All such traffic-control devices erected pursuant to this title shall conform
with the Manual.
(Neb. RS 60-6,121)
§ 70.07 ENFORCEMENT OF RULES AND LAWS.
   (A)   All peace officers are hereby specifically directed and authorized and
it shall be deemed and considered a part of the official duties of each of such
officers to enforce the provisions of Nebraska Rules of the Road and this
title, including the specific enforcement of maximum speed limits, and any
other state or village law regulating the operation of vehicles or the use of
the highways.
   (B)   To perform the official duties imposed by this section, peace officers
shall have the power:
      (1)   To make arrests upon view and without warrant for any violation
committed in their presence of any of the provisions of the Motor Vehicle
Operator’s License Act or this title or of any other law regulating the
operation of vehicles or the use of the highways, if and when designated or
called upon to do so as provided by law;
      (2)   To make arrests upon view and without warrant for any violation
committed in their presence of any provision of the laws of the state relating
to misdemeanors or felonies or of similar village ordinances if and when
designated or called upon to do so as provided by law;
      (3)   At all times to direct all traffic in conformity with law or, in
the event of a fire or other emergency or in order to expedite traffic or
ensure safety, to direct traffic as conditions may require;
      (4)   When in uniform, to require the driver of a vehicle to stop and
exhibit his or her operator’s license and registration certificate issued for
the vehicle and submit to an inspection of such vehicle and the license plates
and registration certificate for the vehicle and to require the driver of a
motor vehicle to present the vehicle within five days for correction of any
defects revealed by such motor vehicle inspection as may lead the inspecting
officer to reasonably believe that such motor vehicle is being operated in
violation of the statutes of Nebraska, the rules and regulations of the
Director of Motor Vehicles, or any village ordinance or regulation;
      (5)   To inspect any vehicle of a type required to be registered
according to law in any public garage or repair shop or in any place where such
a vehicle is held for sale or wrecking;
      (6)   To serve warrants relating to the enforcement of the laws
regulating the operation of vehicles or the use of the highways; and
      (7)   To investigate traffic accidents for the purpose of carrying on a
study of traffic accidents and enforcing motor vehicle and highway safety laws.
(Neb. RS 60-683)
Statutory reference:
   Motor Vehicle Operator’s License Act, see Neb. RS 60-462
§ 70.08 FAILURE OR REFUSAL TO OBEY ORDER.
   (A)   Any person who knowingly fails or refuses to obey any lawful order of
any peace officer who is controlling or directing traffic shall be guilty of a
traffic infraction.
   (B)   Any person who knowingly fails to obey any lawful order of a peace
officer shall be guilty of an offense whenever such order is given in
furtherance of the apprehension of a person who has violated the Nebraska Rules
of the Road or this title or of a person whom such officer reasonably believes
has violated the Rules or this title.
(Neb. RS 60-6,110) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.09 OBEDIENCE TO TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES; EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   The driver of any vehicle shall obey the instructions of any traffic-
control device applicable thereto placed in accordance with the Nebraska Rules
of the Road or this title, unless otherwise directed by a peace officer,
subject to the exceptions granted the driver of an authorized emergency vehicle
in the Rules and this title.
   (B)   No provision of the Rules or this title for which traffic-control
devices are required shall be enforced against an alleged violator if at the
time and place of the alleged violation an official device is not in proper
position and sufficiently legible to be seen by a reasonably observant person.
Whenever any provision of the Rules or this title does not state that traffic-
control devices are required, such provision shall be effective even though no
devices are erected or in place.
   (C)   Whenever traffic-control devices are placed in position approximately
conforming to the requirements of the Rules or this title, such devices shall
be presumed to have been so placed by the official act or direction of lawful
authority unless the contrary is established by competent evidence.
   (D)   Any traffic-control device placed pursuant to the Rules or this title
and purporting to conform with the lawful requirements pertaining to such
devices shall be presumed to comply with the requirements of the Rules or this
title unless the contrary is established by competent evidence.
(Neb. RS 60-6,119) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.10 AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLES; PRIVILEGES.
   (A)   Subject to the conditions stated in the Nebraska Rules of the Road and
this title, the driver of an authorized emergency vehicle, when responding to
an emergency call, when pursuing an actual or suspected violator of the law, or
when responding to but not when returning from a fire alarm, may:
      (1)   Stop, park or stand, irrespective of the provisions of the Rules
and this title, and disregard regulations governing direction of movement or
turning in specified directions; and
      (2)   Except for wreckers towing disabled vehicles and highway
maintenance vehicles and equipment:
         (a)   Proceed past a steady red indication, a flashing red indication
or a stop sign, but only after slowing down as may be necessary for safe
operation; and
         (b)   Exceed the maximum speed limits so long as he or she does not
endanger life, limb or property.
   (B)   Except when operated as a police vehicle, the exemptions granted in
division (A) above shall apply only when the driver of such vehicle, while in
motion, sounds an audible signal by bell, siren or exhaust whistle as may be
reasonably necessary and when such vehicle is equipped with at least one
lighted light displaying a red light visible under normal atmospheric
conditions from a distance of 500 feet to the front of such vehicle.
   (C)   The exemptions granted in division (A) above shall not relieve the
driver from the duty to drive with due regard for the safety of all persons,
nor shall such provisions protect such driver from the consequences of his or
her reckless disregard for the safety of others.
   (D)   Authorized emergency vehicles operated by police and fire departments
shall not be subject to the size and weight limitations of Neb. RS 60-6,288 to
60-6,290 and 60-6,294.
(Neb. RS 60-6,114)
§ 70.11 TRAFFIC OFFICERS.
   The Board of Trustees or the village police may at any time detail officers,
to be known as “traffic officers”, at street intersections. All traffic
officers shall be vested with the authority to regulate and control traffic at
the intersections to which they are assigned. It shall be their duty to direct
the movement of traffic and prevent congestion and accidents. It shall be
unlawful for any person to violate any order or signal of any such traffic
officer notwithstanding the directive of a stop sign or signal device that may
have been placed at any such intersection.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Unless otherwise declared in this title with respect to particular
offenses, a violation of any provision of this title shall constitute a traffic
infraction.
(Neb. RS 60-682)
   (B)   Any person who is found guilty of a traffic infraction in violation of
this title for which a penalty has not been specifically provided shall be
fined:
      (1)   Not more than $100 for the first offense;
      (2)   Not more than $200 for a second offense within a one-year period;
and
      (3)   Not more than $300 for a third and subsequent offense within a one-
year period.
(Neb. RS 60-689)
Statutory reference:
   Other provisions on traffic infractions, see Neb. RS 60-684 through 60-
694.01
CHAPTER 71: TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
71.01   Restrictions on direction of travel
   
71.02   Right-of-way; stop and yield signs
   
71.03   Interference with traffic-control devices or railroad signs or signals
   
71.04   Signs, markers, devices or notices; prohibited acts
   
71.05   Tire requirements and prohibitions; permissive uses
Speed Limits
   
71.20   Basic rule
   
71.21   Maximum limits
   
71.22   Bridges and other elevated structures
   
71.23   Alternative maximum limits
   
71.24   Near schools
 
   
71.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 71.01 RESTRICTIONS ON DIRECTION OF TRAVEL.
   (A)   The Board of Trustees with respect to highways under its jurisdiction
may designate any highway, roadway, part of a roadway or specific lanes upon
which vehicular traffic shall proceed in one direction at all times or at such
times as shall be indicated by traffic-control devices.
   (B)   Except for emergency vehicles, no vehicle shall be operated, backed,
pushed or otherwise caused to move in a direction which is opposite to the
direction designated by competent authority on any deceleration lane,
acceleration lane, access ramp, shoulder or roadway.
   (C)   A vehicle which passes around a roundabout shall be driven only to the
right of the central island while on the circulatory roadway in such a
roundabout.
(Neb. RS 60-6,138)
§ 71.02 RIGHT-OF-WAY; STOP AND YIELD SIGNS.
   (A)   The Board of Trustees may provide for preferential right-of-way at an
intersection and indicate such by stop signs or yield signs erected by such
authorities.
   (B)   Except when directed to proceed by a peace officer or traffic-control
signal, every driver of a vehicle approaching an intersection where a stop is
indicated by a stop sign shall stop at a clearly marked stop line or shall
stop, if there is no such line, before entering the crosswalk on the near side
of the intersection or, if no crosswalk is indicated, at the point nearest the
intersecting roadway where the driver has a view of approaching traffic on the
intersecting roadway before entering the intersection. After having stopped,
such driver shall yield the right-of-way to any vehicle which has entered the
intersection from another highway or which is approaching so closely on such
highway as to constitute an immediate hazard if such driver moved across or
into such intersection.
   (C)   The driver of a vehicle approaching a yield sign shall slow to a speed
reasonable under the existing conditions and, if required for safety to stop,
shall stop at a clearly marked stop line or shall stop, if there is no such
line, before entering the crosswalk on the near side of the intersection or, if
no crosswalk is indicated, at the point nearest the intersecting roadway where
the driver has a view of approaching traffic on the intersecting roadway. After
slowing or stopping, such driver shall yield the right-of-way to any vehicle in
the intersection or approaching on another highway so closely as to constitute
an immediate hazard if such driver moved across or into such intersection.
(Neb. RS 60-6,148) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.03 INTERFERENCE WITH TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES OR RAILROAD SIGNS OR SIGNALS.
   No person shall, without lawful authority, attempt to or in fact alter,
deface, injure, knock down or remove any traffic-control device, any railroad
sign or signal, or any part of such a device, sign or signal.
(Neb. RS 60-6,129) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.04 SIGNS, MARKERS, DEVICES OR NOTICES; PROHIBITED ACTS.
   (A)   Any person who willfully or maliciously shoots upon the public highway
and injures, defaces, damages or destroys any signs, monuments, road markers,
traffic-control devices, traffic surveillance devices or other public notices
lawfully placed upon such highways shall be guilty of an offense.
   (B)   No person shall willfully or maliciously injure, deface, alter or
knock down any sign, traffic- control device or traffic surveillance device.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person, other than a duly authorized
representative of the Department of Transportation, the county or the village,
to remove any sign, traffic-control device or traffic surveillance device
placed along a highway for traffic-control, warning or informational purposes
by official action of the department, county or village. It shall be unlawful
for any person to possess a sign or device which has been removed in violation
of this division (C).
   (D)   Any person violating divisions (B) or (C) above shall be guilty of an
offense and shall be assessed liquidated damages in the amount of the value of
the sign, traffic-control device or traffic surveillance device and the cost of
replacing it.
(Neb. RS 60-6,130) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.05 TIRE REQUIREMENTS AND PROHIBITIONS; PERMISSIVE USES.
   (A)   Every solid rubber tire on a vehicle moved on any highway shall have
rubber on its entire traction surface at least one-inch thick above the edge of
the flange of the entire periphery.
   (B)   No tire on a vehicle moved on a highway shall have on its periphery
any clock, stud, flange, cleat or spike or any other protuberance of any
material other than rubber which projects beyond the tread of the traction
surface of the tire; except that:
      (1)   This prohibition shall not apply to pneumatic tires with metal or
metal-type studs not exceeding 5/16 of an inch in diameter inclusive of the
stud-casing with an average protrusion beyond the tread surface of not more
than 7/64 of an inch between November 1 and April 1, except that school buses,
mail carrier vehicles, and emergency vehicles shall be permitted to use metal
or metal-type studs at any time during the year;
      (2)   It shall be permissible to use farm machinery with tires having
protuberances which will not injure the highway; and
      (3)   It shall be permissible to use tire chains of reasonable
proportions upon any vehicle when required for safety because of snow, ice or
other condition tending to cause a vehicle to slide or skid.
   (C)   (1)   No person shall operate or move on any highway any motor
vehicle, trailer or semitrailer:
         (a)   Having any metal tire in contact with the roadway; or
         (b)   Equipped with solid rubber tires.
      (2)   Division (C)(1) above shall not apply to farm vehicles having a
gross weight of 10,000 pounds or less or to implements of husbandry.
   (D)   The village may, in its discretion, issue special permits authorizing
the operation upon a highway of traction engines or tractors having movable
tracks with transverse corrugations upon the periphery of such movable tracks
or farm tractors or other farm machinery.
(Neb. RS 60-6,250)
Statutory reference:
   Rubber tired cranes, see Neb. RS 60-6,288
SPEED LIMITS
§ 71.20 BASIC RULE.
   (A)   No person shall drive a vehicle on a highway at a speed greater than
is reasonable and prudent under the conditions and having regard to the actual
and potential hazards then existing.
   (B)   A person shall drive at a safe and appropriate speed when approaching
and crossing an intersection or railroad grade crossing, when approaching and
going around a curve, when approaching a hillcrest, when traveling upon any
narrow or winding roadway, and when special hazards exist with respect to
pedestrians or other traffic or by reason of weather or highway conditions.
(Neb. RS 60-6,185) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.21 MAXIMUM LIMITS.
   (A)   Except when a special hazard exists that requires lower speed for
compliance with §
71.20 of this chapter, the limits set forth in this section and Neb. RS 60-
6,187, 60-6,188, 60-6,305 and 60-6,313 shall be the maximum lawful speeds
unless reduced pursuant to division (B) below, and no person shall drive a
vehicle on a highway at a speed in excess of such maximum limits:
      (1)   Twenty-five mph in any residential district;
      (2)   Twenty mph in any business district;
      (3)   Fifty mph upon any highway that is gravel or not dustless surfaced;
      (4)   Fifty-five mph upon any dustless-surfaced highway not a part of the
state highway system;
      (5)   Sixty-five mph upon any four-lane divided highway not a part of the
state highway system; or
      (6)   Sixty-five mph upon any part of the state highway system other than
an expressway, a super-two highway or a freeway.
   (B)   The maximum speed limits established in division (A) above may be
reduced by the Department of Transportation or the Board of Trustees pursuant
to §
71.23 of this chapter or Neb. RS 60-6,188.
   (C)   The Board may erect and maintain suitable signs along highways under
its jurisdiction in such number and at such locations as it deems necessary to
give adequate notice of the speed limits established pursuant to divisions (A)
or (B) above upon such highways.
(Neb. RS 60-6,186) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.22 BRIDGES AND OTHER ELEVATED STRUCTURES.
   (A)   No person shall drive a vehicle over any public bridge, causeway,
viaduct or other elevated structure at a speed which is greater than the
maximum speed which can be maintained with safety thereon when such structure
is posted with signs as provided in division (B) below.
   (B)   The Department of Transportation or the Board of Trustees may conduct
an investigation of any bridge or other elevated structure constituting a part
of a highway under its jurisdiction and, if it finds that the structure cannot
safely withstand vehicles traveling at the speed otherwise permissible, the
Department or the Board shall determine and declare the maximum speed of
vehicles which the structure can safely withstand and shall cause suitable
signs stating the maximum speed to be erected and maintained before each end of
the structure.
   (C)   Upon the trial of any person charged with a violation of division (A)
above, proof of the determination of the maximum speed by the Department or the
Board and the existence of such signs shall constitute conclusive evidence of
the maximum speed which can be maintained with safety on the bridge or
structure.
(Neb. RS 60-6,189) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.23 ALTERNATIVE MAXIMUM LIMITS.
   (A)   Whenever the Department of Transportation determines, upon the basis
of an engineering and traffic investigation, that any maximum speed limit is
greater or less than is reasonable or safe under the conditions found to exist
at any intersection, place or part of the state highway system outside of the
corporate limits of cities and villages as well as inside the corporate limits
of cities and villages on freeways which are part of the state highway system,
it may determine and set a reasonable and safe maximum speed limit for such
intersection, place or part of such highway which shall be the lawful speed
limit when appropriate signs giving notice thereof are erected at such
intersection, place or part of the highway; except that, the maximum rural and
freeway limits shall not be exceeded. Such a maximum speed limit may be set to
be effective at all times or at such times as are indicated upon such signs.
   (B)   On all highways within its corporate limits, except on state-
maintained freeways which are part of the state highway system, the Board of
Trustees shall have the same power and duty to alter the maximum speed limits
as the Department if the change is based on engineering and traffic
investigation; except that, no imposition of speed limits on highways which are
part of the state highway system in the village shall be effective without the
approval of the Department.
   (C)   Not more than six such speed limits shall be set per mile along a
highway, except in the case of reduced limits at intersections, and the
difference between adjacent limits shall not be more than 20 mph.
   (D)   When the Department or the Board determines by an investigation that
certain vehicles in addition to those specified in Neb. RS 60-6,187, 60-6,305
and 60-6,313 cannot with safety travel at the speeds provided in §§
71.21 and
71.22 of this chapter and Neb. RS 60-6,187, 60-6,305 and 60-6,313 or set
pursuant to this section, §
71.22 of this chapter or Neb. RS 60-6,188, the Department or the Board may
restrict the speed limit for such vehicles on highways under its respective
jurisdiction and post proper and adequate signs.
(Neb. RS 60-6,190)
§ 71.24 NEAR SCHOOLS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the driver of any vehicle, when passing
premises on which school buildings are located and which are used for school
purposes, during school recess or while children are going to or leaving school
during the opening or closing hours, to drive the vehicle at a rate of speed in
excess of 15 mph past the premises.
   (B)   The driver shall stop at all stop signs located at or near such school
premises, and it shall be unlawful for the driver to make a U-turn at any
intersection where such stop signs are located at or near such school premises.
Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who operates a vehicle in violation of any maximum speed
limit established for any highway or freeway is guilty of a traffic infraction
and, upon conviction, shall be fined:
      (1)   Ten dollars for traveling one to five mph over the authorized speed
limit;
      (2)   Twenty-five dollars for traveling over five mph, but not over ten
mph, over the authorized speed limit;
      (3)   Seventy-five dollars for traveling over ten mph, but not over 15
mph, over the authorized speed limit;
      (4)   One hundred twenty-five dollars for traveling over 15 mph, but not
over 20 mph, over the authorized speed limit;
      (5)   Two hundred dollars for traveling over 20 mph, but not over 35 mph,
over the authorized speed limit; and
      (6)   Three hundred dollars for traveling over 35 mph over the authorized
speed limit.
   (B)   (1)   The fines prescribed in division (A) above shall be doubled if
the violation occurs within a maintenance, repair or construction zone
established pursuant to Neb. RS 60-6,188.
      (2)   (a)   For the purpose of this division (B), the following
definition shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
            MAINTENANCE, REPAIR OR CONSTRUCTION ZONE.
               a.   The portion of a highway identified by posted or moving
signs as being under maintenance, repair or construction; or
               b.   The portion of a highway identified by maintenance, repair
or construction zone speed limit signs displayed pursuant to Neb. RS 60-6,188;
and
               c.   Within such portion of a highway where road construction
workers are present.
         (b)   The maintenance, repair or construction zone starts at the
location of the first sign identifying the maintenance, repair or construction
zone and continues until a posted or moving sign indicates that the
maintenance, repair or construction zone has ended.
   (C)   The fines prescribed in division (A) above shall be doubled if the
violation occurs within a school crossing zone.
(Neb. RS 60-682.01)
CHAPTER 72: PARKING REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
72.01   Regulation or prohibition authorized
   
72.02   Roadway outside business or residential district
   
72.03   General prohibitions; exceptions
   
72.04   Obstructing street, intersection or entrance
   
72.05   Intersections
   
72.06   Alleys
   
72.07   Truck parking, loading and unloading
   
72.08   Display or repair of vehicle
   
72.09   Current registration
   
72.10   Time limits
   
72.11   Snow; weather emergencies; highway maintenance
   
72.12   Parallel, angle and center parking
   
72.13   Backing freight vehicle to curb
   
72.14   Unattended motor vehicle
   
72.15   Painting of curbs
Handicapped or Disabled Parking Provisions
   
72.30   Definitions
   
72.31   Designation of on-street parking spaces; display of permits
   
72.32   Designation of off-street parking stalls or spaces
   
72.33   Permit issuance to a person
   
72.34   Permit issuance to a motor vehicle
   
72.35   Prohibited permit issuance
   
72.36   Permit contents; duplicate permits
   
72.37   Permit validity period; renewal
   
72.38   Permits non-transferable; violations; suspension
   
72.39   Removal of unauthorized vehicles
   
72.40   Citation issuance; complaint; trial; dismissal
Administration and Enforcement
   
72.55   Tickets
   
72.56   Removal of illegally stopped vehicles; liability for costs
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 72.01 REGULATION OR PROHIBITION AUTHORIZED.
   (A)   The Board of Trustees, with respect to highways under its jurisdiction
and within the reasonable exercise of the police power, may regulate or
prohibit stopping, standing or parking.
(Neb. RS 60-680)
   (B)   If the Board regulates or prohibits stopping, standing or parking all
vehicles or a particular kind or class of vehicles on a highway or a portion of
a highway, no person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle subject to such
regulation or prohibition on the highway or portion thereof longer than a
period of time necessary to load and unload freight or passengers.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.02 ROADWAY OUTSIDE BUSINESS OR RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT.
   (A)   No person shall stop, park or leave standing any vehicle, whether
attended or unattended, upon a roadway outside of a business or residential
district when it is practicable to stop, park or leave such vehicle off such
part of a highway, but in any event an unobstructed width of the roadway
opposite a standing vehicle shall be left for the free passage of other
vehicles and a clear view of such stopped vehicle shall be available from a
distance of 200 feet in each direction upon such highway. Such parking,
stopping or standing shall in no event exceed 24 hours.
   (B)   No person shall stop, park or leave standing any vehicle on a freeway,
except in areas designated or unless so directed by a peace officer; except
that, when a vehicle is disabled or inoperable or the driver of the vehicle is
ill or incapacitated, such vehicle shall be permitted to park, stop or stand on
the shoulder facing in the direction of travel with all wheels and projecting
parts of such vehicle completely clear of the traveled lanes, but in no event
shall such parking, standing or stopping upon the shoulder of a freeway exceed
12 hours.
   (C)   No person, except law enforcement, fire department, emergency
management, public or private ambulance or authorized Department of
Transportation or local authority personnel, shall loiter or stand or park any
vehicle upon any bridge, highway or structure which is located above or below
or crosses over or under the roadway of any highway or approach or exit road
thereto.
   (D)   Whenever a vehicle is disabled or inoperable in a roadway or for any
reason obstructs the regular flow of traffic for reasons other than an
accident, the driver shall move or cause the vehicle to be moved as soon as
practical so as to not obstruct the regular flow of traffic.
   (E)   This section does not apply to the driver of any vehicle which is
disabled while on the roadway in such manner and to such extent that it is
impossible to avoid stopping and temporarily leaving such disabled vehicle in
such position until such time as it can be removed pursuant to division (D)
above.
(Neb. RS 60-6,164) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.03 GENERAL PROHIBITIONS; EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   Except when necessary to avoid conflict with other traffic or when in
compliance with law or the directions of a peace officer or traffic-control
device, no person shall:
      (1)   Stop, stand or park any vehicle:
         (a)   On the roadway side of any vehicle stopped or parked at the edge
or curb of a street;
         (b)   On a sidewalk;
         (c)   Within an intersection;
         (d)   On a crosswalk;
         (e)   Between a safety zone and the adjacent curb or within 30 feet of
points on the curb immediately opposite the ends of a safety zone unless the
Board of Trustees indicates a different length by signs or markings;
         (f)   Alongside or opposite any street excavation or obstruction when
stopping, standing or parking would obstruct traffic;
         (g)   Upon any bridge or other elevated structure over a highway or
within a highway tunnel;
         (h)   On any railroad track; or
         (i)   At any place where official signs prohibit stopping.
      (2)   Stand or park a vehicle, whether occupied or not, except
momentarily to pick up or discharge a passenger or passengers:
         (a)   In front of a public or private driveway;
         (b)   Within 15 feet of a fire hydrant;
         (c)   Within 20 feet of a crosswalk at an intersection;
         (d)   Within 30 feet of any flashing signal, stop sign, yield sign or
other traffic-control device located at the side of a roadway;
         (e)   Within 20 feet of the driveway entrance to any fire station and
on the side of a street opposite the entrance to any fire station within 75
feet of such entrance when properly signposted; or
         (f)   At any place where official signs prohibit standing.
      (3)   Park a vehicle, whether occupied or not, except temporarily for the
purpose of and while actually engaged in loading or unloading merchandise or
passengers:
         (a)   Within 50 feet of the nearest rail of a railroad crossing; or
         (b)   At any place where official signs prohibit parking.
   (B)   No person shall move a vehicle not lawfully under his or her control
into any such prohibited area or away from a curb such a distance as shall be
unlawful.
(Neb. RS 60-6,166) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.04 OBSTRUCTING STREET, INTERSECTION OR ENTRANCE.
   No person shall, except in case of an accident or emergency, stop any
vehicle in any location where stopping will obstruct any street, intersection
or entrance to an alley or public or private drive.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.05 INTERSECTIONS.
   Except when necessary to avoid conflict with other traffic or when in
compliance with law or the directions of a peace officer or traffic-control
device, no person shall park a vehicle or leave a vehicle standing for any
purpose, except momentarily to load or discharge passengers, within 25 feet of
the intersection of curb lines or, if none, then within 15 feet of the
intersection of property lines, or where the curb lines are painted red or
another color specified by the Board of Trustees to indicate such prohibition.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.06 ALLEYS.
   (A)   No person shall park a vehicle with any portion thereof projecting
into any alley entrance.
   (B)   No person shall park a vehicle in any alley, except for the purpose of
loading or unloading during the time necessary to load or unload, which shall
not exceed the maximum limit of one-half hour. Every vehicle while loading or
unloading in an alley shall be parked in such manner as will cause the least
obstruction possible to traffic in the alley.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.07 TRUCK PARKING, LOADING AND UNLOADING.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any truck with an overall
length of more than 20 feet to park or stop such vehicle on a street within the
business district except to load or unload when loading or unloading in an
alley is impossible and then only for the period of time reasonably necessary
to load or unload.
   (B)   If the Board of Trustees provides truck parking areas adjoining or
adjacent to the business district, all truck operators shall use such parking
areas for all parking purposes.
   (C)   Except in an area provided for by the Board by resolution, it shall be
unlawful for the operator of any truck, including an oil tanker, to park or
stop for any period of time within the limits of any street outside the
business district, except for the purpose of loading or unloading the cargo
thereof in the ordinary course of business.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.08 DISPLAY OR REPAIR OF VEHICLE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to park upon any highway or public
place within the village any vehicle displayed for sale.
   (B)   Except when necessary due to a breakdown or other emergency, no person
shall adjust or repair, or race the motor of, any motor vehicle or motorcycle
while standing on the highways of the village.
   (C)   No person or employee connected with a garage or repair shop shall use
sidewalks or highways in the vicinity of the garage or shop for the purpose of
working on vehicles of any description.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.09 CURRENT REGISTRATION.
   It shall be unlawful to park or place on the highways or other public
property any vehicle required to be registered by the Motor Vehicle
Registration Act that is not registered in accordance with the Act.
Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Motor Vehicle Registration Act, see Neb. RS 60-301
§ 72.10 TIME LIMITS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to park a vehicle on a public street for over 24
consecutive hours, except where a different maximum time limit is posted.
   (B)   If the Board of Trustees adopts a resolution entirely prohibiting, or
fixing a time limit for, the parking and stopping of vehicles on any highway,
it is unlawful to park or stop any vehicle in such highway for a period of time
longer than fixed in the resolution.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.11 SNOW; WEATHER EMERGENCIES; HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   Unless the Board of Trustees provides otherwise, it is unlawful to
park or stand any vehicle on any highway in the village at any time within 12
hours after a snowfall of three inches or more has occurred within a 24-hour
period if the snow has not been removed within that time.
   (B)   The Chairperson of the Board of Trustees, the village police or any
other designated person may order any highway or portion thereof vacated for
weather emergencies or highway maintenance. Notice shall be given by personally
notifying the owner or operator of a vehicle parked on such highway or by
posting appropriate signs along the highway not less than four hours prior to
the time that the vacation order is to be effective. It is unlawful to park a
vehicle on a highway or portion thereof vacated in accordance with this
division (B).
   (C)   A vehicle parked in violation of this section may be removed and
parked, under the supervision of the village police, to a suitable nearby
location without further notice to the owner or operator of such vehicle.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.12 PARALLEL, ANGLE AND CENTER PARKING.
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided in this section, any vehicle stopped or
parked upon a two-way roadway where parking is permitted shall be so stopped or
parked with the right-hand wheels parallel to and within 12 inches of the
right-hand curb or edge of such roadway. No vehicle shall be parked upon a
roadway when there is a shoulder adjacent to the roadway which is available for
parking.
   (B)   Except when otherwise provided by the Board of Trustees, every vehicle
stopped or parked upon a one-way roadway shall be so stopped or parked parallel
to the curb or edge of such roadway, in the direction of authorized traffic
movement, with its right-hand wheels within 12 inches of the right-hand curb or
edge of the roadway or its left-hand wheels within 12 inches of the left-hand
curb or edge of such roadway.
   (C)   The Board of Trustees may permit angle or center parking on any
roadway, except that angle or center parking shall not be permitted on any
federal-aid highway or on any part of the state highway system unless the
Director-State Engineer has determined that such roadway is of sufficient width
to permit angle or center parking without interfering with the free movement of
traffic.
   (D)   The Board of Trustees may prohibit or restrict stopping, standing or
parking on highways under its jurisdiction and erect and maintain proper and
adequate signs thereon. No person shall stop, stand or park any vehicle in
violation of the restrictions stated on such signs.
(Neb. RS 60-6,167)
   (E)   Where stalls are designated either on the curb or pavement, vehicles
shall be parked within those stalls.
   (F)   Vehicles must not be parked at any curb in such a position as to
prevent another vehicle already parked at the curb from moving away.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.13 BACKING FREIGHT VEHICLE TO CURB.
   The operator of a vehicle of an over-all length of less than 20 feet,
including load, while loading or unloading freight may back the vehicle to the
curb but shall occupy as little of the street as possible.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.14 UNATTENDED MOTOR VEHICLE.
   No person having control or charge of a motor vehicle shall allow such
vehicle to stand unattended on a highway without first stopping the motor of
such vehicle, locking the ignition, removing the key from the ignition and
effectively setting the brakes thereon and, when standing upon any roadway,
turning the front wheels of such vehicle to the curb or side of such roadway.
(Neb. RS 60-6,168) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.15 PAINTING OF CURBS.
   (A)   The curb space within 15 feet in either direction of a fire hydrant
shall be painted red, or another color specified by the Board of Trustees, to
indicate that parking is prohibited in such area.
   (B)   If the Board adopts a resolution regulating or prohibiting the parking
or stopping of vehicles at the curb on highways in front of certain facilities
or at certain locations, the curbs adjacent to any such facility or location
shall be painted in such manner as directed by the Board to indicate such
regulation or prohibition.
   (C)   (1)   It shall be the duty of the Board or its agent to cause the curb
space to be painted and to keep the same painted as provided in this chapter or
as specified by the Board.
      (2)   The marking or designating of portions of highways where the
parking of vehicles is prohibited or limited shall be done only by the village
through its proper officers, at the direction of the Board.
      (3)   No person shall paint the curb of any highway or in any manner set
aside, or attempt to prevent the parking of vehicles in, any highway or part
thereof, except at such places where the parking of vehicles is prohibited by
the provisions of this chapter or by a resolution adopted by the Board.
Penalty, see §
70.99
HANDICAPPED OR DISABLED PARKING PROVISIONS
§ 72.30 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   HANDICAPPED OR DISABLED PERSON.
      (1)   Any individual with a severe visual or physical impairment which
limits personal mobility and results in an inability to travel unassisted more
than 200 feet without the use of a wheelchair, crutch or walker or a
prosthetic, orthotic or other assistant device;
      (2)   Any individual whose personal mobility is limited as a result of
respiratory problems;
      (3)   Any individual who has a cardiac condition to the extent that his
or her functional limitations are classified in severity as being Class III or
Class IV according to standards set by the American Heart Association; or
      (4)   Any individual who has permanently lost all or substantially all of
the use of one or more limbs.
   HANDICAPPED PARKING INFRACTION. The violation of any section of this
subchapter regulating:
      (1)   The use of parking spaces designated for use by handicapped or
disabled persons; or
      (2)   The obstruction of any wheelchair ramps constructed or created in
accordance and in conformity with the federal Americans with Disabilities Act
of 1990.
   TEMPORARILY HANDICAPPED OR DISABLED PERSON. Any handicapped or disabled
person whose personal mobility is expected to be limited in such manner for not
longer than one year.
(Neb. RS 18-1738 and 18-1741.01) (Prior Code, § 3-319)
§ 72.31 DESIGNATION OF ON-STREET PARKING SPACES; DISPLAY OF PERMITS.
   (A)   (1)   The Village Board may designate parking spaces for the exclusive
use of:
         (a)   Handicapped or disabled persons whose motor vehicles display the
distinguishing license plates issued to handicapped or disabled persons
pursuant to Neb. RS 60-311.14;
         (b)   Handicapped or disabled persons whose motor vehicles display a
distinguishing license plate issued to a handicapped or disabled person by
another state;
         (c)   Such other handicapped or disabled persons or temporarily
handicapped or disabled persons, as certified by the village, whose motor
vehicles display the permit specified in Neb. RS 18-1739; and
         (d)   Such other motor vehicles, as certified by the village, which
display such permit.
      (2)   All such permits shall be displayed by attaching the permit to the
motor vehicle’s rearview mirror so as to be clearly visible through the front
windshield. When there is no rearview mirror, the permit shall be displayed on
the dashboard.
   (B)   If the village so designates a parking space, it shall be indicated by
posting aboveground and immediately adjacent to and visible from each space a
sign which is in conformance with the Manual on Uniform Traffic-Control
Devices. In addition to such sign, the space may also be indicated by blue
paint on the curb or edge of the paved portion of the street adjacent to the
space.
(Neb. RS 18-1736 and 18-1737) (Prior Code, § 3-317)
§ 72.32 DESIGNATION OF OFF-STREET PARKING STALLS OR SPACES.
   (A)   The Village Board and any person in lawful possession of any off-
street parking facility may designate stalls or spaces in such facility for the
exclusive use of:
      (1)   Handicapped or disabled persons whose motor vehicles display the
distinguishing license plates issued to such individuals pursuant to Neb. RS
60-311.14;
      (2)   Such other handicapped or disabled persons or temporarily
handicapped or disabled persons, as certified by the village, whose vehicles
display the permit specified in Neb. RS 18-1739; and
      (3)   Such other motor vehicles, as certified by the village, which
display such permit.
   (B)   Such designation shall be made by posting aboveground and immediately
adjacent to and visible from each stall or space a sign which is in conformance
with the Manual on Uniform Traffic-Control Devices.
(Neb. RS 18-1737) (Prior Code, § 3-318)
§ 72.33 PERMIT ISSUANCE TO A PERSON.
   (A)   The Village Clerk/Treasurer shall take an application from a
handicapped or disabled person, temporarily handicapped or disabled person or
his or her parent, legal guardian or foster parent for a permit which will
entitle the holder thereof or a person driving a motor vehicle for the purpose
of transporting such holder to park in those spaces provided for by this
subchapter when the holder of the permit will enter or exit the motor vehicle
while it is parked in such spaces. For purposes of this section, the
handicapped or disabled person or temporarily handicapped or disabled person
shall be considered the holder of the permit.
   (B)   The Village Clerk/Treasurer shall not accept the application for a
permit of any person making application contrary to the provisions of Neb. RS
18-1738.02.
   (C)   A person applying for a permit or for the renewal of a permit shall
complete an application, shall provide proof of identity and shall submit a
completed medical form signed by a physician, physician’s assistant or nurse
practitioner certifying that the person who will be the holder meets the
definition of handicapped or disabled person or temporarily handicapped or
disabled person. In the case of a temporarily handicapped or disabled person,
the certifying physician, physician’s assistant or nurse practitioner shall
indicate the estimated date of recovery or that the temporary handicap or
disability will continue for a period of six months, whichever is less.
   (D)   A person may hold only one permit under this section, and may hold
either a permit under this section or a permit under §
72.34 of this chapter, but not both.
   (E)   The Village Clerk/Treasurer shall submit to the Department of Motor
Vehicles the name, address and license number of all persons applying for a
permit pursuant to this section.
(Neb. RS 18-1738 and 18-1738.02) (Prior Code, § 3-320)
§ 72.34 PERMIT ISSUANCE TO A MOTOR VEHICLE.
   (A)   The Village Clerk/Treasurer shall take an application from any person
for a motor vehicle permit which will entitle the holder thereof or a person
driving the motor vehicle for the purpose of transporting handicapped or
disabled persons or temporarily handicapped or disabled persons to park in
those spaces provided by this subchapter if the motor vehicle is used primarily
for the transportation of handicapped or disabled persons or temporarily
handicapped or disabled persons. Such parking permit shall be used only when
the motor vehicle for which it was issued is being used for the transportation
of a handicapped or disabled person or a temporarily handicapped or disabled
person and such person will enter or exit the motor vehicle while it is parked
in such designated spaces.
   (B)   The Village Clerk/Treasurer shall not accept the application for a
permit of any person making application contrary to the provisions of Neb. RS
18-1738.02.
   (C)   A person applying for a permit or for the renewal of a permit pursuant
to this section shall apply for a permit for each motor vehicle used for the
transportation of handicapped or disabled persons or temporarily handicapped or
disabled persons, shall complete such forms as are provided to the Village
Clerk/Treasurer by the Department of Motor Vehicles and shall demonstrate to
the Village Clerk/Treasurer that each such motor vehicle is used primarily for
the transportation of handicapped or disabled persons or temporarily
handicapped or disabled persons. A copy of the completed application form shall
be given to each applicant.
   (D)   The Village Clerk/Treasurer shall submit to the Department of Motor
Vehicles the name, address and license number of all persons applying for a
permit pursuant to this section.
(Neb. RS 18-1738 and 18-1738.02) (Prior Code, § 3-321)
§ 72.35 PROHIBITED PERMIT ISSUANCE.
   No permit shall be issued to any person, or for any parking permit which has
been issued to such person or for such motor vehicle, and such permit has been
suspended pursuant to §
72.38 of this chapter. At the expiration of such suspension, a permit may be
renewed upon the payment of the permit fee.
(Neb. RS 18-1739) (Prior Code, § 3-322)
§ 72.36 PERMIT CONTENTS; DUPLICATE PERMITS.
   (A)   (1)   The permit issued for handicapped or disabled parking shall be
constructed of a durable plastic designed to resist normal wear or fading for
the term of the permit’s issuance and printed so as to minimize the possibility
of alteration following issuance. The permit shall be of a design, size,
configuration, color and construction and contain such information as specified
in the rules and regulations adopted and promulgated by the United States
Department of Transportation in the Uniform System for Handicapped Parking, 23
C.F.R. part 1235.
      (2)   In addition to the requirements of division (A)(1) above, the
permit shall show such identifying information with regard to the handicapped
or disabled person or temporarily handicapped or disabled person to whom it is
issued as is necessary to the enforcement of this subchapter.
   (B)   A duplicate permit may be provided without cost if the original permit
is destroyed, lost or stolen. Such duplicate permit shall be issued in the same
manner as the original permit, except that a newly completed medical form need
not be provided if a completed medical form submitted at the time of the most
recent application for a permit or its renewal is on file with the Village
Clerk/Treasurer. A duplicate permit shall be valid for the remainder of the
period for which the original permit was issued.
(Neb. RS 18-1739) (Prior Code, § 3-322)
§ 72.37 PERMIT VALIDITY PERIOD; RENEWAL.
   (A)   All permanently issued permits for handicapped or disabled parking
issued on or after August 1, 2005, shall be valid for a period ending on the
last day of the month of the applicant’s birthday in the third year after
issuance and shall expire on that day. All permits issued thereafter shall
expire on the last day of the month of the applicant’s birthday and every three
years thereafter, except that an application for the renewal of a permit filed
with the Village Clerk/Treasurer within 30 days of the date after its
expiration shall be deemed to have been filed prior to the date of its
expiration. The possession of an expired but otherwise valid handicapped
parking permit within 30 days following the date of its expiration shall serve
as a full and complete defense in any action for a handicapped parking
infraction resulting from the absence of a handicapped parking permit arising
during that 30-day period.
   (B)   All permits authorized under this subchapter for temporarily
handicapped or disabled parking shall be issued for a period ending not more
than six months after the date of issuance but may be renewed for a one-time
period not to exceed six months. For the renewal period, there shall be
submitted an additional application with proof of a handicap or disability and
the required permit fee.
(Neb. RS 18-1740) (Prior Code, § 3-323) (Ord. 2002-02, passed 1-8-2002; Ord.
2006-02, passed 2-7-2006)
§ 72.38 PERMITS NON-TRANSFERABLE; VIOLATIONS; SUSPENSION.
   (A)   A permit issued under this subchapter shall not be transferable and
shall be used only by the party to whom issued or for the motor vehicle for
which issued and only for the purpose for which it is issued.
   (B)   No person shall alter or reproduce in any manner a permit issued
pursuant to this subchapter. No person shall knowingly hold more than one
permit or knowingly provide false information on an application for a permit.
   (C)   Any violation of this section shall be cause for suspension of such
permit for a period of six months. At the expiration of such period, a
suspended permit may be renewed upon payment of the permit fee.
(Neb. RS 18-1741) (Prior Code, § 3-324) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.39 REMOVAL OF UNAUTHORIZED VEHICLES.
   (A)   The owner or person in lawful possession of an off-street parking
facility, after notifying the Police or Sheriff’s Department, and the village
providing on-street parking or owning, operating or providing an off-street
parking facility may cause the removal from a stall or space designated
exclusively for handicapped or disabled persons or temporarily handicapped or
disabled persons, or motor vehicles for the transportation of such persons, of
any vehicle not displaying the proper permit or the distinguishing license
plates specified in this subchapter if there is posted aboveground and
immediately adjacent to and visible from such stall or space a sign which
clearly and conspicuously states the area so designated as a tow-in zone.
   (B)   (1)   Anyone who parks a vehicle in any on-street parking space which
has been designated exclusively for handicapped or disabled persons or
temporarily handicapped or disabled persons, or motor vehicles for the
transportation of such persons, or in any so exclusively designated parking
space in any off-street parking facility, without properly displaying the
proper permit or when the handicapped or disabled person to whom or for whom
the license plate or permit is issued will not enter or exit the vehicle while
it is parked in the designated space, shall be guilty of a handicapped parking
infraction as defined in §
72.30 of this chapter and shall be subject to the procedures as set forth in §
72.40 of this chapter and the penalty provided for in §
70.99 of this code. The display on a motor vehicle of a distinguishing license
plate or permit issued to a handicapped or disabled person by and under the
duly constituted authority of another state shall constitute a full and
complete defense in any action for a handicapped parking infraction.
      (2)   If the identity of the person who parked the vehicle in violation
of this section cannot be readily determined, the owner or person in whose name
the vehicle is registered shall be held prima facie responsible for such
violation and shall be guilty and subject to the penalty provided for in §
70.99 of this code.
   (C)   In the case of a privately owned off-street parking facility, the
owner or person in lawful possession of such facility shall not be required to
inform the village of a violation of this section prior to the village issuing
the violator a handicapped parking infraction citation.
(Neb. RS 18-1737) (Prior Code, § 3-325) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.40 CITATION ISSUANCE; COMPLAINT; TRIAL; DISMISSAL.
   (A)   For any offense classified as a handicapped parking infraction, a
handicapped parking citation may be issued by any peace officer or by any
person designated by ordinance by the Village Board to exercise the authority
to issue a citation for any handicapped parking infraction.
   (B)   When a handicapped parking citation is issued for a handicapped
parking infraction, the person issuing the handicapped parking citation shall
enter thereon all required information, including the name and address of the
cited person, or if not known, the license number and description of the
offending motor vehicle, the offense charged and the time and place the person
cited is to appear in court. Unless the person cited requests an earlier date,
the time of appearance shall be at least three days after the issuance of the
handicapped parking citation. One copy of the handicapped parking citation
shall be delivered to the person cited or attached to the offending motor
vehicle.
   (C)   At least 24 hours before the time set for appearance of the cited
person, either the Village Attorney or other person authorized by law to issue
a complaint for the particular offense shall issue and file a complaint
charging such person with a handicapped parking infraction or such person shall
be released from the obligation to appear as specified.
   (D)   The trial of any person for a handicapped parking infraction shall be
by the court without a jury. A person cited for a handicapped parking violation
may waive his or her right to trial.
   (E)   For any handicapped parking citation issued for a handicapped parking
infraction by reason of the failure to a vehicle to display a handicapped
parking permit issued pursuant to Neb. RS 18-1738 or 18-1738.01, the complaint
shall be dismissed if, within seven business days after the date of issuance of
the citation, the person cited files with the court the affidavit included on
the citation signed by a peace officer certifying that the recipient is the
lawful possessor in his or her own right of a handicapped parking permit issued
under Neb. RS 18-1738 or 18-1738.01 and that the peace officer has personally
viewed the permit.
(Neb. RS 18-1701.04, 18-1741.01 and 18-1741.06) (Prior Code, § 3-326) Penalty,
see §
70.99
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 72.55 TICKETS.
   All tickets issued for violations of non-moving traffic regulations
contained in this chapter shall, in addition to information normally stated on
such tickets, carry the following information:
   (A)   The amount of the fine if paid within 30 days;
   (B)   The amount of the fine if not paid within 30 days;
   (C)   The location where payment may be made; and
   (D)   The fact that a complaint will be filed after 30 days if the fine is
not paid in that time.
§ 72.56 REMOVAL OF ILLEGALLY STOPPED VEHICLES; LIABILITY FOR COSTS.
   (A)   Whenever any peace officer, or any authorized employee of a law
enforcement agency who is employed by the village and specifically empowered by
ordinance to act, finds a vehicle standing upon a highway in violation of any
of the provisions of this chapter, the individual may remove the vehicle, have
such vehicle removed, or require the driver or other person in charge of the
vehicle to move such vehicle to a position off the roadway of the highway or
from the highway.
   (B)   The owner or other person lawfully entitled to the possession of any
vehicle towed or stored shall be charged with the reasonable cost of towing and
storage fees. Any towing or storage fee shall be a lien upon the vehicle prior
to all other claims. Any person towing or storing a vehicle shall be entitled
to retain possession of the vehicle until the charges are paid. The lien
provided for in this section shall not apply to the contents of any vehicle.
(Neb. RS 60-6,165)
CHAPTER 73: RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
Section
Utility-Type Vehicles
   
73.01   Definition
   
73.02   Operational requirements
All-Terrain Vehicles
   
73.15   Permit required
   
73.16   Definition
   
73.17   Equipment; additional requirement
   
73.18   Prohibitions
   
73.19   Applicant requirements
   
73.20   Permit rules and regulations
   
73.21   Application
   
73.22   Authority
   
73.23   Impoundment
   
73.24   Accident report
Golf Carts
   
73.35   Definition; permit required
   
73.36   Application; requirements; permit issuance; conditions
   
73.37   Release of information
   
73.38   Violation
Bicycles and Toy Vehicles
   
73.50   Bicycle operation
   
73.51   Clinging to motor vehicle
   
73.52   Motorcycle operation
   
73.53   Motorcycle lights
 
   
73.99   Penalty
UTILITY-TYPE VEHICLES
§ 73.01 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   UTILITY-TYPE VEHICLE.
      (1)   Any motorized off-highway vehicles which:
         (a)   Is 74 inches in width or less;
         (b)   Is not more than 180 inches, including the bumper, in length;
         (c)   Has a dry weight of 2,000 pounds or less;
         (d)   Travels on four or more low-pressure tires; and
         (e)   Is equipped with a steering wheel and bench or bucket type
seating designed for at least two people to sit side by side.
      (2)   UTILITY-TYPE VEHICLE does not include all-terrain vehicles, golf
carts or low-speed vehicles.
(Ord. 2010-03, passed 12-7-2010)
Statutory reference:
   Related definitions, see Neb. RS 60-6,355
§ 73.02 OPERATIONAL REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   A utility-type vehicle may be operated on the streets and highways
within the corporate limits of the village only if the operator and the vehicle
comply with the provisions of this section.
   (B)   (1)   A utility-type vehicle may be operated only between the hours of
sunrise and sunset and shall not be operated at a speed in excess of 30 mph.
      (2)   When operating a utility-type vehicle as authorized in division (A)
above, the headlight and taillight of the vehicle shall be on and the vehicle
shall be equipped with a bicycle safety flag which extends not less than five
feet above ground attached to the rear of such vehicle.
      (3)   The bicycle safety flag shall be triangular in shape with an area
of not less than 30 square inches and shall be day-glow in color.
   (C)   Any person operating a utility-type vehicle as authorized in division
(A) above shall have:
      (1)   A valid Class O operator’s license or a farm permit as provided in
Neb. RS 60-4,126; and
      (2)   (a)   Liability insurance coverage for a utility-type vehicle while
operating the utility-type vehicle on a street or highway.
         (b)   The person operating the utility-type vehicle shall provide
proof of such insurance coverage to any peace officer requesting such proof
within five days of such request.
   (D)   Utility-type vehicles may be operated without complying with divisions
(B) and (C) above on streets and highways in parades which have been authorized
by the state or any department, board, commission or political subdivision of
the state.
   (E)   (1)   A utility-type vehicle shall not be operated on any controlled-
access highway with more than two marked traffic lanes, and the crossing of any
controlled-access highway with more than two marked traffic lanes shall not be
permitted.
      (2)   Divisions (B) through (D) above and (F) below authorize and apply
to operation a utility- type vehicle only on a street or highway other than a
controlled-access highway with more than two marked traffic lanes.
   (F)   Subject to division (E) above, the crossing of a street or highway
shall be permitted by a utility- type vehicle without complying with divisions
(B) and (C) above only if:
      (1)   The crossing is made at an angle of approximately 90 degrees to the
direction of the street or highway and at a place where no obstruction prevents
a quick and safe crossing;
      (2)   The vehicle is brought to a complete stop before crossing the
shoulder or roadway of the street or highway;
      (3)   The operator yields the right-of-way to all oncoming traffic that
constitutes an immediate potential hazard;
      (4)    In crossing a divided highway, the crossing is made only at an
intersection of such highway with another highway; and
      (5)   Both the headlight and taillight of the vehicle are on when the
crossing is made.
(Ord. 2010-03, passed 12-7-2010) Penalty, see §
73.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 63-6,356
ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLES
§ 73.15 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   Any person desiring to operate an all-terrain vehicle or utility-type
vehicle, as defined in Neb. RS 60-6,356, upon the public streets of the
village, other than in parades which have been authorized by the Chair and
Board of Trustees of the village, as herein indicated, shall first apply for a
permit upon application forms furnished by the Clerk/Treasurer of the village
and receive from the Clerk/Treasurer of the village a permit for said operation
of said all-terrain vehicle, the requirements and criteria for obtaining said
permit to be as follows. A license plate permit with a permit number will be
assigned and affixed to the all-terrain vehicle.
(Ord. 2007-02, passed 9-4-2007; Ord. 2007-02, passed 7-7-2020) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.16 DEFINITION.
   ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLE, pursuant to Neb. RS 60-6,355, shall mean any motorized
off-highway vehicle which:
   (A)   Fifty inches or less in width;
   (B)   Has a dry weight of 1,200 pounds or less;
   (C)   Travels on three or more low pressure tires;
   (D)   Is designed for operator use only with no passengers or is
specifically designed by the original manufacturer for the operator and one
passenger;
   (E)   Has a seat or saddle designed to be straddled by the operator;
   (F)   Has handlebars or any other steering assembly for steering control;
   (G)   Is equipped with a bicycle safety flag that extends not less than five
feet above the ground, attached to the rear of such vehicle; the bicycle safety
flag shall be triangular in shape with an area of not less than 30 square
inches and shall be day-glow in color;
   (H)   Is equipped with a slow moving vehicle emblem on the rear of the
vehicle;
   (I)   Has a brake system maintained in good operating condition;
   (J)   Has an adequate muffler system in good working condition;
   (K)   Has an adequate headlight and taillight system in good working
condition; and
   (L)   Has affixed to the vehicle a village permit pursuant to village rules
and regulations as identified in §
73.15 of this chapter.
(Ord. 2007-02, passed 9-4-2007; Ord. 2007-02, passed 7-7-2020) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.17 EQUIPMENT; ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENT.
   Every all-terrain vehicle shall be equipped with a U.S. Forest Service-
qualified spark arrester.
(Neb. RS 60-6,358) (Prior Code, § 3-605) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.18 PROHIBITIONS.
   No person shall:
   (A)   Equip the exhaust system of an all-terrain vehicle with a cutout,
bypass or similar device;
   (B)   Operate an all-terrain vehicle with an exhaust system so modified; or
   (C)   Operate an all-terrain vehicle with the spark arrester removed or
modified, except for use in closed-course competition events.
(Neb. RS 60-6,359) (Prior Code, § 3-606) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.19 APPLICANT REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   An applicant must be 18 years of age or older and an owner of property
within the corporate limits of the village or within its one mile jurisdiction.
   (B)   (1)   An applicant must have a valid Class O operator’s license, farm
permit or provisional operator’s permit.
      (2)   The applicant’s license or permit to operate a motor vehicle must
not be currently suspended or revoked by the laws of the state for loss of
points or driving under the influence of alcohol or other similar driving
offenses, causing a revocation or suspension of said person’s operators
license.
   (C)   The applicant must submit a proof of financial responsibility
evidencing applicant’s ability to respond in damages for liability, on account
of accidents occurring subsequent to the effective date of such proof, arising
out of the ownership, maintenance or use of said all-terrain vehicle, in the
amount of not less than $25,000 because of bodily injury do to death of one
person in any one accident, and subject to such limit for one person and to a
limit of not less than $50,000 because of bodily injury do to death of two or
more persons in any one accident and to a limit of not less than $25,000
because of injury to or destruction of property of others in any one accident.
   (D)   The applicant acknowledges that applicant shall abide by the terms and
conditions of this subchapter.
   (E)   A non-refundable annual application fee of $10 shall accompany each
application. Further, the applicant shall pay all other expenses and costs
associated with the applicant’s application.
(Ord. 2007-02, passed 9-4-2007; Ord. 2007-02, passed 7-7-2020) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.20 PERMIT RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   Upon satisfaction of the above conditions, the Clerk/Treasurer may issue a
permit for such person to operate the all-terrain vehicle on the streets of the
village under the following rules and regulations.
   (A)   Said permit is valid for the calendar year in which it is issued,
January through December, subject to impoundment and/or revocation as set forth
herein.
   (B)   The applicant and/or operator shall operate such all-terrain vehicle
subject to the following:
      (1)   All rules of the road of the state as found in Neb. RS Chapter 60,
not in conflict herewith;
      (2)   All ordinances of the village, as found in this code, not in
conflict herewith;
      (3)   The operator shall posses a valid Class O operator’s license, farm
permit or a valid provisional operator’s permit;
      (4)   All-terrain vehicle shall not be operated within the corporate
limits of said village, between sunset and sunup of the subsequent day unless
said all-terrain vehicle is equipped with operational headlights, taillights
and turn signals;
      (5)   Said all-terrain vehicle shall not be operated at a speed in excess
of posted speed limits;
      (6)   The maximum occupancy of an all-terrain vehicle shall be one person
per seat or as recommended by the manufacturer. All passengers must remain
seated while the all-terrain vehicle is in operation;
      (7)   Maintain at all times the proof of financial responsibility as
required hereby; and
      (8)   All all-terrain vehicle requirements as stated herein shall apply.
(Ord. 2007-02, passed 9-4-2007; Ord. 2007-02, passed 7-7-2020) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.21 APPLICATION.
   By the applicant signing an application for a permit to operate an all-
terrain vehicle upon the public streets of the village, pursuant to this
subchapter, said applicant consents to the release of all information deemed
relevant by the Clerk/Treasurer of the village, in determining whether or not
to issue a permit to said applicant based upon said applicant’s application.
(Ord. 2007-02, passed 9-4-2007; Ord. 2007-02, passed 7-7-2020)
§ 73.22 AUTHORITY.
   The Chair of the Board of Trustees of the village, and its Clerk/Treasurer,
are hereby authorized and directed to implement this subchapter.
(Ord. 2007-02, passed 9-4-2007; Ord. 2007-02, passed 7-7-2020)
§ 73.23 IMPOUNDMENT.
   Should a permit be issued, pursuant to this subchapter, said permit is
subject to immediate impoundment for any violation of the terms and conditions
of this subchapter and revocation by the Chair and Board of Trustees of the
village, after a public hearing thereon, due notice having been given to the
permit holder. All law enforcement officers having arrest jurisdiction within
the corporate limits of the village are hereby authorized to enforce the terms
and conditions of this subchapter. In addition thereto, any person found to be
in violation of this subchapter shall be subject to the penalty provision of §
73.99 of this chapter.
(Ord. 2007-02, passed 9-4-2007; Ord. 2007-02, passed 7-7-2020) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.24 ACCIDENT REPORT.
   If an accident results in the death of any person or in the injury of any
person which requires the treatment of the person by a physician, the operator
of each all-terrain vehicle involved in the accident shall give notice of the
accident in the same manner as provided in Neb. RS 60-699.
(Neb. RS 60-6,361) (Prior Code, § 3-609)
GOLF CARTS
§ 73.35 DEFINITION; PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   Any person desiring to operate a golf cart, as defined in Neb. RS 60-
6,380, upon the public streets of the village, other than in parades, which has
been authorized by the chair and Board of Trustees of the village as herein
indicated shall first apply for a permit upon application forms furnished by
the Village Clerk/Treasurer, and receive from the Clerk/Treasurer a permit for
said operation of said golf cart (low-speed vehicle).
   (B)   The requirements and criteria for obtaining said permit shall be as
follows:
      (1)   Sixty inches or less in width;
      (2)   Gross vehicle weight rating of 3,000 pounds or less;
      (3)   Travels on three or four low-pressure tires;
      (4)   Maximum speed attainable is not more than 25 mph on a paved or
level surface;
      (5)   Has a seat for the operator and a seat for a passenger if so
desired by the original manufacturer;
      (6)   Has handle bars or other steering assembly for steering control;
      (7)   Is equipped with a bicycle safety flag attached to the rear of such
vehicle, extending not less than five feet above the ground; the bicycle safety
flag shall be triangular in shape with an area of not less than 30 square
inches and shall be day-glo in color;
      (8)   Is equipped with a slow moving vehicle emblem on the rear of the
vehicle;
      (9)   Has a brake system maintained in good operating condition;
      (10)   Has an adequate muffler system in good working condition; and
      (11)   Has affixed to the vehicle a village permit pursuant to village
rules and regulations as identified in §
73.15 of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 3-501) (Ord. 2006-05, passed 2-7-2006)
§ 73.36 APPLICATION; REQUIREMENTS; PERMIT ISSUANCE; CONDITIONS.
   (A)   (1)   The applicant must be 18 years of age or older.
      (2)   The applicant must be an owner of property within the corporate
limits of the village or within its one mile jurisdiction.
      (3)   The applicant’s license to operate a motor vehicle is not currently
suspended or revoked by the laws of the state for loss of points or driving
under the influence of alcohol or other similar driving offenses, causing a
revocation or suspension of said person’s operators license.
      (4)   The applicant must submit a proof of financial responsibility
evidencing the applicant’s ability to respond in damages for liability, on
account of accidents occurring subsequent to the effective date of such proof,
arising out of the ownership, maintenance or use of said cart:
         (a)   In an amount of not less than $25,000 due to the death of one
person in any one accident, and subject to such limit for one person;
         (b)   To a limit of not less than $50,000 due to the death of two or
more persons in any one accident; and
         (c)   To a limit of not less than $25,000 because of injury to or
destruction of property of others in any one accident.
      (5)   The applicant shall acknowledge that he or she shall abide by the
terms and conditions of this subchapter.
      (6)   A non-refundable annual application fee of $10 shall accompany each
application.
      (7)   The applicant shall pay for all other expenses and costs associated
with the application.
(Prior Code, § 3-502)
   (B)   Upon satisfaction of the above conditions, the Village Clerk may issue
a permit for such person to operate a golf cart on the streets of the village
under the following rules and regulations.
      (1)   Said permit is valid for the calendar year in which it is issued,
January through December, subject to impoundment and/or revocation.
      (2)   The applicant and/or operator shall operate such golf cart subject
to the following.
         (a)   The operator shall possess a valid Class O operator’s license or
a valid provisional operator’s permit.
         (b)   Said golf cart shall not be operated within the corporate limits
of said village between sunset and sunup of the subsequent day.
         (c)   Said golf cart shall not be operated at a speed in excess of ten
mph.
         (d)   The maximum occupancy of a golf cart shall be one person per
seat or as recommended by the manufacturer. All passengers must remain seated
while the cart is in operation.
         (e)   Maintain at all times the proof of financial responsibility as
required above.
         (f)   All golf cart requirements as stated in §
73.35 of this chapter shall apply.
(Prior Code, § 3-503) (Ord. 2006-05, passed 2-7-2006)
§ 73.37 RELEASE OF INFORMATION.
   By signing an application for a permit to operate a golf cart on public
streets, the applicant consents to the release of all information the Clerk/
Treasurer deems relevant in determining whether or not to issue a permit.
(Prior Code, § 3-504) (Ord. 2006-05, passed 2-7-2006)
§ 73.38 VIOLATION.
   (A)   For any violation of the terms and conditions of §§
73.35 through
73.38 of this chapter, any permit is subject to immediate impoundment and
revocation by the Chair and Board of Trustees after a public hearing thereon,
due notice having been given to the permit holder.
   (B)   All law enforcement officers having arrest jurisdiction within the
corporate limits are hereby authorized to enforce the terms and conditions of
§§
73.35 through
73.38 of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 3-505) (Ord. 2006-05, passed 2-7-2006)
BICYCLES AND TOY VEHICLES
§ 73.50 BICYCLE OPERATION.
   (A)   No person shall ride or propel a bicycle on a street or other public
highway of the village with another person on the handlebars or in any position
in front of the operator.
   (B)   No bicycle shall be ridden faster than is reasonable and proper, but
every bicycle shall be operated with reasonable regard to the safety of the
operator and any other persons upon the streets and public highways.
   (C)   Persons riding bicycles shall observe all traffic signs and stop at
all stop signs.
   (D)   No bicycle shall be permitted on any street or other public highway
from one-half hour after sunset to one-half hour before sunrise without a
headlight, visible under normal atmospheric conditions from the front thereof
for not less than 500 feet, firmly attached to such bicycle and properly
lighted, nor without a yellow or red light reflector attached to and visible
500 feet from the rear thereof. The said headlight shall emit a clear, white
light.
   (E)   No person shall ride or propel a bicycle upon any street or other
public highway abreast of more than one other person riding or propelling a
bicycle.
   (F)   Every person riding or propelling a bicycle upon any street or other
public highway shall observe all traffic rules and regulations applicable
thereto, and shall turn only at intersections, signal for all turns, ride at
the right hand side of the street or highway and pass to the left when passing
vehicles and individuals that are slower moving, and shall pass vehicles to the
right when meeting.
   (G)   No person shall park a bicycle on any sidewalk unless a bicycle stand
is located on said sidewalk.
(Prior Code, § 3-401) Penalty, see §
73.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 60-6,314, 60-6,117, 60-6,315, 60-6,317 and
60-6,318
§ 73.51 CLINGING TO MOTOR VEHICLE.
   No person riding upon any bicycle, roller skates, mini-bike, motorcycle,
coaster, sled, skis or toy vehicle shall attach the same or himself or herself
to any moving vehicle upon any roadway, and it shall be unlawful for the driver
of any vehicle to suffer or permit any person traveling upon any bicycle,
roller skates, mini-bike, motorcycle, coaster, sled, skis or toy vehicle to
cling to or attach himself or herself or his or her bicycle, roller skates,
mini-bike, motorcycle, coaster, sled, skis or toy vehicle to such vehicle so
driven and operated by him or her.
(Prior Code, § 3-402) Penalty, see §
73.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 60-6,316
§ 73.52 MOTORCYCLE OPERATION.
   (A)   Any person who operates a motorcycle shall have all of the rights and
shall be subject to all of the duties applicable to the driver of any other
vehicle under this subchapter.
   (B)   Any person who operates a motorcycle shall ride only upon a permanent
and regular seat attached thereto, and shall not carry any other person nor
shall any other person ride on a motorcycle unless such motorcycle is designed
to carry more than one person, in which event a passenger may ride upon the
permanent and regular seat if designed for two persons, or upon another seat
firmly attached to the motorcycle to the rear or side of the operator.
   (C)   Any person shall ride upon a motorcycle only while sitting astride the
seat, facing forward.
   (D)   No person shall operate a motorcycle while carrying any package,
bundle or other article which prevents him or her from keeping both hands on
the handlebars.
   (E)   No operator shall carry any person, nor shall any person ride, in a
position that will interfere with the operation or control of the motorcycle or
the view of the operator.
   (F)   (1)   A motorcycle shall be entitled to full use of a traffic lane of
any highway and no vehicle shall be driven in such a manner as to deprive any
motorcycle of the full use of such land.
      (2)   This division (F) shall not apply to motorcycles operated two
abreast in a single lane.
   (G)   The operator of a motorcycle shall not overtake and pass in the same
lane occupied by the vehicle being overtaken.
   (H)   No person shall operate a motorcycle between lanes of traffic or
between adjacent lines or rows of vehicles.
   (I)   Motorcycles shall not be operated more than two abreast in a single
lane.
   (J)   Divisions (G) and (H) above shall not apply to police officers in the
performance of their official duties.
(Prior Code, § 3-403) Penalty, see §
73.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 60-6,306 and 60-6,308
§ 73.53 MOTORCYCLE LIGHTS.
   No person shall ride a motorcycle upon the streets, alleys or highways from
one half hour after sunset to one half hour before sunrise, unless the same
shall be equipped with at least one and not more than two headlights, plainly
visible from the front and with a light on the rear exhibiting a red light
visible under normal atmospheric conditions from a distance of at least 500
feet to the rear thereof; provided, said lamps shall comply with the
requirements and limitations of the statutes of the state.
(Prior Code, § 3-404) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, firm, association or corporation violating any of the
provisions of this chapter for which no other penalty is imposed shall, upon
conviction, be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and be fined in an amount not
more than $500. Each day’s maintenance of a misdemeanor shall constitute a
separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 3-701)
   (B)   In addition to division (A) above, any person who shall violate or
refuse to comply with the enforcement of any of the provisions of §§
73.15 through
73.24 of this chapter shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon
conviction thereof, shall be fined not more than $500 for each offense. A new
violation shall be deemed to have been committed every 24 hours of such failure
to comply.
   (C)   Any person found to be in violation of §§
73.35 through
73.38 of this chapter shall be subject to the penalty provision of division (A)
above.
(Prior Code, § 3-505)
(Ord. 2006-05, passed 2-7-2006; Ord. 2007-02, passed 9-4-2007; Ord. 2007-02,
passed 7-7-2020)
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   LEISURE AND RECREATION
      
91.   HEALTH AND SAFETY; NUISANCES
      
92.   PUBLIC WAYS AND PROPERTY
      
93.   ANIMALS
      
94.   FIRE PREVENTION
CHAPTER 90: LEISURE AND RECREATION
Section
   
90.01   Parks and recreational facilities; operation and funding
   
90.02   Parks and recreational facilities; injury to property
§ 90.01 PARKS AND RECREATIONAL FACILITIES; OPERATION AND FUNDING.
   (A)   If the village has already acquired or hereafter acquires land for
park purposes or recreational facilities or has already built or hereafter
builds swimming pools, recreational facilities or dams, the Board of Trustees
may each year make and levy a tax upon the taxable value of all the taxable
property in the village. The levy shall be collected and put into the village
treasury and shall constitute the Park and Recreation Fund of the village. The
funds so levied and collected shall be used for amusements, for laying out,
improving and beautifying such parks, for maintaining, improving, managing and
beautifying such swimming pools, recreational facilities or dams and for the
payment of salaries and wages of persons employed in the performance of such
labor.
(Neb. RS 17-951)
   (B)   If the Board of Trustees creates a Board of Park Commissioners or
Board of Park and Recreation Commissioners, when such Board has been appointed
and qualified, all accounts against the Park Fund or Park and Recreation Fund,
as the case may be, shall be audited by such Board and warrants against the
fund shall be drawn by the Chairperson of the Board and warrants so drawn shall
be paid by the Village Clerk/Treasurer out of the fund.
(Neb. RS 17-952)
   (C)   (1)   Whether the title to real estate for parks, public grounds,
swimming pools or dams, either for recreational or conservational purposes,
shall be acquired by gift, devise or purchase as provided in Neb. RS 17-948,
the jurisdiction of the Board of Trustees or Park Board shall at once be
extended over such real estate; and the Board of Trustees or Park Board shall
have power to enact bylaws, rules or ordinances for the protection and
preservation of any real estate acquired and to provide rules and regulations
for the closing of the park or swimming pool, in whole or in part, to the
general public and charge admission thereto during such closing, either by the
village or by any person, persons or corporation leasing same. They may provide
suitable penalties for the violation of such bylaws, rules or ordinances; and
the police power of the village shall be at once extended over the same.
(Neb. RS 17-949)
      (2)   The Park Board shall not enter into a contract of any nature that
involves an expenditure of funds, except for ordinary operating expenses,
unless the contract has been approved by resolution of the majority of the
members of the Board of Trustees prior to the contractual agreement.
Statutory reference:
   Levy limits, see Neb. RS 77-3442
   Parks and recreational facilities generally, see Neb. RS 17-948 through 17-
952
§ 90.02 PARKS AND RECREATIONAL FACILITIES; INJURY TO PROPERTY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to maliciously or willfully cut down,
injure or destroy any tree, plant or shrub in any village park or recreational
facility. It shall be unlawful for any person to injure or destroy any sodded
or planted area or injure or destroy any building, structure, equipment, fence,
bench, table or any other property of any village park or recreational area. No
person shall commit any waste on or litter the village parks or other public
grounds.
Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Littering of public and private property, see Neb. RS 28-523
CHAPTER 91: HEALTH AND SAFETY; NUISANCES
Section
General Provisions
   
91.01   Health regulations
   
91.02   Enforcement official
   
91.03   County Health Board
Nuisances
   
91.15   Definition
   
91.16   Abatement procedure
   
91.17   Adjoining land owners; intervention before trial
   
91.18   Dead or diseased trees
   
91.19   Weeds; litter; stagnant water
   
91.20   Garbage and refuse
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 91.01 HEALTH REGULATIONS.
   For the purpose of promoting the health and safety of the residents of the
village, the Board of Health shall, from time to time, adopt such rules and
regulations relative thereto and shall make such inspections, prescribe such
penalties and make such reports as may be necessary toward that purpose.
Statutory reference:
   Authority to regulate, see Neb. RS 17-208
§ 91.02 ENFORCEMENT OFFICIAL.
   (A)   The Chief of Police or other official designated by the Board of
Trustees, as the quarantine officer, shall be the chief health officer of the
village.
   (B)   It shall be his or her duty to notify the Board of Trustees and the
Board of Health of health nuisances within the village and its zoning
jurisdiction.
Statutory reference:
   Quarantine officer, see Neb. RS 17-208
§ 91.03 COUNTY HEALTH BOARD.
   It shall be the duty of the Board of Health to work closely with the County
Health Board in protecting the health and welfare of the residents of the
village.
NUISANCES
§ 91.15 DEFINITION.
   (A)   General definition. For the purpose of this subchapter, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      NUISANCE. Consists in doing any unlawful act or omitting to perform a
duty or suffering or permitting any condition or thing to be or exist, which
act, omission, condition or thing either:
         (a)   Injures or endangers the comfort, repose, health or safety of
others;
         (b)   Offends decency;
         (c)   Is offensive to the senses;
         (d)   Unlawfully interferes with, obstructs, tends to obstruct or
renders dangerous for passage any stream, public park, parkway, square, street
or highway in the village;
         (e)   In any way renders other persons insecure in life or the use of
property; or
         (f)   Essentially interferes with the comfortable enjoyment of life
and property or tends to depreciate the value of the property of others.
   (B)   Specific definition. The maintaining, using, placing, depositing,
leaving or permitting of any of the following specific acts, omissions, places,
conditions and things are hereby declared to be NUISANCES:
      (1)   Any odorous, putrid, unsound or unwholesome grain, meat, hides,
skins, feathers, vegetable matter or the whole or any part of any dead animal,
fish or fowl;
      (2)   Privies, vaults, cesspools, dumps, pits or like places which are
not securely protected from flies or rats or which are foul or malodorous;
      (3)   Filthy, littered or trash-covered cellars, houseyards, barnyards,
stableyards, factory yards, mill yards, vacant areas in rear of stores,
granaries, vacant lots, houses, buildings or premises;
      (4)   Animal manure in any quantity which is not securely protected from
flies and the elements or which is kept or handled in violation of any
ordinance of the village;
      (5)   Liquid household waste, human excreta, garbage, butcher’s trimmings
and offal, parts of fish or any waste vegetable or animal matter in any
quantity; provided, that nothing herein contained shall prevent the temporary
retention of waste in receptacles in a manner provided by the health officer of
the village, nor the dumping of non-putrefying waste in a place and manner
approved by the health officer;
      (6)   Tin cans, bottles, glass, cans, ashes, small pieces of scrap iron,
wire metal articles, bric-a- brac, broken stone or cement, broken crockery,
broken glass, broken plaster and all trash or abandoned material, unless the
same be kept in covered bins or galvanized iron receptacles;
      (7)   Trash, litter, rags, accumulations of barrels, boxes, crates,
packing crates, mattresses, bedding, excelsior, packing hay, straw or other
packing material, lumber not neatly piled, scrap iron, tin or other metal not
neatly piled, old automobiles or parts thereof or any other waste materials
when any of the articles or materials create a condition in which flies or rats
may breed or multiply or which may be a fire danger or which are so unsightly
as to depreciate property values in the vicinity thereof;
      (8)   Any unsightly building, billboard or other structure or any old,
abandoned or partially destroyed building or structure or any building or
structure commenced and left unfinished, which buildings, billboards or other
structures are either a fire hazard, a menace to the public health or safety or
are so unsightly as to depreciate the value of property in the vicinity
thereof;
      (9)   All places used or maintained as junk yards or dumping grounds or
for the wrecking and disassembling of automobiles, trucks, tractors or
machinery of any kind or for the storing or leaving of worn-out, wrecked or
abandoned automobiles, trucks, tractors or machinery of any kind or of any of
the parts thereof or for the storing or leaving of any machinery or equipment
used by contractors or builders or by other persons, which places are kept or
maintained so as to essentially interfere with the comfortable enjoyment of
life or property by others or which are so unsightly as to tend to depreciate
property values in the vicinity thereof;
      (10)   Stagnant water permitted or maintained on any lot or piece of
ground;
      (11)   Stockyards, granaries, mills, pig pens, cattle pens, chicken pens
or any other place, building or enclosure, in which animals or fowl of any kind
are confined or on which is stored tankage or any other animal or vegetable
matter or on which any animal or vegetable matter including grain is being
processed, when the places in which the animals are confined or the premises on
which the vegetable or animal matter is located, are maintained and kept in
such a manner that foul and noxious odors are permitted to emanate therefrom to
the annoyance of inhabitants of the village or are maintained and kept in such
a manner as to be injurious to the public health; or
      (12)   All other things specifically designated as nuisances elsewhere in
this code.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 91.16 ABATEMENT PROCEDURE.
   (A)   (1)   Whenever the Board of Trustees, by resolution, determines that
any nuisance, as defined herein, is being maintained, the Village Clerk/
Treasurer shall cause written notice to abate to be served upon the owner of
the property on which such nuisance is located and further, upon the occupant
thereof, by registered mail or by personal service.
      (2)   In all nuisance abatement actions, if notice by personal service or
certified mail is unsuccessful, notice shall be given by publication in a
newspaper of general circulation in the village or by conspicuously posting the
notice on the lot or ground upon which the nuisance is to be abated or removed.
Such notice shall state that the Village Board has determined that a nuisance
is being maintained on the property and must be removed or remedied within 15
days of receipt of notice.
      (3)   Such notice shall describe the property involved and shall define
the nuisance that must be abated.
(Prior Code, § 2-603)
   (B)   (1)   Whenever a nuisance exists as defined in Title IX of this code,
the village may proceed by a suit in equity to enjoin and abate the same in the
manner provided by law.
      (2)   Whenever, in any action, it is established that a nuisance exists,
the court may, together with the fine or penalty imposed, enter an order of
abatement as a part of the judgment in the case.
(Ord. 2005-01, passed 3-1-2005)
Statutory reference:
   Authority to impose fines, see Neb. RS 17-207 and 17-505
   Authority to regulate and abate nuisances, see Neb. RS 18-1720 and 18-1722
   Nuisances prohibited, see Neb. RS 28-1321
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-563
   Zoning jurisdiction, Neb. RS 17-1001
§ 91.17 ADJOINING LAND OWNERS; INTERVENTION BEFORE TRIAL.
   In cases of appeal from an action of the Board of Trustees condemning real
property as a nuisance or as dangerous under the police powers of the village,
the owners of the adjoining property may intervene in the action at any time
before trial.
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 19-710
§ 91.18 DEAD OR DISEASED TREES.
   (A)   (1)   It is hereby declared a nuisance for a property owner to permit,
allow or maintain any dead or diseased trees within the right-of-way of streets
within the corporate limits of the village or within the extraterritorial
zoning jurisdiction.
      (2)   Notice to abate and remove such nuisance and notice of the right to
a hearing and the manner in which it may be requested shall be given to each
owner or owner’s duly authorized agent and to the occupant, if any. The village
shall establish the method of notice by ordinance. If notice is given by first-
class mail, such mail shall be conspicuously marked as to its importance.
Within five days after receipt of such notice, the owner or occupant of the lot
or piece of ground may request a hearing with the village to appeal the
decision to abate or remove the nuisance by filing a written appeal with the
office of the Village Clerk/Treasurer. A hearing on the appeal shall be held
within 14 days after the filing of the appeal and shall be conducted by an
elected or appointed officer as designated in the ordinance. The hearing
officer shall render a decision on the appeal within five business days after
the conclusion of the hearing. If the appeal fails, the village may have the
work done to abate and remove the dead or diseased trees. If the owner or
occupant of the lot or piece of ground does not request a hearing with the
village within five days after receipt of such notice or fails to comply with
the order to abate and remove the nuisance, the village may have such work
done. The village may levy and assess all or any portion of the costs and
expenses of the work upon the lot or piece of ground so benefitted as a special
assessment.
(Neb. RS 17-555)
   (B)   It is hereby declared a nuisance for a property owner to permit, allow
or maintain any dead or diseased trees on private property within the corporate
limits of the village or within its one-mile zoning jurisdiction. The
provisions in division (A)(2) above shall apply to such nuisances. For the
purpose of carrying out the provisions of this section, the Village Tree Board
shall have the authority to enter upon private property to inspect the trees
thereon.
§ 91.19 WEEDS; LITTER; STAGNANT WATER.
   (A)   Lots or pieces of ground within the village or within its
extraterritorial zoning jurisdiction shall be drained or filled so as to
prevent stagnant water or any other nuisance accumulating thereon.
   (B)   The owner or occupant of any lot or piece of ground within the village
or within its extraterritorial zoning jurisdiction shall keep the lot or piece
of ground and the adjoining streets and alleys free of any growth of 12 inches
or more in height of weeds, grasses or worthless vegetation.
   (C)   The throwing, depositing or accumulation of litter on any lot or piece
of ground within the village or within its one-mile zoning jurisdiction is
prohibited.
   (D)   It is hereby declared to be a nuisance to permit or maintain any
growth of 12 inches or more in height of weeds, grasses or worthless vegetation
on any lot or piece of ground within the village or within its one-mile zoning
jurisdiction or on the adjoining streets or alleys or to litter or cause litter
to be deposited or remain thereon except in proper receptacles.
   (E)   Any owner or occupant of a lot or piece of ground shall, upon
conviction of violating this section, be guilty of an offense.
   (F)   (1)   Notice to abate and remove such nuisance shall be given to each
owner or owner’s duly authorized agent and to the occupant, if any. The village
shall establish the method of notice by ordinance. If notice is given by first-
class mail, such mail shall be conspicuously marked as to its importance.
Within five days after receipt of such notice, the owner or occupant of the lot
or piece of ground may request a hearing with the village to appeal the
decision to abate or remove a nuisance by filing a written appeal with the
office of the Village Clerk/Treasurer. A hearing on the appeal shall be held
within 14 days after the filing of the appeal and shall be conducted by an
elected or appointed officer as designated in the ordinance. The hearing
officer shall render a decision on the appeal within five business days after
the conclusion of the hearing. If the appeal fails, the village may have such
work done. Within five days after receipt of such notice, if the owner or
occupant of the lot or piece of ground does not request a hearing with the
village or fails to comply with the order to abate and remove the nuisance, the
village may have such work done.
      (2)   The costs and expenses of any such work shall be paid by the owner.
If unpaid for two months after such work is done, the village may either:
         (a)   Levy and assess the costs and expenses of the work upon the lot
or piece of ground so benefitted as a special assessment in the same manner as
other special assessments for improvements are levied and assessed; or
         (b)   Recover in a civil action the costs and expenses of the work
upon the lot or piece of ground and the adjoining streets and alleys.
   (G)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      LITTER. Includes, but is not limited to:
         (a)   Trash, rubbish, refuse, garbage, paper, rags and ashes;
         (b)   Wood, plaster, cement, brick or stone building rubble;
         (c)   Grass, leaves and worthless vegetation, except when used as
ground mulch or in a compost pile;
         (d)   Dead animals; and
         (e)   Any machine or machines, vehicle or vehicles or parts of a
machine or vehicle which have lost their identity, character, utility or
serviceability as such through deterioration, dismantling or the ravages of
time, are inoperative or unable to perform their intended functions or are cast
off, discarded or thrown away or left as waste, wreckage or junk.
      WEEDS. Include, but are not limited to: bindweed (Convolvulus arvensis),
puncture vine (Tribulus terrestris), leafy spurge (Euphorbia esula), Canada
thistle (Cirsium arvense), perennial peppergrass (Lepidium draba), Russian
knapweed (Centaurea picris), Johnson grass (Sorghum halepense), nodding or musk
thistle, quack grass (Agropyron repens), perennial sow thistle (Sonchus
arvensis), horse nettle (Solanum carolinense), bull thistle (Cirsium
lanceolatum), buckthorn (Rhamnus sp.) (tourn), hemp plant (Cannabis sativa) and
ragweed (Ambrosiaceae).
(Neb. RS 17-563) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 91.20 GARBAGE AND REFUSE.
   (A)   The owner, duly authorized agent or tenant of any lot or land within
the corporate limits or extraterritorial zoning jurisdiction of the village
shall remove garbage or refuse found upon the lot, land, streets, roads or
alleys abutting the lot or land which constitutes a public nuisance.
   (B)   Notice that removal of garbage or refuse is necessary shall be given
to each owner or owner’s duly authorized agent and to the tenant, if any. The
notice shall be provided by personal service or by certified mail. After
providing the notice, the village shall, in addition to other proper remedies,
remove the garbage or refuse, or cause it to be removed, from the lot, land,
streets, roads or alleys.
   (C)   If the Chairperson of the Board of Trustees declares that the
accumulation of garbage or refuse upon any lot or land constitutes an immediate
nuisance and hazard to public health and safety, the village shall remove the
garbage or refuse or cause it to be removed, from the lot or land within 48
hours after notice by personal service or following receipt of a certified
letter in accordance with division (B) above if the garbage or refuse has not
been removed.
   (D)   Whenever the village removes any garbage or refuse or causes it to be
removed, from any lot or land pursuant to this section, it shall, after a
hearing conducted by the Board of Trustees, assess the cost of the removal
against the lot or land.
(Neb. RS 18-1752)
CHAPTER 92: PUBLIC WAYS AND PROPERTY
Section
Village Property
   
92.001   Definitions
   
92.002   Streets, alleys, walks, malls and other improvements
   
92.003   Maintenance and control
   
92.004   Regulation of obstructions
   
92.005   Regulation of snow, ice and other encroachments
   
92.006   Permitted use of public street space
   
92.007   Poles, wires and pipe lines
   
92.008   Dangerous stairways and entrances
   
92.009   Excavations and exposures; barricades and lights
   
92.010   Guttering and eave spouts
   
92.011   Prohibited obstructions
   
92.012   Trees in sidewalk space; tree maintenance
   
92.013   Overhanging branches
   
92.014   Signs and canopies
   
92.015   Cutting into paving, curb or sidewalk
   
92.016   Heavy equipment
Sale and Acquisition of Property; Public Works
   
92.030   Sale and conveyance; real property
   
92.031   Sale and conveyance; personal property
   
92.032   Acquisition or construction of public buildings; election requirements
   
92.033   Acquisition of real property; appraisal
   
92.034   Acquisition of real property; public meeting; access for recreational
use
   
92.035   Public works involving architecture or engineering; requirements
   
92.036   Special assessments for public works or improvements; notice to non-
resident property owners
Sidewalks
   
92.050   Requirement to keep clean
   
92.051   Use of space beneath
   
92.052   Construction at owner’s initiative
   
92.053   Construction and repair at village direction
Streets and Alleys
   
92.065   Dedication to public use
   
92.066   Grading, paving and other improvements
   
92.067   Improvements without petition or creation of district
   
92.068   Opening, widening, improving or vacating
   
92.069   Vacating public ways; procedure
   
92.070   Crossings
   
92.071   Names and numbers
   
92.072   Driveway approaches
   
92.073   Excavation
   
92.074   Driving stakes
   
92.075   Mixing concrete
   
92.076   Harmful liquids
   
92.077   Snow, debris and the like on street prohibited
 
   
92.999   Penalty
VILLAGE PROPERTY
§ 92.001 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   OVERSEER OF STREETS. The village official with general charge, direction and
control of streets and sidewalks. If one official is responsible for streets
and another official is responsible for sidewalks, OVERSEER OF STREETS shall
mean whichever one is appropriate in the context the term is used.
   SIDEWALK SPACE. The portion of a street between curb lines and adjacent
property lines.
§ 92.002 STREETS, ALLEYS, WALKS, MALLS AND OTHER IMPROVEMENTS.
   (A)   The Board of Trustees may grade, partially or to an established grade,
change grade, curb, recurb, gutter, regutter, pave, gravel, regravel,
macadamize, remacadamize, widen or narrow streets or roadways, resurface or re-
lay existing pavement or otherwise improve any streets, alleys, public grounds,
public ways, entirely or partially and streets which divide the village
corporate area and the area adjoining the village; construct or reconstruct
pedestrian walks, plazas, malls, landscaping, outdoor sprinkler systems,
fountains, decorative water ponds, lighting systems and permanent facilities;
and construct sidewalks and improve the sidewalk space.
   (B)   These projects may be funded at public cost or by the levy of special
assessments on the property especially benefitted in proportion to such
benefits, except as provided in Neb. RS 19-2428 through 19-2431. The Board of
Trustees may, by ordinance, create improvement districts, to be consecutively
numbered, which may include two or more connecting or intersecting streets,
alleys or public ways and may include two or more types of the improvements
authorized under this section in a single district in one proceeding.
   (C)   All of the improvements which are to be funded by a levy of special
assessment on the property especially benefitted shall be ordered as provided
in Neb. RS 17-510 to 17-512, except as otherwise provided in Neb. RS 17-509.
(Neb. RS 17-509)
Statutory reference:
   Other provisions on improvements, assessments and bonds, see Neb. RS 17-513
to 17-524, 18-1751, 19-2401 and 19-2408 to 19-2415
§ 92.003 MAINTENANCE AND CONTROL.
   The Board of Trustees shall have the care, supervision and control of all
public highways, bridges, streets, alleys, public squares and commons within
the village and shall cause such highways, bridges, streets, alleys, public
squares and commons to be kept open and in repair and free from nuisances.
(Neb. RS 17-567)
§ 92.004 REGULATION OF OBSTRUCTIONS.
   (A)   The village may remove all obstructions from the sidewalks,
curbstones, gutters and crosswalks at the expense of the person placing them
there or at the expense of the village and require and regulate the planting
and protection of shade trees in and along the streets and the trimming and
removing of such trees.
   (B)   The village may regulate the building of bulkheads, cellar and
basement ways, stairways, railways, windows, doorways, awnings, lampposts,
awning posts, all other structures projecting upon or over and adjoining and
all other excavations through and under the sidewalks in the village.
(Neb. RS 17-555)
§ 92.005 REGULATION OF SNOW, ICE AND OTHER ENCROACHMENTS.
   (A)   The village shall have power to prevent and remove all encroachments,
including snow, ice, mud or other obstructions, into and upon all sidewalks,
streets, avenues, alleys and other village property.
(Neb. RS 17-557)
   (B)   If the abutting property owner refuses or neglects, after five days’
notice by publication or, in place thereof, personal service of such notice, to
remove all encroachments from sidewalks, as provided in division (A) above, the
village through the proper officers may cause such encroachments to be removed
and the cost of removal shall be paid out of the street fund. The Board of
Trustees shall assess the cost of the notice and removal of the encroachment
against the abutting property as a special assessment. The special assessment
shall be known as a special sidewalk assessment and, together with the cost of
notice, shall be levied and collected as a special assessment in addition to
the general revenue taxes and shall be subject to the same penalties as other
special assessments and shall draw interest from the date of the assessment.
Upon payment of the assessment, the assessment shall be credited to the street
fund.
(Neb. RS 17-557.01)
§ 92.006 PERMITTED USE OF PUBLIC STREET SPACE.
   Any person engaged in the erection, construction, reconstruction, wrecking
or repairing of any building or the construction or repair of a sidewalk along
any street, may occupy the public street space with the building material and
equipment as long as is necessary if such person makes application to and
receives a permit to do so in writing from the Overseer of Streets. No permit
shall authorize the occupancy of more than one-third of the roadway of the
public space adjacent to the real estate on which the building or sidewalk is
to be erected, constructed, reconstructed, wrecked or repaired. A suitable
passageway for pedestrians shall be maintained within the public space included
in the permit, which passageway shall be protected and lighted in the manner
required by the Overseer of Streets.
Penalty, see §
92.999
§ 92.007 POLES, WIRES AND PIPE LINES.
   (A)   Poles, wires, conduits, gas mains, pipe lines and other appurtenances
of public service companies shall be located or erected over, upon or under the
streets, alleys and common grounds of the village. Application for location of
such appurtenances shall be made to the Board of Trustees in writing. Approval
by the Board shall be issued in writing. Any public service company granted a
right-of-way for the erection and maintenance of poles, wires, conduits, gas
mains, pipe lines or other appurtenances shall at all times erect and locate
their appurtenances at such places and in such manner as shall be designated by
the Board.
   (B)   All poles, wires, conduits, gas mains, pipe lines and other
appurtenances shall be removed or relocated by the companies at their own
expense when requested to do so by the Board. Any such removal or relocation
shall be ordered, by resolution of the Board, and the Village Clerk/Treasurer
shall notify any and all companies affected. The companies shall, within 24
hours after receiving notice, at their own expense, cause the poles, wires,
conduits, gas mains, pipe lines or other appurtenances to be removed or
relocated. The Board shall designate another location as closely as possible
where the appurtenances may be reset or placed.
   (C)   (1)   All poles, wires, conduits, gas mains, pipe lines or other
appurtenances shall be reset, placed or erected in such a manner that they will
not interfere with the water system; the sewerage system; any poles, wires,
conduits, mains, lines or other appurtenances of any public utility; any
adjacent buildings; or travel on the public ways and property.
      (2)   Whenever possible, all poles, wires, conduits, gas mains, pipe
lines and appurtenances shall be confined to the alleys of the village.
Penalty, see §
92.999
§ 92.008 DANGEROUS STAIRWAYS AND ENTRANCES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to construct or maintain any stairway,
open cellarway, open basement way or open entrance thereto in or adjacent to
any sidewalk, pavement or street and any such entrance is hereby declared to be
a public nuisance; except that, all existing stairways, open cellarways, open
basement ways or open entrances thereto in or adjacent to sidewalks, pavements
or streets may be permitted to remain from and after the adoption of this
prohibition if the person owning or using the opening in the sidewalk, pavement
or street satisfies the Overseer of Streets that the opening is properly
protected by a balustrade or coping of durable material and furnishes the
village with a bond in the amount set by the Board of Trustees for the benefit
of any person who might suffer an injury or damage by reason of the use of the
stairway, cellarway, basement way or entrance.
Penalty, see §
92.999
§ 92.009 EXCAVATIONS AND EXPOSURES; BARRICADES AND LIGHTS.
   (A)   Any owner or occupant engaged in construction or demolition of any
building or improvement upon or near the public ways and property shall protect
all excavations or exposures of any kind by suitable barricades or guards by
day and by warning lights at night.
   (B)   The failure, neglect or refusal of the owner or occupant to erect and
maintain such protections shall constitute a violation of this section and the
village may stop all work upon the buildings and improvements until suitable
protections are erected and maintained in the required manner.
Penalty, see §
92.999
§ 92.010 GUTTERING AND EAVE SPOUTS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to erect or maintain any dwelling house
or business building within the limits of the village where the dwelling or
building abuts on any sidewalk or street without providing proper guttering and
eave spouts to receive the waste waters that collect on the sidewalks and
streets. All eave spouts erected on any dwelling house or business building
shall be constructed to drain into the alleys or shall be buried beneath the
sidewalks and drain into the streets where it is found to be impossible to
drain the eave spouts into the alley.
Penalty, see §
92.999
§ 92.011 PROHIBITED OBSTRUCTIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to obstruct or encumber, by
fences, gates, buildings, structures or otherwise, any of the streets, alleys
or sidewalks.
   (B)   The public ways and property shall be considered to be obstructed when
the owner or occupant of the adjacent property permits or suffers to remain on
any premises owned or controlled by him or her any hedge, shrubbery, bush or
similar growth within two feet adjacent to the lot line, whether there is a
sidewalk abutting or adjoining the premises or not. It shall be the duty of
owners and occupants to at all times keep trimmed and pruned all such similar
growth.
   (C)   Trees and shrubs growing upon the lot line partially on public ground
and partially upon the abutting property or wholly upon the abutting property
and interfering with the use, making or construction of any public improvement
or so that the roots thereof interfere with any utility wire or pipe shall be
deemed an obstruction. Such trees and shrubs and their roots may be removed by
the village at the expense of the owner of the property upon which the trees or
shrubs are partially or wholly located if the owner fails or neglects, after
notice, to do so.
   (D)   When any obstruction described in this section is determined to exist,
the village may proceed against the owner or occupant of the property adjacent
to the sidewalk space as provided herein.
Penalty, see §
92.999
§ 92.012 TREES IN SIDEWALK SPACE; TREE MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   (1)   No person shall plant any tree or allow any tree to grow within
the sidewalk space without first making a written or verbal application to and
receiving a written permit from the Overseer of Streets upon payment of the
fee, if any, established by the Board of Trustees.
      (2)   Any tree planted within the sidewalk space after the adoption of
this prohibition shall be deemed to be unlawfully planted and growing and may
be determined to be a nuisance. Nothing in this section shall be construed to
apply to any trees growing within the sidewalk space prior to the adoption of
this prohibition.
      (3)   When any such tree is determined to be a nuisance, the village may
proceed against the owner or occupant of the property adjacent to the sidewalk
space as provided herein.
   (B)   (1)   The village or its assignees has authority to maintain clearance
of trees over streets and walkways if the abutting property owner does not do
so pursuant hereto.
      (2)   If the abutting property owner does not maintain clearance of the
trees over streets and walkways, notice to trim the trees shall be provided to
the homeowner in writing by the Village Board of Trustees and if the homeowner
does not maintain the tree pursuant to the notice provided the village will
cause the work to be performed by a village employee at the rate of $50 per
hour with a one-hour minimum.
      (3)   If a village employee is unable to perform the work, the village
will contact a certified arborist to perform the work and the homeowner shall
be taxed the cost of removal maintenance pursuant to the terms of the arborist
fees and contract.
      (4)   All work performed and costs associated therewith by the village
employee or a certified arborist shall be taxed to the homeowner.
      (5)   If the homeowner fails to pay, the village may recover the cost
through a civil action or by filing a lien against the property.
(Ord. 2012-01, passed 2-7-2012)
Penalty, see §
92.999
§ 92.013 OVERHANGING BRANCHES.
   (A)   The owner or occupant of any lot, piece or parcel of ground abutting
or adjacent to any street or sidewalk over which there extend the branches of
trees shall at all times keep the branches or limbs thereof trimmed to the
height of at least eight feet above the surface of the walk and at least 14
feet above the surface of the street or to the heights otherwise specified by
the Board of Trustees.
   (B)   Whenever the branches or limbs of any tree extend over streets or
sidewalks contrary to such provisions so as to interfere with the lighting of
the street from street lights or with the convenience of the public using the
street or sidewalk, the village may proceed against the owner or occupant of
the property abutting or adjacent to the street or sidewalk as provided herein.
Penalty, see §
92.999
§ 92.014 SIGNS AND CANOPIES.
   (A)   No person shall erect or maintain any sign, signboard, poster or rigid
canopy over any street, sidewalk or alley or on other public property without
having first obtained a permit therefor. Permits for signs, signboards, posters
and canopies shall be issued by the Village Clerk/Treasurer, subject to the
approval of the Overseer of Streets, upon the payment of the fee, if any,
established by the Board of Trustees.
   (B)   All signs, signboards, posters and canopies extending over any public
sidewalk, street, alley or other public place must be securely fastened and
constructed so that there will be no danger of the them being dislodged by
ordinary winds or falling from other causes.
   (C)   No sign, signboard, poster or canopy shall be erected or maintained
which extends over any public sidewalk, street, alley or other public place in
such a location as to obstruct the view of any traffic light, sign or signal.
   (D)   Upon a determination that a sign, signboard, poster or canopy is in
violation of this section, the village may proceed against the owner or
occupant of the premises where such the sign, signboard, poster or canopy is
located as provided herein.
Penalty, see §
92.999
§ 92.015 CUTTING INTO PAVING, CURB OR SIDEWALK.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to cut into any paving, curb or
sidewalk for the purpose of constructing a driveway or any other purpose
whatsoever without first having obtained a written permit from the Board of
Trustees. Before any person obtains a permit, he or she shall inform the
Village Clerk/Treasurer of the place where such cutting is to be done and it
shall be the duty of the Overseer of Streets to inspect the proposed place of
entry into the paving, sidewalk or curb.
   (B)   When cutting into any paving, curb or sidewalk, it shall be the duty
of the party to comply with such rules and regulations as may be prescribed by
the Board or the Village Engineer. When the applicant is ready to close the
opening made, he or she shall inform the Overseer of Streets, who shall
supervise and inspect the materials used and the work done in closing the
opening.
   (C)   It shall be discretionary with the Board to order the Overseer of
Streets, under the supervision and inspection of the Village Engineer or the
committee of the Board on the streets and alleys, to do the cutting and closing
of the paving, curb or sidewalk and charge the costs thereof to the party who
obtained the permit. The Board may consent to the cutting and closing of the
paving, curb or sidewalk by the party holding the permit.
   (D)   Before any permit is issued by the Board, the applicant for the permit
shall deposit with the Village Clerk/Treasurer a sum set by resolution of the
Board for all paving, curb or sidewalk to be cut. Such sum shall be set on a
per square foot cost of construction basis. The deposit shall be retained by
the village for the purpose of replacing the paving, curb or sidewalk in the
event the work is done by the village. If the Board elects to require the
applicant to replace the paving, curb or sidewalk, the deposit shall be
retained by the village until the work is completed to the satisfaction of the
Overseer of Streets or of the committee of the Board on streets and alleys.
   (E)   In addition to making the deposit, the applicant shall, before any
permit is issued, execute a bond to the village with a good and sufficient
surety to be approved by the Board in a sum set by resolution.
§ 92.016 HEAVY EQUIPMENT.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to move or operate heavy equipment
across any curb, gutter, bridge, culvert, sidewalk, crosswalk or crossing on
any unpaved street without first having protected such curb, gutter, bridge,
culvert, sidewalks, crosswalk or crossing with heavy plank sufficient in
strength to warrant against the breaking or damaging of such curb, gutter,
bridge, culvert, sidewalk, crosswalk or crossing.
   (B)   Except as provided in §
71.05 of this code of ordinances, it shall be unlawful to run, drive, move,
operate or convey over or across any paved street a vehicle, machine or
implement with sharp discs or sharp wheels that bear upon the pavement; with
wheels having cutting edges; with wheels having lugs, any protruding parts or
bolts thereon that extend beyond a plain tire so as to cut, mark, mar, indent
or otherwise injure or damage any pavement, gutter or curb; except that, where
heavy vehicles, structures and machines move along paved or unpaved streets the
village police are hereby authorized and empowered to choose the route over
which the moving of such vehicles, structures or machines will be permitted and
allowed.
SALE AND ACQUISITION OF PROPERTY; PUBLIC WORKS
§ 92.030 SALE AND CONVEYANCE; REAL PROPERTY.
   (A)   Except as provided herein, the power of the village to convey any real
property owned by it, including land used for park purposes and public squares,
except real property used in the operation of public utilities, shall be
exercised by resolution, directing the sale at public auction or by sealed bid
of such real property and the manner and terms thereof; except that, such real
property shall not be sold at public auction or by sealed bid when:
      (1)   Such property is being sold in compliance with the requirements of
federal or state grants or programs;
      (2)   Such property is being conveyed to another public agency; or
      (3)   Such property consists of streets and alleys.
   (B)   The Village Board may establish a minimum price for such real property
at which bidding shall begin or shall serve as a minimum for a sealed bid.
   (C)   After the passage of the resolution directing the sale, notice of all
proposed sales of real property described in division (A) above and the terms
thereof shall be published once each week for three consecutive weeks in a
legal newspaper published in or of general circulation in the village.
   (D)   If, within 30 days after the third publication of the notice, a
remonstrance against such sale, signed by registered voters of the village
equal in number to 30% of the registered voters of the village voting at the
last regular municipal election held therein be filed with the Village Board,
such property shall not then, nor within one year thereafter, be sold. If the
date for filing of the remonstrance falls upon a Saturday, Sunday or legal
holiday, the signatures shall be collected within the 30 day-period, but the
filing shall be considered timely if filed or postmarked on or before the next
business day.
   (E)   Upon the receipt of the remonstrance, the Village Board, with the aid
and assistance of the Election Commissioner or County Clerk, shall determine
the validity and sufficiency of signatures on the remonstrance. The Village
Board shall deliver the remonstrance to the Election Commissioner or County
Clerk by hand carrier, by use of law enforcement officials or by certified
mail, return receipt requested. Upon receipt of the remonstrance, the Election
Commissioner or County Clerk shall issue to the Village Board a written receipt
that the remonstrance is in the custody of the Election Commissioner or the
County Clerk. The Election Commissioner or County Clerk shall compare the
signature of each person signing the remonstrance with the voter registration
records to determine if each signer was a registered voter on or before the
date on which the remonstrance was filed with the Village Board. The Election
Commissioner or County Clerk shall also compare the signer’s printed name,
street and number or voting precinct, and municipal or post office address with
the voter registration records to determine whether the signer was a registered
voter. The signature and address shall be presumed to be valid only if the
Election Commissioner or County Clerk determines that the printed name, street
and number or voting precinct, and municipal or post office address matches the
registration records and that the registration was received on or before the
date on which the remonstrance was filed with the Village Board. The
determinations of the Election Commissioner or County Clerk may be rebutted by
any credible evidence which the Village Board finds sufficient. The express
purpose of the comparison of names and addresses with the voter registration
records, in addition to helping to determine the validity of the remonstrance,
the sufficiency of the remonstrance and the qualifications of the signer, shall
be to prevent fraud, deception and misrepresentation in the remonstrance
process. Upon completion of the comparison of names and addresses with the
voter registration records, the Election Commissioner or County Clerk shall
prepare in writing a certification under seal setting forth the name and
address of each signer found not to be a registered voter and the signature
page number and line number where the name is found and if the reason for the
invalidity of the signature or address is other than the non-registration of
the signer, the Election Commissioner or County Clerk shall set forth the
reason for the invalidity of the signature. If the Election Commissioner or
County Clerk determines that a signer has affixed his or her signature more
than once to the remonstrance and that only one person is registered by that
name, the Election Commissioner or County Clerk shall prepare in writing a
certification under seal setting forth the name of the duplicate signature and
shall, county only the earliest dated signature. The Election Commissioner or
County Clerk shall certify to the Village Board the number of valid signatures
necessary to constitute a valid remonstrance. The Election Commissioner or
County Clerk shall deliver the remonstrance and the certifications to the Board
within 40 days after the receipt of the remonstrance from the Board. The
delivery shall be by hand carrier, by use of law enforcement officials or by
certified mail, return receipt requested. Not more than 20 signatures on one
signature page shall be counted.
   (F)   The Village Board shall, within 30 days after the receipt of the
remonstrance and certifications from the Election Commissioner or County Clerk,
hold a public hearing to review the remonstrance and certifications and receive
testimony regarding them. The Board shall, following the hearing, vote on
whether or not the remonstrance is valid and shall uphold the remonstrance if
sufficient valid signatures have been received.
   (G)   Real estate now owned or hereafter owned by the village may be
conveyed without consideration to the state for armory sites or, if acquired
for state armory sites, such property shall be conveyed strictly in accordance
with the conditions of Neb. RS 18-1001 to 18-1006.
   (H)   (1)   After the following, the property shall be sold:
         (a)   Passage of the resolution directing a sale;
         (b)   Publishing of the notice of the proposed sale; and
         (c)   Passing of the 30-day right of remonstrance period.
      (2)   Such sale shall be confirmed by passage of an ordinance stating the
name of the purchaser and terms of the sale. The Village Clerk/Treasurer shall,
upon passage of such ordinance, certify the name of the purchaser to the
Register of Deeds of the county in which the property is located.
   (I)   Divisions (A) through (H) above shall not apply to the sale of real
property if the authorizing resolution directs the sale of an item or items of
real property having a total fair market value of less than $5,000. Following
the passage of the resolution directing the sale of such property, notice of
such sale shall be posted in three prominent places within the village for a
period of not less than seven days prior to the sale of such property. Such
notice shall give a general description of the property offered for sale and
state the terms and conditions of such sale. Confirmation of the sale by
passage of an ordinance may be required.
(Prior Code, § 5-104) (Ord. 2006-01, passed 2-7-2006)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-503
§ 92.031 SALE AND CONVEYANCE; PERSONAL PROPERTY.
   In order to sell personal property owned by the village, the Village Board
shall adopt a resolution directing the sale and the manner and terms of the
sale. Following passage of the resolution directing the sale of the property,
notice of the sale shall be posted in three prominent places within the village
for a period of not less than seven days prior to the sale of the property. If
the fair market value of the property is greater than $5,000, notice of the
sale shall also be published once in a legal newspaper in or of general
circulation in such village at least seven days prior to the sale of the
property. The notice shall give a general description of the property offered
for sale and state the terms and conditions of the sale. When such personal
property is being sold in compliance with the requirements of federal or state
grants or programs or conveyed to another public agency, the notice procedure
set forth above may be dispensed with.
(Prior Code, § 5-105) (Ord. 2007-05, passed 12-4-2007)
§ 92.032 ACQUISITION OR CONSTRUCTION OF PUBLIC BUILDINGS; ELECTION
REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The village is authorized and empowered to purchase, accept by gift or
devise, purchase real estate upon which to erect and erect a building or
buildings for an auditorium, fire station, village building or community house
for housing village enterprises and social and recreation purposes and other
public buildings, including the construction of buildings authorized to be
constructed by Neb. RS Chapter 72, Article 14, and including construction of
buildings to be leased in whole or in part by the village to any other
political or governmental subdivision of the state authorized by law to lease
such buildings and maintain, manage and operate the same for the benefit of the
inhabitants of the village.
   (B)   Except as provided in division (C) below, before any such purchase can
be made or building erected, the question shall be submitted to the electors of
the village at a general village election or at an election duly called for
that purpose or as set forth in division (D) below and be adopted by a majority
of the electors voting on such question.
(Neb. RS 17-953)
   (C)   If the funds to be used to finance the purchase or construction of a
building pursuant to this section are available other than through a bond
issue, then either:
      (1)   Notice of the proposed purchase or construction shall be published
in a legal newspaper in or of general circulation in the village and no
election shall be required to approve the purchase or construction unless
within 30 days after the publication of the notice, a petition against the
purchase or construction is signed by registered voters of the village equal in
number to 15% of the registered voters of the village voting at the last
regular village election held therein and is filed with the Board of Trustees.
If the date for filing the petition falls upon a Saturday, Sunday or legal
holiday, the signatures shall be collected within the 30-day period, but the
filing shall be considered timely if filed or postmarked on or before the next
business day. If a petition with the necessary number of qualified signatures
is timely filed, the question shall be submitted to the voters of the village
at a general village election or a special election duly called for that
purpose. If the purchase or construction is not approved, the property involved
shall not then, nor within one year following the election, be purchased or
constructed; or
      (2)   The Board of Trustees may proceed without providing the notice and
right of petition required in division (C)(1) above if the property can be
purchased below the fair market value as determined by an appraisal, there is a
willing seller and the purchase price is less than $25,000. The purchase shall
be approved by the Board of Trustees after notice and public hearing as
provided in §
92.034 of this chapter.
(Neb. RS 17-953.01)
   (D)   (1)   The Board of Trustees adopting the proposition to make such
purchase or erect such building or buildings for the purposes set forth in
division (A) above shall have the power to borrow money and pledge the property
and credit of the village upon its negotiable bonds. No such bonds shall be
issued until after the same have been authorized by a majority vote of the
electors voting on the proposition of their issuance, at a general village
election or at a special election called for the submission of such
proposition. The question of such purchase or erection of such a building or
buildings, as set forth in division (A) above and the question of the issuance
of the negotiable bonds referred to in this division (D)(1) may be submitted as
one question at a general village or special election if so ordered by
resolution or ordinance.
      (2)   Notice of the time and place of the election shall be given by
publication in some legal newspaper printed in or of general circulation in the
village three successive weeks immediately prior thereto.
      (3)   No such election for the issuance of such bonds shall be called
until a petition therefor signed by at least 10% of the legal voters of the
village has been presented to the Board of Trustees. The number of voters
voting at the last regular village election prior to the presenting of the
petition shall be deemed the number of votes in the village for the purpose of
determining the sufficiency of the petition.
      (4)   The question of bond issues for such purpose in the village when
defeated shall not be resubmitted for six months from and after the date of
such election.
      (5)   When the building to be constructed is to be used by the state or
its agency or agencies under a lease authorized by Neb. RS Chapter 72, Article
14, or the building is to be leased by any other political or governmental
subdivision of the state, when the combined area of the building to be leased
by the state or its agency or agencies and the political or governmental
subdivision of the state is more than 50% of the area of the building and when
such sum does not exceed $2,000,000, then no such vote of the electors will be
required.
(Neb. RS 17-954)
§ 92.033 ACQUISITION OF REAL PROPERTY; APPRAISAL.
   Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the village shall not purchase,
lease-purchase or acquire for consideration real property having an estimated
value of $100,000 or more unless an appraisal of such property has been
performed by a certified real property appraiser.
(Neb. RS 13-403)
§ 92.034 ACQUISITION OF REAL PROPERTY; PUBLIC MEETING; ACCESS FOR RECREATIONAL
USE.
   (A)   The village shall acquire an interest in real property by purchase or
eminent domain only after the Board of Trustees has authorized the acquisition
by action taken in a public meeting after notice and public hearing.
   (B)   (1)   The village shall provide to the public a right of access for
recreational use to real property acquired for public recreational purposes.
Such access shall be at designated access points and shall be equal to the
right of access for recreational use held by adjacent landowners.
      (2)   The right of access granted to the public for recreational use
shall meet or exceed such right held by a private landowner adjacent to the
real property.
(Neb. RS 18-1755)
§ 92.035 PUBLIC WORKS INVOLVING ARCHITECTURE OR ENGINEERING; REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this section and Neb. RS 81-3449
and 81-3453, the village shall not engage in the construction of any public
works involving architecture or engineering unless the plans, specifications
and estimates have been prepared and the construction has been observed by an
architect, a professional engineer or a person under the direct supervision of
an architect, professional engineer or those under the direct supervision of an
architect or professional engineer.
      (2)   This division (A) shall not apply to any public work in which the
contemplated expenditure for the complete project does not exceed $100,000 or
the adjusted dollar amount set by the Board of Engineers and Architects.
(Neb. RS 81-3445)
   (B)   The provisions of division (A) above regulating the practice of
architecture do not apply to the following activities or the other activities
specified in Neb. RS 81-3449:
      (1)   Any alteration, renovation or remodeling of a building if the
alteration, renovation or remodeling does not affect architectural or
engineering safety features of the building;
      (2)   A public service provider who employs a design professional
performing professional services for itself;
      (3)   The practice of any other certified trade or legally recognized
profession;
      (4)   Earthmoving and related work associated with soil and water
conservation practices performed any land owned by the village that is not
subject to a permit from the Department of Natural Resources; and
      (5)   The work of employees and agents of the village performing, in
accordance with other requirements of law, their customary duties in the
administration and enforcement of codes, permit programs and land use
regulations and their customary duties in utility and public works
construction, operation and maintenance.
(Neb. RS 81-3449)
   (C)   The provisions of division (A) above regulating the practice of
engineering do not apply to the following activities, the activities specified
in division (B) above or the other activities specified in Neb. RS 81-3453:
      (1)   Those services ordinarily performed by subordinates under direct
supervision of a professional engineer or those commonly designated as
locomotive, stationary, marine operating engineers, power plant operating
engineers or manufacturers who supervise the operation of or operate machinery
or equipment or who supervise construction within their own plant; and
      (2)   The construction of water wells as defined in Neb. RS 46-1212, the
installation of pumps and pumping equipment into water wells and the
decommissioning of water wells, unless such construction, installation or
decommissioning is required by the village to be designed or supervised by an
engineer or unless legal requirements are imposed upon the village as a part of
a public water supply.
(Neb. RS 81-3453)
   (D)   For the purpose of this section, the village is considered a public
service provider if it employs or appoints an architect or a professional
engineer to be in responsible charge of the village’s architectural or
engineering work.
(Neb. RS 81-3423)
§ 92.036 SPECIAL ASSESSMENTS FOR PUBLIC WORKS OR IMPROVEMENTS; NOTICE TO NON-
RESIDENT PROPERTY OWNERS.
   (A)   Before any political subdivision or special taxing district for public
works or public improvements shall be formed and before the village or any
political subdivision or special taxing district may impose any special
assessment for public works or public improvements, a copy of any notice
required to be published by law shall be mailed to the last-known address of
all non-resident property owners as shown on the current tax rolls at the time
such notice is first published.
(Neb. RS 13-310)
   (B)   The Village Clerk/Treasurer or any other person upon whom the duty is
imposed by law to publish notice required by law in regard to the formation of
a special taxing district for public works or public improvements shall mail by
certified mail with return receipt requested a copy of the published notice in
regard to the formation of any special taxing district within the village to
the last-known address as shown on the current tax rolls of each non-resident
property owner.
(Neb. RS 13-311)
   (C)   The Village Clerk/Treasurer or any other person upon whom the duty is
imposed by law to publish notice required by law in regard to any special
assessment by a special taxing district shall mail by certified mail with
return receipt requested a copy of such notice to be published to the last-
known address as shown on the current tax rolls of each non-resident property
owner.
(Neb. RS 13-312)
   (D)   The failure of the Village Clerk/Treasurer any other person upon whom
the duty is imposed by law to mail a copy of a published notice as provided in
this section shall invalidate the assessment against the property involved
while permitting all other assessments and procedures to be lawful.
(Neb. RS 13-313)
   (E)   For the purpose of this section, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      NON-RESIDENT PROPERTY OWNER. Any person or corporation whose residence
and mailing address as shown on the current tax rolls is outside the boundaries
of the county and who is a record owner of property within the boundaries of
the village, special assessment district or taxing district involved.
(Neb. RS 13-314)
SIDEWALKS
§ 92.050 REQUIREMENT TO KEEP CLEAN.
   It shall be unlawful for the occupant of any lot or lots or the owner of any
vacant lot or lots within the corporate limits to allow snow, sleet, mud, ice
or other substance to accumulate on the sidewalks or to permit any snow, sleet,
ice, mud or other substance to remain upon the sidewalk. Unless the Board of
Trustees has provided otherwise, all sidewalks within the business district
shall be cleaned within five hours after the cessation of a storm, unless the
storm or fall of snow shall have taken place during the night, in which case
the sidewalk shall be cleaned before 9:00 a.m. the following day and sidewalks
within the residential areas of the village shall be cleaned within 24 hours
after the cessation of the storm.
Penalty, see §
92.999
§ 92.051 USE OF SPACE BENEATH.
   (A)   No person shall be allowed to keep or use the space beneath the
sidewalk lying between lot line and curb line unless a permit has been obtained
from the Board of Trustees.
   (B)   Before any permit is granted, the applicant shall submit plans and
specifications of any present or proposed construction to the Village Engineer.
If the plans or specifications are disapproved by the Engineer, no permit shall
be granted. All permits hereafter granted shall continue only upon the
condition that the party receiving them builds, maintains and keeps in repair a
sidewalk over the space used or constructed to be used and pays all damages
that may be sustained by any person by reason of such use or by reason of the
sidewalk being defective or in a dangerous condition.
   (C)   As a condition precedent to the issuance or continuance of any permit
for the use of any space underneath the village sidewalks as contemplated in
this section, the Board of Trustees may require the applicant to furnish a bond
to the village as obligee for the benefit of any person who may suffer an
injury or damage by reason of such use.
   (D)   The bond shall be in such sum as the Board of Trustees, in its
discretion, may designate.
Penalty, see §
92.999
§ 92.052 CONSTRUCTION AT OWNER’S INITIATIVE.
   (A)   Any person desiring to construct or cause to be constructed, any
sidewalk shall do so only as provided in this section. It shall be unlawful for
any person to construct any sidewalk without first having obtained a permit.
   (B)   The owner shall make application in writing for a permit and file such
application in the office of the Village Clerk/Treasurer. The permit shall give
a description of the lot or piece of land along which the sidewalk is to be
constructed. The Overseer of Streets shall issue the desired permit unless good
cause appears why the permit should be denied; except that, if it is desired to
construct the sidewalk at any other than the regularly prescribed location,
grade or elevation, the Overseer of Streets shall submit the application to the
Board of Trustees for determination as to whether the permit should be granted
or denied. It shall be unlawful for any person to construct or cause to be
constructed, such sidewalk at any other location, grade or elevation than so
designated by the village. All sidewalks shall be built and constructed on the
established grade or elevation and if there is no established grade, then on
the grade or elevation indicated by the Overseer of Streets.
§ 92.053 CONSTRUCTION AND REPAIR AT VILLAGE DIRECTION.
   (A)   (1)   The Board of Trustees may construct and repair sidewalks or
cause the construction and repair of sidewalks in such manner as the Board of
Trustees deems necessary and assess the expense of such construction or repairs
on the property in front of which such construction or repairs are made, after
having given notice:
         (a)   By publication in one issue of a legal newspaper in or of
general circulation in the village; and
         (b)   By either causing a written notice to be served upon the
occupant in possession of the property involved or to be posted upon such
premises ten days prior to the commencement of such construction or repair.
      (2)   The powers conferred under this section are in addition to those
provided in Neb. RS 17-509 to 17-521 and may be exercised without creating an
improvement district.
      (3)   If the owner of any property abutting any street or avenue or part
thereof fails to construct or repair any sidewalk in front of the owner’s
property within the time and in the manner as directed and requested by the
Board of Trustees, after having received due notice to do so, the Board of
Trustees may cause the sidewalk to be constructed or repaired and may assess
the cost of such construction or repairs against the property.
(Neb. RS 17-522)
   (B)   All sidewalks shall be constructed and repaired in conformity with
such plans and specifications as may be approved by the Board of Trustees.
   (C)   Assessments made under the provisions of this section shall be made
and assessed in the following manner:
      (1)   Such assessment shall be made by the Board of Trustees at a special
meeting, by a resolution, taking into account the benefits derived or injuries
sustained in consequence of such improvements and the amount charged against
the same, which, with the vote, shall be recorded in the minutes. Notice of the
time of holding such meeting and the purpose for which it is to be held shall
be published in a legal newspaper in or of general circulation in the village
at least four weeks before the same shall be held or, in lieu thereof, personal
service may be made upon persons owning or occupying property to be assessed;
and
      (2)   All such assessments shall be known as special assessments for
improvements and shall be levied and collected as a separate tax, in addition
to the taxes for general revenue purposes and shall be placed on the tax roll
for collection, subject to the same penalties and collected in like manner as
other village taxes.
(Neb. RS 17-524)
Statutory reference:
    Authority to improve through sidewalk district, see Neb. RS 19-2417 through
19-2419
STREETS AND ALLEYS
§ 92.065 DEDICATION TO PUBLIC USE.
   No street or alley shall be dedicated to public use, by the proprietor of
ground in the village, shall be deemed a public street or alley or shall be
under the use or control of the Board of Trustees, unless the dedication shall
be accepted and confirmed by an ordinance especially passed for such purpose.
(Neb. RS 17-567)
§ 92.066 GRADING, PAVING AND OTHER IMPROVEMENTS.
   The village has the power to provide for the grading and repair of any
street, avenue or alley and the construction of bridges, culverts and sewers.
No street, avenue or alley shall be graded unless the grading is ordered to be
done by the affirmative vote of two-thirds of the Board of Trustees.
(Neb. RS 17-508)
Statutory reference:
   Acquisition of additional land or easement, see Neb. RS 18-1705
   Boundary street with county or another municipality, see Neb. RS 18-2005
   Limited street improvement districts, see Neb. RS 19-2416
§ 92.067 IMPROVEMENTS WITHOUT PETITION OR CREATION OF DISTRICT.
   (A)   The village may, without petition or creating a street improvement
district, grade, curb, gutter and pave:
      (1)   Any portion of a street otherwise paved so as to make one
continuous paved street, but the portion to be so improved shall not exceed two
blocks, including intersections or 1,325 feet, whichever is the lesser;
      (2)   Any unpaved street or alley which intersects a paved street for a
distance of not to exceed one block on either side of that paved street; and
      (3)   Any side street or alley within its corporate limits connecting
with a major traffic street for a distance not to exceed one block from that
major traffic street.
   (B)   Those improvements may be performed upon any portion of a street or
alley or any unpaved street or alley not previously improved to meet or exceed
the minimum standards for pavement set by the village for its paved streets.
   (C)   In order to defray the costs and expenses of these improvements, the
Board of Trustees may levy and collect special taxes and assessments or issue
paving bonds as provided in Neb. RS 18-2003.
(Neb. RS 18-2001 through 18-2004)
§ 92.068 OPENING, WIDENING, IMPROVING OR VACATING.
   (A)   (1)   The village shall have power to open, widen or otherwise improve
or vacate any street, avenue, alley or lane within the limits of the village
and also to create, open and improve any new street, avenue, alley or lane. All
damages sustained by the citizens of the village or by the owners of the
property therein, shall be ascertained in that manner as shall be provided by
ordinance.
      (2)   Whenever any street, avenue, alley or lane is vacated, such street,
avenue, alley or lane shall revert to the owners of the abutting real estate,
one-half on each side thereof and become a part of that property, unless the
village reserves title in the ordinance vacating such street or alley. If title
is retained by the village, such property may be sold, conveyed, exchanged or
leased upon such terms and conditions as shall be deemed in the best interests
of the village.
      (3)   When a portion of a street, avenue, alley or lane is vacated only
on one side of the center thereof, the title to the land shall vest in the
owner of the abutting property and become a part of that property, unless the
village reserves title in the ordinance vacating a portion of such street,
avenue, alley or lane. If title is retained by the village, such property may
be sold, conveyed, exchanged or leased upon such terms and conditions as shall
be deemed in the best interests of the village.
      (4)   When the village vacates all or any portion of a street, avenue,
alley or lane, the village shall, within 30 days after the effective date of
the vacation, file a certified copy of the vacating ordinance with the Register
of Deeds for the county in which the vacated property is located to be indexed
against all affected lots.
      (5)   The title to property vacated pursuant to this section shall be
subject to the following:
         (a)   There is reserved to the village the right to maintain, operate,
repair and renew public utilities existing at the time title to the property is
vacated there; and
         (b)   There is reserved to the village, any public utilities and any
cable television systems the right to maintain, repair, renew and operate water
mains, gas mains, pole lines, conduits, electrical transmission lines, sound
and signal transmission lines and other similar services and equipment and
appurtenances, including lateral connections or branch lines, above, on or
below the surface of the ground that are existing as valid easements at the
time title to the property is vacated for the purposes of serving the general
public or the abutting properties and to enter upon the premises to accomplish
such purposes at any and all reasonable times.
(Neb. RS 17-558)
   (B)   The village shall have power to create, open, widen or extend any
street, avenue, alley, off- street parking area or other public way or annul,
vacate or discontinue such street, avenue, alley, area or public way.
(Neb. RS 17-559)
§ 92.069 VACATING PUBLIC WAYS; PROCEDURE.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      SPECIAL DAMAGES. Only those losses or damages or injuries which a
property owner suffers that are peculiar or special or unique to his or her
property and which result from the Board of Trustees vacating a street, avenue,
alley, lane or similar public way. SPECIAL DAMAGES shall not mean those losses
or damages or injuries that a property owner suffers that are in common with
the rest of the village or public at large, even though those losses or damages
or injuries suffered by the property owner are greater in degree than the rest
of the village or public at large.
   (B)   Whenever the Board of Trustees decides that it would be in the best
interests of the village to vacate a street, avenue, alley, lane or similar
public way, the Board of Trustees shall comply with the following procedure.
      (1)   Notice. Notice shall be given to all abutting property owners
either by first class mail to their last known address or if there is no known
address then by publishing the notice in a newspaper that is of general
circulation in the village. The content of the notice shall advise the abutting
property owners that the Board of Trustees will consider vacating that street,
avenue, alley, lane or similar public way at its next regular meeting, or, if a
special meeting is scheduled for the discussion, then the date, time and place
of that meeting.
      (2)   Consent; waiver. The Board of Trustees may have all the abutting
property owners sign a form stating that they consent to the action being taken
by the Board of Trustees and waive their right of access. The signing of this
form shall have no effect on claims for special damages by the abutting
property owners but shall create the presumption that the Board of Trustees’
action was proper. If the abutting property owners do not sign the consent/
waiver form, the Board of Trustees may still proceed with vacating the street,
avenue, alley, lane or similar public way under the authority granted by Neb.
RS 17-558 and 17-559.
      (3)   Ordinance. The Board of Trustees shall pass an ordinance that
includes essentially the following provisions:
         (a)   A declaration that the action is expedient for the public good
or in the best interests of the village;
         (b)   A statement that the village will have an easement for
maintaining all utilities; and
         (c)   A method or procedure for ascertaining special damages to
abutting property owners.
   (C)   (1)   The Chairperson shall appoint three or five or seven
disinterested residents of the village to a special commission to ascertain the
amount of special damages that the abutting property owners are entitled to
receive and which resulted from the Board of Trustees vacating the street,
avenue, alley, lane or similar public way.
      (2)   The appointees of the special commission shall be approved by the
Board of Trustees.
      (3)   Only special damages shall be awarded to the abutting property
owners.
   (D)   (1)   In determining the amount of compensation to award the abutting
property owners as special damages, the commission shall use the following
rule:
      An abutting property owner is entitled to recover as compensation the
difference between the value of the property immediately before and immediately
after the vacating of the street, avenue, alley, lane or similar public way.
      (2)   If no difference in value exists, the abutting property owner is
entitled to no compensation.
§ 92.070 CROSSINGS.
   (A)   The Board of Trustees may order and cause to be constructed, under the
supervision of the Overseer of Streets, those street, avenue and alley
crossings as the Board of Trustees deems necessary.
   (B)   When a petition for the construction of any such crossings is filed by
an interested resident in the office of the Village Clerk/Treasurer, the
Village Clerk/Treasurer shall refer the application to the Overseer of Streets,
who shall investigate and make a recommendation to the Board of Trustees.
   (C)   Action by the Board of Trustees on the application, whether the
application is approved or rejected, shall be considered final.
§ 92.071 NAMES AND NUMBERS.
   (A)   The Board of Trustees may at any time, by ordinance, rename any street
or provide a name for any new street.
   (B)   Buildings used for residence or business purposes and located along
those streets shall retain those numbers as the Board of Trustees may require.
   (C)   It shall be the duty of the Overseer of Streets, upon the erection of
any new building, to assign the proper numbers to the building and give notice
to the owner and occupant of the same.
Penalty, see §
92.999
§ 92.072 DRIVEWAY APPROACHES.
   (A)   The Overseer of Streets may require the owner of property served by a
driveway approach constructed or maintained upon the street right-of-way to
repair or replace any such driveway approach which is cracked, broken or
otherwise deteriorated to the extent that it is causing or is likely to cause
damage to or interfere with any street structure, including pavement or
sidewalks.
   (B)   (1)   The Village Clerk/Treasurer shall give the property owner notice
by registered letter or certified mail, directed to the last known address of
the owner or the agent of the owner, directing the repair or replacement of the
driveway approach.
      (2)   If, within 30 days of mailing the notice, the property owner fails
or neglects to cause the repairs or replacements to be made, the Overseer of
Streets may cause the work to be done and assess the cost upon the property
served by the approach.
(Neb. RS 18-1748) Penalty, see §
92.999
§ 92.073 EXCAVATION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to make an excavation in any street or
streets for any purpose whatsoever unless a written permit is issued by the
Overseer of Streets authorizing those excavations.
Penalty, see §
92.999
§ 92.074 DRIVING STAKES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to drive any peg or stake of any kind
into the pavement in any street or alley without first procuring the written
consent of the Overseer of Streets.
Penalty, see §
92.999
§ 92.075 MIXING CONCRETE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to mix any concrete or plastering
material directly on the street pavement for any reason whatsoever.
Penalty, see §
92.999
§ 92.076 HARMFUL LIQUIDS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to place or permit to leak in the gutter
of any street any waste gasoline, kerosene or high lubricating oils, which
damage or act as a solvent upon the streets.
Penalty, see §
92.999
§ 92.077 SNOW, DEBRIS AND THE LIKE ON STREET PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful to place, push or deposit snow, sleet, ice or mud or
any debris, including leaves, grass and branches, from private property onto
the streets of the village.
Penalty, see §
92.999
Statutory reference: 
   Authority to regulate, see Neb. RS 17-557
§ 92.999 PENALTY.
   Any and all persons violating any of the provisions of this chapter for
which a penalty is not therein provided shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor
and, upon conviction thereof, shall be fined in an amount not more than $500
and each day that maintenance of the same continues shall constitute a separate
offense.
(Prior Code, § 5-501)
CHAPTER 93: ANIMALS
Section
General Provisions
   
93.01   Definitions
   
93.02   Running at large; tethering
   
93.03   Wild animals
   
93.04   Killing, poisoning and injuring
   
93.05   Enclosures
   
93.06   Abandonment, neglect and mistreatment
   
93.07   Equine; bovine; prohibited acts
   
93.08   Impoundment
   
93.09   Officer’s compensation
   
93.10   Interference with police
Rabies
   
93.25   Definitions
   
93.26   Vaccination required; cost; exemptions
   
93.27   Post-incident management
   
93.28   Domestic or hybrid animal or livestock; post-exposure management
   
93.29   Animal pound; impoundment; release; fees
   
93.30   Proclamation of danger
   
93.31   Enforcement
Dogs
   
93.45   License and tax required; exemption; tags
   
93.46   Collar or harness required
   
93.47   Removal of collar, harness or tags
   
93.48   Liability of owner
   
93.49   Barking and chasing; complaints
   
93.50   Dangerous dogs
   
93.51   Fighting dogs
 
   
93.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 93.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ANIMAL. Any vertebrate member of the animal kingdom other than an uncaptured
wild creature.
   ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER. Any person authorized by law or employed or
appointed for the purpose of aiding in the enforcement of this chapter or any
other law or ordinance relating to the licensing, control, seizure or
impoundment of animals.
   OWNER. Any person who owns, possesses, keeps, harbors or has charge, custody
or control of an animal or permits an animal to habitually remain or be lodged
or fed within his or her house, store, building, enclosure, yard, lot, grounds
or premises. OWNER does not include any veterinarian or kennel operator
temporarily maintaining on his or her premises an animal owned by another
person for not more than 30 days.
   RUN AT LARGE. Not being under the actual control of the owner by means of:
      (a)   A leash, cord, chain or other suitable means of physical restraint
which is securely fastened or tethered in a manner sufficient to keep the
animal on the premises where tethered;
      (b)   A leash, cord, chain or other suitable means of physical restraint
of six feet or less in length physically held by the owner;
      (c)   Being confined within a cage, receptacle, enclosed vehicle, fenced
enclosure or shelter; or
      (d)   Being within the real property limits of the owner and in the
owner’s presence and under direct and effective voice or other control.
§ 93.02 RUNNING AT LARGE; TETHERING.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the owner of any cow, hog, horse, mule,
sheep, goat, dog, cat, chicken, turkey, goose or other animal to permit the
animal to run at large at any time on any of the public ways and property or
the property of another in the village or to be tethered or staked out in such
a manner so as to allow the animal to reach or pass into any public way or
property or any property of another.
   (B)   The owner of a cat may permit the cat to run at large within the
corporate limits subject to any restrictions or prohibitions otherwise imposed
by the Board of Trustees.
   (C)   Any animal found running at large or tethered or staked out in
violation of this section is a public nuisance and may be impounded or
destroyed as provided in this chapter.
   (D)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to permit anyone to own an
animal in the corporate limits of the village that is prohibited by the Board
of Trustees.
Penalty, see §
93.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority to regulate, see Neb. RS 17-526 and 17-547
   Fine for permitting collarless dog to run at large, see Neb. RS 54-607
§ 93.03 WILD ANIMALS.
   No wild animals may be kept within the corporate limits, except wild animals
kept for exhibition purposes by circuses and educational institutions.
Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.04 KILLING, POISONING AND INJURING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to kill, administer or cause to be
administered poison of any sort to or in any manner injure, maim or destroy or
attempt to injure, maim or destroy any animal or to place any poison or
poisoned food where it is accessible to an animal, except that:
   (A)   This section shall not apply to any law enforcement officer or animal
control officer acting within his or her power and duty;
   (B)   This section shall not apply if the animal is vicious, dangerous or
showing characteristics of rabies and cannot be captured without danger to the
persons attempting to effect a capture of the animal; and
   (C)   Any owner of a dog that he or she wishes to be destroyed may place the
dog in an animal pound or shelter or with a licensed veterinarian to be
humanely destroyed and disposed of according to the provisions in this chapter
or other provisions of law.
Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.05 ENCLOSURES.
   All pens, cages, sheds, yards or any other area or enclosure for the
confinement or animals not specifically barred within the corporate limits
shall be kept in a clean and orderly manner so as not to become a menace or
nuisance to the neighborhood in which the enclosure is located.
Penalty, see §
93.99 
§ 93.06 ABANDONMENT, NEGLECT AND MISTREATMENT.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this chapter, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      ABANDON. To leave any animal in one’s care, whether as owner or
custodian, for any length of time without making effective provision for its
food, water or other care as is reasonably necessary for the animal’s health.
      ANIMAL. Any vertebrate member of the animal kingdom. ANIMAL does not
include an uncaptured wild creature or a livestock animal as defined in this
section.
      BOVINE. A cow, an ox or a bison.
      CRUELLY MISTREAT. To knowingly and intentionally kill, maim, disfigure,
torture, beat, mutilate, burn, scald or otherwise inflict harm upon any animal.
      CRUELLY NEGLECT. To fail to provide any animal in one’s care, whether as
owner or custodian, with food, water or other care as is reasonably necessary
for the animal’s health.
      HUMANE KILLING. The destruction of an animal by a method which causes the
animal a minimum of pain and suffering.
      LAW ENFORCEMENT OFFICER. Any member of the Nebraska State Patrol, any
county or deputy sheriff, any member of the police force of the village or any
other city or village or any other public official authorized by the village or
any other city or village to enforce state or local animal control laws, rules,
regulations or ordinances. LAW ENFORCEMENT OFFICER also includes a special
investigator appointed as a deputy state sheriff as authorized pursuant to Neb.
RS 81-201 while acting within the authority of the Director of Agriculture.
      LIVESTOCK ANIMAL. Any bovine, equine, swine, sheep, goats, domesticated
cervine animals, ratite birds or poultry.
      OWNER or CUSTODIAN. Any person owning, keeping, possessing, harboring or
knowingly permitting an animal to remain on or about any premises owned or
occupied by such person.
      POLICE ANIMAL. A horse or dog owned or controlled by the state or any
county, city or village for the purpose of assisting a law enforcement officer
in the performance of his or her official enforcement duties.
(Neb. RS 28-1008)
   (B) Enforcement powers; immunity.
      (1)   A law enforcement officer who has reason to believe that an animal
has been abandoned or is being cruelly neglected or cruelly mistreated may seek
a warrant authorizing entry upon private property to inspect, care for or
impound the animal.
      (2)   A law enforcement officer who has reason to believe that an animal
has been abandoned or is being cruelly neglected or cruelly mistreated may
issue a citation to the owner or custodian as prescribed in Neb. RS 29-422 to
29-429.
      (3)   Any law enforcement officer acting under this section shall not be
liable for damage to property if such damage is not the result of the officer’s
negligence.
(Neb. RS 28-1012)
   (C) Violation.
      (1)   A person who intentionally, knowingly or recklessly abandons,
cruelly neglects or cruelly mistreats an animal is guilty of an offense.
      (2)   A person commits harassment of a police animal if he or she
knowingly and intentionally teases or harasses a police animal in order to
distract, agitate or harm the police animal for the purpose of preventing such
animal from performing its legitimate official duties.
(Neb. RS 28-1009)
Penalty, see §
93.99
Statutory reference:
   Exemptions, see Neb. RS 28-1013
   Serious illness or injury to animal; death of animal; felony, see Neb. RS
28-1008 and 28-1009
§ 93.07 EQUINE; BOVINE; PROHIBITED ACTS.
   (A)   No person shall intentionally trip or cause to fall or lasso or rope
the legs of, any equine by any means for the purpose of entertainment, sport,
practice or contest. The intentional tripping or causing to fall or lassoing or
roping the legs of, any equine by any means for the purpose of entertainment,
sport, practice or contest shall not be considered a commonly accepted practice
occurring in conjunction with sanctioned rodeos, animal racing or pulling
contests.
(Neb. RS 54-911)
   (B)   No person shall intentionally trip, cause to fall or drag any bovine
by its tail by any means for the purpose of entertainment, sport, practice or
contest. The intentional tripping, causing to fall or dragging of any bovine by
its tail by any means for the purpose of entertainment, sport, practice or
contest shall not be considered a commonly accepted practice occurring in
conjunction with sanctioned rodeos, animal racing or pulling contests.
(Neb. RS 54-912)
Penalty, see §
93.99
Statutory reference:
   Livestock Animal Welfare Act, see Neb. RS 54-907 through 54-912
§ 93.08 IMPOUNDMENT.
   (A)   This section shall apply to the impoundment of animals to which §
93.29 of this chapter does not apply.
   (B)   Any animal found in violation of the provisions of this chapter shall
be impounded. All impounded domestic animals shall be given proper care,
treatment and maintenance.
   (C)   (1)   Notice of impoundment of all animals, including any significant
marks of identification, shall be posted at the pound and at the office of the
Village Clerk/Treasurer within 24 hours after impoundment as public
notification of impoundment.
      (2)   Notice of the impoundment of any licensed dog shall also be mailed
to the owner listed on the license application by regular U.S. mail to the
address listed on the application.
   (D)   Each impounded domestic animal shall be kept and maintained at the
pound for a period of not less than five days after public notice has been
given unless reclaimed earlier by the owner. The owner may reclaim the animal
during the period of impoundment by payment of any general impoundment and
daily board fees set by resolution of the Board of Trustees and on file in the
office of the Village Clerk/Treasurer; except that, in addition, an unusual or
other non-domesticated or wild animal shall only be released upon condition
that the owner shall immediately remove the animal from the village or destroy
it. A diseased animal may be released upon a determination that the health and
safely of the public is no longer threatened. The owner of any released animal
shall be required to comply with any licensing and rabies vaccination
requirements applicable to such animal within 72 hours after release.
   (E)   (1)   If the animal is unclaimed at the end of required waiting period
after public notice has been given, the animal control officer may destroy and
dispose of the animal in a humane manner in accordance with applicable rules
and regulations; except that, if in the judgment of the officer a suitable home
can be found for the animal, the animal shall be turned over to the person who
can provide such home and the new owner shall be required to pay all fees and
meet all applicable licensing and vaccinating requirements.
      (2)   The village shall acquire legal title to any unlicensed dog or any
other animal impounded in the animal shelter for a period longer than the
required waiting period after giving notice.
      (3)   The owner of the animal shall remain liable for payment of the fees
established by the Board of Trustees.
Statutory reference:
   Authority to establish pens and pounds, see Neb. RS 17-548 and 71-4408
   Authority to impound and sell animals, see Neb. RS 17-526 and 17-547
§ 93.09 OFFICER’S COMPENSATION.
   If the Board of Trustees so provides, any official appointed or designated
to destroy and dispose of animals under the provisions of this chapter shall be
paid, in addition to his or her regular salary or other compensation, the sum
set by the Board for each animal so destroyed and disposed of.
Statutory reference:
   Authority to compensate keeper of pound, see Neb. RS 17-548
§ 93.10 INTERFERENCE WITH POLICE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to hinder, delay or interfere with any
police officer or animal control officer who is performing any duty enjoined
upon that person by the provisions of this chapter or to break open or in any
manner directly or indirectly aid, counsel or advise the breaking open, of the
animal shelter, any ambulance wagon or any other vehicle used for the
collecting or conveying of animals to the shelter.
RABIES
§ 93.25 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CAT. A cat which is a household pet.
   DEPARTMENT. The state Department of Health and Human Services.
   DOMESTIC ANIMAL. Any dog of the species Canis familiaris, cat of the species
Felis domesticus or ferret of the species Mustela putorius furo.
   HYBRID ANIMAL. Any animal which is the product of the breeding of a domestic
dog with a non- domestic canine species.
   OWN. To possess, keep, harbor or have control of, charge of or custody of a
domestic or hybrid animal. This term does not apply to domestic or hybrid
animals owned by other persons which are temporarily maintained on the premises
of a veterinarian or kennel operator for a period of not more than 30 days.
   OWNER. Any person possessing, keeping, harboring or having charge or control
of any domestic or hybrid animal or permitting any domestic animal or hybrid
animal to habitually be or remain on or be lodged or fed within the person’s
house, yard or premises. This term does not apply to veterinarians or kennel
operators temporarily maintaining on their premises domestic or hybrid animals
owned by other persons for a period of not more than 30 days.
   RABIES CONTROL AUTHORITY. Village health and law enforcement officials who
shall enforce the provisions of this subchapter relating to the vaccination and
impoundment of domestic or hybrid animals. Such public officials shall not be
responsible for any accident or disease of a domestic or hybrid animal
resulting from the enforcement of such sections.
   VACCINATION AGAINST RABIES. The inoculation of a domestic or hybrid animal
with a United States Department of Agriculture-licensed rabies vaccine
administered consistent with its labeling. The VACCINATION shall be performed
by a veterinarian duly licensed to practice veterinary medicine in the State of
Nebraska or licensed in the state where the vaccination was administered.
(Neb. RS 71-4401)
§ 93.26 VACCINATION REQUIRED; COST; EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   Every domestic animal in the village shall be vaccinated against
rabies with a licensed vaccine and revaccinated at intervals specified by rules
and regulations adopted and promulgated by the Department. Young domestic
animals shall be initially vaccinated at the age specified in the rules and
regulations. Unvaccinated domestic animals acquired or moved into the village
shall be vaccinated within 30 days after purchase or arrival unless under the
age for initial vaccination.
   (B)   (1)   Except as provided in division (B)(3) below, every hybrid animal
in the village shall be vaccinated against rabies and shall be revaccinated at
intervals specified by rules and regulations adopted and promulgated by the
department. A young hybrid animal shall be initially vaccinated at the age
specified in such rules and regulations. An unvaccinated hybrid animal acquired
or moved into the village shall be vaccinated within 30 after purchase or
arrival unless under the age for initial vaccination.
      (2)   The rabies vaccine used to vaccinate a hybrid animal pursuant to
this section shall be sold only to licensed veterinarians.
      (3)   An owner of a hybrid animal in the village prior to the date of
development of a licensed vaccine determined scientifically to be reliable in
preventing rabies in a hybrid animal shall have one year after such date to
comply with this section.
(Neb. RS 71-4402)
   (C)   The cost of rabies vaccination shall be borne by the owner of the
domestic or hybrid animal.
(Neb. RS 71-4404)
   (D)   (1)   The provisions of this subchapter with respect to vaccination
shall not apply to any domestic or hybrid animal owned by a person temporarily
remaining within the village for less than 30 days, to any domestic or hybrid
animal brought into the village for field trial or show purposes or to any
domestic or hybrid animal brought into the village for hunting purposes for a
period of less than 30 days. Such domestic or hybrid animals shall be kept
under strict supervision of the owner. It shall be unlawful to bring any
domestic or hybrid animal into the village which does not comply with the
animal health laws and import rules and regulations of the state which are
applicable to domestic or hybrid animals.
      (2)   Domestic or hybrid animals assigned to a research institution or a
similar facility shall be exempt from this subchapter.
(Neb. RS 71-4405)
Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.27 POST-INCIDENT MANAGEMENT.
   Any domestic animal which has bitten any person or caused an abrasion of the
skin of any person shall be subjected to post-incident management as provided
in rules and regulations adopted and promulgated by the Department.
(Neb. RS 71-4406) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.28 DOMESTIC OR HYBRID ANIMAL OR LIVESTOCK; POST-EXPOSURE MANAGEMENT.
   Domestic or hybrid animals or livestock known to have been exposed to a
confirmed or suspected rabid animal shall be subjected to post-exposure
management as provided in rules and regulations adopted and promulgated by the
Department.
(Neb. RS 71-4407) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.29 ANIMAL POUND; IMPOUNDMENT; RELEASE; FEES.
   (A)   (1)   The rabies control authority may authorize an animal pound or
pounds or may enter into a cooperative agreement with a licensed veterinarian
for the establishment and operation of a pound.
      (2)   Any dog or hybrid of the family Canidae found outside the owner’s
premises whose owner does not possess a valid certificate of rabies vaccination
and valid rabies vaccination tag for the dog or hybrid of the family Canidae
shall be impounded. The rabies control authority may require the impoundment of
domestic or hybrid animals other than dogs or hybrid of the family Canidae. All
impounded domestic or hybrid animals shall be given proper care, treatment and
maintenance. Each impounded domestic or hybrid animal shall be kept and
maintained at the pound for a period of not less than 72 hours unless reclaimed
earlier by the owner.
      (3)   Notice of impoundment of all animals, including any significant
marks of identification, shall be posted at the pound as public notification of
impoundment. Any unvaccinated domestic or hybrid animal may be reclaimed by its
owner during the period of impoundment by payment of prescribed pound fees and
by complying with the rabies vaccination requirement of this subchapter within
72 hours of release. Any vaccinated domestic or hybrid animal impounded because
its owner has not presented a valid certificate of rabies vaccination and a
valid rabies vaccination tag for the domestic or hybrid animal may be reclaimed
by its owner by furnishing proof of rabies vaccination and payment of all
impoundment fees prior to release.
      (4)   At the expiration of impoundment a domestic or hybrid animal may be
claimed by payment of established pound fees and by compliance with the rabies
vaccination requirement of this subchapter within 72 hours of release. If the
domestic or hybrid animal is unclaimed at the end of five days, the authorities
may dispose of the domestic or hybrid animal in accordance with applicable laws
or rules and regulations.
(Neb. RS 71-4408)
   (B)   Impoundment fees shall be paid by the owner. Fees for impoundment at
public facilities shall be established by the rabies control authority.
(Neb. RS 71-4411)
§ 93.30 PROCLAMATION OF DANGER.
   Whenever in its opinion the danger to the public safety from a species of
rabid animals is great or imminent, the Board of Trustees shall issue a
proclamation ordering all owners of any such species to muzzle the animal or to
confine it for a period of not less than 30 days or more than 90 days from the
date of the proclamation or until the danger is passed. The animal may be
harbored by any good and sufficient means in a house, garage or yard on the
premises on which the owner may reside. Upon issuance of a proclamation, all
owners of any such species shall muzzle or confine the animal as provided in
this section.
Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.31 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   When the owner of any domestic or hybrid animal or other animal fails
or refuses to comply with §§
93.27 or
93.28 of this chapter, the rabies control authority shall obtain an order for
seizure of the animal pursuant to Neb. RS Chapter 29, Article 8.
(Neb. RS 71-4410)
   (B)   In the village, all ordinances, codes or rules and regulations
concerning the control of rabies or the vaccination of domestic or hybrid
animals against rabies shall be enforced by the village health and law
enforcement officials or those other officers with regulatory authority as
specified by the Board of Trustees.
(Neb. RS 71-4412)
DOGS
§ 93.45 LICENSE AND TAX REQUIRED; EXEMPTION; TAGS.
   (A)   Any owner of a dog over the age of six months within the village
shall, within 30 days after acquisition of the dog, acquire a license for the
dog annually by or before the May 1 of each year. Licenses shall be issued by
the Village Clerk/Treasurer upon payment of a license tax in the amount
established by the Board of Trustees, plus the $1.25 fee required under Neb. RS
54-603(3). It shall be unlawful for the owner of a dog to wrongfully and
knowingly license an unspayed female dog as a male or spayed female dog if the
Board has established different license taxes for such dogs.
   (B)   (1)   The tax shall be delinquent from and after May 10.
      (2)   The owner of any dog brought into or harbored within the corporate
limits subsequent to May 1 of any year shall be liable for payment of the dog
tax and such tax shall be delinquent if not paid within ten days thereafter.
      (3)   The license shall not be transferable and no refund will be allowed
in case of death, sale or other disposition of the licensed dog.
   (C)   The owner shall state, at the time the application is made and upon
printed forms provided for such purpose, his or her name and address and the
name, breed, color and sex of each dog owned by him or her. A certificate of
rabies vaccination, effective for the ensuing year of the license, shall be
presented when application for a license is made and no license or tag shall be
issued until the certificate is shown.
   (D)   Every service animal shall be licensed as required by this section,
but no license tax shall be charged. Upon the retirement or discontinuance of
the animal as a service animal, the owner of the animal shall be liable for the
payment of the required license tax.
(Neb. RS 54-603)
   (E)   (1)   Upon the payment of the license tax, the Clerk/Treasurer shall
issue to the owner of the dog a license certificate and a metallic tag, which
shall be valid until April 30 following such licensing. The Clerk/Treasurer
shall issue tags of a suitable design that are different in appearance each
year.
      (2)   The metallic tag and the rabies tag shall be properly attached to
the collar or harness of the dog. It shall be unlawful for the owner of any dog
to permit or allow such dog to wear any licensing identification other than the
metallic tag issued by the Clerk/Treasurer.
      (3)   If a license tag is lost, upon satisfactory evidence that the
original tag was issued in accordance with the provisions of this section, the
Clerk/Treasurer shall issue a duplicate or new tag for the balance of the year
for which the license tax has been paid and shall charge and collect a fee
established by the Board of Trustees for each duplicate or new tag so issued.
   (F)   All license taxes, fees and other collections shall be credited to the
General Fund of the village, except as otherwise provided by Neb. RS 54-603.
Penalty, see §
93.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority to impose license tax, require rabies certificate and destroy
unlicensed dogs, see Neb. RS 17-526, 54-603 and 71-4412
§ 93.46 COLLAR OR HARNESS REQUIRED.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of every owner of a dog to securely place upon
the neck of the dog a good and sufficient collar with a metallic plate thereon.
The plate shall be plainly inscribed with the name of the owner.
(Neb. RS 54-605)
   (B)   The owner of a dog may use a harness instead of a collar as long as
the harness meets all other requirements of division (A) above.
Penalty, see §
93.99 
§ 93.47 REMOVAL OF COLLAR, HARNESS OR TAGS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to remove or cause to be removed, the
collar, harness, metallic license tag or rabies tag from any dog without the
consent of the owner of the dog.
Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.48 LIABILITY OF OWNER.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the owner to allow a dog to injure or destroy
any real or personal property of any description belonging to another person.
   (B)   The owner of the dog, in addition to the usual judgment upon
conviction, may be made to be liable to the person injured in an amount equal
to the value of the damage sustained.
Penalty, see §
93.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority to guard against injuries or annoyances, see Neb. RS 17-526
   Statutory liability for damages, see Neb. RS 54-601, 54-602 and 54-606
§ 93.49 BARKING AND CHASING; COMPLAINTS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the owner to allow a dog to annoy or disturb
any neighborhood or person by loud, continued or frequent barking, howling or
yelping or to habitually bark at or chase pedestrians, drivers or owners of
horses or vehicles while they are on any public sidewalks, streets or alleys in
the village.
   (B)   Upon the written complaint of two or more affected persons from
different households, filed within any 30-day period with the Village Clerk/
Treasurer or animal control officer, that any dog owned by the person named in
the complaint is an annoyance or disturbance or otherwise violates the
provisions of this section, the village police or animal control officer shall
investigate the complaint and, if in his or her opinion the situation warrants,
notify the owner to silence and restrain the dog.
   (C)   The provisions of this section shall not be construed to apply to any
village animal shelter.
Penalty, see §
93.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority to guard against annoyances, see Neb. RS 17-526
§ 93.50 DANGEROUS DOGS.
   (A) Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      ANIMAL CONTROL AUTHORITY. An entity authorized to enforce the animal
control laws of the village and includes any local law enforcement agency or
other agency designated by the village to enforce the animal control laws of
the village.
      ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER. Any individual employed, appointed or authorized
by an animal control authority for the purpose of aiding in the enforcement of
this section or any other law or ordinance relating to the licensing of
animals, control of animals or seizure and impoundment of animals and includes
any state or local law enforcement or other employee whose duties in whole or
in part include assignments that involve the seizure and impoundment of any
animal.
      DANGEROUS DOG.
         (a)   Any dog that, according to the records of the animal control
authority:
            1.   Has killed a human being;
            2.   Has inflicted injury on a human being that requires medical
treatment;
            3.   Has killed a domestic animal without provocation; or
            4.   Has been previously determined to be a potentially dangerous
dog by an animal control authority, the owner has received notice of such
determination from an animal control authority or an animal control officer and
the dog inflicts an injury on a human being that does not require medical
treatment, injures a domestic animal or threatens the safety of humans or
domestic animals.
         (b)   A dog shall not be defined as a DANGEROUS DOG if the individual
was tormenting, abusing or assaulting the dog at the time of the injury or has,
in the past, been observed or reported to have tormented, abused or assaulted
the dog.
         (c)   A dog shall not be defined as a DANGEROUS DOG if the injury,
damage or threat was sustained by an individual who, at the time, was
committing a willful trespass as defined in Neb. RS 20-203, 28-520 or 28-521,
was committing any other tort upon the property of the owner of the dog, was
tormenting, abusing or assaulting the dog or has, in the past, been observed or
reported to have tormented, abused or assaulted the dog or was committing or
attempting to commit a crime.
         (d)   A dog shall not be defined as a DANGEROUS DOG if the dog is a
police animal as defined in Neb. RS 28-1008.
      DOMESTIC ANIMAL. A cat, a dog or livestock. Livestock includes buffalo,
deer, antelope, fowl and any other animal in any zoo, wildlife park, refuge,
wildlife area or nature center intended to be on exhibit.
      MEDICAL TREATMENT. Treatment administered by a physician or other
licensed health care professional that results in sutures or surgery or
treatment for one or more broken bones.
      OWNER. Any person, firm, corporation, organization, political subdivision
or department possessing, harboring, keeping or having control or custody of a
dog.
      POTENTIALLY DANGEROUS DOG.
         (a)   Any dog that when unprovoked:
            1.   Inflicts an injury on a human being that does not require
medical treatment;
            2.   Injures a domestic animal; or
            3.   Chases or approaches a person upon streets, sidewalks or any
public grounds in a menacing fashion or apparent attitude of attack.
         (b)   Any specific dog with a known propensity, tendency or
disposition to attack when unprovoked, to cause injury or to threaten the
safety of humans or domestic animals.
(Neb. RS 54-617)
   (B)   (1)   A dangerous dog that has been declared as such shall be spayed
or neutered and implanted with a microchip identification number by a licensed
veterinarian within 30 days after such declaration. The cost of both procedures
is the responsibility of the owner of the dangerous dog. Written proof of both
procedures and the microchip identification number shall be provided to the
animal control authority after the procedures are completed.
      (2)   No owner of a dangerous dog shall permit the dog to go beyond the
property of the owner unless the dog is restrained securely by a chain or
leash.
      (3)   Except as provided in division (B)(4) below or for a reasonable
veterinary purpose, no owner of a dangerous dog shall transport such dog or
permit such dog to be transported to another county, city or village in the
state.
      (4)   An owner of a dangerous dog may transport such dog or permit such
dog to be transported to another county, city or village in the state for the
purpose of permanent relocation of the owner if the owner has obtained written
permission prior to such relocation from the animal control authority of the
county, city or village in which the owner resides and from the county, city or
village in which the owner will reside. Each animal control authority may grant
such permission based upon a reasonable evaluation of both the owner and the
dog, including if the owner has complied with the laws of the state and of the
county, city or village in which he or she resides with regard to dangerous
dogs after the dog was declared dangerous. An animal control authority shall
not grant permission under this section if the county, city or village has an
ordinance or resolution prohibiting the relocation of dangerous dogs. After the
permanent relocation, the animal control authority of the county, city or
village in which the owner resides shall monitor the owner and such dog for a
period of at least 30 days, but not to exceed 90 days to ensure the owner’s
compliance with the laws of this state and of such county, city or village with
regard to dangerous dogs. Nothing in this division (B)(4) shall permit the
rescindment of the declaration of dangerous dog.
(Neb. RS 54-618)
   (C)   (1)   No person, firm, partnership, limited liability company or
corporation shall own, keep or harbor or allow to be in or on any premises
occupied by him, her or it or under his, her or its charge or control any
dangerous dog without such dog being confined so as to protect the public from
injury.
      (2)   While unattended on the owner’s property, a dangerous dog shall be
securely confined, in a humane manner, indoors or in a securely enclosed and
locked pen or structure suitably designed to prevent the entry of young
children and to prevent the dog from escaping. The pen or structure shall have
secure sides and a secure top. If the pen or structure has no bottom secured to
the sides, the sides shall be embedded into the ground at least one foot. The
pen or structure shall also protect the dog from the elements. The pen or
structure shall be at least ten feet from any property line of the owner. The
owner of a dangerous dog shall post warning signs on the property where the dog
is kept that are clearly visible from all areas of public access and that
inform persons that a dangerous dog is on the property. Each warning sign shall
be no less than ten inches by 12 inches and shall contain the words warning and
dangerous animal in high-contrast lettering at least three inches high on a
black background.
(Neb. RS 54-619)
   (D) Failure to comply.
      (1) Any dangerous dog may be immediately confiscated by an animal control
officer if the owner is in violation of this section. The owner shall be
responsible for the reasonable costs incurred by the animal control authority
for the care of a dangerous dog confiscated by an animal control officer or for
the destruction of any dangerous dog if the action by the animal control
authority is pursuant to law and if the owner violated this section.
(Neb. RS 54-620)
      (2) In addition to any other penalty, a court may order the animal
control authority to dispose of a dangerous dog in an expeditious and humane
manner.
(Neb. RS 54-621)
   (E)   Violation; defense.
      (1)   Any owner whose dangerous dog inflicts on a human being a serious
bodily injury as defined in Neb. RS 28-109 is guilty of a Class I misdemeanor
for the first offense, whether or not the same dangerous dog is involved.
      (2)   It is a defense to a violation of division (E)(1) above that the
dangerous dog was, at the time of the infliction of the serious bodily injury,
in the custody of or under the direct control of a person other than the owner
or the owner’s immediate family.
(Neb. RS 54-622.01)
   (F)   Effect of prior conviction. If a dangerous dog of an owner with a
prior conviction under this section attacks or bites a human being or domestic
animal, in addition to any other penalty, the dangerous dog shall be
immediately confiscated by an animal control authority, placed in quarantine
for the proper length of time and thereafter destroyed in an expeditious and
humane manner.
(Neb. RS 54-623)
Penalty, see §
93.99
Statutory reference:
   Owner felony liability; serious bodily injury second offense, see Neb. RS
54-622.01
   Prior conviction; ownership of dangerous dog prohibited for ten years after,
see Neb. RS 54-623
§ 93.51 FIGHTING DOGS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, by agreement or otherwise, to set dogs
to fighting or by any gesture or word to encourage the same to fight.
(Prior Code, § 2-308) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.99 PENALTY.
   In addition to any other penalty provided by this chapter, any person or
owner of a dog and/or cat who shall violate any provisions of this article
shall be fined not less than $10, nor more than $500. Each day’s violation of
this chapter shall constitute a separate offense and may be prosecuted as such.
(Prior Code, § 2-322)
CHAPTER 94: FIRE PREVENTION
Section
General Provisions
   
94.01   Fire Prevention Code
   
94.02   Fire Code enforcement
   
94.03   Lawful entry
   
94.04   Violation notice
   
94.05   Poisonous or flammable gas
   
94.06   Smoking in public places
   
94.07   Prohibited fuels
   
94.08   Burning prohibited
   
94.09   Stoves, furnaces and chimneys
   
94.10   Fires regulated
   
94.11   Open burning ban; waiver
Explosive Material
   
94.25   Storage
   
94.26   Bullets
   
94.27   Blasting permits
   
94.28   Registration
Fireworks
   
94.40   Regulation of use, sale, possession of fireworks
 
   
94.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 94.01 FIRE PREVENTION CODE.
   The rules and regulations promulgated by the office of the State Fire
Marshal of the State of Nebraska relating to fire prevention are incorporated
by reference into this code and made a part of this subchapter as though spread
at large herein, together with all subsequent amendments thereto. Three copies
of the Fire Prevention Code shall be on file with the Village Clerk/Treasurer
and shall be available for public inspection at any time that the village
office is open for business.
(Prior Code, § 7-201)
§ 94.02 FIRE CODE ENFORCEMENT.
   It shall be the duty of all village officials to enforce the incorporated
fire code provisions and all infractions shall be immediately brought to the
attention of the Village Board.
(Prior Code, § 7-202)
§ 94.03 LAWFUL ENTRY.
   It shall be the duty of the owner, lessee or occupant of any building or
structure, except the interiors of private dwellings, to allow the fire
inspector, as designated by the Village Board, to inspect the structure for
purposes of ascertaining and enumerating all conditions therein that are likely
to cause fire or any other violations of the provisions of the village
ordinances affecting the hazard of fire.
(Prior Code, § 7-203)
§ 94.04 VIOLATION NOTICE.
   It shall be the duty of the owner, lessee or occupant of any building or
structure that was lawfully inspected as herein prescribed and who receives
written or verbal notice of a violation of any of the provisions of the village
ordinances, to correct the condition within five days of the date of receipt of
such notice.
(Prior Code, § 7-204)
§ 94.05 POISONOUS OR FLAMMABLE GAS.
   (A)   Any person, firm or corporation desiring to store or keep any form of
poisonous or flammable gas in the village for any period of time must first get
permission from the Board of Trustees.
   (B)   The Board shall require the name of the gas, the place of storage and
the amount of gas stored.
   (C)   It shall then be the duty of the Board of Trustees to prescribe such
rules, regulations and precautionary actions as it may deem necessary.
(Prior Code, § 7-205)
§ 94.06 SMOKING IN PUBLIC PLACES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to ignite a lighter, strike a match or
indulge in the smoking of tobacco on or in any building or structure where
public gatherings take place within the corporate limits while any
entertainment, program, show, amusement, game, exhibition or other spectacle to
which the general public is invited is in progress, or while patrons thereof
are finding or leaving seats and standing room; provided, the foregoing shall
not be construed to apply to banquets, dinners or entertainments held in any of
the aforesaid buildings or structures where food is served and the
entertainment takes place incidental thereto or in connection therewith.
(Prior Code, § 7-206) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.07 PROHIBITED FUELS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to permit or allow crank case drainings,
oil or other flammable substances, other than wood, to be burned in a homemade
stove.
(Prior Code, § 7-207) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.08 BURNING PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to set a fire of any kind on any
asphalted or oiled street now built or hereafter to be built with in the
village.
(Prior Code, § 7-208) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.09 STOVES, FURNACES AND CHIMNEYS.
   All furnaces, stoves and other heating devices shall be installed at a
proper distance from combustible materials and portions of the building. Any
combustible materials or portions of the building that are dangerously close to
such heating devices shall be protected by non-combustible material. This
section shall apply both to existing structures and those which may hereafter
be erected.
(Prior Code, § 7-209) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.10 FIRES REGULATED.
   It shall be lawful to build or set out certain fires; provided that, the
person building such fires shall have the substance to be burned in a fire-
proof trash burner or incinerator with a metal fire-proof screen of not more
than one inch mesh, and located at least 20 feet from any building. The
incinerator shall be built in such a way as to not permit the escape of burning
paper or other substance. If any person shall require a fire in the course of
his or her trade as a blacksmith or mechanic, such fire shall be built and
maintained in the manner prescribed by the Fire Chief. All fires shall be built
after 7:00 a.m. and completely extinguished by 8:00 p.m., except the aforesaid
fires used in the course of a trade, which shall be allowed during such hours
as the Fire Chief shall prescribe. It shall be unlawful for any person to set
fire to, burn or cause to be burned any garbage, animal matter or vegetable
matter. The burning of straw, hay, leaves or brush in the open air is hereby
permitted and allowed; provided that, the person setting out the same requests
permission and receives an open burning permit in writing, signed by the local
fire chief, on a form provided by the State Fire Marshal; and, provided
further, any such burning shall be done while the said fire is attended by the
person setting out the same at all times; and, further provided that, the said
fire shall be located at least 20 feet from any building.
(Prior Code, § 7-210) Penalty, see §
94.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-549, 17-556, 81-520.01
§ 94.11 OPEN BURNING BAN; WAIVER.
   (A)   There shall be a statewide open burning ban on all bonfires, outdoor
rubbish fires and fires for the purpose of clearing land. The Fire Chief of the
Village Fire Department or his or her designee may waive an open burning ban
issued under this section for an area under his or her jurisdiction by issuing
an open burning permit to a person requesting permission to conduct open
burning. Said permit issued by the Fire Chief shall be in writing, signed by
the Fire Chief and on a form provided by the State Fire Marshal.
   (B)   (1)   The Village Fire Chief or his or her designee may waive the open
burning ban in his or her district when conditions are acceptable to the Chief.
Anyone burning in such district when the open burning ban has been waived must
notify the Fire Department of his or her intention to burn.
      (2)   The Fire Chief may adopt and promulgate rules and regulations
listing the conditions acceptable for issuing a permit to conduct open burning
under this section.
   (C)   (1)   The Fire Department may charge a fee, not to exceed $10, for
each such permit issued.
      (2)   This fee shall be remitted to the Village Board for inclusion in
the general funds allocated to the Fire Department.
      (3)   Such funds shall not reduce the tax requirements for the Fire
Department.
      (4)   No such fee shall be collected from any state or political
subdivision to which such a permit is issued to conduct open burning under this
section in the course of such state’s or political subdivision’s official
duties.
(Prior Code, § 7-211)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 81-520.01
EXPLOSIVE MATERIAL
§ 94.25 STORAGE.
   Dynamite and other explosives shall be stored in a proper receptacle made of
concrete, metal or stone, which shall be closed at all times, except when
actually in use. Such receptacle shall not be located in any room where there
is a flame or flammable materials.
(Prior Code, § 7-301) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.26 BULLETS.
   Cartridges, shells and percussion caps shall be kept in their original
containers away from flame, flammable materials and high explosives.
(Prior Code, § 7-302) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.27 BLASTING PERMITS.
   Any person wishing to discharge high explosives within the village must
secure a permit from the Village Board and shall discharge such explosives in
conformance with such directives and precautions as may be prescribed under the
direction and supervision of the Fire Chief.
(Prior Code, § 7-303) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.28 REGISTRATION.
   Any person keeping or storing dynamite, nitroglycerin, gun powder or other
high explosives in any quantity shall register such information as the Board of
Trustees may require with the Village Clerk/Treasurer, who shall forward such
information to the Fire Chief.
(Prior Code, § 7-304) Penalty, see §
94.99
FIREWORKS
§ 94.40 REGULATION OF USE, SALE, POSSESSION OF FIREWORKS.
   The use, sale, offer for sale and possession of permissible fireworks in the
village, as defined by Neb. RS 28-1241, shall be governed and regulated by Neb.
RS 28-1241 to 28-1252, including any and all amendments thereto, together with
any rules and regulations adopted by the State Fire Marshal for the enforcement
of Neb. RS 28-1241 to 28-1252.
(Prior Code, § 7-401)
§ 94.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who shall violate or refuse to comply with the enforcement of any
of the provisions of this chapter, whether set forth at full length herein or
incorporated by reference, shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and fined in
an amount of not more than $500. A new violation shall be deemed to have been
committed every 24 hours of such failure to comply.
(Prior Code, § 7-501)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   BUSINESS LICENSING
      
111.   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
      
112.   TOBACCO AND CIGARETTES
      
113.   SALES AND ADVERTISING
      
114.   LICENSED PLUMBERS
      
115.   LOTTERY SALES
CHAPTER 110: BUSINESS LICENSING
Section
Occupation Taxes
   
110.01   Levies authorized
   
110.02   Collection dates
   
110.03   Certificates
   
110.04   Failure to pay
   
110.05   Specific occupations enumerated; amount of tax
 
   
110.99   Penalty
OCCUPATION TAXES
§ 110.01 LEVIES AUTHORIZED.
   (A)   The village shall have power to raise revenue by levying and
collecting a license tax on any occupation or business within the limits of the
village and regulate such occupation or business by ordinance. Any occupation
tax imposed pursuant to this section shall make a reasonable classification of
businesses, users of space or kinds of transactions for purposes of imposing
such tax; except that, no occupation tax shall be imposed on any transaction
which is subject to tax under Neb. RS 53-160, 66-489, 66-489.02, 66-4,140, 66-
4,145, 66-4,146, 77-2602 or 77-4008 or which is exempt from tax under Neb. RS
77-2704.24. The occupation tax shall be imposed in the manner provided in Neb.
RS 18-1208; except that, Neb. RS 18-1208 does not apply to an occupation tax
subject to Neb. RS 86-704. All such taxes shall be uniform in respect to the
classes upon which they are imposed. All scientific and literary lectures and
entertainments shall be exempt from such taxation, as well as concerts and
other musical entertainments given exclusively by the citizens of the village.
(Neb. RS 17-525)
   (B)   The Board of Trustees shall have authority, by ordinance, to impose an
occupation tax of not more than $5 per annum on each fire insurance
corporation, company or association, doing business in the village, for the
use, support and benefit of volunteer fire departments, regularly organized
under the laws of the state regulating the same. The Village Clerk/Treasurer
shall collect with diligence the occupation tax so imposed. Upon the receipt of
the tax, the Clerk/Treasurer shall pay over the proceeds thereof to the Village
Clerk/Treasurer who shall credit the same to a fund to be known as special
occupation tax fund for benefit of the volunteer fire department. Upon proper
claim filed by the Chief of the Fire Department and allowed by the Board, the
Clerk/Treasurer shall pay over the proceeds of the tax in the fund from time to
time for the use of the Fire Department, as hereinbefore provided.
(Neb. RS 35-106)
   (C)   Notwithstanding any ordinance or charter power to the contrary, the
village shall not impose an occupation tax on the business of any person, firm
or corporation licensed under the Nebraska Liquor Control Act and doing
business within the corporate limits of the village in any sum which exceeds
two times the amount of the license fee required to be paid under the Act to
obtain such license.
(Neb. RS 53-132)
Statutory reference:
   Occupation taxes generating more than $300,000; imposition or increase;
election required, see Neb. RS 18-1208
§ 110.02 COLLECTION DATES.
   Unless provided otherwise or levied daily, any occupation taxes imposed by
the Board of Trustees shall be due and payable on May 1 of each year; except
that, any occupation taxes collected from Class C liquor licensees shall be due
and payable on November 1 of each year. Upon payment of an occupation tax by
any person to the Village Clerk/Treasurer, the Clerk/Treasurer shall give a
receipt, properly dated, specifying the person paying the tax and the amount
paid. Any revenue collected shall be deposited into the General Fund by the
Village Clerk/Treasurer, except as otherwise specifically provided. The Clerk/
Treasurer shall keep an accurate account of all revenue turned over to him or
her. All forms and receipts herein mentioned shall be issued in duplicate. One
copy shall then be kept by each party in the transaction.
§ 110.03 CERTIFICATES.
   The receipt issued after the payment of any occupation tax shall be the
occupation tax certificate. The certificate shall specify the amount of the tax
and the name of the person and business that paid the tax. The occupation tax
certificate shall then be displayed in a prominent place or carried in such a
way as to be easily accessible while business is being conducted.
§ 110.04 FAILURE TO PAY.
   (A)   If any person, company or corporation fails or neglects to pay the
occupation taxes as provided in this chapter on the day they become due and
payable, the village shall then proceed by civil suit to collect the amount
due.
   (B)   All delinquent taxes shall bear interest at the rate of 1% per month
until paid.
§ 110.05 SPECIFIC OCCUPATIONS ENUMERATED; AMOUNT OF TAX.
   There is hereby levied an occupation tax upon each and every occupation and
business within the corporate limits of the village as hereinafter enumerated,
in the several different amounts and upon the several respective occupations,
professions and lines of business, as follows:
   (A)   Fire insurance companies, per year: $5; and
   (B)   Alcoholic beverages, all classes, per year: $15.
(Prior Code, § 4-302)
§ 110.99 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm, association or corporation who shall refuse or neglect to
pay the occupational tax or taxes herein levied or who shall transact any such
business or engage in any such occupation without having complied with the
provisions of this business regulations title shall, upon conviction thereof,
be fined in a sum not less than $5, nor more than $500, and assessed the court
costs of prosecution; provided that, every suit brought under this section
shall be in the name of the village and may be commenced by a warrant and
arrest of the person or persons against whom the suit is brought, or that suit
may be commenced by a common summons; and, provided further, whenever any of
the above- enumerated businesses or occupations shall be conducted by an agent
for a corporation or a non-resident, such agent shall be subject to arrest and
punishment under the provisions of this section if his or her principal shall
not have complied with the provisions of this business regulations title.
(Prior Code, § 4-309)
CHAPTER 111: ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
Section
General Provisions
   
111.01   Definitions
   
111.02   Sale or gift to minor or mentally incompetent person prohibited
   
111.03   Consumption in public places or places open to the public;
restrictions
   
111.04   Removal of intoxicated persons from public or quasi-public property
Licenses Required
   
111.20   Manufacture, sale, delivery and possession; general prohibitions;
exceptions
   
111.21   Acquisition and possession; restrictions
   
111.22   Licensee requirements
   
111.23   Licenses; village powers and duties
   
111.24   Licensed premises; inspections
   
111.25   License renewal; village powers and duties
   
111.26   Catering licenses
   
111.27   Display of license
   
111.28   Owner of premises or agent; liability
   
111.29   Licensee; liability for acts of officer, agent or employee
   
111.30   Citizen complaints
Retail Establishments
   
111.45   Location
   
111.46   Access to dwellings
   
111.47   Sanitary conditions
   
111.48   Hours of sale
   
111.49   Credit sales prohibited
   
111.50   Original package required
   
111.51   Minor’s presence restricted
   
111.52   Keg sales; requirements; prohibited acts
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 111.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For purposes of this chapter, the definitions found in Neb. RS 53-103.01
through 53-103.42 shall be used.
§ 111.02 SALE OR GIFT TO MINOR OR MENTALLY INCOMPETENT PERSON PROHIBITED.
   No person shall sell, furnish, give away, dispose of, exchange or deliver,
or permit the sale, gift or procuring of any alcoholic liquors, to or for any
minor or to any person who is mentally incompetent.
(Neb. RS 53-180) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.03 CONSUMPTION IN PUBLIC PLACES OR PLACES OPEN TO THE PUBLIC;
RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   Except when the Nebraska Liquor Control Commission has issued a
license as provided in Neb. RS 53-186(2) or as provided in Neb. RS 60-6,211.08,
it is unlawful for any person to consume alcoholic liquor upon property owned
or controlled by the state or any governmental subdivision thereof unless
authorized by the governing bodies having jurisdiction over such property.
(Neb. RS 53-186)
   (B)   (1)   It is unlawful for any person owning, operating, managing or
conducting any bottle club, dance hall, restaurant, café or club or any place
open to the general public to permit or allow any person to consume alcoholic
liquor upon the premises, except as permitted by a license issued for such
premises pursuant to the Nebraska Liquor Control Act.
      (2)   It is unlawful for any person to consume alcoholic liquor in any
bottle club, dance hall, restaurant, café or club or any place open to the
general public, except as permitted by a license issued for such premises
pursuant to the Act.
      (3)   This division (B) does not apply to a retail licensee while
lawfully engaged in the catering of alcoholic beverages or to limousines or
buses operated under Neb. RS 60-6,211.08.
(Neb. RS 53-186.01)
§ 111.04 REMOVAL OF INTOXICATED PERSONS FROM PUBLIC OR QUASI-PUBLIC PROPERTY.
   (A)   (1)   Any law enforcement officer with the power to arrest for traffic
violations may take a person who is intoxicated and in the judgment of the
officer dangerous to himself, herself or others, or who is otherwise
incapacitated, from any public or quasi-public property. An officer removing an
intoxicated person from public or quasi-public property shall make a reasonable
effort to take the intoxicated person to his or her home or to place the person
in any hospital, clinic or mental health substance use treatment center, or
with a medical doctor as may be necessary to preserve life or to prevent
injury.
      (2)   The effort at placement shall be deemed reasonable if the officer
contacts such facilities or doctor which have previously represented a
willingness to accept and treat such individuals and which regularly do accept
such individuals.
      (3)   If these efforts are unsuccessful or are not feasible, the officer
may then place the intoxicated person in civil protective custody; except that,
civil protective custody shall be used only as long as is necessary to preserve
life or to prevent injury, and under no circumstances longer than 24 hours.
   (B)   The placement of the person in civil protective custody shall be
recorded at the facility or jail at which he or she is delivered and
communicated to his or her family or next of kin, if they can be located, or to
the person designated by the person taken into civil protective custody.
   (C)   The law enforcement officer who acts in compliance with this section
shall be deemed to be acting in the course of his or her official duty and
shall not be criminally or civilly liable for these actions.
   (D)   (1)   The taking of an individual into civil protective custody under
this section shall not be considered an arrest.
      (2)   No entry or other record shall be made to indicate that the person
has been arrested or charged with a crime.
   (E)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      MENTAL HEALTH SUBSTANCE USE TREATMENT. Has the same meaning as in Neb. RS
71-423.
      PUBLIC PROPERTY. Any public right-of-way, street, highway, alley, park or
other state, county or village-owned property.
      QUASI-PUBLIC PROPERTY. Private or publicly owned property utilized for
proprietary or business uses which invites patronage by the public or which
invites public ingress and egress.
(Neb. RS 53-1,121) Penalty, see §
10.99
LICENSES REQUIRED
§ 111.20 MANUFACTURE, SALE, DELIVERY AND POSSESSION; GENERAL PROHIBITIONS;
EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   No person shall manufacture, bottle, blend, sell, barter, transport,
deliver, furnish or possess any alcoholic liquor for beverage purposes, except
as specifically provided in this chapter and the Nebraska Liquor Control Act.
   (B)   Nothing in this chapter shall prevent:
      (1)   The possession of alcoholic liquor legally obtained as provided in
this chapter or the Act for the personal use of the possessor and his or her
family or guests;
      (2)   The making of wine, cider or other alcoholic liquor by a person
from fruits, vegetables or grains, or the product thereof, by simple
fermentation and without distillation, if made solely for the use of the maker
and his or her family and guests;
      (3)   Any duly licensed practicing physician or dentist from possessing
or using alcoholic liquor in the strict practice of his or her profession, any
hospital or other institution caring for the sick and diseased persons from
possessing and using alcoholic liquor for the treatment of bona fide patients
of that hospital or other institution, or any drug store employing a licensed
pharmacist from possessing or using alcoholic liquor in the compounding of
prescriptions of licensed physicians;
      (4)   The possession and dispensation of alcoholic liquor by an
authorized representative of any religion on the premises of a place of
worship, for the purpose of conducting any bona fide religious rite, ritual or
ceremony;
      (5)   Persons who are 16 years old or older from carrying alcoholic
liquor from licensed establishments when they are accompanied by a person not a
minor;
      (6)   Persons who are 16 years old or older from handling alcoholic
liquor containers and alcoholic liquor in the course of their employment;
      (7)   Persons who are 16 years old or older from removing and disposing
of alcoholic liquor containers for the convenience of the employer and
customers in the course of their employment;
      (8)   Persons who are 16 years old or older from completing a transaction
for the sale of alcoholic liquor in the course of their employment if they are
not handling or serving alcoholic liquor; or
      (9)   Persons who are 19 years old or older from serving or selling
alcoholic liquor in the course of their employment.
(Neb. RS 53-168.06)
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.21 ACQUISITION AND POSSESSION; RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to purchase, receive, acquire,
accept or possess any alcoholic liquor acquired from any other person other
than one duly licensed to handle alcoholic liquor under this chapter and the
Nebraska Liquor Control Act unless within specific exemptions or exceptions
provided in this chapter or the Act.
(Neb. RS 53-175)
   (B)   (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this section, it shall be
unlawful for any person to transport, import, bring, ship or cause to be
transported, imported, brought or shipped into this state for the personal use
of the possessor, his or her family, or guests a quantity of alcoholic liquor
in excess of nine liters in any one calendar month.
      (2)   Division (B)(1) above does not apply to a person importing
alcoholic liquor from a holder of a retail direct sales shipping license or its
equivalent, which alcoholic liquor is for personal use or for use by such
person’s family or guests, if the total amount imported by such person in any
one calendar year does not exceed 108 liters.
(Neb. RS 53-194.03)
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.22 LICENSEE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   No license shall be issued to:
      (1)   A person who is not a resident of this state, except in case of
railroad, airline, boat or special party bus licenses;
      (2)   A person who is not of good character and reputation in the
community in which he or she resides;
      (3)   A person who is not a resident of the state and legally able to
work in this state;
      (4)   A person who has been convicted of or has pleaded guilty to a
felony under the laws of the state, any other state or the United States;
      (5)   A person who has been convicted of or has pleaded guilty to any
Class I misdemeanor pursuant Neb. RS Chapter 28, Art. 3, 4, 7, 8, 10, 11 or 12,
or any similar offense under a prior criminal statute or in another state,
except that any additional requirements imposed by this division (A)(5) on 5-
18-1983, shall not prevent any person holding a license on that date from
retaining or renewing that license if the conviction or plea occurred prior to
5-18-1983;
      (6)   A person whose license issued under the Nebraska Liquor Control Act
has been revoked for cause;
      (7)   A person who at the time of application for renewal of any license
issued under the Act would not be eligible for that license upon initial
application;
      (8)   A partnership, unless one of the partners is a resident of the
state and unless all the members of that partnership are otherwise qualified to
obtain a license;
      (9)   A limited liability company, unless one of the members is a
resident of the state and unless all the members of that company are otherwise
qualified to obtain a license;
      (10)   A corporation, if any officer or director of the corporation or
any stockholder owning in the aggregate more than 25% of the stock of that
corporation would be ineligible to receive a license under this section for any
reason other than the reasons stated in divisions (A)(1) and (A)(3) above, or
if a manager of a corporate licensee would be ineligible to receive a license
under this section for any reason. This division (A)(10) shall not apply to
railroad licenses;
      (11)   A person whose place of business is conducted by a manager or
agent, unless that manager or agent possesses the same qualifications required
of the licensee;
      (12)   A person who does not own the premises for which a license is
sought or does not have a lease or combination of leases on the premises for
the full period for which the license is to be issued;
      (13)   Except as provided in this division (A)(13), an applicant whose
spouse is ineligible under this section to receive and hold a liquor license.
Such an applicant shall become eligible for a liquor license only if the
Nebraska Liquor Control Commission finds from the evidence that the public
interest will not be infringed upon if the license is granted. It shall be
prima facie evidence that when a spouse is ineligible to receive a liquor
license, the applicant is also ineligible to receive a liquor license. This
prima facie evidence shall be overcome if it is shown to the satisfaction of
the Commission:
         (a)   The licensed business will be the sole property of the
applicant; and
         (b)   The licensed premises will be properly operated.
      (14)   A person seeking a license for premises which do not meet
standards for fire safety as established by the State Fire Marshal;
      (15)   A law enforcement officer; except that, this division (A)(15)
shall not prohibit a law enforcement officer from holding membership in any
non-profit organization holding a liquor license or from participating in any
manner in the management or administration of a non-profit organization; or
      (16)   A person less than 21 years of age.
   (B)   When a trustee is the licensee, the beneficiary or beneficiaries of
the trust shall comply with the requirements of this section, but nothing in
this section shall prohibit any such beneficiary from being a minor or person
who is mentally incompetent.
(Neb. RS 53-125)
§ 111.23 LICENSES; VILLAGE POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   The Board of Trustees is authorized to regulate by ordinance, not
inconsistent with the Nebraska Liquor Control Act, the business of all retail,
bottle club, craft brewery and microdistillery licensees carried on within the
corporate limits of the village.
(Neb. RS 53-134.03)
   (B)   During the period of 45 days after the date of receipt by mail or
electronic delivery from the Nebraska Liquor Control Commission notice and a
copy of an application for a new license to sell alcoholic liquor at retail, a
craft brewery license or a microdistillery license, the Board of Trustees may
make and submit to the Commission recommendations relative to the granting or
refusal to grant the license to the applicant.
(Neb. RS 53-131)
   (C)   The Board of Trustees, with respect to licenses within the corporate
limits of the village, has the following powers, functions and duties with
respect to retail, bottle club, craft brewery, and microdistillery licenses:
      (1)   To cancel or revoke for cause retail, craft brewery or
microdistillery licenses to sell or dispense alcoholic liquor or bottle club
licenses issued to persons for premises within its jurisdiction, subject to the
right of appeal to the Nebraska Liquor Control Commission;
      (2)   To enter or to authorize any law enforcement officer to enter at
any time upon any premises licensed under the Nebraska Liquor Control Act to
determine whether any provision of the Act, any rule or regulation adopted and
promulgated pursuant to the Act, or any ordinance, resolution, rule, or
regulation adopted by the Board of Trustees has been or is being violated, and
at that time examine the premises of the licensee in connection with such
determination. Any law enforcement officer who determines that any provision of
the Act, any rule or regulation adopted and promulgated pursuant to the Act, or
any ordinance, resolution, rule or regulation adopted by the local governing
body has been or is being violated shall report such violation in writing to
the Executive Director of the Commission:
         (a)   Within 30 days after determining that such violation has
occurred;
         (b)   Within 30 days after the conclusion of an ongoing police
investigation; or
         (c)   Within 30 days after the verdict in a prosecution related to
such an ongoing police investigation if the prosecuting attorney determines
that reporting such violation prior to the verdict would jeopardize such
prosecution, whichever is later.
      (3)   To receive a signed complaint from any citizen within its
jurisdiction that any provision of the Act, any rule or regulation adopted and
promulgated pursuant to the Act, or any ordinance, resolution, rule or
regulation relating to alcoholic liquor has been or is being violated and to
act upon these complaints in the manner provided in the Act;
      (4)   To receive retail, bottle club, craft brewery and microdistillery
license fees as provided in Neb. RS 53-124 and 53-124.01 and pay the same,
after the license has been delivered to the applicant, to the Village
Treasurer;
      (5)   To examine or cause to be examined any applicant or any retail,
bottle club, craft brewery or microdistillery licensee upon whom notice of
cancellation or revocation has been served as provided in the Act, to examine
or cause to be examined the books and records of any applicant or licensee,
except as otherwise provided for bottle club licensees under state law, and to
hear testimony and to take proof for its information in the performance of its
duties. For purposes of obtaining any of the information desired, the Board of
Trustees may authorize its agent or attorney to act on its behalf;
      (6)   To cancel or revoke on its own motion any license if, upon the same
notice and hearing as provided in §
111.30 of this chapter, it determines that the licensee has violated any of the
provisions of the Nebraska Liquor Control Act or any valid and subsisting
ordinance, resolution, rule or regulation duly enacted, adopted and promulgated
relating to alcoholic liquor. The order of cancellation or revocation may be
appealed to the Commission within 30 days after the date of the order by filing
a notice of appeal with the Commission. The Commission shall handle the appeal
in the manner provided for hearing on an application in Neb. RS 53-133;
      (7)   Upon receipt from the Commission of the notice and copy of
application as provided in Neb. RS 53-131, to fix a time and place for a
hearing at which the Board of Trustees shall receive evidence, either orally or
by affidavit from the applicant and any other person, bearing upon the
propriety of the issuance of a license. Notice of the time and place of the
hearing shall be published in a legal newspaper in or of general circulation in
the village, one time not less than seven and not more than 14 days before the
time of the hearing. The notice shall include, but not be limited to, a
statement that all persons desiring to give evidence before the Board of
Trustees in support of or in protest against the issuance of the license may do
so at the time of the hearing. The hearing shall be held not more than 45 days
after the date of receipt of the notice from the Commission, and after the
hearing the Board of Trustees shall cause to be recorded in the minute record
of its proceedings a resolution recommending either issuance or refusal of the
license. The Village Clerk/Treasurer shall mail to the Commission by first-
class mail, postage prepaid, a copy of the resolution which shall state the
cost of the published notice; except that, failure to comply with this
provision shall not void any license issued by the Commission. If the
Commission refuses to issue such a license, the cost of publication of notice
shall be paid by the Commission from the security for costs;
      (8)   To review and authorize an application by a retail, bottle club,
craft brewery, farm winery or microdistillery licensee for a temporary
expansion of its licensed premises within the jurisdiction of the local
governing body to an immediately adjacent area owned or leased by the licensee
or to an immediately adjacent street, parking lot or alley, not to exceed 50
days for calendar year 2020 and, for each calendar year thereafter, not to
exceed 15 days per calendar year, as provided in Neb. RS 53-123.12 and Neb. RS
53-129; and
      (9)   To review and authorize an application by a craft brewery, farm
winery or microdistillery licensee that holds a promotional farmers market
special designated license for a permit to use such promotional farmers market
special designated license to sell or dispense alcoholic liquor, which the
holder is licensed to produce, at a farmers market within the jurisdiction of
the local governing body as provided in Neb. RS 53-124.17. The local governing
body shall electronically notify the Commission within five days after
authorization of any permit pursuant to this division (C)(9).
(Neb. RS 53-134)
   (D)   (1)   When the Nebraska Liquor Control Commission mails or delivers to
the Village Clerk/Treasurer a retail, craft brewery or microdistillery license
issued or renewed by the Commission, the Clerk/Treasurer shall deliver the
license to the licensee upon receipt from the licensee of proof of payment of:
         (a)   The license fee, if by the terms of Neb. RS 53-124 the fee is
payable to the Village Clerk/Treasurer;
         (b)   Any fee for publication of notice of hearing before the Board of
Trustees upon the application for the license;
         (c)   The fee for publication of notice of renewal, if applicable, as
provided in Neb. RS 53-135.01; and
         (d)   Occupation taxes, if any, imposed by the village; except that,
Class J retail licensees shall not be subject to occupation taxes.
      (2)   Notwithstanding any ordinance or charter power to the contrary, the
village shall not impose an occupation tax on the business of any person, firm
or corporation licensed under the Nebraska Liquor Control Act and doing
business within the corporate limits of the village in any sum which exceeds
two times the amount of the license fee required to be paid under the Act to
obtain that license.
(Neb. RS 53-132)
§ 111.24 LICENSED PREMISES; INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   The Board of Trustees shall cause frequent inspection to be made on
the premises of all retail licensees and bottle club licensees. If it is found
that any such licensee is violating any provision of this chapter, the Nebraska
Liquor Control Act, or the rules and regulations of the Nebraska Liquor Control
Commission, or is failing to observe in good faith the purposes of this chapter
or the Act, the license may be suspended, canceled or revoked after the
licensee is given an opportunity to be heard in his or her defense.
   (B)   The Board of Trustees may inspect a charter bus providing service
under a certificate of public convenience and necessity granted by the Public
Service Commission when the owner or operator of the charter allows the
consumption of alcoholic liquor in the charter bus by an individual who is 21
years of age or older so long as the inspection is performed when the bus has
stopped for the purpose of allowing passengers to embark or disembark.
(Neb. RS 53-116.01)
§ 111.25 LICENSE RENEWAL; VILLAGE POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   A retail or bottle club license issued by the Nebraska Liquor Control
Commission and outstanding may be automatically renewed by the Commission in
the absence of a written request by the Board of Trustees to require the
licensee to submit an application for renewal. Any licensed retail premises
located in an area which is annexed to the village shall file a formal
application for a license, and while the application is pending, the licensee
may continue all license privileges until the original license expires or is
canceled or revoked. If that license expires within 60 days following the
annexation date of the area, the license may be renewed by order of the
Commission for not more than one year.
(Neb. RS 53-135)
   (B)   The Village Clerk/Treasurer shall cause to be published in a legal
newspaper in or of general circulation in the village, one time between January
10 and January 30 of each year, individual notice in the form prescribed by law
of the right of automatic renewal of each retail liquor and beer license and
each bottle club license within the village; except that, notice of the right
of automatic renewal of Class C licenses shall be published between the dates
of July 10 and July 30 of each year. If written protests to the issuance of
automatic renewal of a license are filed in the office of the Village Clerk/
Treasurer by three or more residents of the village on or before February 10,
or August 10 for Class C licenses, the Board of Trustees shall hold a hearing
to determine whether continuation of the license should be allowed. Upon the
conclusion of any hearing required by this section, the Board of Trustees may
request a licensee to submit an application as provided in Neb. RS 53-135.
(Neb. RS 53-135.01)
§ 111.26 CATERING LICENSES.
   (A)   The holder of a license to sell alcoholic liquor at retail issued
under Neb. RS 53-124, a craft brewery license, a microdistillery license or a
farm winery license may obtain an annual catering license by filing an
application and license fee with the Nebraska Liquor Control Commission.
   (B)   Upon receipt from the Commission of the notice and a copy of the
application as provided in Neb. RS 53-124.12, the Board of Trustees shall
process the application in the same manner as provided in §
111.23 of this chapter.
   (C)   The Board of Trustees, with respect to catering licensees within its
corporate limits, may cancel a catering license for cause for the remainder of
the period for which that catering license is issued. Any person whose catering
license is canceled may appeal to the District Court.
   (D)   The Board of Trustees may impose an occupation tax on the business of
a catering licensee doing business within the liquor license jurisdiction of
the Board of Trustees. The tax may not exceed double the license fee for a
catering license.
(Neb. RS 53-124.12)
§ 111.27 DISPLAY OF LICENSE.
   Every licensee under the Nebraska Liquor Control Act shall cause his or her
license to be framed and hung in plain view in a conspicuous place on the
licensed premises.
(Neb. RS 53-148) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.28 OWNER OF PREMISES OR AGENT; LIABILITY.
   If the owner of the licensed premises or any person from whom the licensee
derives the right to possession of the premises, or the agent of that owner or
person, knowingly permits the licensee to use the licensed premises in
violation of the terms of the Nebraska Liquor Control Act or any village
ordinance, that owner, agent or other person shall be deemed guilty of a
violation of the Act or ordinance to the same extent as the licensee and be
subject to the same punishment.
(Neb. RS 53-1,101) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.29 LICENSEE; LIABILITY FOR ACTS OF OFFICER, AGENT, OR EMPLOYEE.
   Every act or omission of whatsoever nature constituting a violation of any
of the provisions of the Nebraska Liquor Control Act or any village ordinance
by any officer, director, manager or other agent or employee of any licensee,
if the act is committed or omission is made with the authorization, knowledge
or approval of the licensee, shall be deemed and held to be the act of the
employer or licensee, and the employer or licensee shall be punishable in the
same manner as if the act or omission had been done or omitted by the licensee
personally.
(Neb. RS 53-1,102) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.30 CITIZEN COMPLAINTS.
   Any five residents of the village shall have the right to file a complaint
with the Board of Trustees stating that any retail licensee or bottle club
licensee subject to the jurisdiction of the Board of Trustees has been or is
violating any provision of the Nebraska Liquor Control Act or the rules or
regulations issued pursuant to the Act. The complaint shall be in writing in
the form prescribed by the Board of Trustees and shall be signed and sworn to
by the parties complaining. The complaint shall state the particular provision,
rule or regulation believed to have been violated and the facts in detail upon
which belief is based. If the Board of Trustees is satisfied that the complaint
substantially charges a violation and that from the facts alleged there is
reasonable cause for that belief, it shall set the matter for hearing within
ten days from the date of the filing of the complaint and shall serve notice
upon the licensee of the time and place of the hearing and of the particular
charge in the complaint. The complaint shall in all cases be disposed of by the
Board of Trustees within 30 days from the date the complaint was filed by
resolution thereof, which resolution shall be deemed the final order for
purposes of appeal to the Nebraska Liquor Control Commission as provided in
Neb. RS 53-1,115.
(Neb. RS 53-134.04)
RETAIL ESTABLISHMENTS
§ 111.45 LOCATION.
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided in division (B) below, no license shall
be issued for the sale at retail of any alcoholic liquor or for a bottle club
within 150 feet of any church, school, hospital or home for indigent persons or
for veterans and their wives or children. This prohibition does not apply to
any location within such distance of 150 feet:
      (1)   For which a license to sell alcoholic liquor at retail or for a
bottle club has been granted by the Nebraska Liquor Control Commission for two
years continuously prior to making of application for license;
      (2)   To hotels offering restaurant service, to regularly organized clubs
or to restaurants, food shops or other places where sale of alcoholic liquor is
not the principal business carried on, if such place of business so exempted
was established for such purposes prior to 5-24-1935; or
      (3)   To a college or university in the state which is subject to Neb. RS
53-177.01.
   (B)   If a proposed location for the sale at retail of any alcoholic liquor
or for a bottle club is within 150 feet of any church, a license may be issued
if the Commission gives notice to the affected church and holds a hearing as
prescribed in Neb. RS 53-133 if the affected church submits a written request
for a hearing.
(Neb. RS 53-177)
   (C)   Unless otherwise exempted by Neb. RS 53-177.01, no alcoholic liquor,
other than beer, shall be sold for consumption on the premises within 300 feet
from the campus of any college or university within the village, and no bottle
club shall be operated within 300 feet from the campus of any college; except
that, this section:
      (1)   Does not prohibit a non-public college or university from
contracting with an individual or corporation holding a license to sell
alcoholic liquor at retail for the purpose of selling alcoholic liquor at
retail on the campus of such college or university at events sanctioned by such
college or university, but does prohibit the sale of alcoholic liquor at retail
by such licensee on the campus of such non-public college or university at
student activities or events; and
      (2)   Does not prohibit sales of alcoholic liquor by a community college
culinary education program pursuant to Neb. RS 53-124.15.
(Neb. RS 53-177.01)
Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   State commission may waive 300-foot requirement, see Neb. RS 53-177.01
§ 111.46 ACCESS TO DWELLINGS.
   Except in the case of hotels and clubs, no alcoholic liquor shall be
manufactured or sold at retail or wholesale upon any premises which have any
access which leads from the premises to any other portion of the same building
or structure used for dwelling or lodging purposes and permitted to be used or
kept accessible for use by the public. This section does not prevent any
connection between the premises and such other portion of the building or
structure which is used only by the licensee, his or her family or personal
guests.
(Neb. RS 53-178) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.47 SANITARY CONDITIONS.
   It shall be unlawful to open for public use any retail liquor establishment
that is not in a clean and sanitary condition. Toilet facilities shall be
adequate and convenient for customers and patrons. The licensed premises shall
be subject to any health inspections the Board of Trustees or the village
police may make or cause to be made. All applications for liquor licenses shall
be viewed in part from the standpoint of the sanitary conditions, and a report
concerning the sanitary conditions shall be made at all hearings concerning the
application for or renewal of a liquor license.
Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority to regulate licensed premises, see Neb. RS 53-134.03
   State sanitary rules and regulations authorized, see Neb. RS 53-118
§ 111.48 HOURS OF SALE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any licensed person or persons or his, her or
their agents to sell any alcoholic beverages, for consumption off the premises,
within the village, except during the hours provided herein:
 
Alcoholic liquors (except beer and wine)
   Secular da6:00 a.m. to 1:00 a.m.
   Sundays   12:00 noon to 1:00 a.m.
Beer and wine
   Secular da6:00 a.m. to 1:00 a.m.
   Sundays   6:00 a.m. to 1:00 a.m.
 
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any licensed person or persons or his, her or
their agents to sell any alcoholic beverages, for consumption on the premises,
within the village, except during the hours provided herein:
 
Alcoholic liquors (except beer and wine)
   Secular da6:00 a.m. to 2:00 a.m.
   Sundays   12:00 noon to 2:00 a.m.
Beer and wine
   Secular da6:00 a.m. to 2:00 a.m.
   Sundays   6:00 a.m. to 2:00 a.m.
 
   (C)   Such limitations shall not apply after 12:00 noon on Sunday to a
licensee which is a non-profit corporation holding a license pursuant to Neb.
RS 53-124(5) and (H), Reissue 1943.
   (D)   No person or persons shall consume any alcoholic beverages on licensed
premises for a period of time longer than 15 minutes after the time fixed
herein for stopping the sale of alcoholic beverages on said premises. For the
purposes of this section, ON SALE shall be defined as alcoholic beverages sold
by the drink for consumption on the premises of the licensed establishment; OFF
SALE shall be defined as alcoholic beverages sold at retail in the original
container for consumption off the premises of the licensed establishment.
   (E)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to prohibit licensed
premises from being open for other business on days and hours during which the
sale or dispensing of alcoholic beverages is prohibited by this section.
(Prior Code, § 4-205) (Ord. 2010-04, passed 12-7-2010) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 53-179
§ 111.49 CREDIT SALES PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person shall sell or furnish alcoholic liquor at retail to any
person on credit, on a passbook, on an order on a store, in exchange for any
goods, wares or merchandise, or in payment for any services rendered and, if
any person extends credit for any such purpose, the debt thereby attempted to
be created shall not be recoverable at law.
   (B)   Nothing in this section shall prevent the following:
      (1)   Any club holding a Class C license from permitting checks or
statements for alcoholic liquor to be signed by members or bona fide guests of
members and charged to the account of such members or guests in accordance with
the bylaws of such club;
      (2)   Any hotel or restaurant holding a retail license from permitting
checks or statements for liquor to be signed by regular guests residing at such
hotel or eating at such restaurant and charged to the accounts of such guests;
or
      (3)   Any licensed retailer engaged in the sale of wine or distilled
spirits from issuing tasting cards to customers.
(Neb. RS 53-183) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.50 ORIGINAL PACKAGE REQUIRED.
   No person, except a manufacturer or wholesaler, shall fill or refill, in
whole or in part, any original package of alcoholic liquor with the same or any
other kind or quality of alcoholic liquor. It shall be unlawful for any person
to have in his or her possession for sale at retail any bottles, casks or other
containers containing alcoholic liquor, except in original packages. Nothing in
this section shall prohibit the refilling of original packages of alcoholic
liquor for strictly private use and not for resale.
(Neb. RS 53-184) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.51 MINOR’S PRESENCE RESTRICTED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person who owns, manages or leases an
establishment selling alcoholic beverages at retail to allow any minor under
the age of 18 years of age to frequent or otherwise remain in the establishment
unless the minor is accompanied by his or her parent or legal guardian, and
unless the minor remains seated with and under the immediate control of the
parent or legal guardian.
Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority to regulate, see Neb. RS 53-134.03
§ 111.52 KEG SALES; REQUIREMENTS; PROHIBITED ACTS.
   (A)   When any person licensed to sell alcoholic liquor at retail sells
alcohol for consumption off the premises in a container with a liquid capacity
of five or more gallons or 18.92 or more liters, the seller shall record the
date of the sale, the keg identification number, the purchaser’s name and
address and the number of the purchaser’s motor vehicle operator’s license,
state identification card or military identification, if the military
identification contains a picture of the purchaser, together with the
purchaser’s signature. This record shall be on a form prescribed by the
Nebraska Liquor Control Commission and shall be kept by the licensee at the
retail establishment where the purchase was made for not less than six months.
The records kept pursuant to this section shall be available for inspection by
any law enforcement officer during normal business hours or at any other
reasonable time. Any person violating this section shall be guilty of an
offense.
(Neb. RS 53-167.02)
   (B)   Any person who unlawfully tampers with, alters or removes the keg
identification number from a container described in division (A) above or is in
possession of a container described in division (A) above with an altered or
removed keg identification number after the container has been taken from the
licensed premises pursuant to a retail sale and before its return to the
licensed premises or other place where returned kegs are accepted shall be
guilty of an offense.
(Neb. RS 53-167.03)
Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 112: TOBACCO AND CIGARETTES
Section
   
112.01   License to sell; issuance
   
112.02   License application
   
112.03   License term; fees
   
112.04   Rights of licensee
   
112.05   Disposition of fees
   
112.06   Transfer of license
   
112.07   Reissuance of revoked and forfeited license
§ 112.01 LICENSE TO SELL; ISSUANCE.
   Licenses for the sale of cigars, tobacco, electronic nicotine delivery
systems, cigarettes and cigarette material to persons 21 years of age or over
shall be issued to individuals, partnerships, limited liability companies and
corporations by the Village Clerk/Treasurer upon application duly made as
provided in §
112.02 of this chapter.
(Neb. RS 28-1421)
Statutory reference:
   Licenses required, see Neb. RS 28-1420
   Prohibited sales, see Neb. RS 28-1421
§ 112.02 LICENSE APPLICATION.
   Every person, partnership, limited liability company or corporation desiring
a license under Neb. RS 28-1420 to 28-1429 shall file with the Village Clerk/
Treasurer a written application stating the name of the person, partnership,
limited liability company or corporation for whom the license is desired and
the exact location of the place of business and shall deposit with the
application the amount of the license fee provided in §
112.03 of this chapter. If the applicant is an individual, the application
shall include the applicant’s Social Security number.
(Neb. RS 28-1422)
§ 112.03 LICENSE TERM; FEES.
   (A)   The term for which a license shall run shall be from the date of
filing the application and paying the license fee to and including December 31
of the calendar year in which application for the license is made.
   (B)   The license fee for any person, partnership, limited liability company
or corporation selling at retail shall be $10.
   (C)   Any person, partnership, limited liability company or corporation
selling annually in the aggregate more than 150,000 cigars, packages of
cigarettes, electronic nicotine delivery systems and packages of tobacco in any
form, at wholesale, shall pay a license fee of $100 and, if such combined
annual sales amount to less than 150,000 cigars, packages of cigarettes,
electronic nicotine delivery systems, and packages of tobacco, the annual
license fee shall be $15. No wholesaler’s license shall be issued in any year
on a less basis than $100 per annum unless the applicant shall file with the
application a statement duly sworn to by himself or herself, or if applicant is
a partnership, by a member of the firm, or if a limited liability company, by a
member or manager of the company, or if a corporation, by an officer or manager
thereof, that in the past such wholesaler’s combined sales of cigars, packages
of cigarettes, electronic nicotine delivery systems, and packages of tobacco in
every form have not exceeded in the aggregate 150,000 annually and that such
sales will not exceed such aggregate amount for the current year for which the
license is to issue. Any person swearing falsely in such affidavit shall be
guilty of an offense, and such wholesaler’s license shall be revoked until the
full license fee is paid.
   (D)   If application for license is made after July 1 of any calendar year,
the fee shall be one-half of the fee provided in this section.
(Neb. RS 28-1423) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 112.04 RIGHTS OF LICENSEE.
   (A)   The license provided for in §§
112.01 and
112.02 of this chapter shall, when issued, authorize the sale of cigars,
tobacco, electronic nicotine delivery systems, cigarettes and cigarette by the
licensee and employees, to persons 21 years of age or over, at the place of
business described in the license for the term therein authorized, unless the
license is forfeited as a result of court action as provided in Neb. RS 28-
1425.
(Neb. RS 28-1424)
   (B)   If the license is revoked and forfeited pursuant to Neb. RS 28-1425,
all rights under the license shall at once cease and terminate.
(Neb. RS 28-1425)
Statutory reference:
   Sale to person under 21 prohibited; penalties, see Neb. RS 28-1425
§ 112.05 DISPOSITION OF FEES.
   All money collected as license fees under the provisions of this chapter
shall be paid over by the Village Clerk/Treasurer to the Treasurer of the
School Fund for the village.
(Neb. RS 28-1426)
§ 112.06 TRANSFER OF LICENSE.
   In case of the sale of a business where the owner has a license hereunder,
the Village Clerk/Treasurer may authorize such license to be transferred to the
purchaser. In case of a change of location by any licensee hereunder, the
Village Clerk/Treasurer may transfer such license to the new location.
(Neb. RS 28-1428)
§ 112.07 REISSUANCE OF REVOKED AND FORFEITED LICENSE.
   In the event that the license of a licensee hereunder shall be revoked and
forfeited as provided in Neb. RS 28-1425, no new license shall be issued to
such licensee until the expiration of one year from the date of such revocation
and forfeiture.
(Neb. RS 28-1429)
CHAPTER 113: SALES AND ADVERTISING
Section
Peddlers and Solicitors
   
113.01   Definitions
   
113.02   License required
   
113.03   Application procedure
   
113.04   Standards for issuance
   
113.05   Revocation procedure
   
113.06   Standards for revocation
   
113.07   Appeal procedure
   
113.08   Exhibition of identification
   
113.09   Hours of solicitation
   
113.10   Policy on soliciting
   
113.11   Notice regulating soliciting
   
113.12   Posted notice; solicitors to comply
   
113.13   Prohibited solicitation
PEDDLERS AND SOLICITORS
§ 113.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUSINESS. The business carried on by any person who is an itinerant
merchant, peddler or solicitor, as defined in this section.
   GOODS. Merchandise of any description whatsoever, and includes, but is not
restricted to, wares and foodstuffs.
   ITINERANT MERCHANT. Any person, whether as owner, agent or consignee, who
engages in a temporary business of selling goods within the village and who, in
the furtherance of such business, uses any building, structure, vehicle or any
place within the village.
   PEDDLER. Any person, not an itinerant merchant, who:
      (1)   Travels from place to place by any means carrying goods for sale,
or making sales, or making deliveries; or
      (2)   Without traveling from place to place, sells or offers goods for
sale from any public place within the village.
   SOLICITOR. Any person who travels by any means from place to place, taking
or attempting to take orders for sale of goods to be delivered in the future or
for services to be performed in the future. A person who is a SOLICITOR is not
a peddler.
§ 113.02 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (A)   Any person who is an itinerant merchant, peddler or solicitor shall
obtain a license before engaging in such activity within the village.
   (B)   The fee for the license required by this chapter shall be as set from
time to time by the village.
   (C)   No license issued under this chapter shall be transferable.
   (D)   All licenses issued under this chapter shall expire 90 days after the
date of issuance thereof.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 113.03 APPLICATION PROCEDURE.
   (A)   All applicants for licenses required by this chapter shall file an
application with the Village Clerk/Treasurer. This application shall be signed
by the applicant if an individual, or by all partners if a partnership, or by
the president if a corporation. The applicant may be requested to provide
information concerning the following items:
      (1)   The name and address of the applicant;
      (2)   (a)   The name of the individual having management authority or
supervision of the applicant’s business during the time that it is proposed to
be carried on in the village;
         (b)   The local address of such individual;
         (c)   The permanent address of such individual; and
         (d)   The capacity in which such individual will act.
      (3)   The name and address of the person, if any, for whose purpose the
business will be carried on, and, if a corporation, the state of incorporation;
      (4)   The time period or periods during which it is proposed to carry on
applicant’s business;
      (5)   (a)   The nature, character and quality of the goods or services to
be offered for sale or delivered;
         (b)   If goods, their invoice value and whether they are to be sold by
sample as well as from stock; and
         (c)   If goods, where and by whom such goods are manufactured or
grown, and where such goods are at the time of application.
      (6)   The nature of the advertising proposed to be done for the business;
and
      (7)   Whether or not the applicant, or the individual identified in
division (A)(2)(a) above, or the person identified in division (A)(3) above has
been convicted of any crime or misdemeanor and, if so, the nature of each
offense and the penalty assessed for each offense.
   (B)   Applicants for peddler or solicitor licenses may be required to
provide further information concerning the following items, in addition to that
requested under division (A) above:
      (1)   A description of the applicant; and
      (2)   A description of any vehicle proposed to be used in the business,
including its registration number, if any.
   (C)   All applicants for licenses required by this subchapter shall attach
to their application, if required by the village, credentials from the person,
if any, for which the applicant proposes to do business, authorizing the
applicant to act as such representative.
   (D)   Applicants who propose to handle foodstuffs shall also attach to their
application, in addition to any attachments required under division (C) above,
a statement from a licensed physician, dated not more than ten days prior to
the date of application, certifying the applicant to be free of contagious or
communicable disease.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 113.04 STANDARDS FOR ISSUANCE.
   (A)   Upon receipt of an application, an investigation of the applicant’s
business reputation and moral character shall be made.
   (B)   The application shall be approved unless such investigation discloses
tangible evidence that the conduct of the applicant’s business would pose a
substantial threat to the public health, safety, morals or general welfare. In
particular, tangible evidence that the applicant has the following will
constitute valid reasons for disapproval of an application:
      (1)   Has been convicted of a crime of moral turpitude;
      (2)   Has made willful misstatements in the application;
      (3)   Has committed prior violations of ordinances pertaining to
itinerant merchants, peddlers, solicitors and the like;
      (4)   Has committed prior fraudulent acts; or
      (5)   Has a record of continual breaches of solicited contracts.
§ 113.05 REVOCATION PROCEDURE.
   Any license or permit granted under this subchapter may be revoked by the
Village Clerk/Treasurer after notice and hearing, pursuant to the standards in
§
113.06 of this chapter. Notice of hearing for revocation shall be given in
writing, setting forth specifically the grounds of the complaint and the time
and place of the hearing. Such notice shall be mailed to the licensee at his or
her last known address, at least ten days prior to the date set for the
hearing.
§ 113.06 STANDARDS FOR REVOCATION.
   A license granted under this subchapter may be revoked for any of the
following reasons:
   (A)   Any fraud or misrepresentation contained in the license application;
   (B)   Any fraud, misrepresentation or false statement made in connection
with the business being conducted under the license;
   (C)   Any violation of this chapter;
   (D)   Conviction of the licensee of any felony, or conviction of the
licensee of any misdemeanor involving moral turpitude; or
   (E)   Conducting the business licensed in an unlawful manner or in such a
way as to constitute a menace to the health, safety, morals or general welfare
of the public.
§ 113.07 APPEAL PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Any person aggrieved by a decision under §§
113.04 or
113.06 of this chapter shall have the right to appeal to the Board of Trustees.
The appeal shall be taken by filing with the Board of Trustees, within 14 days
after notice of the decision has been mailed to such person’s last known
address, a written statement setting forth the grounds for appeal. The Board of
Trustees shall set the time and place for a hearing, and notice for such
hearing shall be given to such person in the same manner as provided in §
113.05 of this chapter.
   (B)   The order of the Board of Trustees after the hearing shall be final.
§ 113.08 EXHIBITION OF IDENTIFICATION.
   (A)   Any license issued to an itinerant merchant under this subchapter
shall be posted conspicuously in or at the place named therein. In the event
more than one place within the village shall be used to conduct the business
licensed, separate licenses shall be issued for each place.
   (B)   The Village Clerk/Treasurer shall issue a license to each peddler or
solicitor licensed under this chapter. The license shall contain the words
“Licensed Peddler” or “Licensed Solicitor,” the expiration date of the license,
and the number of the license. The license shall be kept with the licensee
during such time as he is engaged in the business licensed.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 113.09 HOURS OF SOLICITATION.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any solicitor, salesperson or peddler to
solicit any individual between the hours of 6:00 p.m. and 8:00 a.m., unless he
or she has a previous appointment with the resident of the premises solicited.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful at any hour for a solicitor, salesperson or
peddler to solicit without having a proper license on his or her person at all
times.
(Prior Code, § 4-402) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 113.10 POLICY ON SOLICITING.
   It is hereby declared to be the policy of the village that the occupants of
the residences in the village shall make the determination of whether
solicitors shall be, or shall not be, invited to their respective residences.
§ 113.11 NOTICE REGULATING SOLICITING.
   (A)   Notice of the refusal of invitation to solicitors, to any residence,
shall be given on a weather- proof card, approximately three inches by four
inches in size, exhibited upon or near the main entrance door to the residence,
indicating the determination by the occupant, containing the applicable words,
as follows: “NO SOLICITORS INVITED”.
   (B)   The letters shall be at least one-third inch in height.
   (C)   The card so exhibited shall constitute sufficient notice to any
solicitor of the determination by the occupant of the residence of the
information contained thereon.
§ 113.12 POSTED NOTICE; SOLICITORS TO COMPLY.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of every solicitor upon going onto any premises
in the village upon which a residence is located to first examine the notice
provided for in §
113.11 of this chapter if any is attached, and be governed by the statement
contained on the notice. If the notice states “NO SOLICITORS INVITED”, then the
solicitor, whether registered or not, shall immediately and peacefully depart
from the premises.
   (B)   Any solicitor who has gained entrance to any residence, whether
invited or not, shall immediately and peacefully depart from the premises when
requested to do so by the occupant.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 113.13 PROHIBITED SOLICITATION.
   It is hereby declared to be unlawful and shall constitute a nuisance for any
person to go upon any premises and ring the doorbell upon or near any door, or
create any sound in any manner calculated to attract the attention of the
occupant of such residence, for the purpose of securing an audience with the
occupant thereof and engage in soliciting in defiance of the notice exhibited
at the residence in accordance with the provisions of §
113.11 of this chapter.
Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 114: LICENSED PLUMBERS
Section
   
114.01   “Licensed plumber” defined
   
114.02   Procedure to obtain license
   
114.03   Renewal of license
   
114.04   Revocation of license
   
114.05   Fees to be paid to Village Treasurer
 
   
114.99   Penalty
§ 114.01 “LICENSED PLUMBER” DEFINED.
   The term LICENSED PLUMBER, as used in the ordinances of the village, is
hereby defined to denote any person to whom a plumber’s license has been duly
issued or renewed, as hereinafter provided, which has not been revoked or
terminated by lapse of time.
(Prior Code, § 4-101)
§ 114.02 PROCEDURE TO OBTAIN LICENSE.
   (A)   (1)   Any person wishing to obtain a license as a plumber shall file
in the office of the Village Clerk/Treasurer a written application and stating
his or her willingness to be governed in all respects by the ordinances of said
village and all rules and regulations now in effect or hereafter to be adopted
by said village concerning its water system.
      (2)   Such application shall be presented by the Village Clerk/Treasurer
to the Board at its next meeting thereafter held.
      (3)   Said Board may grant to such applicant a license to be issued by
the Village Clerk/Treasurer, authorizing the applicant to engage in business as
a licensed plumber in said village for and during the then current municipal
year upon the following conditions:
         (a)   Satisfaction of the Board of the business capacity,
qualifications and good reputation of the applicant and of his or her
worthiness to receive a license;
         (b)   Payment to the Village Clerk/Treasurer of a license fee of $5;
and
         (c)   Filing with the Village Clerk/Treasurer of a bond with corporate
surety to be approved by the Board in the penal sum of $2,000, conditioned upon
the following:
            1.   Indemnifying and keeping harmless the village from all
liability for any damage arising from any negligence or unskilled act in doing
or protecting his or her work, or from any unfaithful or inadequate work done
in pursuance of his or her license;
            2.   Restoring the streets, alleys, sidewalks and pavements over
the pipes he or she may lay and filling all excavations made by him or her so
as to leave said streets, alleys, sidewalks and pavements in as good condition
as he or she found them, and keeping and maintaining the same in good order to
the satisfaction of the Chair of the Board for the period of one year next
thereafter; and
            3.   Paying all fines that may be imposed upon him or her for a
violation of any of the ordinances, rules and regulations adopted by the
village and in force during the term of his or her license.
   (B)   Said license and bond shall cover all employees of the applicant.
(Prior Code, § 4-102)
§ 114.03 RENEWAL OF LICENSE.
   Any license granted as provided in the preceding section may be renewed from
year to year at the option of the Village Board, on application therefor, upon
payment of the license fee of $5 for the year and the renewal of applicant’s
bond.
(Prior Code, § 4-103)
§ 114.04 REVOCATION OF LICENSE.
   Any license or renewal may be revoked at any time at the option of the
Board.
(Prior Code, § 4-104)
§ 114.05 FEES TO BE PAID TO VILLAGE TREASURER.
   The Village Clerk shall pay over to the Village Treasurer all license fees
collected pursuant to this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 4-105)
§ 114.99 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm, association or corporation violating this chapter shall,
upon conviction, be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and fined in an amount not
more than $500.
(Prior Code, § 4-106)
CHAPTER 115: LOTTERY SALES
Section
   
115.01   Sales outlet location
 
   
115.99   Penalty
§ 115.01 SALES OUTLET LOCATION.
   (A)   The lottery operator whom the Village Board contracts to conduct its
lottery shall not operate the lottery at a sales outlet location other than the
location of the lottery operator without prior approval of the sales outlet
location by the Village Board. The Village Board shall approve or disapprove
each sales outlet location and individual, sole proprietorship or corporation
which desires to conduct the lottery at its sales outlet location solely on the
basis of the qualification standards prescribed in division (B) below.
   (B)   Any individual, sole proprietorship, partnership or corporation which
seeks to have its location approved as an authorized sales outlet location
shall:
      (1)   First obtain a retail liquor license for consumption on the
premises pursuant to Neb. RS Chapter 53, Article 1;
      (2)   Not have been convicted of, forfeited bond upon a charge of, or
pleaded guilty to forgery, larceny, extortion, conspiracy to defraud, willful
failure to make required payments or reports to a governmental agency at any
level, filing false reports with any such agency, or any similar offense or
offenses or any crime, whether felony or misdemeanor, involving gambling
activity or moral turpitude;
      (3)   Not have had a gaming licensing revoked or canceled under the
Nebraska Bingo Act, the Nebraska Pickle Card Lottery Act, the Nebraska Lottery
and Raffle Act or the Nebraska County and City Lottery Act; and
      (4)   Be fit, willing and able to properly provide the service proposed
in conformance with all provisions and requirements of the Nebraska County and
City Lottery Act and the rules and regulations adopted and promulgated pursuant
to the act.
   (C)   If the entity seeking to have its location approved as an authorized
sales outlet location is a partnership or corporation, the qualification
standards shall apply to every partner of such partnership, every officer of
such corporation, and stockholder owning more than 10% of the stock of such
corporation.
   (D)   The Village Board shall notify the Department of Revenue of all
approved lottery locations within 30 days of approval.
(Prior Code, § 4-601) Penalty, see §
115.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 9-642.01
§ 115.99 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm, association or corporation violating any of the provisions
of this chapter for which no other penalty is imposed shall, upon conviction,
be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor, and be fined in an amount not more than
$500. Each day’s maintenance of the same shall constitute a separate offense
and may be prosecuted as such.
(Prior Code, § 4-701)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   PROPERTY OFFENSES
      
131.   OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC ORDER
      
132.   OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC JUSTICE AND ADMINISTRATION
      
133.   OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC HEALTH AND SAFETY
      
134.   OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC MORALS
CHAPTER 130: PROPERTY OFFENSES
Section
   
130.01   Criminal mischief
   
130.02   Criminal trespass
   
130.03   Electrical interference
   
130.04   Injury to trees
   
130.05   Posting
§ 130.01 CRIMINAL MISCHIEF.
   (A)   A person commits criminal mischief if he or she:
      (1)   Damages property of another intentionally or recklessly;
      (2)   Intentionally tampers with property of another so as to endanger
person or property; or
      (3)   Intentionally or maliciously causes another to suffer pecuniary
loss by deception or threat.
   (B)   Criminal mischief is an offense:
      (1)   If the actor intentionally or maliciously causes pecuniary loss of
$500 or more, but less than $5,000; or
      (2)   If the actor intentionally, maliciously or recklessly causes
pecuniary loss in an amount of less than $500 or if his or her action results
in no pecuniary loss.
(Neb. RS 28-519) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.02 CRIMINAL TRESPASS.
   (A)   A person commits first degree criminal trespass if:
      (1)   He or she enters or secretly remains in any building or occupied
structure, or any separately secured or occupied portion thereof, knowing that
he or she is not licensed or privileged to do so; or
      (2)   He or she enters or remains in or on a public power infrastructure
facility knowing that he or she does not have the consent of a person who has
the right to give consent to be in or on the facility.
   (B)   First degree criminal trespass is a Class I misdemeanor.
   (C)   For purposes of this section, PUBLIC POWER INFRASTRUCTURE FACILITY
means a power plant, an electrical station or substation or any other facility
which is used by a public power supplier as defined in Neb. RS 70-2103 to
support the generation, transmission or distribution of electricity and which
is surrounded by a fence or is otherwise enclosed.
(Neb. RS 28-520)
   (D)   (1)   A person commits second degree criminal trespass if, knowing
that he or she is not licensed or privileged to do so, to enter or remain in
any place as to which notice against trespass is given by:
         (a)   Actual communication to the actor;
         (b)   Posting in a manner prescribed by law or reasonably likely to
come to the attention of intruders; or
         (c)   Fencing or other enclosure manifestly designed to exclude
intruders, except as otherwise provided in division (A) above.
      (2)   Second degree criminal trespass is a Class III misdemeanor, except
as provided for in division (D)(3) below.
      (3)   Second degree criminal trespass is a Class II misdemeanor if the
offender defies an order to leave personally communicated to him or her by the
owner of the premises or other authorized person.
(Neb. RS 28-521)
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.03 ELECTRICAL INTERFERENCE.
   Any person operating, or causing to be operated, any motor, sign or other
electrical apparatus that is connected with the light and power system shall
equip the apparatus with proper filtering attachments to eliminate
interference; provided that, the provisions herein shall not apply to the use
of necessary medical equipment or apparatus where electrical interference
cannot be reasonably and safely eliminated. Any person who so operates or
causes to be operated any such electrical apparatus that interferes habitually
with radio and television reception shall be deemed to be guilty of an offense.
Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Provisions on nuisances, see Neb. RS 18-1720 and 28-1321
§ 130.04 INJURY TO TREES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person purposely or carelessly and without
lawful authority to cut down, carry away, injure, break down or destroy any
fruit, ornamental, shade or other tree or trees standing or growing on any land
belonging to another person or persons or on any public land in the corporate
limits.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.05 POSTING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to use the streets, sidewalks or public
grounds of the village for signs, signposts or the posting of handbills or
advertisements without written permission of the Board of Trustees.
Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 131: OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC ORDER
Section
   
131.01   Disorderly conduct
   
131.02   Obstructing water flow
   
131.03   Disturbing the peace
Cross-reference:
   Offenses against public health and safety, see
Ch. 133
§ 131.01 DISORDERLY CONDUCT.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in conduct or behavior which
disturbs the peace and good order of the village by clamor or noise,
intoxication, drunkenness, fighting or using obscene or profane language in the
streets or other public places or otherwise violating the public peace by
indecent or disorderly conduct or lewd or lascivious behavior.
Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority to regulate noise, riots and routs, see Neb. RS 17-556
§ 131.02 OBSTRUCTING WATER FLOW.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to stop or obstruct the passage of water
in a street gutter, culvert, water pipe or hydrant.
Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority to abate nuisances, see Neb. RS 17-555
   Authority to prevent water obstruction, see Neb. RS 17-920
§ 131.03 DISTURBING THE PEACE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person intentionally to disturb the peace and
quiet of any person, family or neighborhood.
(Prior Code, § 2-102) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 28-1322
CHAPTER 132: OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC JUSTICE AND ADMINISTRATION
Section
   
132.01   Impersonating a peace officer
   
132.02   Refusing to aid a peace officer
   
132.03   Interfering with firefighter
§ 132.01 IMPERSONATING A PEACE OFFICER.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to falsely pretend to be a peace officer
and perform any act in that pretended capacity.
(Neb. RS 28-610) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 132.02 REFUSING TO AID A PEACE OFFICER.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, upon a request by a person known to him
or her to be a peace officer, unreasonably to refuse or fail to aid the peace
officer in:
   (A)   Apprehending any person charged with or convicted of any offense
against any of the laws of the state or village;
   (B)   Securing the offender when apprehended; or
   (C)   Conveying the offender to the jail of the county or the village.
(Prior Code, § 2-114) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 28-903
§ 132.03 INTERFERING WITH FIREFIGHTER.
   A person commits the offense of interfering with a firefighter if at any
time and place where any firefighter is discharging or attempting to discharge
any official duties, the person willfully:
   (A)   Resists or interferes with the lawful efforts of any firefighter in
the discharge or attempt to discharge an official duty;
   (B)   Disobeys the lawful orders given by any firefighter while performing
his or her duties;
   (C)   Engages in any disorderly conduct which delays or prevents a fire from
being extinguished within a reasonable time; or
   (D)   Forbids or prevents others from assisting or extinguishing a fire, or
exhorts another person, as to whom he or she has no legal right or obligation
to protect or control, not to assist in extinguishing a fire.
(Neb. RS 28-908) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 133: OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC HEALTH AND SAFETY
Section
General Provisions
   
133.01   Maintaining a nuisance
   
133.02   Appliances in yard
   
133.03   Putting carcass or filthy substance into well, spring, brook or stream
   
133.04   Prohibited fences
   
133.05   Littering
   
133.06   Raising or producing stagnant water
   
133.07   Excessive noise
   
133.08   Stalking
   
133.09   Curfew
Motor Vehicle and Highway Offenses
   
133.20   Abandoned automobiles
   
133.21   Unlicensed or inoperable vehicles
Weapons Offenses
   
133.35   Discharge of firearms
   
133.36   Slingshots, air guns, BB guns
 
   
133.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 133.01 MAINTAINING A NUISANCE.
   (A)   A person commits the offense of maintaining a nuisance if he or she
erects, keeps up or continues and maintains any nuisance to the injury of any
part of the citizens of the village.
   (B)   The erecting, continuing, using or maintaining of any building,
structure or other place for the exercise of any trade, employment, manufacture
or other business which, by occasioning noxious exhalations, noisome or
offensive smells, becomes injurious and dangerous to the health, comfort or
property of individuals or the public; the obstructing or impeding, without
legal authority, of the passage of any navigable river, harbor or collection of
water; or the corrupting or rendering unwholesome or impure of any watercourse,
stream or water; or unlawfully diverting any such watercourse from its natural
course or state to the injury or prejudice of others; and the obstructing or
encumbering by fences, building, structures or otherwise of any of the public
highways or streets or alleys of the village, shall be deemed nuisances.
   (C)   A person guilty of erecting, continuing, using, maintaining or causing
any such nuisance shall be guilty of a violation of this section and in every
such case the offense shall be construed and held to have been committed in any
county whose inhabitants are or have been injured or aggrieved thereby.
   (D)   The court, in case of conviction of such offense, shall order every
such nuisance to be abated or removed.
(Neb. RS 28-1321) Penalty, see §
133.99
§ 133.02 APPLIANCES IN YARD.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to permit a refrigerator, icebox,
freezer or any other dangerous appliance to be in the open and accessible to
children whether on private or public property unless the person first removes
all doors and makes the same reasonably safe.
Penalty, see §
133.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority to prohibit nuisances within zoning jurisdiction, see Neb. RS 18-
1720
§ 133.03 PUTTING CARCASS OR FILTHY SUBSTANCE INTO WELL, SPRING, BROOK OR
STREAM.
   Whoever shall put any dead animal, carcass or part thereof, or other filthy
substance into any well, or into any spring, brook or branch of running water,
of which use is made for domestic purposes, shall be guilty of an offense.
(Neb. RS 28-1304) Penalty, see §
133.99
§ 133.04 PROHIBITED FENCES.
   Except as otherwise specifically provided in these regulations, in other
codes and regulations, the following regulations shall apply to the
construction offences. In reference to this section, the roadside is considered
the front yard.
   (A)   No fence shall be constructed which will constitute a traffic hazard.
   (B)   No fence shall be constructed in such a manner or be designed as to be
hazardous or dangerous to persons or animals; specifically, the use of barbed
wire and electrical fences in residential districts is prohibited.
   (C)   (1)   No person shall erect or maintain any fence which will naturally
damage the adjacent property, obstruct the view, shut out the sunlight or
hinder ventilation or which fence shall adversely affect the public health,
safety and welfare.
      (2)   Fences separating residential and non-residential land uses shall
not exceed eight feet in height.
   (D)   No fence, except fences erected upon public or parochial school
grounds or in public parks and playgrounds, shall be constructed of a greater
height than eight feet; provided, however, that, the Board may, by granting an
exception, authorize the construction of a fence higher than eight feet if the
Board finds the public welfare is preserved.
   (E)   All fences shall conform to the construction standards of the Building
Code.
   (F)   (1)   Whenever any land or structure in an I-Industrial District
adjoins a R-Residential District, additional side and rear yards shall be
provided for landscaping.
      (2)   A ten-foot wide buffer zone shall be provided and contain a shrub
border to serve as a screen between the Residential District and the proposed
use.
      (3)   The shrub screen shall be planted and adequately maintained by the
property owner of the Industrial District.
      (4)   The height of the screen shall not exceed six feet in height or be
less than three in height.
   (G)   The finished side of the fence must face the adjoining properties.
   (H)   The side yard of any lot shall be unobstructed by any structure or
feature, except a fence or retaining wall that shall be no higher than six feet
above the ground level. No fence or closely grown hedge shall be more than six
feet in height in any rear yard, and no fence constructed of any type of
substance shall be greater in height than 36 inches in any front yard and no
hedge shall be greater than 30 inches in any front yard. Any fence or hedge in
a front yard shall not be placed any closer than six feet from the front
property line.
   (I)   Any perimeter fencing shall require a permit. The fee for the permit
is $10.
(Prior Code, § 2-119)
§ 133.05 LITTERING.
   (A)   Any person who deposits, throws, discards or otherwise disposes of any
litter on any public or private property or in any waters commits the offense
of littering unless:
      (1)   The property is an area designated by law for the disposal of that
type of material and the person is authorized by the proper public authority to
so use the property; or
      (2)   The litter is placed in a receptacle or container installed on the
property for that purpose.
   (B)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      LITTER. Includes all waste material susceptible of being dropped,
deposited, discarded or otherwise disposed of by any person upon any property
in the state, but does not include wastes of primary processes of farming or
manufacturing.
      WASTE MATERIAL. Any material appearing in a place or in a context not
associated with that material’s function or origin.
   (C)   Whenever litter is thrown, deposited, dropped or dumped from any motor
vehicle or watercraft in violation of this section, the operator of the motor
vehicle or watercraft commits the offense of littering.
(Neb. RS 28-523) Penalty, see §
133.99
§ 133.06 RAISING OR PRODUCING STAGNANT WATER.
   Whoever shall build, erect, continue or keep up any dam or other obstruction
in any river or stream of water in the village and thereby raise an artificial
pond, or produce stagnant waters, which shall be manifestly injurious to the
public health and safety shall be guilty of an offense and the court shall,
moreover, order every such nuisance to be abated or removed.
(Neb. RS 28-1303) Penalty, see §
133.99
§ 133.07 EXCESSIVE NOISE.
   It is hereby determined to be unlawful to operate industrial equipment,
heavy machinery, jack hammers and other industrial equipment emitting loud
noise or to race automobile engines within the village between the hours of 8:
00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. in such a manner as to disturb the comfort, repose, peace
and quiet of residents of the village, unless such activity has been approved
in advance by the Village Board.
(Prior Code, § 2-103) Penalty, see §
133.99
§ 133.08 STALKING.
   (A)   Any person who willfully and maliciously harasses another person with
the intent to terrify, threaten or intimidate commits the offense of stalking.
   (B)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      COURSE OF CONDUCT. A pattern of conduct composed of a series of acts of
following, detaining, restraining the personal liberty of or stalking the
person or repetitiously telephoning the person.
      HARASS. To engage in a knowing and willful course of conduct directed at
a specific person which seriously terrifies, threatens or intimidates the
person and which serves no legitimate purpose.
(Prior Code, § 2-110) Penalty, see §
133.99
§ 133.09 CURFEW.
   (A)   Curfew hours. It shall be unlawful for any person under the age of 16
years to loiter, idle, wander, stroll, play or be in or upon the public
streets, public places and public buildings, places of amusement and
entertainment, vacant buildings or vacant lots or operate any bicycle or other
vehicle, in, upon, over or through the streets of other public places of the
village between the hours of 12:00 midnight of any day until 6:00 a.m. of the
following day; except that, on Friday and Saturday nights, the curfew shall be
set from 1:00 a.m. to 6:00 a.m. the following morning, unless such person is
accompanied by a parent, guardian or other adult person having the legal care
and custody of said minor person or unless the minor person is upon an
emergency errand or legitimate business directed by his or her parents,
guardian or legal custodian, except as hereinafter provided.
(Prior Code, § 2-201)
   (B)   Curfew hours extended. Nothing herein contained shall prohibit said
minor persons from attending special school functions or adult-supervised
entertainment conducted by any school, church or fraternal organization which
continue beyond the curfew hours as set out in division (A) above. In all such
cases, the hours herein prohibited shall be extended for those minors attending
said special social functions or entertainment one hour after the closing of
said special function.
(Prior Code, § 2-202)
   (C)   Violation; parental liability. It shall be unlawful for the parent,
guardian or other adult person having the care and custody of minors under the
age of 16 years to allow or permit said minor persons to do any of the acts or
things prohibited by divisions (A) or (B) above.
(Prior Code, § 2-203)
   (D)   Enforcement; police authorization. Every member of the police force,
while on duty, shall be authorized to detain any such minor willfully violating
the provisions of this section and, upon apprehension of said minor, shall
forthwith notify by telephone or other appropriate means the parents or legal
guardians or person in custody of said minor child.
(Prior Code, § 2-204)
   (E)   Exemptions. It is an exemption to a violation under this section that
the person engaged in the prohibited conduct while:
      (1)   Accompanied by the minor’s parent or guardian;
      (2)   On an errand at the direction of the minor’s parent or guardian,
without any detour or stop;
      (3)   In a motor vehicle involved in interstate travel;
      (4)   Engaged in an employment activity, or going to or returning home
from an employment activity, without any detour or stop;
      (5)   Involved in an emergency;
      (6)   On the sidewalk abutting the minor’s residence or abutting the
residence of a next-door neighbor if the neighbor did not complain to the
Police Department about the minor’s presence;
      (7)   Attending an official school, religious or other recreational
activity supervised by adults and sponsored by the village, a civic
organization or another similar entity that takes responsibility for the minor,
or going to or returning home from, without any stop or detour, an official
school, religious or other recreational activity supervised by adults and
sponsored by the village, a civic organization or another similar entity that
takes responsibility for the minor;
      (8)   Exercising First Amendment rights protected by the United States
Constitution, such as the free exercise of religion, freedom of speech and the
right of assembly; or
      (9)   Married or had been married or had disabilities of minority removed
in accordance with state law.
Penalty, see §
133.99
MOTOR VEHICLE AND HIGHWAY OFFENSES
§ 133.20 ABANDONED AUTOMOBILES.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      ABANDONED VEHICLE.
         (a)   A motor vehicle is an ABANDONED VEHICLE:
            1.   If left unattended, with no license plates or valid “In
Transit” stickers issued pursuant to the Motor Vehicle Registration Act affixed
thereto, for more than six hours on any public property;
            2.   If left unattended for more than 24 hours on any public
property, except a portion thereof on which parking is legally permitted;
            3.   If left unattended for more than 48 hours, after the parking
of such vehicle has become illegal, if left on a portion of any public property
on which parking is legally permitted;
            4.   If left unattended for more than seven days on private
property if left initially without permission of the owner, or after permission
of the owner is terminated;
            5.   If left for more than 30 days in the custody of a village law
enforcement agency after the agency has sent a letter to the last-registered
owner and lienholder under division (D) below; or
            6.   If removed from private property by the village pursuant to a
village ordinance or this code.
         (b)   An all-terrain vehicle or minibike is an ABANDONED VEHICLE:
            1.   If left unattended for more than 24 hours on any public
property, except a portion thereof on which parking is legally permitted;
            2.   If left unattended for more than 48 hours, after the parking
of such vehicle has become illegal, if left on a portion of any public property
on which parking is legally permitted;
            3.   If left unattended for more than seven days on private
property if left initially without permission of the owner, or after permission
of the owner is terminated;
            4.   If left for more than 30 days in the custody of a village law
enforcement agency after the agency has sent a letter to the last-registered
owner and lienholder under division (D) below; or
            5.   If removed from private property by the village pursuant to a
village ordinance or this code.
         (c)   A MOBILE HOME is an abandoned vehicle if left in place on
private property for more than 30 days after a local governmental unit,
pursuant to an ordinance or resolution, has sent a certified letter to each of
the last-registered owners and posted a notice on the mobile home, stating that
the mobile home is subject to sale or auction or vesting of title as set forth
in Neb. RS 60-1903.
         (d)   No motor vehicle subject to forfeiture under Neb. RS 28-431
shall be an ABANDONED VEHICLE under this division (A).
      MOBILE HOME. A movable or portable dwelling constructed to be towed on
its own chassis, connected to utilities and designed with or without a
permanent foundation for year-round living. It may consist of one or more units
that can be telescoped when towed and expanded later for additional capacity,
or of two or more units, separately towable but designed to be joined into one
integral unit, and shall include a manufactured home as defined in Neb. RS 71-
4603. MOBILE HOME does not include a mobile home or manufactured home for which
an affidavit of affixture has been recorded pursuant to Neb. RS 60-169.
      PRIVATE PROPERTY. Any privately owned property which is not included
within the definition of public property.
      PUBLIC PROPERTY. Any public right-of-way, street, highway, alley or park
or other state, county or village-owned property.
(Neb. RS 60-1901)
   (B)   If an abandoned vehicle, at the time of abandonment, has no license
plates of the current year or valid “In Transit” stickers issued pursuant to
Neb. RS 60-376 affixed and is of a wholesale value, taking into consideration
the condition of the vehicle, of $500 or less, title shall immediately vest in
the village. Any certificate of title issued under this division (B) to the
village shall be issued at no cost to the village.
(Neb. RS 60-1902)
   (C)   (1)   Except for vehicles governed by division (B) above, the village
shall make an inquiry concerning the last-registered owner of such vehicle as
follows:
         (a)   Abandoned vehicle with license plates affixed, to the
jurisdiction which issued such license plates; or
         (b)   Abandoned vehicle with no license plates affixed, to the
Department of Motor Vehicles.
      (2)   The village shall notify the last-registered owner, if any, and any
lienholder, if any, within 15 business days that the vehicle in question has
been determined to be an abandoned vehicle and that, if unclaimed, either:
         (a)   It will be sold or will be offered at public auction after five
days from the date such notice was mailed; or
         (b)   Title will vest in the village 30 days after the date such
notice was mailed.
      (3)   If the agency described in divisions (C)(1)(a) or (C)(1)(b) above
also notifies the village that a lien or mortgage exists, such notice shall
also be sent to the lienholder or mortgagee. Any person claiming such vehicle
shall be required to pay the cost of removal and storage of such vehicle.
      (4)   Title to an abandoned vehicle, if unclaimed, shall vest in the
village:
         (a)   Five days after the date the notice is mailed if the vehicle
will be sold or offered at public auction under division (C)(2)(a) above;
         (b)   Thirty days after the date the notice is mailed if the village
will retain the vehicle; or
         (c)   If the last-registered owner cannot be ascertained, when notice
of such fact is received.
      (5)   After title to the abandoned vehicle vests pursuant to division (C)
(4) above, the village may retain for use, sell or auction the abandoned
vehicle. If the village has determined that the vehicle should be retained for
use, the village shall, at the same time that the notice, if any, is mailed,
publish in a newspaper of general circulation in the jurisdiction an
announcement that the village intends to retain the abandoned vehicle for its
use and that title will vest in the village 30 days after the publication.
(Neb. RS 60-1903)
   (D)   (1)   If a village law enforcement agency has custody of a motor
vehicle for investigatory purposes and has no further need to keep it in
custody, it shall send a certified letter to each of the last-registered
owners, if any, and lienholders, if any, within 15 calendar days stating that
the vehicle is in the custody of the law enforcement agency, that the vehicle
is no longer needed for law enforcement purposes, and that after 30 days the
agency will dispose of the vehicle.
      (2)   This division (D) shall not apply to motor vehicles subject to
forfeiture under Neb. RS 28-431.
      (3)   No storage fees shall be assessed against the registered owner of a
motor vehicle held in custody for investigatory purposes under this division
(D) unless the registered owner or the person in possession of the vehicle when
it is taken into custody is charged with a felony or misdemeanor related to the
offense for which the law enforcement agency took the vehicle into custody. If
a registered owner or the person in possession of the vehicle when it is taken
into custody is charged with a felony or misdemeanor, but is not convicted, the
registered owner shall be entitled to a refund of the storage fees.
(Neb. RS 60-1903.01)
   (E)   (1)   A law enforcement agency is authorized to remove an abandoned or
trespassing vehicle from private property upon the request of the private
property owner on whose property the vehicle is located and upon information
indicating that the vehicle is an abandoned or trespassing vehicle. After
removal, the law enforcement agency with custody of the vehicle shall follow
the procedures in Neb. RS 60-1902 and 60-1903.
      (2)   A law enforcement agency is authorized to contact a private towing
service in order to remove an abandoned or trespassing vehicle from private
property upon the request of the private property owner on whose property the
vehicle is located and upon information indicating that the vehicle is an
abandoned or trespassing vehicle. A vehicle towed away under this division (E)
(2) is subject to Neb. RS 52-601.01 to 52-605 and 60-2410 by the private towing
service which towed the vehicle.
      (3)   A private property owner is authorized to remove or cause the
removal of an abandoned or trespassing vehicle from such property and may
contact a private towing service for such removal. A private towing service
that tows the vehicle shall notify, within 24 hours, the designated law
enforcement agency in the jurisdiction from which the vehicle is removed and
provide the registration plate number, the vehicle identification number, if
available, the make, model and color of the vehicle, and the name of the
private towing service and the location, if applicable, where the private
towing service is storing the vehicle. A vehicle towed away under this
subsection is subject to Neb. RS 52-601.01 to 52-605 and 60-2410 by the private
towing service that towed the vehicle.
      (4)   For purposes of this section, a TRESPASSING VEHICLE is a vehicle
that is parked without permission on private property that is not typically
made available for public parking.
(Neb. RS 60-1903.02)
   (F)   (1)   If a state agency caused an abandoned vehicle described in
divisions (a)(5) and (b)(4) of division (A) above to be removed from public
property in the village, the state agency shall be entitled to custody of the
vehicle.
      (2)   If a state agency caused an abandoned vehicle described in
divisions (a)(1), (a)(2), (a)(3) or (a)(4) or (b)(1), (b)(2) or (b)(3) of
division (A) above to be removed from public property in the village, the state
agency shall deliver the vehicle to the village which shall have custody.
(Neb. RS 60-1904)
   (G)   (1)   Any proceeds from the sale of an abandoned vehicle in the
village’s custody less any expenses incurred by the village shall be held by
the village without interest, for the benefit of the owner or lienholders of
such vehicle for a period of two years.
      (2)   If not claimed within such two-year period, the proceeds shall be
paid into the General Fund of the village.
(Neb. RS 60-1905)
   (H)   Neither the owner, owner’s agent, owner’s employee, lessee, nor
occupant of the premises from which any abandoned vehicle is removed, nor the
village, shall be liable for any loss or damage to such vehicle which occurs
during its removal or while in the possession of the village or its contractual
agent, while in the possession of a private towing service, or as a result of
any subsequent disposition.
(Neb. RS 60-1906)
   (I)   No person shall cause any vehicle to be an abandoned vehicle as
described in divisions (a)(1), (a)(2), (a)(3) or (a)(4) or (b)(1), (b)(2) or
(b)(3) of division (A) above.
(Neb. RS 60-1907)
   (J)   No person other than one authorized by the village or appropriate
state agency shall destroy, deface or remove any part of a vehicle which is
left unattended on a highway or other public place without license plates
affixed or which is abandoned. Anyone violating this division (J) shall be
guilty of an offense.
(Neb. RS 60-1908)
   (K)   The last-registered owner of an abandoned vehicle shall be liable to
the village for the costs of removal and storage of such vehicle.
(Neb. RS 60-1909)
   (L)   Any person violating the provisions of this section shall be guilty of
an offense.
Penalty, see §
133.99
Statutory reference:
   Motor Vehicle Registration Act, see Neb. RS 60-301
§ 133.21 UNLICENSED OR INOPERABLE VEHICLES.
   (A)   No person in charge or control of any property within the village,
other than village property, whether as owner, tenant, occupant, lessee or
otherwise, shall allow any partially dismantled, inoperable, wrecked, junked or
discarded vehicle to remain on that property longer than 30 days.
   (B)   No unlicensed vehicle shall be permitted to remain on any private or
public property for any length of time; provided that, this section shall not
apply to the following:
      (1)   A vehicle bearing a valid “In Transit” sticker;
      (2)   A vehicle in an enclosed building;
      (3)   A vehicle on the premises of a business enterprise operated in a
lawful place and manner when the vehicle is necessary to the lawful operation
of the business; or
      (4)   A vehicle in an appropriate storage place or depository maintained
in a lawful place and manner by the village.
   (C)   Any vehicle allowed to remain on property in violation of this section
shall constitute a nuisance and shall be abated, and any person violating this
section shall be guilty of an offense.
Penalty, see §
133.99
Statutory reference:
   “In Transit” stickers, see Neb. RS 60-376
WEAPONS OFFENSES
§ 133.35 DISCHARGE OF FIREARMS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, except an officer of the law in the
discharge of official duty, to fire or discharge any gun, pistol or other
fowling piece within the village; except that, nothing in this section shall be
construed to apply to officially sanctioned public celebrations if the persons
so discharging firearms have written permission from the Board of Trustees.
Penalty, see §
133.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority to regulate, see Neb. RS 17-556
§ 133.36 SLINGSHOTS, AIR GUNS, BB GUNS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to discharge a slingshot, air gun, BB
gun or the like loaded with rock or other dangerous missiles at any time or
under any circumstances within the village.
(Prior Code, § 2-118) Penalty, see §
133.99
§ 133.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any violation of §
133.09 of this chapter shall constitute a misdemeanor and shall be punishable
by a warning for the first offense and a fine of $10 for the second offense. A
third and any subsequent violation shall constitute a violation of §
133.09(C) of this chapter and the parents of said child shall be held liable.
(Prior Code, § 2-205)
CHAPTER 134: OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC MORALS
Section
   
134.01   Prostitution
   
134.02   Public indecency; indecent exposure; public urination; indecent book,
picture, play or design
   
134.03   Gambling
   
134.04   Public nudity
   
134.05   Sexual predators
   
134.99   Penalty
§ 134.01 PROSTITUTION.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (C) below, any person who performs,
offers or agrees to perform any act of sexual contact or sexual penetration, as
those terms are defined in Neb. RS 28-318, with any person not his or her
spouse, in exchange for money or other thing of value, commits the offense of
prostitution.
   (B)   It is an affirmative defense to prosecution under this section that
such person was a trafficking victim, as defined in Neb. RS 28-830.
   (C)   If the law enforcement officer determines, after a reasonable
detention for investigative purposes, that a person suspected of or charged
with a violation of division (A) above is:
      (1)   A person engaging in those acts as a direct result of being a
trafficking victim as defined in Neb. RS 28-830, such person shall be immune
from prosecution for a prostitution offense; or
      (2)   A person under 18 years of age, such person shall be immune from
prosecution for a prostitution offense under this section and shall be subject
to temporary custody under Neb. RS 43-248 and further disposition under the
Nebraska Juvenile Code. A law enforcement officer who takes a person under 18
years of age into custody under this section shall immediately report an
allegation of a violation of Neb. RS 28-831 to the Department of Health and
Human Services which shall commence an investigation within 24 hours under the
Child Protection and Family Safety Act.
(Prior Code, §§ 2-111, 2-112) Penalty, see §
134.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 28-801
§ 134.02 PUBLIC INDECENCY; INDECENT EXPOSURE; PUBLIC URINATION; INDECENT BOOK,
PICTURE, PLAY OR DESIGN.
   It shall be unlawful for any person within the village to make an indecent
exposure of his or her person; to urinate or defecate in public view; to commit
any indecent or lewd act; to sell or offer for sale or to dispense of in any
manner any obscene, lewd or indecent book, picture or other publication or
thing; to exhibit or perform any indecent, immoral, lewd or obscene play or
other representation; or in any public place to write, draw or make any
profane, obscene, indecent or lewd work, sentence, figure or design.
(Prior Code, § 2-113) Penalty, see §
134.99
§ 134.03 GAMBLING.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the definitions found in Neb. RS 28-
1101 shall be used.
   (B)   A person commits the offense of promoting gambling if he or she
knowingly:
      (1)   Advances or profits from any unlawful gambling activity by:
         (a)   Engaging in bookmaking;
         (b)   Receiving, in connection with any unlawful gambling scheme or
enterprise, any amount of money played in the scheme or enterprise in any one
day; or
         (c)   Betting something of value in an amount of $500 or more with one
or more persons in one day.
(Neb. RS 28-1102 and 28-1103)
      (2)   Participates in unlawful gambling as a player by betting less than
$500 in any one day.
(Neb. RS 28-1104)
   (C)   (1)   A person commits the offense of possession of a gambling device
if he or she manufactures, sells, transports, places, possesses or conducts or
negotiates any transaction affecting or designed to affect ownership, custody
or use of any gambling device, knowing that it shall be used in the advancement
of unlawful gambling activity.
      (2)   The owner or operator of a retail establishment who is not a
manufacturer, distributor or seller of mechanical amusement devices as defined
under the Mechanical Amusement Device Tax Act, shall have an affirmative
defense to possession of a gambling device described in division (C)(1) above
if the device bears an unexpired mechanical amusement device decal as required
by such act. However, such affirmative defense may be overcome if the owner or
operator had actual knowledge that operation of the device constituted unlawful
gambling activity at any time such device was operated on the premises of the
retail establishment.
      (3)   Notwithstanding any other provisions of this division (C), any
mechanical game or device classified by the federal government as an illegal
gambling device and requiring a Federal Gambling Device Tax Stamp as required
by the Internal Revenue Service in its administration of 26 U.S.C. §§ 4461 and
4462, amended 7-1-1965, by Public Law 89-44, is hereby declared to be illegal.
(Neb. RS 28-1107)
   (D)   In any prosecution under this section, it shall be an affirmative
defense that the writing, paper, instrument or article possessed by the
defendant was neither used, nor intended to be used in the advancement of an
unlawful gambling activity.
(Neb. RS 28-1108)
   (E)   Proof of possession of any gambling device shall be prima facie
evidence of possession thereof with knowledge of its contents and character.
(Neb. RS 28-1109)
   (F)   It shall be no defense to a prosecution under any provision of this
section relating to gambling that the gambling is conducted outside the village
and is not in violation of the laws of the jurisdiction in which it is
conducted.
(Neb. RS 28-1110)
   (G)   In addition to any other penalty, a sentencing court may order that
any money, securities, negotiable instruments, firearms, conveyances or
electronic communication devices as defined in Neb. RS 28-833 or any equipment,
components, peripherals, software, hardware or accessories related to
electronic communication devices, or any gambling devices be forfeited as a
part of the sentence imposed if it finds by clear and convincing evidence
adduced at a separate hearing in the same prosecution, conducted pursuant to
Neb. RS 28-1601, that any or all such property was derived from, used or
intended to be used to facilitate a violation of this section.
(Neb. RS 28-1111)
   (H)   In any prosecution for an offense defined in this section, when the
defendant’s status as a player constitutes an excusing condition, the fact that
the defendant was a player shall constitute an affirmative defense.
(Neb. RS 28-1112)
   (I)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to:
      (1)   Apply to or prohibit wagering on the results of horse races by the
parimutuel or certificate method when conducted by licensees within the
racetrack enclosure at licensed horse race meetings;
      (2)   Prohibit or punish the conducting or participating in any bingo,
lottery by the sale of pickle cards, lottery, raffle or gift enterprise when
conducted in accordance with the Nebraska Bingo Act, the Nebraska County and
City Lottery Act, the Nebraska Lottery and Raffle Act, the Nebraska Pickle Card
Lottery Act, the Nebraska Small Lottery and Raffle Act, the State Lottery Act
or Neb. RS 9-701; or
      (3)   Apply to or prohibit the operation of games of chance, whether
using a gambling device or otherwise, by authorized gaming operators within
licensed racetrack enclosures or the participation or playing of such games of
chance, whether participated in or played using a gambling device or otherwise,
by individuals 21 years of age or older within licensed racetrack enclosures as
provided in the Nebraska Racetrack Gaming Act.
(Neb. RS 28-1113)
   (J)   In any prosecution under this section in which it is necessary to
prove the occurrence of a sporting event, a published report of its occurrence
in any daily newspaper, magazine or other periodically printed publication of
general circulation shall be admissible in evidence and shall constitute prima
facie evidence of the occurrence of the event.
(Neb. RS 28-1117)
Penalty, see §
134.99
§ 134.04 PUBLIC NUDITY.
   (A)   Statement of intent. It is the intent of this section to promote the
public health, safety, welfare, peace and order of the county. It is the intent
of the county to prohibit the exploitation of human nudity for the purpose of
promoting the economic interests of any type of business enterprise. It is also
the intent of the county to further the government’s interest in avoiding the
harmful secondary effects of public nude conduct and lewd or lascivious conduct
such as prostitution, sexual assaults and criminal activity. See, e.g., Barnes
v. Glen Theatre, Inc., 501 U.S. 560 (1991); Pap’s AM v. City of Erie, 529 U.S.
277 (2000); Ways v. City of Lincoln, 331 F.3d 596 (8th Cir. 2003). The
legislative record documents and the Board’s legislative findings concerning
negative secondary effects, which are found in § 7.16.01 of the Cass County
Zoning Resolution (through Amendment 67), are incorporated herein by reference.
This prohibition on public nude conduct and lewd or lascivious behavior is not
intended to extend to any expression of opinion or the performance of a bona
fide play, ballet or drama which may not be prohibited under the First
Amendment to the Constitution of the United States or by Art. I, § 5, of the
Constitution of the State of Nebraska. The provisions of this section have
neither the purpose, nor effect, of imposing a limitation or restriction on
exercises of free speech that are protected by the First Amendment.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning. When not inconsistent with the context, words in the present
tense include the future tense, words used in the plural number include words
in the singular number and words in the singular number include words in the
plural number. The word “shall” is always mandatory, and not merely directory.
      EMPLOYEE. Any person who works on the premises of a business, on a full-
time, part-time, or contract basis, regardless of whether the person is
denominated an employee, independent contractor, agent, lessee or otherwise.
EMPLOYEE does not include a person exclusively on the premises for repair or
maintenance of the premises or for the delivery of goods to the premises.
      NUDE, NUDITY or A STATE OF NUDITY. The showing of the human male or
female genitals or pubic area with less than a fully opaque covering, the
showing of the female breast with less than a fully opaque covering on any part
of the areola and nipple, or the showing of covered male genitals in a
discernibly turgid state.
      PUBLIC PLACE. All spaces owned by or open to the general public, whether
or not an admission or cover charge is levied for entrance thereto; and public
streets, sidewalks, alleys or other public thoroughfares, and areas in or such
close proximity thereto, as to be observed by the public traveling on such
street, sidewalk or other thoroughfare.
   (C)   Nudity prohibited. It shall be unlawful for a person to, knowingly or
intentionally, in a public place or in any place open to the public, appear
nude or in a state of nudity.
   (D)   Sexual contact prohibited.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any employee in any business or commercial
establishment to have any sexual contact with any other employee, person or
patron for gratuity, pay or other remuneration, direct or indirect.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful for any person or patron to have sexual
contact with any employee in any business or commercial establishment.
      (3)   For the purposes of this division (D), SEXUAL CONTACT shall mean
the intentional touching between any person, patron or employee involving
contact by or with any person’s, patron’s or employee’s sexual organ, buttock
(s) or breast(s), whether covered or not, or kissing, when such contact can
reasonably be construed as being for the purpose of sexual arousal or sexual
gratification of either party or any observer.
      (4)   It shall be unlawful for any person purposely or knowingly to
solicit, induce or attempt to induce another person to engage in an act or acts
prohibited hereunder.
      (5)   It shall be unlawful for the owner, lessee, proprietor or manager
of any business or commercial establishment to knowingly allow any person on
the premises of such business or commercial establishment to engage in an act
or acts prohibited hereunder.
   (E)   Exceptions.
      (1)   No person shall be in violation of this section for breastfeeding a
child.
      (2)   This section shall not apply to children under the age of 12 years
old.
      (3)   No person shall be in violation of this section for appearing nude
or in a state of nudity in any dressing/changing room, locker room, restroom
facility or hospital, clinic or other similar medical facility in which
appearing nude or in a state of nudity is necessary for health-related
purposes.
      (4)   No person shall be in violation of this section for appearing nude
or in a state of nudity in the presence of a licensed physical therapist,
licensed massage therapist, licensed athletic trainer or licensed
cosmetologist, engaged in performing the functions authorized under the license
held.
      (5)   This section shall not apply to models that are part of a nude
modeling studio that is part of a proprietary school licensed by the State of
Nebraska; or a college or junior college or university supported entirely or in
part by public taxation; or a private college or university which maintains and
operates educational programs in which credits are transferable to a college,
junior college or university supported entirely or partly by taxation.
      (6)   This section shall also not apply to the exhibition, presentation,
showing or performance of any play, ballet, drama, tableau, production or
motion picture in any theater, concert hall, art center, museum, school,
institution of higher learning or other similar establishment which is
primarily devoted to such exhibitions, presentations, shows or performances as
a form of expression of opinion, communication, speech, ideas, information, art
or drama.
(Ord. 16-02, passed 8-2-2016) Penalty, see §
134.99
§ 134.05 SEXUAL PREDATORS.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      CHILD CARE FACILITY. A facility licensed pursuant to the Child Care
Licensing Act of the state.
      SCHOOL. A public, private, denominational or parochial school which meets
the requirements for accreditation or approval prescribed by Nebraska law.
      SEX OFFENDER. An individual who has been convicted of a crime listed in
Neb. RS 29-4003 and who is required to register as a sex offender pursuant to
the Nebraska Sex Offender Registration Act.
      SEXUAL PREDATOR. An individual required to register under the Nebraska
Sex Offender Registration Act, who has a high risk of recidivism as determined
by the Nebraska State Patrol and who has victimized a person 18 years of age or
younger.
(Prior Code, § 2-701)
   (B)   Residency restrictions.
      (1)   It is hereby determined unlawful for any sexual predator to reside
within 500 feet of a school or childcare facility.
      (2)   For the purpose of determining the minimum distance separation, the
distance shall be measured at a straight line from the closest point to the
sexual predator’s place of residence property line to the property line of the
school or childcare facility.
(Prior Code, § 2-702)
   (C)   Exceptions. These restrictions shall not apply to sexual predators who
are housed in a prison, correctional facility or treatment facility operated by
the state or county or to anyone who established a residency within such
minimum distance before 7-1-2006, and has not moved from that residence since
that date or who has established a residence subsequent to 7-1-2006, but a
school or childcare facility has been established since such date within such
minimum distance.
(Prior Code, § 2-703)
(Ord. 2006-08, passed 9-5-2006) Penalty, see §
134.99
§ 134.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person found to be in violation of §
134.04 of this chapter shall be guilty of a crime, punishable by a maximum of a
$500 fine.
   (C)   Any person, firm, association or corporation violating any of the
provisions of §
134.05 of this chapter for which no other penalty is imposed shall, upon
conviction, be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and be fined in an amount of not
more than $500. Each day’s maintenance of a misdemeanor shall constitute a
separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 2-801)
(Ord. 2006-08, passed 9-5-2006; Ord. 16-02, passed 8-2-2016)
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   BUILDING REGULATIONS
      
151.   SUBDIVISIONS
      
152.   ZONING
      
153.   FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT
      
154.   MANUFACTURED HOMES
CHAPTER 150: BUILDING REGULATIONS
Section
Building Permits and Regulations
   
150.01   Requirement
   
150.02   Limitation
   
150.03   Duplicate to County Assessor
   
150.04   Excavations and exposures; barricades and lights
Moving of Buildings
   
150.20   Regulations
   
150.21   Deposit
Unsafe Buildings
   
150.35   Definition
   
150.36   Uniform Code for the Abatement of Dangerous Buildings adopted
   
150.37   Prohibitions
   
150.38   Determination; notice
   
150.39   Appeal; demolition; duty to inform county
   
150.40   Emergency
   
150.41   Special assessments
   
150.42   Shipping containers as storage buildings
Building Inspector
   
150.55   Power and authority
   
150.56   Right of entry
   
150.57   Permit cards
   
150.58   Time of inspection
   
150.59   Appeal from decision
International Building Codes
   
150.70   Adoption of codes
   
150.71   Enforcement
   
150.72   Violation
 
   
150.99   Penalty
BUILDING PERMITS AND REGULATIONS
§ 150.01 REQUIREMENT.
   Any person desiring to commence or proceed to erect, construct, repair,
enlarge, demolish or relocate any building or dwelling, or cause the same to be
done, shall file with the Village Clerk/Treasurer an application for a building
permit. The application shall be in writing on a form to be furnished by the
Village Clerk/Treasurer for that purpose. Every such application shall set
forth the legal description of the land upon which the construction or
relocation is to take place, the nature of the use or occupancy, the principal
dimensions, the estimated cost, the names of the owner, architect and
contractor, and such other information as may be requested thereon. The
application, plans and specifications so filed with the Village Clerk/Treasurer
shall be checked and examined by the Board of Trustees, and if they are found
to be in conformity with the requirements of this chapter and all other
ordinances applicable thereto, the Board of Trustees shall authorize the
Village Clerk/Treasurer to issue the applicant a permit upon payment of a
permit fee set by the Board by resolution. Whenever there is a discrepancy
between permit application procedures contained herein and those contained in
any Building Code adopted by reference, the provisions contained herein shall
govern.
Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.02 LIMITATION.
   If the work for which a permit has been issued shall not have begun within
six months of the date thereof, or if the construction is discontinued for a
period of six months, the permit shall be void. Before work can be resumed, a
new permit shall be obtained in the same manner and form as an original permit.
Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.03 DUPLICATE TO COUNTY ASSESSOR.
   Whenever a building permit is issued for the erection, alteration or repair
of any building within the village’s corporate limits or extraterritorial
zoning jurisdiction, if the improvement is $2,500 or more, a duplicate of the
permit shall be issued to the County Assessor.
(Neb. RS 18-1743)
§ 150.04 EXCAVATIONS AND EXPOSURES; BARRICADES AND LIGHTS.
   Any owner, tenant or lessee causing the construction, demolition or moving
of any building or improvement within the village shall protect all
excavations, exposures, open basements, building materials and debris by
suitable barricades or guards by day and by warning lights at night. The
failure, neglect or refusal of the owner, tenant or lessee to erect and
maintain such protections shall constitute a violation of this section, and the
Building Inspector or other village law enforcement authority may stop all work
upon the buildings and improvements until suitable protections are erected and
maintained in the required manner.
Penalty, see §
150.99
MOVING OF BUILDINGS
§ 150.20 REGULATIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to move any
building or structure within the village without a written permit to do so.
Application may be made to the Village Clerk/Treasurer and shall include the
present and future location of the building to be moved, the proposed route,
the equipment to be used, and such other information as the Board of Trustees
may require. The application shall be accompanied by a certificate issued by
the County Treasurer to the effect that all the provisions regulating the
moving of buildings have been complied with on the part of the owner of the
real estate upon which the building is presently located.
   (B)   The Village Clerk/Treasurer shall refer the application to the Board
of Trustees or its designee for approval of the proposed route over which the
building is to be moved. Upon approval, the Village Clerk/Treasurer shall issue
the permit, provided that a good and sufficient corporate surety bond, check or
cash in an amount set by motion of the Board of Trustees and conditioned upon
moving the building without doing damage to any private or village property is
filed with the Village Clerk/Treasurer prior to the granting of any permit.
   (C)   No moving permit shall be required to move a building that is ten feet
wide or less, and 20 feet long or less, and when in a position to move, 15 feet
high or less.
   (D)   In the event it will be necessary for any licensed building mover to
interfere with the telephone or telegraph poles and wires, or a gas line, the
company or companies owning, using or operating the poles, wires or line shall,
upon proper notice of at least 24 hours, be present and assist by disconnecting
the poles, wires or line relative to the building moving operation. All expense
of the disconnection, removal or related work shall be paid in advance by the
licensee unless the disconnection or work is furnished on different terms as
provided in the company’s franchise.
   (E)   Whenever the moving of any building necessitates interference with a
water main, sewer main, pipes or wire belonging to the village, notice in
writing of the time and route of the building moving operation shall be given
to the various officials in charge of the village utility departments, who
shall proceed in behalf of the village and at the expense of the mover to make
such disconnections and do such work as is necessary.
Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.21 DEPOSIT.
   At such time as the building moving has been completed, the Building
Inspector or other designated official shall inspect the premises and report to
the Village Clerk/Treasurer as to the extent of damages, if any, resulting from
the relocation and whether any village laws have been violated during the
operation. Upon a satisfactory report from the Building Inspector or other
designated official, the Village Clerk/Treasurer shall return the corporate
surety bond, cash or check deposited by the applicant. In the event the
basement, foundation or portion thereof is not properly filled, covered or in a
clean and sanitary condition, the Board of Trustees may apply the money
deposited for the purpose of defraying the expense of correcting the
conditions. If the expense of correcting the hazardous condition is greater
than the amount of the deposit set by the Board of Trustees, the Board of
Trustees may recover the excess expense by civil suit or otherwise as
prescribed by law.
UNSAFE BUILDINGS
§ 150.35 DEFINITION.
   (A)   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      UNSAFE BUILDING. Includes any building, shed, fence or other human-made
structure:
         (a)   Which is dangerous to the public health because of its condition
and which may cause or aid in the spread of disease or injury to the health of
the occupants of it or neighboring structures;
         (b)   Which because of faulty construction, age, lack of proper repair
or any other cause is especially liable to fire and constitutes or creates a
fire hazard; or
         (c)   Which by reason of faulty construction or any other cause is
liable to cause injury or damage by the collapse or fall of all or any part of
the structure.
   (B)   Any such unsafe building in the village is hereby declared to be a
nuisance.
Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.36 UNIFORM CODE FOR THE ABATEMENT OF DANGEROUS BUILDINGS ADOPTED.
   (A)   To afford reasonable procedures for classifications and the abatement
of dangerous buildings and structures within this jurisdiction, the 1997
Uniform Code for the Abatement of Dangerous Buildings, as the same may be
revised from time to time, published by the International Conference of
Building Officials, and printed in book or pamphlet form, is hereby
incorporated by reference as though printed in full herein insofar as said Code
does not conflict with the statutes of the state. Not less than one copy of the
aforementioned Code is on file at the office of the Village Clerk/Treasurer and
is available for public inspection at any reasonable time.
   (B)   The provisions of the 1997 Uniform Code for the Abatement of Dangerous
Buildings shall be controlling throughout the municipality and throughout its
zoning jurisdiction.
(Ord. 99-3, passed 2-2-1999)
§ 150.37 PROHIBITIONS.
   It shall be unlawful to maintain or permit the existence of any unsafe
building in the village, and it shall be unlawful for the owner, occupant or
person in custody of any dangerous building to permit the same to remain in an
unsafe condition or to occupy the building or permit it to be occupied while it
is in an unsafe condition.
Penalty, see §
150.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority to prevent and abate nuisances, see Neb. RS 18-1720
§ 150.38 DETERMINATION; NOTICE.
   (A)   (1)   Whenever the Board of Trustees or its designee has made a
determination that a building or other structure in the village is an unsafe
building, it shall be the duty of the Village Clerk/Treasurer to post the
property accordingly and to file a copy of such determination or resolution in
the office of the County Register of Deeds to be recorded.
(Neb. RS 18-1722.01)
      (2)   The Clerk/Treasurer shall also serve written notice upon the owner
and any occupant of the building or other structure by certified mail or
personal service.
   (B)   This notice shall state that the building has been declared to be in
an unsafe condition, that the dangerous condition must be removed or remedied
by repairing or altering the building or by demolishing it, and that the
condition must be remedied within 60 days from the date of receipt. The notice
may be in the following terms:
“To __________________________________ (owner-occupant of premises), of the
premises known and described as _________________________________.
“You are hereby notified that _______________________________ (describe
building) on the premises above mentioned has been determined to be an unsafe
building and a nuisance after inspection by ________________________________.
The causes for this decision are ________________________ (here insert the
facts as to the dangerous condition).
“You must remedy this condition or demolish the building within 60 days from
the date of receipt of this notice or the village will proceed to do so. Appeal
of this determination may be made to the Board of Trustees, acting as the Board
of Appeals, by filing with the Village Clerk within 10 days from the date of
receipt of this notice a request for a hearing.”
   (C)   If the person receiving the notice has not complied within 60 days
from the date of receipt of the notice, or taken an appeal from the
determination that a dangerous building exists within ten days from the time
when this notice is served upon that person by personal service or certified
mail, the Building Inspector or other designated official may, upon orders of
the Board of Trustees, proceed to remedy the condition or demolish the unsafe
building.
§ 150.39 APPEAL; DEMOLITION; DUTY TO INFORM COUNTY.
   (A)   Upon receiving the notice to repair or demolish the building, the
owner of the building, within the time stipulated, may in writing to the
Village Clerk/Treasurer request a hearing before the Board of Trustees, sitting
as the Board of Appeals, to present reasons why the building should not be
repaired or demolished. The Board of Trustees shall grant such a hearing within
ten days from the date of receiving the request. A written notice of the Board
of Trustees’ decision following the hearing shall be sent to the property owner
by certified mail.
   (B)   (1)   If the Board of Trustees rejects the appeal, the owner shall
have 60 days from the sending of the decision to begin repair or demolition and
removal.
      (2)   If, after the 60-day period, the owner has not begun work, the
Board of Trustees shall proceed to cause the work to be done; except that, the
property owner may appeal the decision to the appropriate court for
adjudication, during which proceedings the decision of the Board of Trustees
shall be stayed.
   (C)   Any village police officer or member of the Board of Trustees shall at
once inform the County Treasurer of the removal or demolition of or a levy of
attachment upon any item of real property known to him or her.
(Neb. RS 77-1725.01)
§ 150.40 EMERGENCY.
   Where any unsafe building or structure poses an immediate danger to the
health, safety or general welfare of any person or persons and the owner fails
to remedy the situation in a reasonable time after notice to do so, the village
may summarily repair or demolish and remove that building or structure.
§ 150.41 SPECIAL ASSESSMENTS.
   (A)   If any owner of any building or structure fails, neglects or refuses
to comply with notice by or on behalf of the village to repair, rehabilitate or
demolish and remove a building or structure which is an unsafe building or
structure and a public nuisance, the village may proceed with the work
specified in the notice to the property owner. A statement of the cost of this
work shall be transmitted to the Board of Trustees.
   (B)   The Board of Trustees may:
      (1)   Levy the cost as a special assessment against the lot or real
estate upon which the building or structure is located. Such special assessment
shall be a lien on the real estate and shall be collected in the manner
provided for special assessments; or
      (2)   Collect the cost from the owner of the building or structure and
enforce the collection by civil action in any court of competent jurisdiction.
(Neb. RS 18-1722)
§ 150.42 SHIPPING CONTAINERS AS STORAGE BUILDINGS.
   (A)   (1)   It is the intent of this section to limit, except as provided
herein, the placement and use of any shipping container as an accessory
building, storage building or living unit on residentially zoned, commercially
zoned and other zoned land where residential uses are established.
      (2)   This limitation is to protect the public health and safety and the
aesthetic quality of the village.
   (B)   No person shall place or cause to be placed or use or permit the use
of any shipping container as an accessory building, storage building or living
unit on residentially zoned land, commercially zoned land and/or land used for
residential purposes.
   (C)   No trailers manufactured primarily for conveyance of goods and
property shall be utilized for storage purposes in any residential or
commercial zoning district of the village.
   (D)   This section shall apply to all trailers and or shipping containers
manufactured with or without axles and wheels.
   (E)   (1)   Whenever the Board of Trustees discovers, or it is brought to
its attention, that there is a trailer or shipping container located on
residential or commercial property within the village, the Village Clerk/
Treasurer shall cause written notice to be served upon the owner of the
property on which the trailer and or shipping container is located by
registered mail or by personal service.
      (2)   Such notice shall state that the trailer and or shipping container
shall be removed within ten business days of receipt of notice.
   (F)   (1)   If the owner or occupant of the lot or piece of ground fails to
comply with the order to abate and remove the trailer and or shipping container
within ten days from receipt of the notice to abate, the village may have such
work done and the cost and expense of such work shall be paid by the owner of
the property.
      (2)   If unpaid for two months after such work is done, the village may
either levy and assess the costs and expense of the work upon the lot or piece
of ground so benefitted in the same manner as other special taxes for
improvements are levied and assessed, or recover in a civil action the costs
and expenses of the work.
(Ord. 2008-03, passed 12-2-2008) Penalty, see §
150.99
BUILDING INSPECTOR
§ 150.55 POWER AND AUTHORITY.
   An interlocal governmental agreement between the village and the county
established pursuant to Neb. RS 13-801 et seq., a copy of which agreement is on
file in the Village Office, provides that the Cass County Building Inspector
shall act as Building Inspector on behalf of the village and shall have the
duty of enforcing all village building and housing regulations, if any. He or
she shall inspect all buildings repaired, altered, built or moved in the
village as often as necessary to ensure compliance with all village ordinances.
He or she shall have the power and authority to order, at the direction of the
Board of Trustees, all work stopped on any construction, alteration or
relocation which violates any provisions prescribed in any village building and
housing regulations. He or she shall, at the direction of the Board of
Trustees, issue permission to continue any construction, alteration or
relocation when the Board of Trustees is satisfied that no provision will be
violated. If the stop order is an oral one, it shall be followed by a written
stop order within one hour. This written order may be served by any village
police officer.
§ 150.56 RIGHT OF ENTRY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to refuse to allow the Building
Inspector entry into any building or structure where the work of construction,
alteration, repair or relocation is taking place, for the purpose of making
official inspections at any reasonable hour.
Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.57 PERMIT CARDS.
   Upon the issuance of a building permit, the Building Inspector shall furnish
to the applicant a permit card which shall be a distinctive color and shall
contain the nature of the work, the location of the building, the number of the
permit and the date of issuance. The card shall be prominently displayed on the
principal frontage of the building site close to or upon the building or
structure and shall so remain until the final inspection has been made.
Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.58 TIME OF INSPECTION.
   The Building Inspector, upon notification from the permit holder or his or
her agent, shall make the following inspections of the building or structure
and shall either approve that portion of the construction as completed or shall
notify the permit holder or his or her agent that the work fails to comply with
the requirements of the village code: foundation inspection shall be made after
trenches are excavated and the necessary forms erected; frame inspection shall
be made after the roof, framing, fire-blocking and backing is in place and all
pipes, chimneys and vents are complete; and final inspection shall be made
after the building is completed and ready for occupancy. It shall be unlawful
for any person to do work or cause work to be done beyond the point indicated
in each successive inspection without the written approval of the Building
Inspector.
Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.59 APPEAL FROM DECISION.
   In the event it is claimed that the true intent and meaning of any village
building or housing regulation has been wrongly interpreted by the Building
Inspector, that the time allowed for compliance with any order of the Building
Inspector is too short, or that conditions peculiar to a particular building
make it unreasonably difficult to meet the literal requirements prescribed by
the regulation and by the Building Inspector, the owner, his or her agent, or
the occupant may file a notice of appeal within ten days after the decision or
order of the Building Inspector has been made. The Board of Trustees shall hear
all appeals and shall have the power and authority, when appealed to, to modify
the decision or order of the Building Inspector. Such a decision shall be
final, subject only to any remedy which the aggrieved person may have at law or
equity. Applications for review shall be in writing and shall state the reasons
why the variance should be made. A variance shall be granted only where it is
evident that reasonable safety and sanitation is assured and may include
conditions not generally specified by the building or housing regulation to
achieve that end. A copy of any variance so granted shall be sent to both the
Building Inspector and the applicant.
INTERNATIONAL BUILDING CODES
§ 150.70 ADOPTION OF CODES.
   (A)   The current editions, and the latest additions published hereafter, of
the following building codes are hereby adopted by the village for all
construction within the village and its zoning jurisdiction:
      (1)   International Building Code (IBC), 2012 edition, published by the
International Code Council, and all incorporated codes;
      (2)   International Existing Building Code (2012);
      (3)   International Residential Code (2012);
      (4)   International Mechanical Code (2012);
      (5)   International Plumbing Code (2012);
      (6)   International Fuel Gas Code (2012);
      (7)   International Energy Conservation Code (2009);
      (8)   International Electrical Code (2018); and
      (9)   National Electrical Code (2014).
   (B)   Whenever a new edition of a code adopted above is published, such new
edition shall be considered the applicable building code.
§ 150.71 ENFORCEMENT.
   Hereafter, all village officials shall be governed by the provisions of the
codes in §
150.70 of this chapter, and no building permit shall be issued nor construction
approved unless such building permit and construction conforms to such codes.
§ 150.72 VIOLATION.
   Any violation of the building codes adopted in §
150.70 of this chapter shall result in the immediate disconnection of all
utilities from any building or structure not conforming to the code provisions,
and the construction of any building or structure in violation of such codes
shall be a misdemeanor.
Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, firm, association or corporation violating any of the
provisions of this chapter for which no other penalty is imposed shall, upon
conviction, be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor, and be fined in an amount of not
more than $500. Each day’s maintenance of a misdemeanor shall constitute a
separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 8-501)
   (B)   As per §
150.72 of this chapter, the construction of any building or structure in
violation of the codes adopted in §
150.70 of this chapter shall be a misdemeanor punishable by a fine of not more
than $500, with each day’s violation a separate offense.
CHAPTER 151: SUBDIVISIONS
Section
   
151.01   Regulations adopted by reference
   
151.02   Plans, plats and the like; village officials; duty
§ 151.01 REGULATIONS ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   To provide for harmonious development of the village and its environs; for
the integration of new subdivision streets with other existing or planned
streets or with other features of the Comprehensive Plan, for adequate open
spaces for traffic, recreation, light, air, for the distribution of population
and traffic in a manner which will tend to create conditions favorable to
health, safety, convenience or prosperity, and ensure conformance of
subdivision plans with capital improvements programs of the village; and to
secure equitable handling of all subdivision plans by providing uniform
procedures and standards for observance of subdivides and the Planning
Commission and Village Board, the subdivision regulations for the Village of
Cedar Creek, as prepared and adopted by Ord. 99-7, dated 9-7-1999, including
any amendments thereto as may be made therein from time to time, are hereby
incorporated by reference herein as if set out in full. One copy of the
subdivision regulations shall be kept on file with the Village Clerk/Treasurer
and available for public inspection during regular office hours.
(Prior Code, § 8-201)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 81-3447
§ 151.02 PLANS, PLATS AND THE LIKE; VILLAGE OFFICIALS; DUTY.
   (A)   A municipal official charged with the duty or responsibility of
accepting and approving plans, specifications, plats and reports shall not
accept or approve plans, specifications, plats or reports which have not been
prepared in accordance with the Engineers and Architects Regulation Act, being
Neb. RS 81-3401 et seq.
   (B)   A municipal official charged with the duty or responsibility of
accepting or approving plans, specifications, geological maps and reports shall
not accept or approve plans, specifications, geological maps or reports which
have not been prepared in accordance with the Geologists Regulation Act, being
Neb. RS 81-3501 et seq.
(Prior Code, § 8-202)
CHAPTER 152: ZONING
Section
   
152.01   Regulations adopted by reference
   
152.02   Official zoning map
§ 152.01 REGULATIONS ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   For the purpose of setting minimum standards to promote the public health,
safety, morals, convenience, order, prosperity and general welfare of the
community, and to lessen congestion in the streets; to secure safety from fire,
panic and other dangers; to provide adequate light and air; to prevent the
overcrowding of land; to avoid undue concentration of population; and to
facilitate the adequate provision of transportation, water, sewage, schools,
parks and other public improvements, the zoning regulations of the Village of
Cedar Creek, presented and prepared by said village, are hereby adopted. The
adoption of such zoning regulations shall include any amendments thereto as may
be made from time to time. Said zoning regulations, as well as amendments, are
hereby incorporated by reference in this ordinance as if set out in full. One
copy of the zoning regulations shall be maintained by the Village Clerk/
Treasurer at the village office and available for public inspection during
regular office hours.
(Prior Code, § 8-101)
§ 152.02 OFFICIAL ZONING MAP.
   (A)   The Village of Cedar Creek and certain properties within and up to one
mile of its corporate limits are hereby divided into zones or districts as
shown on the official zoning map which, together with all explanatory material
and documentation, is hereby adopted by reference, declared to be part of the
zoning regulations of the village and furthered declared to be a part of this
section. The official zoning map shall be identified by the signature of the
Chair, attested to by the Village Clerk/Treasurer and bearing the seal of the
village under the following words: “This is to certify that this is the
official zoning map referred to in § 8-102 of Ord. 2001-02 of the Village of
Cedar Creek, Cass County, Nebraska, adopted June 5, 2001.”
   (B)   The official zoning map, together with all changes, amendments or
additions thereto, shall be maintained in the office of the Village Clerk/
Treasurer and available for public inspection during regular office hours.
(Prior Code, § 8-102)
CHAPTER 153: FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT
Section
General Provisions
   
153.01   Statutory authorization
   
153.02   Findings of fact
   
153.03   Statement or purpose
   
153.04   Adherence to regulations
   
153.05   Lands to which chapter applies
   
153.06   Rules for interpretation of district boundaries
   
153.07   Compliance
   
153.08   Abrogation and greater restrictions
   
153.09   Interpretation
   
153.10   Warning and disclaimer of liability
   
153.11   Severability
   
153.12   Establishment of zoning districts
   
153.13   Amendments
   
153.14   Definitions
Administration and Enforcement
   
153.25   Floodplain Administrator
   
153.26   Permits required
   
153.27   Permit application and demonstration of compliance
   
153.28   Flood data required
   
153.29   Variances and appeals; procedure
   
153.30   Violations
   
153.31   Notices
Standards for Floodplain Development
   
153.45   General provisions and regulations
   
153.46   Elevation and flood-proofing requirements
   
153.47   Design and construction standards
   
153.48   Non-conforming uses
 
   
153.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 153.01 STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION.
   The Legislature of the State of Nebraska has delegated the responsibility to
local governmental units to adopt zoning regulations designed to protect the
public health, safety, general welfare and property of the people of the state.
The Legislature, in Neb. RS 31-1001 to 31-1023 (as amended), has further
assigned the responsibility to adopt, administer, and enforce floodplain
management regulations to the county, city or village with zoning jurisdiction
over the flood-prone area.
(Ord. 2018-1, passed 4-3-2018)
§ 153.02 FINDINGS OF FACT.
   (A)   Flood losses resulting from periodic inundation. The flood hazard
areas of Village of Cedar Creek, Nebraska, are subject to inundation that
results in loss of life and property, health and safety hazards, disruption of
commerce and governmental services, extraordinary public expenditures for flood
protection and relief, and impairment of the tax base, all of which adversely
affect the public health, safety and general welfare.
   (B)   General causes of the flood losses. These flood losses are caused by
the cumulative effect of obstructions in floodplains causing increases in flood
heights and velocities as well as the occupancy of flood hazard areas by uses
vulnerable to floods or hazardous to others that are inadequately elevated or
otherwise unprotected from flood damages.
(Ord. 2018-1, passed 4-3-2018)
§ 153.03 STATEMENT OF PURPOSE.
   It is the purpose of this chapter to promote the public health, safety and
general welfare and to minimize those losses described in §
153.02 of this chapter by applying the provisions of this chapter to:
   (A)   Restrict or prohibit uses that are dangerous to health, safety or
property in times of flooding or cause undue increases in flood heights or
velocities;
   (B)   Require that uses vulnerable to floods, including public facilities
that service such uses, be provided with flood protection at the time of
initial construction;
   (C)   Reduce financial burdens from flood damage borne by the community, its
governmental units, is residents, and its businesses by preventing excessive
and unsafe development in areas subject to flooding; and
   (D)   Assure that eligibility is maintained for property owners in the
community to purchase flood insurance from the National Flood Insurance
Program.
(Ord. 2018-1, passed 4-3-2018)
§ 153.04 ADHERENCE TO REGULATIONS.
   The regulations of this chapter are in compliance with, the National Flood
Insurance Program Regulations as published in the Code of Federal Regulations
and the Nebraska Minimum Standards for Floodplain Management Programs as
published in the Nebraska Administrative Code Title 455, Chapter 1.
(Ord. 2018-1, passed 4-3-2018)
§ 153.05 LANDS TO WHICH CHAPTER APPLIES.
   (A)    This chapter shall apply to all lands within the jurisdictions of the
Village of Cedar Creek identified on the Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM) panels
31025C0090D and 31025C0070D dated 11-26-2010 as Zones A, A1-30, AE, AO or AH
and within the Zoning Districts FW and FF established in §§
153.45 through
153.48 of this chapter.
   (B)   In all areas covered by this chapter, no development shall be allowed,
except upon the issuance of a floodplain development permit to develop, granted
by the Floodplain Administrator or the governing body under such safeguards and
restrictions as the Board of Trustees or the designated representative may
reasonably impose for the promotion and maintenance of the general welfare,
health of the inhabitants of the community and where specifically noted herein.
(Ord. 2018-1, passed 4-3-2018)
§ 153.06 RULES FOR INTERPRETATION OF DISTRICT BOUNDARIES.
   (A)   The boundaries of the Floodway and the Flood Fringe Overlay Districts
shall be determined by scaling distances on the official zoning map of on the
effective Flood Insurance Rate Map.
   (B)   Where interpretation is needed to the exact location of the boundaries
of the districts as shown on the zoning or other community map, the Floodplain
Administrator shall make the necessary interpretation.
   (C)   In such cases where the interpretation is contested, the Cedar Creek
Board of Adjustment will resolve the dispute.
   (D)   The regulatory flood elevation for the point in question shall be the
governing factor in locating the district boundary on the land.
   (E)   The person contesting the location of the district boundary shall be
given a reasonable opportunity to present his or her case to the Cedar Creek
Board of Adjustment and to submit his or her own technical evidence, if so
desired.
(Ord. 2018-1, passed 4-3-2018)
§ 153.07 COMPLIANCE.
   Within identified floodplains of the community, no development shall be
located, extended, converted or structurally altered without full compliance
with the terms of this chapter and other applicable regulations.
(Ord. 2018-1, passed 4-3-2018)
§ 153.08 ABROGATION AND GREATER RESTRICTIONS.
   This chapter does not intend to repeal, abrogate or impair any existent
easements, covenants or deed restrictions. However, where this chapter imposes
greater restrictions, the provision of this chapter shall prevail. All other
ordinances inconsistent with this chapter are hereby repealed to the extent of
the inconsistency only.
(Ord. 2018-1, passed 4-3-2018)
§ 153.09 INTERPRETATION.
   In their interpretation and application, the provisions of this chapter
shall be held to be minimum requirements and shall be liberally construed in
favor of the governing body and shall not be deemed a limitation or repeal of
any other powers granted by state statutes.
(Ord. 2018-1, passed 4-3-2018)
§ 153.10 WARNING AND DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY.
   The degree of flood protection required by this chapter is considered
reasonable for regulatory purposes and is based on engineering and scientific
methods of study. Larger floods may occur or the flood height may be increased
by human-made or natural causes, such as ice jams and bridge openings
restricted by debris. This chapter does not imply that areas outside floodway
and flood fringe district boundaries or land uses permitted within such
districts will be free from flooding or flood damage. This chapter shall not
create liability on the part of Village of Cedar Creek or any officer or
employee thereof for any flood damages that may result from reliance on this
chapter or any administrative decision lawfully made thereunder.
(Ord. 2018-1, passed 4-3-2018)
§ 153.11 SEVERABILITY.
   If any section, clause, provision or portion of this chapter is adjudged
unconstitutional or invalid by a court of competent jurisdiction, the remainder
of this chapter shall not be affected thereby.
(Ord. 2018-1, passed 4-3-2018)
§ 153.12 ESTABLISHMENT OF ZONING DISTRICTS.
   Along watercourses where a floodway has been established, the mapped
floodplain areas are hereby divided into the two following districts: a
Floodway Overlay District (FW) and a Flood Fringe Overlay District (FF) as
identified in the Flood Insurance Study dated November 2010 and on accompanying
FIRM panels as established herein. The Flood Fringe Overlay District shall
correspond to Flood Zones A, AE, A1-30, AH, AO, AR, A99 and floodway areas in
Zone AE that are identified on FIRM panels. The Floodway Overlay District shall
correspond to the floodway areas in Zone AE that are identified on the FIRM
panels. Within these districts, all uses not meeting the standards of this
chapter and those standards of the underlying zoning district shall be
prohibited.
(Ord. 2018-1, passed 4-3-2018)
§ 153.13 AMENDMENTS.
   (A)   The regulations, restrictions and boundaries set forth in this chapter
may from time to time be amended, supplemented, changed or appealed to reflect
any and all changes in federal, state or local regulations; provided, however,
that, no such action may be take until after a public hearing in relation
thereto, at which citizens and parties in interest shall have an opportunity to
be heard. Notice of the time and place of such hearing shall be published in a
newspaper of general circulation in the Village of Cedar Creek. At least 15
days shall elapse between the date of this publication and the public hearing.
   (B)   A copy of such amendments will be provided to the Nebraska Department
of Natural Resources and the Federal Emergency Management Agency for review and
approval before being adopted.
(Ord. 2018-1, passed 4-3-2018)
§ 153.14 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   0.2% ANNUAL CHANCE FLOODPLAIN. The floodplain that would be inundated by the
0.2% annual chance flood and delineated on the Flood Insurance Rate Maps.
   0.2% ANNUAL CHANCE FLOOD ELEVATION. The elevation to which flood waters are
expected to rise during a 0.2% annual chance flood.
   APPURTENANT STRUCTURE. A structure on the same parcel of property as the
principal structure, the use of which is incidental to the use of the principal
structure. Also shall be known as ACCESSORY STRUCTURE.
   AREA OF SHALLOW FLOODING. A designated AO or AH Zone on a community’s Flood
Insurance Rate Map (FIRM) with a one percent or greater annual chance of
flooding to an average depth of one to three feet where a clearly defined
channel is unpredictable and where velocity flow may be evident. Such flooding
is characterized by ponding or sheet flow.
   BASE FLOOD. The flood having 1% chance of being equaled or exceeded in any
given year.
   BASE FLOOD ELEVATION. The elevation to which flood waters are expected to
rise during the base flood.
   BASEMENT. Any area of the building having its floor subgrade (below ground
level) on all sides.
   BUILDING. Structure. See definition for STRUCTURE.
   CRITICAL FACILITY. Any property that, if flooded, would result in severe
consequences to public health and safety. CRITICAL FACILITIES include, but are
not limited to: facilities that produces, use or store hazardous materials;
hospitals, nursing homes and housing likely to contain vulnerable populations;
emergency support function facilities like police stations, fire stations,
vehicle and equipment storage facilities and emergency operations centers;
public and private utility facilities vital to maintaining or restoring normal
services to flooded areas before, during and after a flood.
   DEVELOPMENT. Any human-made change to improved or unimproved real estate,
including, but not limited to, the construction, reconstruction, renovation,
repair, expansion or alteration of buildings or other structures; the placement
of manufactured homes; streets and other paving; utilities; filling, grading
and excavation; mining; dredging; drilling operations; storage of equipment or
materials; or obstructions.
   EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including, at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is complete before the effective date
of the floodplain management regulations adopted by a community.
   EXPANSION TO AN EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. The
preparation of additional sites by the construction of facilities for servicing
the lots on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads).
   FLOOD or FLOODING. A general and temporary condition of partial or complete
inundation of normally dry land areas.
   FLOOD FRINGE. That area of the floodplain, outside of the floodway, that has
a 1% chance of flood occurrence in any one year.
   FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAY (FIRM). An official map of a community, on which
the Flood Insurance Study has delineated the special flood hazard area
boundaries and the risk premium zones applicable to the community.
   FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY (FIS). The official report provided by the Federal
Emergency Management Agency. The report contains flood profiles, as well as the
Flood Insurance Rate Map and the water surface elevation of the base flood.
   FLOODPLAIN. Any land area susceptible to being inundated by water from any
source. (See definition of FLOODING.). FLOODPLAIN includes flood fringe and
floodway. FLOODPLAIN and SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA are the same for use by this
chapter.
   FLOOD-PROOFING. Any combination of structural (dams and levees) and
nonstructural additions, changes or adjustments to structures that reduce or
eliminate flood damage to real estate or improved real property, water and
sanitary facilities and structures and their contents. WET FLOOD-PROOFING is
defined as permanent or contingent measures applied to a structure to provide
resistance to damage from flooding by allowing flood waters to enter the
structure. WET FLOOD-PROOFING requires the structure not to be water-tight.
(Vents must be open or have automatic mechanical means of opening.) WET FLOOD-
PROOFING the garage of a residential structure is allowed and sometimes
encouraged. DRY FLOOD-PROOFING is a means to make a structure water-tight and
impermeable to flood waters. DRY FLOOD-PROOFING is not allowed to residential
structures.
   FLOODWAY or REGULATORY FLOODWAY. The channel of a river or other watercourse
and the adjacent land areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the
base flood without cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation more
than one foot.
   FREEBOARD. A factor of safety usually expressed in feet above a flood level
for purposes of floodplain management. FREEBOARD tends to compensate for the
many unknown factors that could contribute to flood heights greater than the
height calculated for a selected size flood and floodway conditions, such as
wave action, clogged bridge openings and the hydrological effect of
urbanization of the watershed.
   HIGHEST ADJACENT GRADE. The highest natural elevation of the ground surface
prior to construction next to the proposed walls of a structure.
   HISTORIC STRUCTURE. Any structure that is:
      (1)   Listed individually in the National Register of Historic Places (a
listing maintained by the Department of Interior) or preliminarily determined
by the Secretary of the Interior as meeting the requirements for individual
listing on the National Register;
      (2)   Certified or preliminarily determined by the Secretary of the
Interior as contributing to the historical significance of a registered
historic district or a district preliminarily determined by the Secretary to
qualify as a registered historic district;
      (3)   Individually listed on a state inventory of historic places in
states with historic preservation programs which have been approved by the
Secretary of the Interior; or
      (4)   Individually listed on a local inventory of historic places in
communities with historic preservation programs that have been certified
either:
         (a)   By an approved state program as determined by the Secretary of
the Interior; or
         (b)   Directly by the Secretary of the Interior in states without
approved programs.
   LOWEST FLOOR. The lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area (including
basement). An unfinished or flood-resistant enclosure, usable solely for
parking of vehicles, building access or storage, in an area other than a
basement area, is not considered a building’s LOWEST FLOOR; provided that, such
enclosure is not built or modified so as to render the structure in violation
of the applicable non-elevation design requirements of this chapter.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. A structure, transportable in one or more sections, which
is built on a permanent chassis and is designed for use with or without a
permanent foundation when attached to the required utilities. The term
MANUFACTURED HOME does not include a “recreational vehicle”.
   MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A parcel (or contiguous parcels) of
land divided into two or more manufactured home lots for rent or sale.
   NEW CONSTRUCTION FOR FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT PURPOSES. Structures for which
the “start of construction” commenced on or after the effective date of the
floodplain management regulation adopted by a community and includes any
subsequent improvements to such structures.
   NEW MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed on or after the effective
date of floodplain management regulations adopted by a community.
   OBSTRUCTION. Any wall, wharf, embankment, levee, dike, pile, abutment,
projection, excavation (including the alteration or relocation of a watercourse
or drainway), channel rectification, bridge, conduit, culvert, building, stored
equipment or material, wire, fence, rock, gravel, refuse, fill or other
analogous structure or matter which may impede, retard or change the direction
of the flow of water, either in itself or by catching or collecting debris
carried by such water, or that is placed where the natural flow of the water
would carry such structure or matter downstream to the damage or detriment of
either life or property. Dams designed to store or divert water are not
obstructions if permission for the construction thereof is obtained from the
Department of Natural Resources pursuant to the Safety of Dams and Reservoirs
Act, Neb. RS 46-1601 to 46-1670, as amended.
   OVERLAY DISTRICT. A district in which additional requirements act in
conjunction with the underlying zoning district(s). The original zoning
district designation does not change.
   POST-FIRM STRUCTURE. A building that was constructed or substantially
improved after 9-15-1978.
   PRE-FIRM STRUCTURE. A building that was constructed or substantially
improved on or before 9-15-1978.
   PRINCIPALLY ABOVE GROUND. That at least 51% of the actual cash value of the
structure is above ground.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. A vehicle which is:
      (1)   Built on a single chassis;
      (2)   Four hundred square feet or less when measured at the largest
horizontal projections;
      (3)   Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light
duty truck; and
      (4)   Designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling, but as
temporary living quarters for recreational, camping, travel or seasonal use.
   REGULATORY FLOOD ELEVATION. The base flood elevation (BFE) plus a freeboard
factor as specified in this chapter.
   SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA (SFHA). The land in the floodplain within a
community subject to 1% or greater chance of flooding in any given year.
   START OF CONSTRUCTION. The date the floodplain development permit was
issued; provided, the actual start of construction, repair, reconstruction,
rehabilitation, addition, placement or other improvement was within 180 days of
the permit date. START OF CONSTRUCTION also includes substantial improvement,
and means the date the building permit was issued; provided, the actual START
of construction, repair, reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition, placement or
other improvement was within 180 days of the permit date. The actual START
means the first placement of permanent construction of a structure on a site,
such as the pouring of slab or footings, the installation of piles, the
construction of columns or any work beyond the stage of excavation; or the
placement of a manufactured home on a foundation. Permanent construction does
not include land preparation, such as clearing, grading and filling; nor does
it include the installation of streets and/or walkways; nor does it include
excavation for a basement, footings, piers or foundations or the erection of
temporary forms; nor does it include the installation on the property of
accessory buildings, such as garages or sheds not occupied as dwelling units or
not part of the main structure. For a substantial improvement, the actual START
OF CONSTRUCTION means the first alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor or other
structural part of a building, whether or not the alteration affects the
external dimensions of the building.
   STRUCTURE. A walled and roofed building that is principally above ground, as
well as a manufactured home and a gas or liquid storage tank that is
principally above ground.
   SUBDIVISION. The division or re-division of a lot, tract or parcel of land
by any means into two or more lots, tracts, parcels or other divisions of land
including changes in existing lot lines for the purpose, whether immediate or
future, of lease, partition by the court for distribution to heirs or devisees,
transfer of ownership or building or lot development.
   SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE. Damage of any origin sustained by a structure whereby
the cost of restoring the structure to its before-damage condition would equal
or exceed 50% of the market value of the structure before the damage occurred.
   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT. Any reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition or
other improvement of a structure, the cost of which equals or exceeds 50
percent of the market value of the structure before “start of construction” of
the improvement. This includes structures which have incurred “substantial
damage”, regardless of the actual repair work performed. The term does not,
however, include either:
      (1)   Any project for improvement of a structure to correct existing
violations of state or local health, sanitary or safety code specifications
which have been identified by the local code enforcement official and which are
the minimum necessary to assure safe living conditions; or
      (2)   Any alteration of a “historic structure”; provided that, the
alteration will not preclude the structure’s continued designation as a
“historic structure”.
   VARIANCE. A grant of relief to an applicant from the requirements of this
chapter that allows construction in a manner otherwise prohibited by this
chapter where specific enforcement would result in unnecessary hardship.
   VIOLATION. A failure of a structure or other development to be fully
compliant with the community’s floodplain management regulations. A structure
or other development without the elevation certificate, other certifications or
other evidence of compliance required in this chapter is presumed to be in
violation until such time as that documentation is provided.
   WATERCOURSE. Any depression two feet or more below the surrounding land that
serves to give direction to a current of water at least nine months of the year
and that has a bed and well-defined banks.
(Ord. 2018-1, passed 4-3-2018)
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 153.25 FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR.
   (A)   The Floodplain Administrator of the community is hereby designated as
the community’s local Floodplain Administrator. The Floodplain Administrator is
authorized and directed to administer, implement and enforce all provisions of
this chapter If the local floodplain administrator position is unfilled, the
community CEO shall assume the duties and responsibilities herein.
   (B)   Duties of the Floodplain Administrator shall include, but not be
limited to, the following:
      (1)   Review, approve or deny all applications for floodplain development
permits;
      (2)   Review all development permit applications to assure that sites are
reasonably safe from flooding and that the permit requirements of this chapter
have been satisfied;
      (3)   Review applications for proposed development to assure that all
necessary permits have been obtained from those federal, state or local
government agencies from which prior approval is required;
      (4)   Review all subdivision proposals and other proposed new
development, including manufactured home parks or subdivisions, to determine
whether such proposals will be reasonably safe from flooding;
      (5)   Notify adjacent communities and the Nebraska Department of Natural
Resources prior to any alteration or relocation of a watercourse and submit
evidence of such notification to the Federal Emergency Management Agency;
      (6)   Assure that maintenance is provided within the altered or relocated
portion of the watercourse so that the flood carrying capacity is not
diminished;
      (7)   Verify, record and maintain record of the actual elevation (in
relation to mean sea level) of the lowest floor, including basement, of all new
or substantially improved structures in the floodplain;
      (8)   Verify, record and maintain record of the actual elevation (in
relation to mean sea level) to which all new or substantially improved
structures have been flood-proofed;
      (9)   Verify, record and maintain record of all improved or damaged
structures to ensure compliance with standards in applicable sections. Track
value of improvements and market value with permits. Also, ensure consistent
market value estimations to evaluate against damaged or improved values;
      (10)   Ensure comprehensive development plan as amended is consistent
with this chapter; and
      (11)   In the event the Floodplain Administrator discovers work done that
does not comply with applicable laws or ordinances, the Floodplain
Administrator shall revoke the permit and work to correct any possible
violation in accordance with this chapter. As a representative of the Village
of Cedar Creek, the Floodplain Administrator shall be granted access to
properties under permit for the purpose of verifying compliance with the
effective floodplain ordinance.
(Ord. 2018-1, passed 4-3-2018)
§ 153.26 PERMITS REQUIRED.
   A floodplain development permit shall be required before any development,
construction or substantial improvement is undertaken. No person, firm,
corporation, government agency or other entity shall initiate any floodplain
development without first obtaining a floodplain development permit.
(Ord. 2018-1, passed 4-3-2018)
§ 153.27 PERMIT APPLICATION AND DEMONSTRATION OF COMPLIANCE.
   (A)   To obtain a floodplain development permit, the applicant shall first
file an application in writing on a form furnished for that purpose. Every such
application shall:
      (1)   Identify and describe the proposed development and estimated cost
to be covered by the floodplain development permit;
      (2)   Describe the land on which the proposed development is to be done
by lot, block, tract and house and streets address, or similar description that
will readily identify and definitely locate the proposed building or
development;
      (3)   Indicate the use or occupancy for which the proposed development is
intended;
      (4)   Be accompanied by plans and specifications for proposed
construction; and
      (5)   Be signed by the permittee and authorized agent who may be required
to submit evidence to indicate such authority.
   (B)   If any proposed development is located entirely or partially within a
floodplain, applicants shall provide all information in sufficient detail and
clarity to enable the Floodplain Administrator to determine that:
      (1)   All such proposals are consistent with the need to minimize flood
damage;
      (2)   All utilities and facilities such as sewer, gas, water, electrical
and other systems are located and constructed to minimize or eliminate flood
damage;
      (3)   Structures will be anchored to prevent flotation, collapse or
lateral movement;
      (4)   Construction materials are flood resistant;
      (5)   Appropriate practices to minimize flood damage have been utilized;
and
      (6)   Electrical, heating, ventilation, air conditioning, plumbing and
any other service facilities have been designed and located to prevent entry of
flood waters.
   (C)   For all new and substantially improved residential structures, an
elevation certificate based upon the finished construction certifying the
elevation of the lowest floor, including basement, and other relevant building
components shall be provided to the Floodplain Administrator and be completed
by a licensed surveyor, engineer or architect. An elevation certificate or
approved survey shall be submitted to identify proposed elevation of
nonresidential structures.
   (D)   When flood-proofing is utilized for an applicable structure, a flood-
proofing certificate shall be provided to the Floodplain Administrator and be
completed by a licensed professional engineer or architect.
   (E)   For all development proposed in the floodway, no-rise certification
shall be provided to the Floodplain Administrator and be completed by a
licensed professional engineer.
   (F)   Any other such information as reasonably may be required by the
Floodplain Administrator shall be provided.
   (G)   Letters of Map Revision: Federal regulations in 44 C.F.R. Ch. 1, §§
65.5 and 65.6, allow for changes to the special flood hazard area through a
Letter of Map Revision (LOMR) or a Letter of Map Revision Based on Fill (LOMR-
F); provided, the community determines that the land and any existing or
proposed structures that would be removed from the floodplain are “reasonably
safe from flooding”. The community acknowledgment form asserting this is
required for LOMR and LOMR-F applications and must be signed by the Floodplain
Administrator. The Floodplain Administrator shall not sign a community
acknowledgment form unless all criteria set forth in the following paragraphs
are met.
      (1)   Applicant shall obtain floodplain development permit before
applying for a LOMR or LOMR-F. Proposals shall include an elevation certificate
for residential properties to be constructed or improved. Applicant shall
demonstrate that the property and any existing or proposed structures will be
“reasonably safe from flooding”, according to the minimum design standards in
FEMA Technical Bulletin 10-01.
      (2)   All requirements listed in the simplified approach in FEMA
Technical Bulletin 10-01 shall be met and documentation from a registered
professional engineer shall be provided. If all of these requirements are not
met, applicant must provide documentation in line with the engineered approach
outlined in FEMA Technical Bulletin 10-01.
   (H)   New and substantially improved residential structures having approved
storage below BFE may be required to complete a non-conversion form. This form,
signed by the property owner, stipulates that the construction and intended use
complies with ordinances in effect at the time of construction and any future
conversion to unapproved use shall be prohibited. The non-conversion agreement
shall be filed with the property deed to ensure that the conditions move from
property owner to owner.
(Ord. 2018-1, passed 4-3-2018)
§ 153.28 FLOOD DATA REQUIRED.
   (A)   All Zone A areas on the FIRM are subject to inundation of the base
flood; however, the base flood elevations are not provided. Zone A areas shall
be subject to all development provisions of this chapter. If Flood Insurance
Study data is not available, the community shall utilize any base flood
elevation or floodway data currently available from federal, state or other
sources, including from a study commissioned by the applicant pursuant to best
technical practices.
   (B)   Until a floodway has been designated, no development or substantial
improvement may be permitted within the floodplain unless the applicant has
demonstrated that the proposed development or substantial improvement, when
combined with all other existing and reasonably anticipated developments or
substantial improvements, will not increase the water surface elevation of the
base flood more than one foot at any location as shown in the Flood Insurance
Study or on base flood elevation determinations.
(Ord. 2018-1, passed 4-3-2018)
§ 153.29 VARIANCES AND APPEALS.
   (A)   Variance and appeals procedures.
      (1)   The Cedar Creek Board of Adjustment as established by Village of
Cedar Creek shall hear and decide appeals and requests for variances from the
requirements of this chapter.
      (2)   The Cedar Creek Board of Adjustment shall hear and decide appeals
when it is alleged that there is an error in any requirement decision, or
determination made by the Floodplain Administrator in the enforcement or
administration of this chapter.
      (3)   Any person aggrieved by the decision of the Cedar Creek Board of
Adjustment or any taxpayer may appeal such decision to the District Court as
provided in Neb. RS 23-168 (for counties) and Neb. RS 19-192 (for
municipalities).
      (4)   In evaluating such appeals and requests, the Cedar Creek Board of
Adjustment shall consider technical evaluation, all relevant factors, standards
specified in other sections of this chapter, and:
         (a)   The danger to life and property due to flooding or erosion
damage;
         (b)   The danger that materials may be swept onto other lands to the
injury of others;
         (c)   The susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents to
flood damage and the effect of such damage on the individual owner, future
owners and neighboring properties;
         (d)   The importance of the services provided by the proposed facility
to the community;
         (e)   The necessity of the facility to have a waterfront location,
where applicable;
         (f)   The availability of alternative locations that are not subject
to flooding or erosion damage for the proposed use;
         (g)   The compatibility of the proposed use with existing and
anticipated development;
         (h)   The relationship of the proposed use to the comprehensive plan
and the floodplain management program for that area;
         (i)   The safety of access to the property in times of flood for
ordinary and emergency vehicles;
         (j)   The expected heights, velocity, duration, rate of rise and
sediment transport of the flood waters and the effects of wave action, if
applicable, expected at the site; and
         (k)   The costs of providing government services during and after
flood conditions including emergency management services and maintenance and
repair of public utilities and facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical, water
systems, streets and bridges.
   (B)   Conditions for variances.
      (1)   Variances shall only be issued upon a showing of good and
sufficient cause and also upon a determination that failure to grant the
variance would result in an exceptional hardship to the applicant.
      (2)   Variances shall only be issued based upon a determination that the
granting of a variance will not result in increased flood heights.
      (3)   Variances shall only be issued based upon a determination that the
granting of a variance will not result in additional threats to public safety,
extraordinary public expense, create nuisances, cause fraud on or victimization
of the public or conflict with existing local laws or ordinances.
      (4)   Generally, variances may be issued for new construction and
substantial improvements to be erected on a lot of one-half acre or less in
size contiguous to and surrounded by lots with existing structures constructed
below the base flood level; providing divisions (B)(5) through (B)(9) below
have been fully considered. As the lot size increases beyond one-half acre, the
technical justification required for issuing the variance increases.
      (5)   Variances may be issued for the repair or rehabilitation of
historic structures upon a determination that the proposed repair or
rehabilitation will not preclude the structure’s continued designation as an
historic structure on the National Register of Historic Places and the variance
is the minimum necessary to preserve the historic character and design of the
structure.
      (6)   Variances shall not be issued within any designated floodway if any
increase in water surface elevations along the floodway profile during the base
flood discharge would result.
      (7)   Variances shall only be issued upon a determination that the
variance in the minimum necessary, considering the flood hazard, to afford
relief.
      (8)   The applicant shall be given a written notice over the signature of
a community that the issuance of a variance to construct a structure below the
base flood elevation will result in increased premium rates for flood insurance
up to amounts as high as $25 for $100 of insurance coverage and also that such
construction below the base flood elevation increases risks to life and
property. Such notification shall be maintained with the record of all variance
actions as required by this chapter.
      (9)   All requests for variances and associated actions and documents,
including justification for their issuance, shall be maintained by the
community.
(Ord. 2018-1, passed 4-3-2018)
§ 153.30 VIOLATIONS.
   Failure to obtain a floodplain development permit or the failure of a
structure or other development to be fully compliant with the provisions of
this chapter shall constitute a violation. A structure or other development
without a floodplain development permit, elevation certificate, certification
by a licensed professional engineer of compliance with these regulations or
other evidence of compliance is presumed to be in violation until such time as
documentation is provided.
(Ord. 2018-1, passed 4-3-2018)
§ 153.31 NOTICES.
   (A)   When the Floodplain Administrator or other authorized community
representative determines, based on reasonable grounds, that there has been a
violation of the provisions of this chapter, the Floodplain Administrator shall
give notice of such alleged violation as hereinafter provided.
   (B)   Such notice shall:
      (1)   Be in writing;
      (2)   Include an explanation of the alleged violation;
      (3)   Allow a reasonable time for the performance of any remedial act
required;
      (4)   Be served upon the property owner or their agent as the case may
require; and
      (5)   Contain an outline of remedial actions that, if taken, will bring
the development into compliance with the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 2018-1, passed 4-3-2018)
STANDARDS FOR FLOODPLAIN DEVELOPMENT
§ 153.45 GENERAL PROVISIONS AND REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Alteration or relocation of a watercourse.
      (1)   A watercourse or drainway shall not be altered or relocated in any
way that in the event of a base flood or more frequent flood will alter the
flood carrying characteristics of the watercourse or drainway to the detriment
of upstream, downstream or adjacent locations.
      (2)   No alteration or relocation shall be made until all adjacent
communities that may be affected by such action and the Nebraska Department of
Natural Resources have been notified and all applicable permits obtained.
Evidence of such notification shall be submitted to the Federal Emergency
Management Agency.
   (B)   Encroachments.
      (1)   When proposing to permit any of the following encroachments, the
standards herein shall apply to:
         (a)   Any development that will cause a rise in the base flood
elevations within the floodway;
         (b)   Any development in Zones A, A1-30 and Zone AE without a
designated floodway that will cause a rise of more than one foot in the base
flood elevation; or
         (c)   Alteration or relocation of a stream.
      (2)   The applicant shall:
         (a)   Apply to FEMA for conditional approval of such action via the
Conditional Letter of Map Revision process (as per 44 C.F.R. Ch. 1, § 65.12)
prior to the permit for the encroachments; and
         (b)   Supply the fully approved package to the Floodplain
Administrator, including any required notifications to potentially affected
property owners.
   (C)   Floodway Overlay District.
      (1)   (a)   New structures for human habitation are prohibited.
         (b)   All encroachments, including fill, new construction, substantial
improvements and other development must be prohibited unless certification by a
registered professional engineer or architect is provided demonstrating that
the development shall not result in any increase in water surface elevations
along the floodway profile during the occurrence of the base flood discharge.
These developments are also subject to all the standards hereof.
         (c)   In Zone A areas, obtain, review and reasonably utilize any flood
elevation and floodway data available through federal, state or other sources,
including studies done hereunder in meeting the standards of this section.
      (2)   Only uses having a low flood-damage potential and not obstructing
flood flows shall be allowed within the Floodway Overlay District to the extent
that they are not prohibited by any other ordinance. The following are
recommended uses for the Floodway Overlay District:
         (a)   Agricultural uses such as general farming, pasture, nurseries
and forestry;
         (b)   Residential uses such as lawns, gardens, parking and play areas;
         (c)   Nonresidential uses such as loading areas, parking and airport
landing strips; and
         (d)   Public and private recreational uses such as golf courses,
archery ranges, picnic grounds, parks and wildlife and nature preserves.
(Ord. 2018-1, passed 4-3-2018)
§ 153.46 ELEVATION AND FLOOD-PROOFING REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Residential structures.
      (1)   In Zones A, AE, A1-30 and AH, all new construction and substantial
improvements shall have the lowest floor, including basement, elevated to or
above one foot above the base flood elevation.
      (2)   In Zone AO, all new construction and substantial improvements shall
have the lowest floor, including basement, elevated above the highest adjacent
grade at least as high as one foot above the depth specified in feet on the
FIRM or, if no depth is specified on the FIRM, at least as high as three feet.
      (3)   In the floodway, new structures for human habitation are
prohibited.
   (B)   Non-residential structures.
      (1)   (a)   In Zones A, AE, A1-30 and AH, all new construction and
substantial improvements shall have the lowest floor, including basement,
elevated to or above one foot above the base flood elevation or, together with
attendant utility and sanitary facilities, flood-proofed so that below one foot
above the base flood elevation:
            1.   The structure is water-tight with walls substantially
impermeable to the passage of water; and
            2.   The structure has structural components with the capability of
resisting hydrostatic and hydrodynamic loads and effects of buoyancy.
         (b)   A registered professional engineer or architect shall certify
that the standards of this division (B) are satisfied. A flood-proofing
certificate shall be provided to the Floodplain Administrator as set forth
herein.
      (2)   (a)   In Zone AO, all new construction and substantial improvements
shall have the lowest floor elevated above the highest adjacent grade at least
as high as one foot above the depth specified in feet on the FIRM or, if no
depth is specified on the FIRM, at least as high as three feet; or, together
with attendant utility and sanitary facilities, flood-proofed so that below one
foot above the base flood elevation:
            1.   The structure is watertight with walls substantially
impermeable to the passage of water; and
            2.   The structure has structural components with the capability of
resisting hydrostatic and hydrodynamic loads and effects of buoyancy.
         (b)   A registered professional engineer or architect shall certify
that the standards of this division (B) are satisfied. A flood-proofing
certificate shall be provided to the Floodplain Administrator as set forth
herein.
   (C)   Critical facilities. New construction or substantial improvement of
any critical facility is prohibited in all areas of the floodplain and the 0.2%
annual chance floodplain, unless all of the following provisions are met.
      (1)   No feasible alternative site exists for the construction of an
equivalent facility within the corporate or extraterritorial jurisdiction
boundaries of Village of Cedar Creek.
      (2)   The facility has the lowest floor, including basement, of all
structures elevated to one foot above the 0.2% annual chance flood elevation
or, together with attendant utility and sanitary facilities, flood-proofed so
that below one foot above the 0.2% annual chance flood elevation:
         (a)   The structure is water-tight with walls substantially
impermeable to the passage of water;
         (b)   The structure has structural components with the capability of
resisting hydrostatic and hydrodynamic loads and effects of buoyancy; and
         (c)   A registered professional engineer or architect shall certify
that the standards of the subsection are satisfied. Such certification shall be
provided to the Floodplain Administrator as set forth herein.
      (3)   If the 0.2% annual chance floodplain is not identified, the
facility shall have the lowest floor, including basement, elevated to three
feet above the base flood elevation or be flood-proofed to three feet above the
base flood elevation with the standards herein.
      (4)   The facility has at least one access road connected to land outside
the 0.2% annual chance floodplain that is capable of carrying emergency support
vehicles and the top of the access road is no lower than the 0.2% annual chance
flood elevation.
   (D)   Space below lowest floor.
      (1)   Fully enclosed areas below the lowest floor (excluding basements)
and below the base flood elevation shall be used solely for the parking of
vehicles, building access or limited storage of readily removable items.
      (2)   Fully enclosed areas below the lowest floor (excluding basements)
and below the base flood elevation shall be designed to automatically equalize
hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls by allowing for the entry and exit
of flood waters. Designs for meeting this requirement must either be certified
by a registered professional engineer or architect or meet or exceed the
following minimum criteria:
         (a)   A minimum or two openings having a net total area of not less
than one square inch for every one square foot of enclosed space;
         (b)   The bottom of all openings shall not be higher than one foot
above grade; and
         (c)   Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, valves or other
coverings or devices; provided that, they allow the automatic entry and exit of
flood waters.
   (E)   Appurtenant structures. Structures accessory to a principal building
may have the lowest floor below one foot above base flood elevation provided
that the structure complies with the following requirements:
      (1)   The structure shall not be used for human habitation;
      (2)   The use of the structure must be limited to parking of vehicles or
storage of items readily removable in the event of a flood warning;
      (3)   The floor area shall not exceed 400 square feet;
      (4)   The structure shall have a low damage potential;
      (5)   The structure must be adequately anchored to prevent flotation,
collapse or other lateral movement;
      (6)   The structure shall be designed to automatically provide for the
entry and exit of flood waters for the purpose of equalizing hydrostatic
forces. Designs for meeting this requirement must either be certified by a
registered professional engineer or architect or meet or exceed the following
minimum criteria:
         (a)   A minimum of two openings having a net area of not less than one
square inch for every one square foot of enclosed space;
         (b)   The bottom of all openings shall not be higher than one foot
above grade; and
         (c)   Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, valves or other
coverings or devices; provided that, they allow the automatic entry and exit of
flood waters.
      (7)   No utilities shall be installed, except electrical fixtures in the
structure, which must be elevated or flood-proofed to one foot above base flood
elevation; and
      (8)   (a)   The structure shall be constructed and placed on the building
site so as to offer the minimum resistance to the flow of flood waters.
         (b)   If the structure is converted to another use, it must be brought
into full compliance with the minimum standards governing such use.
   (F)   Manufactured homes.
      (1)   Require that all manufactured homes to be placed or substantially
improved within floodplains on sites, be elevated on a permanent foundation
such that the lowest floor of the manufactured home is at or above one foot
above the base flood elevation and be securely anchored to an adequately
anchored foundation system in accordance with the provisions of this section,
as follows:
         (a)   Outside of a manufactured home park or subdivision;
         (b)   In a new manufactured home park or subdivision;
         (c)   In an expansion to an existing manufactured home park or
subdivision; or
         (d)   In an existing manufactured home park or subdivision on which a
manufactured home as incurred substantial damage as the result of a flood.
      (2)   Require that manufactured homes to be placed or substantially
improved on sites in an existing manufactured home park or subdivision within
special flood hazard areas that are not subject to the provisions hereof be
elevated so that either:
         (a)   The lowest floor of the manufactured home is at or above one
foot above the base flood elevation; or
         (b)   The manufactured home chassis is supported by reinforced piers
or other foundation elements of at least equivalent strength that are no less
than 36 inches in height above grade; and be securely anchored to an adequately
anchored foundation system in accordance with the provisions hereof.
      (3)   New manufactured home parks of five acres or 50 lots, whichever is
less, shall follow the standards hereof.
      (4)   All manufactured homes shall be anchored to resist flotation,
collapse or lateral movement. Manufactured homes must be anchored in accordance
with local building codes or FEMA guidelines. In the event that over-the-top
ties to ground anchors are used, the following specific requirements (or their
equivalent) shall be met:
         (a)   Over-the-top ties be provided at each of the four corners of the
manufactured home, with two additional ties per side at intermediate locations
and manufactured homes less than 50 feet long requiring one additional tie per
side;
         (b)   Frame ties be provided at each corner of the manufactured home
with five additional ties per side at intermediate points and manufactured
homes less than 50 feet long requiring four additional ties per side; and
         (c)   Any additions to the manufactured home be similarly anchored.
   (G)   Existing structures.
      (1)   The provisions of this chapter do not require any changes or
improvements to be made to lawfully existing structures. However, when an
improvement is made to a structure in the floodplain, a floodplain development
permit is required and the provisions hereof shall apply.
      (2)   Any addition, alteration, reconstruction or improvement of any kind
to an existing structure where the costs of which would equal or exceed 50% of
the pre-improvement market value shall constitute a substantial improvement and
shall fully comply with the provisions of this chapter.
      (3)   Any addition, alteration, reconstruction or improvement of any kind
to an existing structure in the floodway shall comply with the provisions
hereof.
      (4)   Any addition, alteration, reconstruction or improvement of any kind
to an existing structure that will change the compliance requirements of the
building shall require applicable documentation including an elevation
certificate, flood-proofing certificate or no rise certification.
(Ord. 2018-1, passed 4-3-2018)
§ 153.47 DESIGN AND CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS.
   (A)   Anchoring. All buildings or structures shall be firmly anchored to
prevent flotation, collapse or lateral movement of the structure resulting from
hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads, including the effects of buoyancy.
   (B)   Building materials and utilities.
      (1)   All buildings or structures shall be constructed with materials and
utility equipment resistant to flood damage. All buildings or structures shall
also be constructed by methods and practices that minimize flood and flood-
related damages.
      (2)   All buildings or structures shall be constructed with electrical,
heating, ventilation, plumbing, air conditioning equipment and other service
facilities that are designed and/or located so as to prevent water from
entering or accumulating within the components during conditions of flooding.
   (C)   Drainage. Within Zones AO and AH, adequate drainage paths around
structures on slopes shall be required in order to guide flood waters around
and away from proposed structures.
   (D)   Water supply and sanitary sewer systems.
      (1)   All new or replacement water supply and sanitary sewer systems
shall be located, designed and constructed to minimize or eliminate flood
damages to such systems and the infiltration of flood waters into the systems.
      (2)   All new or replacement sanitary sewage systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate discharge from the system into flood waters.
      (3)   On-site waste disposal systems shall be located and designed to
avoid impairment to them or contamination from them during flooding.
   (E)   Other utilities. All other utilities such as gas lines, electrical,
telephone and other utilities shall be located and constructed to minimize or
eliminate flood damage to such utilities and facilities.
   (F)   Storage of materials.
      (1)   The storage or processing of materials that are in time of flooding
buoyant, flammable, explosive or could be injurious to human, animal or plant
life is prohibited.
      (2)   The storage of other material or equipment may be allowed if not
subject to major damage by floods and firmly anchored to prevent flotation or
if readily removable from the area within the time available after flood
warning.
   (G)   Recreational vehicles. Recreational vehicles to be placed on sites
within the floodplain shall:
      (1)   Be on site for fewer than 180 consecutive days;
      (2)   Be fully licensed and ready for highway use, which shall mean it is
on its wheels or jacking system, is attached to the site by only quick-
disconnect type utilities and security devices, and no permanently attached
additions; or
      (3)   Meet the permit requirements and the elevation and anchoring
requirements for manufactured homes of this chapter.
   (H)   Subdivisions. Subdivision proposals and other proposed new
development, including manufactured home parks or subdivisions, shall require
assurance that:
      (1)   All such proposals are consistent with the need to minimize flood
damage;
      (2)   All public utilities and facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical
and water systems are located, elevated and constructed to minimize or
eliminate flood damage;
      (3)   Adequate drainage is provided so as to reduce exposure to flood
hazards; and
      (4)   Proposals for development (including proposals for manufactured
home parks and subdivisions) of five acres or 50 lots, whichever is less, where
base flood elevation data are not available, shall be supported by hydrologic
and hydraulic analyses that determine base flood elevations and floodway
information. The analyses shall be prepared by a licensed professional engineer
in a format required by FEMA for Conditional Letters of Map Revision and a
Letters of Map Revision.
(Ord. 2018-1, passed 4-3-2018)
§ 153.48 NON-CONFORMING USES.
   (A)   A structure or use of a structure or premises that was lawful before
the passage or amendment of this chapter, but that is not in conformity with
the provisions of this chapter may be continued subject to the following
conditions.
      (1)   If such use is discontinued for six consecutive months, any future
use of the building premises shall conform to this chapter. The Utility
Department shall notify the Floodplain Administrator in writing of instances of
non-conforming uses where utility services have been discontinued for a period
of six months.
      (2)   Uses or adjuncts thereof that are or become nuisances shall not be
entitled to continue as non-conforming uses.
   (B)   If any non-conforming use or structure is destroyed by any means,
including flood, it shall not be reconstructed if the cost is more than 50% of
the market value of the structure before the damage occurred; except that, if
it is reconstructed in conformity with the provisions of this chapter. This
limitation does not include the cost of any alteration to comply with existing
state or local health, sanitary or safety code or regulations or the cost of
any alteration of a structure listed on the National Register of Historic
Places; provided that, the alteration shall not preclude its continued
designation.
(Ord. 2018-1, passed 4-3-2018)
§ 153.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Violation of the provisions of this chapter or failure to comply with
any of its requirements (including violations of conditions and safeguards
established in connection with grants of variances or special exceptions) shall
constitute a misdemeanor. Any person, firm, corporate or other entity that
violates this chapter or fails to comply with any of its requirements shall,
upon conviction thereof, be fined not more than $100 and, in addition, shall
pay all costs and expenses involved in the case. Each day such violation
continues shall be considered a separate offense.
   (B)   The imposition of such fines or penalties for any violation or non-
compliance with this chapter shall not excuse the violation or non-compliance
or allow it to continue. All such violations or non- compliant actions shall be
remedied within an established and reasonable time.
   (C)   Nothing herein contained shall prevent the Village of Cedar Creek or
other appropriate authority from taking such other lawful action as is
necessary to prevent or remedy any violation.
(Ord. 2018-1, passed 4-3-2018)
CHAPTER 154: MANUFACTURED HOMES
Section
   
154.01   Standards
§ 154.01 STANDARDS.
   (A)   A manufactured home may be used as a residential structure in any zone
in which residential uses are permitted, if such manufactured home bears an
appropriate seal which indicates that it was constructed in accordance with the
standards of the Uniform Standard Code for Manufactured Homes and Recreational
Vehicles, the Nebraska Uniform Standards for Modular Housing Units Act, being
Neb. RS 71-1555 et seq., or the United States Department of Housing and Urban
Development.
   (B)   Manufactured homes permitted pursuant to this section shall be located
and installed according to the following standards which are applicable to
site-built, single-family dwellings.
      (1)   The home shall be located and installed on a permanent perimeter
foundation.
      (2)   The home shall be installed with permanent utility connections.
      (3)   The home shall comply with all setback and lot requirements of the
residential zone in which it is located.
      (4)   The home shall comply with the minimum square footage requirements
of the residential zone in which it is located.
   (C)   Manufactured homes shall also meet the following standards.
      (1)   The home shall have no less than 900 square feet of floor area.
      (2)   The home shall have no less than an 18-foot exterior width.
      (3)   The roof shall be pitched with a minimum vertical rise of two and
one-half inches for each 12 inches of horizontal run.
      (4)   The exterior material shall be of a color, material and scale
comparable with those existing in residential site-built, single-family
construction.
      (5)   The home shall have a non-reflective roof material which is or
simulates asphalt or wood shingles, tile or rock.
      (6)   The home shall have wheels, axles, transporting lights and
removable towing apparatus removed.
(Prior Code, § 4-501) Penalty, see §
10.99
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
[Reserved]
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Nebraska Revised Statutes
References to Prior Code
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO NEBRASKA REVISED STATUTES
Neb. RS Cite Code Section
Neb. RS Cite                              Code Section
9-642.01                                  115.01
10-101 through 10-143                     35.12
11-101                                    30.03;
                                          33.31
11-104                                    33.30
11-105                                    33.30
11-109                                    33.30
11-110                                    33.30
11-111                                    33.30
11-112                                    33.30
11-113                                    33.30
11-114                                    33.30
11-115                                    33.30
11-116                                    33.30
11-117                                    33.30
11-118                                    33.30
13-310                                    92.036
13-311                                    92.036
13-312                                    92.036
13-313                                    92.036
13-314                                    92.036
13-403                                    92.033
13-501 et seq.                            35.34
13-503                                    35.01
13-504                                    35.28
13-505                                    35.28
13-506                                    35.29
13-507                                    35.29
13-508                                    35.30;
                                          35.51
13-509                                    35.30;
                                          35.50
13-509.01                                 35.27
13-509.02                                 35.27
13-510                                    35.33
13-511                                    35.34
                                          35.28;
13-518 to 13-522                          35.30;
                                          35.34
13-519                                    34.04
13-606                                    35.02
13-609                                    35.14
13-801 et seq.                            35.48;
                                          150.55
13-903                                    35.05
13-2501 et seq.                           35.48
16-318(3)                                 31.05
16-714 through 16-716                     35.10
17-204                                    30.03;
                                          33.04
17-205                                    33.04
                                          10.99;
17-207                                    30.02;
                                          91.16
                                          31.01;
17-208                                    32.01;
                                          91.01;
                                          91.02
17-209                                    33.45
                                          30.01;
17-209.02                                 31.03;
                                          33.45
17-210                                    30.04;
                                          30.40
17-213                                    31.08;
                                          31.11
17-214                                    31.07
17-405.01                                 31.11
17-503                                    92.030
17-503.02                                 92.031
                                          10.99;
17-505                                    30.35;
                                          91.16
17-506                                    35.45
17-507                                    35.46
17-508                                    92.066
17-509                                    92.002
17-509 to 17-521                          92.053
17-510 to 17-512                          92.002
17-513 to 17-524                          92.002
17-522                                    92.053
17-524                                    92.053
17-525                                    110.01
                                          93.02;
                                          93.08;
17-526                                    93.45;
                                          93.48;
                                          93.49
17-540                                    35.11
17-541                                    31.10
17-543                                    31.10
17-547                                    93.02;
                                          93.08
17-548                                    93.08;
                                          93.09
17-549                                    94.10
                                          91.18;
17-555                                    92.004;
                                          131.02
                                          94.10;
17-556                                    131.01;
                                          133.35
17-557                                    92.005;
                                          92.077
17-557.01                                 92.005
17-558                                    92.068;
                                          92.069
17-559                                    92.068;
                                          92.069
17-563                                    91.16;
                                          91.19
17-567                                    92.003;
                                          92.065
17-568                                    31.11
17-568.01                                 31.11;
                                          35.03
17-568.02                                 35.03
17-601.01                                 34.09
17-601.02                                 34.09
17-601.03                                 34.09
17-602                                    34.03
                                          31.01;
17-604                                    33.30;
                                          33.45
17-605                                    31.04
17-606                                    31.04;
                                          31.05
17-606(2)                                 31.05
17-607                                    35.09
17-608                                    35.11
17-609                                    31.04;
                                          35.11
17-610                                    31.06
17-611                                    33.45
17-612                                    33.45
                                          30.38;
17-613                                    30.40—
                                          30.42
                                          10.15;
17-614                                    30.38;
                                          30.39;
                                          30.43
17-614(3)                                 30.39
17-615                                    30.41
17-616                                    30.39
17-701                                    35.25
17-702                                    35.08;
                                          35.49
17-703                                    35.06
17-706                                    35.31
17-708                                    35.04
17-709                                    35.04
17-710                                    35.07
17-711                                    35.04
17-714                                    35.05
17-715                                    35.05
17-718                                    32.35
17-720                                    35.10
17-919                                    31.11
17-920                                    131.02
17-948 through 17-952                     90.01
17-949                                    90.01
17-951                                    90.01
17-952                                    32.04;
                                          90.01
17-953                                    92.032
17-953 et seq.                            32.35
17-953.01                                 92.032
17-954                                    92.032
17-1001                                   91.16
18-131                                    30.40
18-132                                    30.35
18-305 through 18-312                     33.46
18-412.01                                 35.03
18-1001 to 18-1006                        92.030
18-1208                                   110.01
18-1214                                   35.52
18-1216                                   35.06
18-1701.04                                72.40
18-1705                                   92.066
                                          10.99;
                                          30.02;
18-1720                                   91.16;
                                          130.03;
                                          133.02;
                                          150.37
                                          10.99;
18-1722                                   91.16;
                                          150.41
18-1722.01                                150.38
18-1736                                   72.31
                                          72.31;
18-1737                                   72.32;
                                          72.39
                                          72.30;
18-1738                                   72.33;
                                          72.34;
                                          72.40
18-1738.01                                72.40
18-1738.02                                72.33;
                                          72.34
                                          72.31;
18-1739                                   72.32;
                                          72.35;
                                          72.36
18-1740                                   72.37
18-1741                                   72.38
18-1741.01                                72.30;
                                          72.40
18-1741.06                                72.40
18-1743                                   150.03
18-1748                                   92.072
18-1751                                   92.002
18-1752                                   91.20
18-1755                                   92.034
18-1756                                   35.03
18-1801 through 18-1805                   35.12
18-2001 through 18-2004                   92.067
18-2003                                   92.067
18-2005                                   92.066
18-2801 et seq.                           35.28;
                                          35.35
18-2803                                   35.35
18-2804                                   35.01;
                                          35.35
18-2805                                   35.35
18-2806                                   35.35
18-2807                                   35.35
18-2808                                   35.35
19-192                                    153.29
19-710                                    91.17
19-901                                    32.03
19-901 to 19-905                          32.03
19-901 to 19-914                          32.03
19-901 to 19-915                          32.03
19-901 et seq.                            32.03
19-903 to 19-904.01                       32.03
19-907                                    32.03
19-908                                    32.03
19-909                                    32.03
19-910                                    32.03
19-911                                    32.03
19-912                                    32.03
19-912.01                                 32.03
19-915                                    30.43
19-922                                    30.35
19-925 through 19-933                     32.02
19-929(3)                                 32.03
19-1101                                   31.04;
                                          31.05
19-1102                                   31.04
19-1103                                   31.05
19-1104                                   31.04
19-1301                                   35.08
19-1302                                   35.08
19-1303                                   35.08
19-1304                                   35.08
19-1309                                   35.47
19-1310                                   35.47
19-1311                                   35.47
19-1312                                   35.47
19-2401                                   92.002
19-2408                                   92.002
19-2415                                   92.002
19-2416                                   92.066
19-2417 through 19-2419                   92.053
19-2428 through 19-2431                   92.002
19-2902                                   35.02
19-2903                                   35.02
19-2904                                   35.02
19-2905                                   35.02
19-2906 through 19-2909                   35.02
19-3701                                   30.42
20-203                                    93.50
23-114.02                                 32.03
23-168                                    153.29
25-505.01                                 34.11
25-1801                                   50.04
25-2703                                   30.35
25-21,275                                 50.04
25-21,276                                 50.04
25-21,277                                 50.04
25-21,278                                 50.04
28-109                                    93.50
Chapter 28, Art. 3, 4, 7, 8, 10, 11 or 12 111.22
28-318                                    134.01
28-431                                    133.20
28-515.02                                 50.03
28-519                                    130.01
28-520                                    93.50;
                                          130.02
28-521                                    93.50;
                                          130.02
28-523                                    90.02;
                                          133.05
28-610                                    132.01
28-801                                    134.01
28-830                                    134.01
28-831                                    134.01
28-903                                    132.02
28-908                                    132.03
28-1008                                   93.06;
                                          93.50
28-1009                                   93.06
28-1012                                   93.06
28-1013                                   93.06
28-1101                                   134.03
28-1102                                   134.03
28-1103                                   134.03
28-1104                                   134.03
28-1107                                   134.03
28-1108                                   134.03
28-1109                                   134.03
28-1110                                   134.03
28-1111                                   134.03
28-1112                                   134.03
28-1113                                   134.03
28-1117                                   134.03
28-1241                                   94.40
28-1241 to 28-1252                        94.40
28-1303                                   133.06
28-1304                                   133.03
                                          91.16;
28-1321                                   130.03;
                                          133.01
28-1322                                   131.03
28-1420                                   112.01
28-1420 to 28-1429                        112.02
28-1421                                   112.01
28-1422                                   112.02
28-1423                                   112.03
28-1424                                   112.04
28-1425                                   112.04;
                                          112.07
28-1426                                   112.05
28-1428                                   112.06
28-1429                                   112.07
29-422 to 29-429                          93.06
Chapter 29, Article 8                     93.31
29-4003                                   134.05
31-1001 to 31-1023                        153.01
32-101                                    30.01;
                                          Ch. 34
32-101 et seq.                            34.06;
                                          35.08
32-110                                    34.03
32-115                                    34.03
32-404                                    34.01;
                                          34.05
32-405                                    34.04;
                                          34.11
32-554                                    30.01
32-556                                    34.01
32-557                                    30.01;
                                          34.06
32-559                                    34.04
32-560                                    30.06
32-560 through 32-572                     30.06
32-561                                    30.06
32-562                                    34.11
32-567 to 32-570                          34.11
32-569                                    30.06
32-574                                    34.11
32-604                                    30.01
32-606                                    34.07
32-607                                    34.07
32-608                                    34.08;
                                          34.10
32-615                                    34.10
32-616                                    34.10
32-617                                    34.10
32-618                                    34.10
32-621                                    34.10
32-622                                    34.07
32-625                                    34.07
32-625(2)                                 34.10
32-627                                    34.07;
                                          34.10
32-628                                    34.10
32-628 through 32-631                     35.48
32-629                                    34.10;
                                          34.11
32-630                                    34.10;
                                          34.11
32-710                                    34.10
32-802                                    34.02;
                                          35.48
32-918                                    34.12
32-952 through 32-959                     34.04
32-1301                                   34.11
32-1302                                   34.11
32-1303                                   34.11
32-1304                                   34.11
32-1305                                   34.11
32-1306                                   34.11
32-1307                                   34.11
32-1308                                   30.06;
                                          34.11
32-1309                                   34.11
32-1524                                   34.12
32-1525                                   34.12
33-141                                    31.05
35-101 through 35-103                     32.37
35-106                                    110.01
39-2512                                   31.07
43-248                                    134.01
45-623                                    35.13
46-1212                                   92.035
46-1601 to 46-1670                        153.14
48-115                                    32.37
48-1503                                   35.03
49-801(16)                                10.05
49-1408                                   33.46
49-1425                                   33.46
49-1499.03                                33.46
49-1499.03 through 49-14,103              33.46
49-1499.04                                33.46
49-14,102                                 33.46
49-14,103.01                              33.46
49-14,103.02                              33.46
49-14,103.03                              33.46
49-14,103.04                              33.46
49-14,103.05                              33.46
49-14,103.06                              33.46
51-201                                    35.48
51-215                                    35.08
51-216                                    35.08
51-501                                    35.48
52-601.01 to 52-605                       133.20
Chapter 53, Article 1                     115.01
53-103.01 through 53-103.42               111.01
53-116.01                                 111.24
53-118                                    111.47
53-123.12                                 111.23
53-124                                    111.23;
                                          111.26
53-124.01                                 111.23
53-124(5) and (H)                         111.48
53-124.12                                 111.25;
                                          111.26
53-124.15                                 111.45
53-124.17                                 111.23
53-125                                    111.22
53-129                                    111.23
53-131                                    111.22;
                                          111.23
53-132                                    110.01;
                                          111.23
53-133                                    111.23;
                                          111.45
53-134                                    111.23
                                          111.23;
53-134.03                                 111.47;
                                          111.51
53-134.04                                 111.30
53-135                                    111.25
53-135.01                                 111.23;
                                          111.25
53-148                                    111.27
53-160                                    110.01
53-167.02                                 111.52
53-167.03                                 111.52
53-168.06                                 111.20
53-175                                    111.21
53-177                                    111.45
53-177.01                                 111.45
53-178                                    111.46
53-179                                    111.48
53-180                                    111.02
53-183                                    111.49
53-184                                    111.50
53-186                                    111.03
53-186.01                                 111.03
53-186(2)                                 111.03
53-194.03                                 111.21
53-1,101                                  111.28
53-1,102                                  111.29
53-1,115                                  111.30
53-1,121                                  111.04
54-601                                    93.48
54-602                                    93.48
54-603                                    93.45
54-603(3)                                 93.45
54-605                                    93.46
54-606                                    93.48
54-607                                    93.02
54-617                                    93.50
54-618                                    93.50
54-619                                    93.50
54-620                                    93.50
54-621                                    93.50
54-622.01                                 93.50
54-623                                    93.50
54-907 through 54-912                     93.07
54-911                                    93.07
54-912                                    93.07
55-133                                    70.01
56-602                                    93.48
Chapter 60                                73.20
60-101 et seq.                            35.52
60-169                                    133.20
                                          35.52;
60-301                                    72.09;
                                          133.20
60-311.14                                 72.31;
                                          72.32
60-376                                    133.20;
                                          133.21
60-462                                    70.07
60-601                                    Ch. 70
60-606 through 60-676                     70.01
60-607                                    70.01
60-610                                    70.01
60-613                                    70.01
60-624                                    70.01
60-631                                    70.01
60-638                                    70.01
60-646                                    70.01
60-654                                    70.01
60-656                                    70.01
60-658.01                                 70.01
60-661                                    70.01
60-669                                    70.01
60-670                                    70.01
60-671                                    70.01
60-672                                    70.01
60-676                                    70.01
60-678                                    70.02
60-680                                    70.03;
                                          72.01
60-681                                    70.04
60-682                                    70.99
60-682.01                                 71.99
60-683                                    70.07
60-684 through 60-694.01                  70.99
60-689                                    70.99
60-699                                    73.24
60-1901                                   133.20
60-1902                                   133.20
60-1903                                   133.20
60-1903.01                                133.20
60-1903.02                                133.20
60-1904                                   133.20
60-1905                                   133.20
60-1906                                   133.20
60-1907                                   133.20
60-1908                                   133.20
60-1909                                   133.20
60-2410                                   133.20
60-3,104                                  35.52
60-4,126                                  73.02
60-6,108                                  70.05
60-6,110                                  70.08
60-6,114                                  70.10
60-6,117                                  73.50
60-6,118                                  70.01
60-6,119                                  70.09
60-6,121                                  70.06
60-6,129                                  71.03
60-6,130                                  71.04
60-6,138                                  71.01
60-6,148                                  71.02
60-6,164                                  72.02
60-6,165                                  72.56
60-6,166                                  72.03
60-6,167                                  72.12
60-6,168                                  72.14
60-6,185                                  71.20
60-6,186                                  71.21
60-6,187                                  71.21;
                                          71.23
                                          71.21;
60-6,188                                  71.23;
                                          71.99
60-6,189                                  71.22
60-6,190                                  71.23
60-6,211.08                               111.03
60-6,250                                  71.05
60-6,288                                  71.05
60-6,288 to 60-6,290                      70.10
60-6,294                                  70.10
60-6,305                                  71.21;
                                          71.23
60-6,306                                  73.52
60-6,308                                  73.52
60-6,313                                  71.21;
                                          71.23
60-6,314                                  73.50
60-6,315                                  73.50
60-6,316                                  73.51
60-6,317                                  73.50
60-6,318                                  73.50
60-6,355                                  73.01;
                                          73.16
60-6,358                                  73.17
60-6,359                                  73.18
60-6,361                                  73.24
60-6,380                                  73.35
63-6,356                                  73.02;
                                          73.15
66-489                                    110.01
66-489.02                                 110.01
66-4,140                                  110.01
66-4,145                                  110.01
66-4,146                                  110.01
70-624.04                                 33.46
70-1601                                   50.01
70-1601 through 70-1615                   50.03
70-2103                                   130.02
71-423                                    111.04
71-1555 et seq.                           154.01
71-1637                                   35.48
71-4401                                   93.25
71-4402                                   93.26
71-4404                                   93.26
71-4405                                   93.26
71-4406                                   93.27
71-4407                                   93.28
71-4408                                   93.08;
                                          93.29
71-4410                                   93.31
71-4411                                   93.29
71-4412                                   93.31;
                                          93.45
71-4603                                   133.20
Chapter 72, Article 14                    92.032
73-101 et seq.                            35.03
77-1601                                   35.50
77-1606                                   35.48;
                                          35.50
77-1632                                   35.50
77-1633                                   35.50;
                                          35.51
77-1702                                   35.14
77-1725.01                                150.39
77-2201                                   31.05
77-2201 through 77-2215                   31.05
77-2202                                   31.05
77-2209                                   31.05
77-2210                                   31.05
77-2212                                   31.05
77-2341                                   35.11
77-2362                                   35.09
77-2363                                   35.09
77-2364                                   35.09
77-2365.01                                35.09;
                                          35.10
77-2366                                   35.09;
                                          35.10
77-2386                                   35.09
77-2386 et seq.                           35.09
77-2602                                   110.01
77-2704.24                                110.01
77-3442                                   35.48;
                                          90.01
77-3443                                   35.48
77-3444                                   34.04;
                                          35.48
77-4008                                   110.01
80-202                                    35.48
81-145 through 81-162                     35.03
81-201                                    93.06
81-501.01 to 81-531                       32.41
81-506                                    32.44
81-512                                    32.41
81-520.01                                 94.10;
                                          94.11
81-542 et seq.                            32.41
81-829.51                                 35.34
81-3401 et seq.                           151.02
81-3423                                   92.035
81-3445                                   92.035
81-3447                                   151.01
81-3449                                   92.035
81-3453                                   92.035
81-3501 et seq.                           151.02
81-15,117 et seq.                         32.41
84-304                                    35.02
84-712                                    31.04
84-712 through 84-712.09                  31.05
84-712 et seq.                            10.99
84-1201                                   31.04
84-1201                                   31.04
84-1220                                   31.04
84-1407 et seq.                           33.08
84-1408                                   33.02
84-1409                                   33.01
84-1410                                   33.07;
                                          33.08
                                          31.04;
                                          33.02;
84-1411                                   33.03;
                                          33.05;
                                          33.06
84-1411(7)                                33.02
84-1412                                   33.09
                                          31.04;
84-1413                                   33.11;
                                          33.13
86-704                                    110.01
                                          
 
REFERENCES TO PRIOR CODE
Prior Code 2022 Code
Prior Code 2022 Code
0-006      10.99
0-007      10.99
0-008      10.99
1-101      11.01
1-102      11.02
1-103      30.01
1-104      30.01
1-120      30.07
1-204      31.04
1-601      32.05
1-602      32.05
1-603      32.05
1-604      32.05
1-605      32.05
1-606      32.05
1-607      32.05
1-608      32.05
1-609      32.05
1-610      32.05
1-611      32.05
1-612      32.05
1-613      32.05
1-614      32.05
1-615      32.05
1-616      32.05
1-801      32.02
2-102      131.03
2-103      133.07
2-110      133.08
2-111      134.01
2-112      134.01
2-113      134.02
2-114      132.02
2-118      133.36
2-119      133.04
2-201      133.09
2-202      133.09
2-203      133.09
2-204      133.09
2-205      133.99
2-308      93.51
2-322      93.99
2-603      91.16
2-701      134.05
2-702      134.05
2-703      134.05
2-801      134.99
3-317      72.31
3-318      72.32
3-319      72.30
3-320      72.33
3-321      72.34
3-322      72.35;
           72.36
3-323      72.37
3-324      72.38
3-325      72.39
3-326      72.40
3-401      73.50
3-402      73.51
3-501      73.35
3-503      73.36
3-504      73.37
3-505      73.38;
           73.99
3-605      73.17
3-606      73.18
3-609      73.24
3-701      73.99
4-101      114.01
4-102      114.02
4-205      111.48
4-302      110.05
4-309      110.99
4-402      113.09
4-501      154.01
4-601      115.01
4-701      115.99
5-104      92.030
5-501      92.999
6-201      51.01
6-202      51.02
6-301      50.99
7-102      32.37
7-201      94.01
7-202      94.02
7-203      94.03
7-204      94.04
7-205      94.05
7-206      94.06
7-207      94.07
7-208      94.08
7-209      94.09
7-210      94.10
7-211      94.11
7-301      94.25
7-302      94.26
7-303      94.27
7-304      94.28
7-401      94.40
7-501      94.99
8-101      152.01
8-102      152.02
8-201      151.01
8-202      151.02
8-501      150.99
           
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
98-21    - -1998     32.02
99-3     2-2-1999    150.36
2002-02  1-8-2002    72.37
2002-4   12-3-2002   30.07
2004-01  4-6-2004    32.37
2004-02  4-6-2004    31.04
2005-01  3-1-2005    91.16
2005-03  3-1-2005    30.01
2006-01  2-7-2006    92.030
2006-02  2-7-2006    72.37
                     73.35—
2006-05  2-7-2006    73.38;
                     73.99
2006-08  9-5-2006    134.05;
                     134.99
                     73.15;
                     73.16;
2007-02  9-4-2007    73.19—
                     73.23;
                     73.99
2008-02  10-7-2008   10.99
2008-03  12-2-2008   150.42
2010-03  12-7-2010   73.01;
                     73.02
2010-04  12-7-2010   111.48
2012-01  2-7-2012    92.012
2015     5-5-2015    32.02
16-02    8-2-2016    134.04;
                     134.99
                     153.01—
                     153.14;
                     153.25—
2018-1   4-3-2018    153.31;
                     153.45—
                     153.48;
                     153.99
                     73.15;
                     73.16;
2007-02  7-7-2020    73.19—
                     73.23;
                     73.99
                    
 
 
