VILLAGE OF CEDAR BLUFFS, NEBRASKA
CODE OF ORDINANCES
Local legislation updated through Ord. 2023-03, passed 10-10-2023
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street, Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Internet: http://www.amlegal.com
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
CHAPTER 10: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Interpretation
   
10.03   Application to future ordinances
   
10.04   Captions
   
10.05   Definitions
   
10.06   Rules of interpretation
   
10.07   Severability
   
10.08   Reference to other sections
   
10.09   Reference to offices
   
10.10   Errors and omissions
   
10.11   Official time
   
10.12   Reasonable time
   
10.13   Ordinances repealed
   
10.14   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.15   Repeal or modification of ordinance
   
10.16   Section histories; statutory references
 
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01 TITLE OF CODE.
   This codification of ordinances shall be designated as the Village of Cedar
Bluffs Code of Ordinances and may be so cited.
§ 10.02 INTERPRETATION.
   Unless otherwise provided herein, or by law or implication required, the
same rules of construction, definition and application shall govern the
interpretation of this code as those governing the interpretation of state law.
§ 10.03 APPLICATION TO FUTURE ORDINANCES.
   All provisions of Title I compatible with future legislation shall apply to
ordinances hereafter adopted amending or supplementing this code unless
otherwise specifically provided.
§ 10.04 CAPTIONS.
   Headings and captions used in this code other than the title, chapter and
section numbers are employed for reference purposes only and shall not be
deemed a part of the text of any section.
§ 10.05DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   General rule. Words and phrases shall be taken in their plain, or
ordinary and usual sense. However, technical words and phrases having a
peculiar and appropriate meaning in law shall be understood according to their
technical import.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this code, the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      BOARD OF TRUSTEES, VILLAGE BOARD or GOVERNING BODY. The legislative body
of the village.
      CODE, THIS CODE or THIS CODE OF ORDINANCES. This village code as modified
by amendment, revision and adoption of new titles, chapters or sections.
      COUNTY. Saunders County, State of Nebraska.
      MAY. The act referred to is permissive.
      MONTH. A calendar month.
      OATH. Includes an affirmation in all cases in which, by law, an
affirmation may be substituted for an oath, and in such cases the words SWEAR
and SWORN shall be equivalent to the words AFFIRM and AFFIRMED.
      OFFICER, OFFICE, EMPLOYEE, COMMISSION or DEPARTMENT. An officer, office,
employee, commission or department of this village unless the context clearly
requires otherwise.
      PERSON. Includes bodies politic and corporate, societies, communities,
the public generally, individuals, partnerships, limited liability companies,
joint-stock companies and associations.
(Neb. RS 49-801(16))
      PRECEDING or FOLLOWING. Next before or next after, respectively.
      SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory.
      SIGNATURE or SUBSCRIPTION. Includes a mark when the person cannot write.
      STATE. The State of Nebraska.
      SUBCHAPTER. A division of a chapter, designated in this code by a heading
in the chapter analysis and a capitalized heading in the body of the chapter,
setting apart a group of sections related by the subject matter of the heading.
Not all chapters have SUBCHAPTERS.
      VILLAGE, MUNICIPAL CORPORATION or MUNICIPALITY. The Village of Cedar
Bluffs, Saunders County, State of Nebraska.
      WRITTEN. Any representation of words, letters or figures, whether by
printing or otherwise.
      YEAR. A calendar year, unless otherwise expressed.
§ 10.06 RULES OF INTERPRETATION.
   The construction of all ordinances of this village shall be by the following
rules, unless that construction is plainly repugnant to the intent of the
Village Board or of the context of the same ordinance.
   (A)   AND or OR. Either conjunction shall include the other as if written
“and/or”, if the sense requires it.
   (B)   Acts by assistants. When a statute or ordinance requires an act to be
done which, by law, an agent or deputy as well may do as the principal, the
requisition shall be satisfied by the performance of the act by an authorized
agent or deputy.
   (C)   Gender; singular and plural; tenses. Words denoting the masculine
gender shall be deemed to include the feminine and neuter genders; words in the
singular shall include the plural, and words in the plural shall include the
singular; the use of a verb in the present tense shall include the future, if
applicable.
   (D)   General term. A general term following specific enumeration of terms
is not to be limited to the class enumerated unless expressly so limited.
§ 10.07 SEVERABILITY.
   If any provision of this code as now or later amended or its application to
any person or circumstance is held invalid, the invalidity does not affect
other provisions that can be given effect without the invalid provision or
application.
§ 10.08 REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   Whenever a section refers to another section hereof, that reference shall
extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently amended, revised,
recodified or renumbered unless the subject matter is materially altered by the
amendment or revision.
§ 10.09 REFERENCE TO OFFICES.
   Reference to a public office or officer shall be deemed to apply to any
office, officer or employee of this village exercising the powers, duties or
functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any transfer of
functions or change in the official title of the functionary.
§ 10.10 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error is discovered, consisting of the misspelling of any
words; the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention of
the provisions affected; the use of a word or words to which no meaning can be
attached; or the use of a word or words when another word or words was clearly
intended to express the intent, the spelling shall be corrected and the word or
words supplied, omitted or substituted as will conform with the manifest
intention, and the provisions shall have the same effect as though the correct
words were contained in the text as originally published. No alteration shall
be made or permitted if any question exists regarding the nature or extent of
the error.
§ 10.11 OFFICIAL TIME.
   The official time, as established by applicable state/federal laws, shall be
the official time within this village for the transaction of all village
business.
§ 10.12 REASONABLE TIME.
   (A)   In all cases where an ordinance requires an act to be done in a
reasonable time or requires reasonable notice to be given, reasonable time or
notice shall be deemed to mean the time which is necessary for a prompt
performance of the act or the giving of the notice.
   (B)   The time within which an act is to be done, as herein provided, shall
be computed by excluding the first day and including the last. If the last day
is Sunday, it shall be excluded.
§ 10.13 ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   This code contains all of the provisions of a general nature pertaining to
the subjects enumerated and embraced in this code. All prior ordinances
pertaining to the subjects treated by this code are repealed, except that
nothing shall affect any rights acquired under, actions involving or fines,
penalties, forfeitures or liabilities incurred pursuant to those ordinances
prior to repeal.
§ 10.14 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   (A)   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other
ordinances pertaining to subjects not embraced in this code, including
ordinances specified in this section, shall remain in full force and effect
unless repealed expressly or by necessary implication:
      (1)   Vacating or setting the boundaries of streets, alleys or other
public places;
      (2)   Annexing or detaching territory;
      (3)   Granting or accepting easements, plats or dedication of land to
public use;
      (4)   Providing for the acquisition or conveyance of real or personal
property;
      (5)   Authorizing or directing public improvements to be made;
      (6)   Levying taxes or special assessments;
      (7)   Appropriating money;
      (8)   Granting franchises or special licenses; or
      (9)   Providing for the issuance of bonds or other instruments of
indebtedness.
   (B)   All ordinances codified in this code shall remain in full force and
effect unless repealed expressly.
§ 10.15 REPEAL OR MODIFICATION OF ORDINANCE.
   (A)   Whenever any ordinance or part of an ordinance is repealed or modified
by a subsequent ordinance, the ordinance or part of an ordinance thus repealed
or modified shall continue in force until the publication of the ordinance
repealing or modifying it to give effect thereto.
   (B)   No suit, proceedings, right, liability, fine, forfeiture or penalty
instituted, created, given, secured or accrued under any ordinance previous to
its repeal shall in any way be affected, released or discharged, but may be
prosecuted, enjoyed and recovered as fully as if the ordinance had continued in
force, unless it is otherwise expressly provided.
   (C)   When any ordinance repealing a former ordinance, clause or provision
is itself repealed, the repeal shall not be construed to revive the former
ordinance, clause or provision, unless it is expressly provided.
Statutory reference:
   Requirements for amendments and revisions, see Neb. RS 17-614
§ 10.16 SECTION HISTORIES; STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   A statutory cite included in the history indicates that the text of
the section reads substantially the same as the statute. Example: (Neb. RS 18-
132)
   (B)   A statutory cite set forth as a “statutory reference” following the
text of the section indicates that the reader should refer to that statute for
further information. Example:
   § 39.01 PUBLIC RECORDS AVAILABLE.
         This municipality shall make available to any person for inspection or
copying all public records, unless otherwise exempted by state law.
         Statutory reference:
            Inspection of public records, see Neb. RS 84-712 et seq.
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who violates any of the provisions of this village code,
unless otherwise specifically provided herein, shall be deemed guilty of an
offense and upon conviction thereof shall be fined in any sum not exceeding the
amount set forth in the village master fee list. A new violation shall be
deemed to have been committed every 24 hours of failure to comply with the
provisions of this code.
   (B)   (1)   Whenever a nuisance exists as defined in Title IX of this code,
the village may proceed by a suit in equity to enjoin and abate the same, in
the manner provided by law.
      (2)   Whenever, in any action, it is established that a nuisance exists,
the court may, together with the fine or penalty imposed, enter an order of
abatement as a part of the judgment in the case.
Statutory reference:
   Authority to abate nuisances, see Neb. RS 18-1720 and 18-1722
   Authority to impose fines, see Neb. RS 17-207 and 17-505
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
31.   ELECTED OFFICIALS; ORDINANCES
      
32.   APPOINTED VILLAGE OFFICIALS
      
33.   COMMISSIONS AND BOARDS
      
34.   FIRE DEPARTMENT
      
35.   POLICE DEPARTMENT
      
36.   ELECTIONS
      
37.   FISCAL MANAGEMENT
      
38.   FEE SCHEDULE
CHAPTER 30: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
30.001   Bond; form
   
30.002   Oath of office; village officials
   
30.003   Seal; official corporate
Meetings
   
30.015   Defined
   
30.016   Public body defined
   
30.017   Public meetings
   
30.018   Closed sessions
   
30.019   Emergency meetings
   
30.020   Minutes
   
30.021   Votes
   
30.022   Notice to news media
   
30.023   Public participation
   
30.024   Regular meeting
   
30.025   Special meeting
   
30.026   Order of business
   
30.027   Parliamentary procedure
   
30.028   Change in office
   
30.029   Reorganizational meeting
   
30.030   Prohibited acts; exempt events
Compensation
   
30.045   Municipal officials
   
30.046   Conflict of interest
Intergovernmental Risk Management
   
30.060   Authority
Notices
   
30.075   Notices; publication
Village Policies
   
30.090   NIMS adopted
   
30.091   Multi-jurisdictional hazard mitigation plan
   
30.092   American with Disabilities Act
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 30.001 BOND; FORM.
   (A)   The village may enact ordinances or bylaws to require from all
officers and servants, elected or appointed, bonds and security or evidence of
equivalent insurance for the faithful performance of their duties. The village
may pay the premium for such bonds or insurance coverage.
(Neb. RS 17-604)
   (B)   (1)   All official bonds of officers of the village shall be in form
joint and several and made payable to the village in such penalty as the Board
of Trustees may fix.
      (2)   In place of the individual bonds required to be furnished by
municipal officers, a schedule, position, blanket bond or undertaking, or
evidence of equivalent insurance may be given by municipal officers, or a
single corporate surety fidelity, schedule, position or blanket bond or
undertaking, or evidence of insurance coverage covering all the officers,
including officers required by law to furnish an individual bond or
undertaking, may be furnished. The municipality may pay the premium for the
bond or insurance coverage. The bond or insurance coverage shall be, at a
minimum, an aggregate of the amounts fixed by law or by the Board of Trustees,
and with such terms and conditions as may be required.
(Neb. RS 11-104)
      (3)   The penalty amount on any bond shall not fall below the legal
minimum, when one has been set by the state, for each particular official.
   (C)   (1)   Official bonds, with the oath endorsed thereon, shall be filed
in the Village Clerk’s office within the following time:
         (a)   Of all officers elected at any general election, following
receipt of their election certificate and not later than ten days before the
first Thursday after the first Tuesday in January next succeeding the election;
         (b)   Of all appointed officers, within 30 days after their
appointment; and
         (c)   Of officers elected at any special election and village
officers, within 30 days after the canvass of the votes of the election at
which they were chosen.
      (2)   The filing of the bond with the oath endorsed thereon does not
authorize a person to take any official action prior to the beginning of his or
her term of office pursuant to Article XVII, section 5, of the Constitution of
Nebraska.
(Neb. RS 11-105)
   (D)   All official bonds of village officers shall be executed by the
principal named in such bonds and by at least two sufficient sureties who shall
be freeholders of the county in which such bonds are given, or any official
bond of a village officer may be executed by the officer as principal and by a
guaranty, surety, fidelity or bonding company as surety, or by two or more such
companies. Only such companies as are legally authorized to transact business
in this state shall be eligible to suretyship on the bond of a village officer.
(Neb. RS 11-109)
   (E)   The Village Clerk shall carefully record and preserve the bonds in his
or her office and shall give certified copies thereof, when required, under the
seal of his or her office, and shall be entitled to receive for the same the
usual fee allowed by law for certified copies of records in other cases.
(Neb. RS 11-110)
   (F)   (1)   The approval of each official bond shall be endorsed upon such
bond by the officer approving the same, and no bond shall be filed and recorded
until so approved.
(Neb. RS 11-111)
      (2)   No bond shall be deemed to be given or complete until the approval
of the Board of Trustees and all sureties are endorsed in writing on the
instrument by the Chairperson and Village Clerk pursuant to the approval of the
Board of Trustees.
   (G)   All official bonds shall obligate the principal and sureties for the
faithful discharge of all duties required by law of such principal and shall
inure to the benefit of any persons injured by a breach of the conditions of
such bonds.
(Neb. RS 11-112)
   (H)   No official bond shall be rendered void by reason of any informality
of irregularity in its execution or approval.
(Neb. RS 11-113)
   (I)   No village official shall be taken as security on the bond of any
administrator, executor or other officer from whom by law bond is or may be
required.
(Neb. RS 11-114)
   (J)   If any person elected or appointed to any office neglects to have his
or her official bond executed and approved as provided by law and filed for
record within the time limited by this section, the Village Clerk shall
immediately issue an order to such person to show cause why he or she has
failed to properly file such bond and why his or her office should not be
declared vacant. If such person properly files the official bond within ten
days of the issuance of the show cause order for appointed officials or before
the date for taking office for elected officials, such filing shall be deemed
to be in compliance with this section. If such person does not file the bond
within ten days of the issuance of such order for appointed officials or before
the date for taking office for elected officials and sufficient cause is not
shown within that time, his or her office shall thereupon ipso facto become
vacant and such vacancy shall thereupon immediately be filled by election or
appointment as the law may direct in other cases of vacancy in the same office.
(Neb. RS 11-115)
   (K)   Any person appointed to fill a vacancy, before entering upon the
duties of the office, must give a bond corresponding in substance and form with
the bond required of the officer originally elected or appointed, as herein
provided.
(Neb. RS 11-116)
   (L)   When the incumbent of an office is reelected or reappointed, he or she
shall qualify by taking the oath and giving the bond as above directed, but
when such officer has had public funds or property in his or her control, his
or her bond shall not be approved until he or she has produced and fully
accounted for such funds and property. When it is ascertained that the
incumbent of an office holds over by reason of the nonelection or
nonappointment of a successor or of the neglect or refusal of the successor to
qualify, he or she shall qualify anew within ten days from the time at which
his or her successor, if elected, should have qualified.
(Neb. RS 11-117)
   (M)   No person shall be surety for the same officer for more than two
successive terms of the same office, but this provision shall not apply to
incorporated surety companies.
(Neb. RS 11-118)
   (N)   If the sureties on the official bond of any appointed officer of the
village, in the opinion of the Board of Trustees, become insufficient, the
Board may, by resolution, fix a reasonable time within which the officer may
give a new bond or additional sureties as directed. If the officer fails,
refuses or neglects to give a new bond or additional sureties to the
satisfaction and approval of the Board, the office shall, by such failure,
refusal or neglect, become vacant and it shall be the duty of the Board to
appoint a competent and qualified person to fill the office.
(Prior Code, § 1-301)
§ 30.002 OATH OF OFFICE; VILLAGE OFFICIALS.
   (A)   All officials of the village, whether elected or appointed, except
when a different oath is specifically provided herein, shall before entering
upon their respective duties take and subscribe the following oath, which shall
be endorsed upon their respective bonds:
“I, ______________________________, do solemnly swear that I will support the
Constitution of the United States and the Constitution of the State of
Nebraska, against all enemies foreign and domestic; that I will bear true faith
and allegiance to the same; that I take this obligation freely and without
mental reservation or for the purpose of evasion; and that I will faithfully
and impartially perform the duties of the office of ____________________,
according to law and to the best of my ability. And I do further swear that I
do not advocate nor am I a member of any political party or organization that
advocates the overthrow of the government of the United States or of this state
by force or violence; and that during such time as I am in this position I will
not advocate nor become a member of any political party or organization that
advocates the overthrow of the government of the United States or of this state
by force or violence. So help me God.”
   (B)   If any such officer is not required to give bond, the oath shall be
filed with the Village Clerk.
(Neb. RS 11-101) (Prior Code, § 1-302)
§ 30.003 SEAL; OFFICIAL CORPORATE.
   (A)   The official corporate seal of the village shall be kept in the office
of the Village Clerk, and shall bear the following inscription, “Seal, Village
of Cedar Bluffs, Nebraska”.
   (B)   The Village Clerk shall affix an impression of the said official seal
to all warrants, licenses, permits, ordinances and all other official papers
issued by order of the Board of Trustees and countersigned by the Village
Clerk.
(Neb. RS 17-502) (Prior Code, § 1-401)
MEETINGS
§ 30.015 DEFINED.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   MEETING. All regular, special or called meetings, formal or informal, of any
public body for the purposes of briefing, discussion of public business,
formation of tentative policy or the taking of any action of the public body.
(Neb. RS 84-1409) (Prior Code, § 1-501)
§ 30.016 PUBLIC BODY DEFINED.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PUBLIC BODY.
      (1)   (a)   The Board of Trustees;
         (b)   All independent boards, commissions, bureaus, committees,
councils, subunits or any other bodies created by the Constitution of Nebraska,
statute, ordinance or otherwise pursuant to law; and
         (c)   Advisory committees of the bodies listed above.
      (2)   PUBLIC BODY does not include subcommittees of such bodies unless a
quorum of the public body attends a subcommittee meeting or unless the
subcommittees are holding hearings, making policy or taking formal action on
behalf of their parent body.
(Neb. RS 84-1409) (Prior Code, § 1-502) (Ord. 93-7, passed 5-20-1993)
§ 30.017 PUBLIC MEETINGS.
   (A)   The formation of public policy is public business and may not be
conducted in secret. Every meeting of a public body shall be open the public in
order that citizens may exercise their democratic privilege of attending and
speaking at meetings of public bodies; except as otherwise provided by the
Constitution of Nebraska, federal statutes and the Open Meetings Act, Neb. RS
84-1407 et seq.
(Neb. RS 84-1408)
   (B)   (1)   Each public body shall give reasonable advance publicized notice
of the time and place of each meeting as provided in division (B)(2) of this
section. The notice shall be transmitted to all members of the public body and
to the public.
      (2)   The notice shall be given by:
         (a)   1.   a.   Publication in a newspaper of general circulation
within the public body’s jurisdiction that is finalized for printing prior to
the time and date of the meeting;
               b.   Posting on such newspaper’s website, if available; and
               c.   Posting on a statewide website established and maintained
as a repository for such notices by a majority of state newspapers.
            2.   Such notice shall be placed in the newspaper and on the
websites by the newspaper.
         (b)   1.   a.   Posting to the newspaper’s website, if available; and
               b.   Posting on a statewide website established and maintained
as a repository for such notices by a majority of state newspapers if no
edition of a newspaper of general circulation within the public body’s
jurisdiction is to be finalized for printing prior to the time and date of the
meeting.
            2.   Such notice shall be placed in the newspaper and on the
websites by the newspaper.
         (c)   Posting written notice in three conspicuous public places in
such city, village, or district. Such notice shall be posted by the village in
the same three places for each meeting.
      (3)   (a)   In case of refusal, neglect, or inability of the newspaper to
publish the notice, the public body shall:
            1.   Post such notice on its website, if available;
            2.   Submit a post on a statewide website established and
maintained as a repository for such notices by a majority of state newspapers;
and
            3.   Post such notice in a conspicuous public place in such public
body’s jurisdiction.
         (b)   The public body shall keep a written record of such posting. The
record of such posting shall be evidence that such posting was done as required
and shall be sufficient to fulfill the requirement of publication.
      (4)   Each public body shall record the methods and dates of the notice
in its minutes.
      (5)   The notice shall contain an agenda of subjects known at the time of
the publicized notice or a statement that the agenda, which shall be kept
continually current, is readily available for public inspection at the office
of the public body during normal business hours. Agenda items shall be
sufficiently descriptive to give the public reasonable notice of the matters to
be considered at the meeting. Except for items of an emergency nature, the
agenda shall not be altered later than 24 hours before the scheduled
commencement of the meeting or 48 hours before the scheduled commencement of a
meeting of the Board of Trustees scheduled outside the corporate limits of the
village. The public body shall have the right to modify the agenda to include
items of an emergency nature only at such public meeting.
(Neb. RS 84-1411)
   (C)   (1)   Any action taken on any question or motion duly moved and
seconded shall be by roll call vote of the public body in open session, and the
record shall state how each member voted, or if the member was absent or not
voting. The requirements of a roll call or viva voce vote shall be satisfied by
a village which utilizes an electronic voting device which allows the yeas and
nays of each member of the Board of Trustees to be readily seen by the public.
      (2)   The vote to elect leadership within a public body may be taken by
secret ballot, but the total number of votes for each candidate shall be
recorded in the minutes.
(Neb. RS 84-1413)
(Prior Code, § 1-503)
Statutory reference:
   Videoconferencing when emergency is declared by the Governor under the
Emergency Management Act, see Neb. RS 84-1411(7)
§ 30.018 CLOSED SESSIONS.
   (A)   (1)   Any public body may hold a closed session by the affirmative
vote of a majority of its voting members if a closed session is clearly
necessary for the protection of the public interest or for the prevention of
needless injury to the reputation of an individual and if that individual has
not requested a public meeting. The subject matter and the reason necessitating
the closed session shall be identified in the motion to close. Closed sessions
may be held for, but shall not be limited to, such reasons as:
         (a)   Strategy sessions with respect to collective bargaining, real
estate purchases, pending litigation or litigation which is imminent as
evidenced by communication of a claim or threat of litigation to or by the
public body;
         (b)   Discussion regarding deployment of security personnel or
devices;
         (c)   Investigative proceedings regarding allegations of criminal
misconduct; or
         (d)   Evaluation of the job performance of a person when necessary to
prevent needless injury to the reputation of a person and if that person has
not requested a public meeting.
      (2)   Nothing in this section shall permit a closed meeting for
discussion of the appointment or election of a new member to any public body.
   (B)   The vote to hold a closed session shall be taken in open session. The
entire motion, the vote of each member on the question of holding a closed
session, and the time when the closed session commenced and concluded shall be
recorded in the minutes. If the motion to close passes, then the presiding
officer immediately prior to the closed session shall restate on the record the
limitation of the subject matter at the closed session. The public body holding
such a closed session shall restrict its consideration of matters during the
closed portions to only those purposes set forth in the motion to close as the
reason for the closed session. The meeting shall be reconvened in open session
before any formal action may be taken. For purposes of this section, FORMAL
ACTION means a collective decision or a collective commitment or promise to
make a decision on any question, motion, proposal, resolution, order or
ordinance or formation of a position or policy but shall not include
negotiating guidance given by members of the public body to legal counsel or
other negotiators in closed sessions authorized under division (A)(1)(a) of
this section.
   (C)   Any member of any public body shall have the right to challenge the
continuation of a closed session if the member determines that the session has
exceeded the reason stated in the original motion to hold a closed session or
if the member contends that the closed session is neither clearly necessary for
the protection of the public interest or the prevention of needless injury to
the reputation of an individual. Such challenge shall be overruled only by a
majority vote of the members of the public body. The challenge and its
disposition shall be recorded in the minutes.
   (D)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to require that any meeting
be closed to the public.
(Neb. RS 84-1410) (Prior Code, § 1-504) (Ord. 93-8, passed 5-20-1993; Ord. 95-
1, passed 4-26-1995)
§ 30.019 EMERGENCY MEETINGS.
   When it is necessary to hold an emergency meeting without reasonable advance
public notice, the nature of the emergency shall be stated in the minutes and
any formal action taken in that meeting shall pertain only to the emergency.
Such emergency meetings may be held by means of electronic or telecommunication
equipment. The provisions of §
30.022 shall be complied with in conducting emergency meetings. Complete
minutes of such emergency meetings specifying the nature of the emergency and
any formal action taken at the meeting shall be made available to the public by
no later than the end of the next regular business day.
(Neb. RS 84-1411) (Prior Code, § 1-505)
§ 30.020 MINUTES.
   (A)   Each public body shall keep minutes of all meetings showing the time,
place, members present and absent, and the substance of all matters discussed.
   (B)   The minutes of all meetings and evidence and documentation received or
disclosed in open session shall be public records and open to public inspection
during normal business hours.
   (C)   Minutes shall be written or kept as an electronic record and shall be
available for inspection within ten working days or prior to the next convened
meeting, whichever occurs earlier, except that the village may have an
additional ten working days if the employee responsible for writing or keeping
the minutes is absent due to a serious illness or emergency.
(Neb. RS 84-1413)
(Prior Code, § 1-506)
§ 30.021 VOTES.
   (A)   Any action taken on any question or motion duly moved and seconded
shall be by roll call vote of the public body in open session, and the record
shall state how each member voted, or if the member was absent or not voting.
The requirements of a roll call or viva voce vote shall be satisfied by a
village which utilizes an electronic voting device which allows the yeas and
nays of each member of the Board of Trustees to be readily seen by the public.
   (B)   The vote to elect leadership within a public body may be taken by
secret ballot, but the total number of votes for each candidate shall be
recorded in the minutes.
(Neb. RS 84-1413) (Prior Code, § 1-507)
§ 30.022 NOTICE TO NEWS MEDIA.
   The Village Clerk, in the case of the Board of Trustees, and the secretary
or other designee of each other public body shall maintain a list of the news
media requesting notification of meetings and shall make reasonable efforts to
provide advance notification to them of the time and place of each meeting and
the subjects to be discussed at that meeting.
(Neb. RS 84-1411) (Prior Code, § 1-508)
§ 30.023 PUBLIC PARTICIPATION.
   (A)   Subject to this subchapter and the Open Meetings Act, Neb. RS 84-1407
et seq., the public has the right to attend and the right to speak at meetings
of public bodies, and all or any part of a meeting of a public body, except for
closed sessions called pursuant to § 33.07, may be videotaped, televised,
photographed, broadcast, or recorded by any person in attendance by means of a
tape recorder, a camera, video equipment, or any other means of pictorial or
sonic reproduction or in writing. Except for closed sessions called pursuant to
§ 33.07, a public body shall allow members of the public an opportunity to
speak at each meeting.
   (B)   It shall not be a violation of division (A) above for any public body
to make and enforce reasonable rules and regulations regarding the conduct of
persons attending, speaking at, videotaping, televising, photographing,
broadcasting, or recording its meetings, including meetings held by virtual
conferencing.
   (C)   No public body shall require members of the public to identify
themselves as a condition for admission to the meeting, nor shall such body
require that the name of any member of the public be placed on the agenda prior
to such meeting in order to speak about items on the agenda. The body shall
require any member of the public desiring to address the body to identify
himself or herself, including an address and the name of any organization
represented by such person unless the address requirement is waived to protect
the security of the individual.
   (D)   No public body shall, for the purpose of circumventing this subchapter
or the Open Meetings Act, Neb. RS 84-1407 et seq., hold a meeting in a place
known by the body to be too small to accommodate the anticipated audience.
   (E)   No public body shall be deemed in violation of this section if it
holds its meeting in its traditional meeting place which is located in this
state.
   (F)   No public body shall be deemed in violation of this section if it
holds a meeting outside of this state if, but only if, a member entity of the
public body is located outside of this state and the other requirements of Neb.
RS 84-1412 are met.
   (G)   The public body shall, upon request, make a reasonable effort to
accommodate the public’s right to hear the discussion and testimony presented
at the meeting.
   (H)   Public bodies shall make available at the meeting, for examination and
copying by members of the public, at least one copy of all reproducible written
material to be discussed at an open meeting, either in paper or electronic
form. Public bodies shall make available at least one current copy of the Open
Meetings Act, Neb. RS 84-1407 et seq., posted in the meeting room at a location
accessible to members of the public. At the beginning of the meeting, the
public shall be informed about the location of the posted information.
   (I)   A public body may allow a member of the public or any other witness
other than a member of the public body to appear before the public body by
means of video or telecommunications equipment.
(Neb. RS 84-1411)
(Prior Code, § 1-509)
§ 30.024 REGULAR MEETING.
   (A)   The meetings of the Board of Trustees shall be held in the meeting
place of the municipality. Regular meetings shall be held on the second Tuesday
of each month at the hour of 7:00 p.m.
   (B)   (1)   At all meetings of the Village Board of Trustees, a majority of
the Trustees shall constitute a quorum to do business. A smaller number may
adjourn from day to day and may compel the attendance of absent members in such
manner and under such penalties as prescribed by the Village Board of Trustees.
      (2)   Unless otherwise provided by the Board, on the request of any two
members, whether a quorum is present or not, all absent members shall be sent
for and compelled to attend.
(Neb. RS 17-205) (Prior Code, § 1-510)
§ 30.025 SPECIAL MEETING.
   (A)   Unless otherwise provided by the Board, special meetings may also be
called by any three members of the Board of Trustees. The object of a special
meeting shall be submitted to the Village Clerk in writing. The call and
object, as well as the disposition thereof, shall be entered upon the journal
by the Clerk. On filing the call for a special meeting, the Clerk shall notify
the members of the Board of Trustees of the special meeting, stating the time
and its purpose.
   (B)   At the hour specified for a meeting, the Village Clerk shall proceed
to call the roll of members and announce whether a quorum is present. If a
quorum is present, the Board shall be called to order by the Chairperson.
(Prior Code, § 1-511)
§ 30.026 ORDER OF BUSINESS.
   Promptly at the hour set by law on the day of each regular meeting, the
members of the Village Board, the Village Clerk, and such other village
officials that may be required shall take their regular stations in the meeting
place, and the business of the village shall be taken up for consideration and
disposition in the order prescribed by the official agenda on file at the
office of the Village Clerk.
(Prior Code, § 1-512)
§ 30.027 PARLIAMENTARY PROCEDURE.
   Unless the Board of Trustees provides otherwise, the rules of parliamentary
procedure specified in this section shall apply to meetings of the Board of
Trustees. The Chairperson shall preserve order during meetings of the Board of
Trustees and shall decide all questions of order, subject to an appeal to the
Board. When any person is called to order, he or she shall be seated until the
point is decided. When the Chairperson is putting the question, no person shall
leave the meeting room. Every person present, previous to speaking, shall rise
from his or her seat and address the presiding officer and while speaking shall
confine his or her comments to the question. When two or more persons rise at
once, the Chairperson shall recognize the one who spoke first. All resolutions
or motions shall be reduced to writing before being acted upon, if requested by
the Village Clerk or any member of the Board. Every member of the Board who is
present when a question is voted upon shall cast his or her vote unless excused
by a majority of the members of the Board present. No motion shall be put or
debated unless seconded. When seconded, it shall be stated by the Chairperson
before being debatable. In all cases where a motion or resolution is entered on
the minutes, the name of the member of the Board making the motion or
resolution shall be entered also. After each vote, the “yeas” and “nays” shall
be taken and entered in the minutes. Before the vote is actually taken, any
resolution, motion or proposed ordinance may be withdrawn from consideration by
the sponsor with the consent of the member of the Board seconding the
resolution, motion or ordinance. When, in the consideration of an ordinance,
different times or amounts are proposed, the question shall be put on the
largest sum, or the longest time. A question to reconsider shall be in order
when made by a member voting with the majority, but the motion to reconsider
must be made before the expiration of the third regular meeting after the
initial consideration of the question. When any question is under debate, no
motion shall be made, entertained or seconded except the previous question, a
motion to table, and to adjourn. Each of those motions shall be decided without
debate. Any of the rules of the Board for meetings may be suspended by a two-
thirds vote of the members present. In all cases in which provisions are not
made by these rules, Robert’s Rules of Order is the authority by which the
Board shall decide all procedural disputes that may arise.
(Prior Code, § 1-513)
§ 30.028 CHANGE IN OFFICE.
   The Board of Trustees shall meet at the time and place of the regular
meeting in December in each election year, and the outgoing officers and the
outgoing members of the Board shall present their reports. Upon the outgoing
Board having completed its business, the outgoing Trustees shall surrender
their offices to the incoming Trustees, and the outgoing officers shall
thereupon each surrender to their successors in office all property, records,
papers and moneys belonging to the same.
(Prior Code, § 1-514) (Ord. 96-3, passed 5-16-1996)
§ 30.029 REORGANIZATIONAL MEETING.
   (A)   The newly elected Trustees and those continuing in office shall
convene immediately after the prior Board adjourns and proceed to organize
themselves for the ensuing year. The Chairperson pro tempore shall call the
meeting to order. The Clerk shall report to the Board the names of all
Trustees- elect who have qualified for their respective offices. The Board
shall examine the credentials of its members and any other elective officers of
the village to see that each has been duly and properly elected and to see that
such oaths and bonds as are required have been given. The Clerk’s report shall
be spread upon the minutes of the meeting preceding the roll call.
   (B)   After ascertaining that all Trustees and officers are duly qualified
and after the Clerk has called the roll, the Board shall elect a Chairperson
and shall appoint the officers required by state law or village ordinance. The
Chairperson shall then proceed with the regular order of business.
(Prior Code, § 1-515) (Ord. 96-4, passed 5-16-1996)
§ 30.030 PROHIBITED ACTS; EXEMPT EVENTS.
   (A)   No person or public body shall fail to invite a portion of its members
to a meeting, and no public body shall designate itself a subcommittee of the
whole body for the purpose of circumventing this subchapter or the Open
Meetings Act. No closed session, informal meeting, chance meeting, social
gathering, email, fax or electronic communication shall be used for the purpose
of circumventing the requirements of this subchapter or the Act.
   (B)   This subchapter and the Act do not apply to chance meetings or to
attendance at or travel to conventions or workshops of members of a public body
at which there is no meeting of the body then intentionally convened, if there
is no vote or other action taken regarding any matter over which the public
body has supervision, control, jurisdiction or advisory power.
(Neb. RS 84-1410)
COMPENSATION
§ 30.045 MUNICIPAL OFFICIALS.
   (A)   The appointive officials and other employees of the village shall
receive such compensation as the Board of Trustees shall designate by
ordinance; and the annual salary of the Chairperson and other members of the
Board of Trustees shall be fixed by ordinance.
(Neb. RS 17-209)
   (B)   Trustees may perform and upon Village Board of Trustees approval
receive compensation for seasonal or emergency work subject to §
30.046.
(Neb. RS 17-209.02)
   (C)   The village may enact ordinances or bylaws to regulate and prescribe
the compensation of officers not provided for in state law.
(Neb. RS 17-604)
   (D)   No officer shall receive any pay or perquisites from the village other
than his or her salary. The Board of Trustees shall not pay or appropriate any
money or other valuable thing to any person not an officer for the performance
of any act, service or duty, the doing or performance of which shall come
within the proper scope of the duties of any officer of the village.
(Neb. RS 17-611)
   (E)   The salary of any elective officer shall not be increased or
diminished during the term for which he or she shall have been elected, except
when there has been a combination and merger of offices as provided in §
32.02, except that when there are officers elected to the Board of Trustees, or
any other board or commission having more than one member and the terms of one
or more members commence and end at different times, the compensation of all
members of such board or commission may be increased or diminished at the
beginning of the full term of any member thereof. No person who shall have
resigned or vacated any office shall be eligible to the same during the time
for which he or she was elected if during the same time the salary was
increased.
(Neb. RS 17-612)
(Prior Code, § 1-901)
§ 30.046 CONFLICT OF INTEREST.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      BUSINESS ASSOCIATION.
         (a)   A business:
            1.   In which the individual is a partner, limited liability
company member, director or officer; or
            2.   In which the individual or a member of the individual’s
immediate family is a stockholder of closed corporation stock worth the amount
set forth in the village master fee list or is a stockholder of publicly traded
stock worth the amount set forth in the village master fee list.
         (b)   An individual who occupies a confidential professional
relationship protected by law shall be exempt from this definition. This
definition shall not apply to publicly traded stock under a trading account if
the filer reports the name and address of the stockbroker.
(Neb. RS 49-1408)
      IMMEDIATE FAMILY. A child residing in an individual’s household, a spouse
of an individual or an individual claimed by that individual or that
individual’s spouse as a dependent for federal income tax purposes.
(Neb. RS 49-1425)
      OFFICER.
         (a)   Includes:
            1.   A member of any board or commission of the village which
spends and administers its own funds, who is dealing with a contract made by
that board or commission; or
            2.   Any elected village official.
         (b)   OFFICER does not mean volunteer firefighters or ambulance
drivers with respect to their duties as firefighters or ambulance drivers.
   (B)   (1)   Except as provided in Neb. RS 49-1499.04 or 70-624.04, no
officer may have an interest in any contract to which his or her governing
body, or anyone for its benefit, is a party. The existence of such an interest
in any contract shall render the contract voidable by decree of a court of
competent jurisdiction as to any person who entered into the contract or took
assignment of the contract with actual knowledge of the prohibited conflict. An
action to have a contract declared void under this section may be brought by
the County Attorney, the governing body or any resident within the jurisdiction
of the governing body, and shall be brought within one year after the contract
is signed or assigned. The decree may provide for the reimbursement of any
person for the reasonable value of all money, goods, material, labor or
services furnished under the contract, to the extent that the governing body
has benefitted thereby.
      (2)   The prohibition in this division (B) shall apply only when the
officer or his or her parent, spouse or child:
         (a)   Has a business association with the business involved in the
contract; or
         (b)   Will receive a payment, fee or commission as a result of the
contract.
   (C)   Division (B) of this section does not apply if the contract is an
agenda item approved at a meeting of the governing body and the interested
officer:
      (1)   Makes a declaration on the record to the governing body responsible
for approving the contract regarding the nature and extent of his or her
interest prior to official consideration of the contract;
      (2)   Does not vote on the matters of granting the contract, making
payments pursuant to the contract, or accepting performance of work under the
contract, or similar matters relating to the contract, except that if the
number of members of the governing body declaring an interest in the contract
would prevent the body with all members present from securing a quorum on the
issue, then all members may vote on the matters; and
      (3)   Does not act for the governing body which is a party to the
contract as to inspection or performance under the contract in which he or she
has an interest.
   (D)   The receiving of deposits, cashing of checks, and buying and selling
of warrants and bonds of indebtedness of any such governing body by a financial
institution shall not be considered a contract for purposes of this section.
The ownership of less than 5% of the outstanding shares of a corporation shall
not constitute an interest within the meaning of this section.
   (E)   If an officer’s parent, spouse or child is an employee of the
officer’s governing body, the officer may vote on all issues of the contract
which are generally applicable to all employees, or all employees within a
classification, and do not single out his or her parent, spouse or child for
special action.
   (F)   Neb. RS 49-14,102 does not apply to contracts covered by this section.
(Neb. RS 49-14,103.01)
   (G)   (1)   The person charged with keeping records for the governing body
shall maintain separately from other records a ledger containing the
information listed in divisions (G)(1)(a) through (G)(1)(e) of this section
about every contract entered into by the governing body in which an officer of
the body has an interest and for which disclosure is made pursuant to division
(C) of this section. This information shall be kept in the ledger for five
years from the date of the officer’s last day in office and shall include:
         (a)   The names of the contracting parties;
         (b)   The nature of the interest of the officer in question;
         (c)   The date that the contract was approved by the governing body;
         (d)   The amount of the contract; and
         (e)   The basic terms of the contract.
      (2)   The information supplied relative to the contract shall be provided
no later than ten days after the contract has been signed by both parties. The
ledger kept pursuant to this division (G) shall be available for public
inspection during the normal working hours of the office in which it is kept.
(Neb. RS 49-14,103.02)
   (H)   (1)   An open account established for the benefit of any governing
body with a business in which an officer has an interest shall be deemed a
contract subject to this section. The statement required to be filed by
division (G) of this section shall be filed within ten days after the account
is opened. Thereafter, the person charged with keeping records for the
governing body shall maintain a running account of amounts purchased on the
open account.
      (2)   Purchases made from petty cash or a petty cash fund shall not be
subject to this section.
(Neb. RS 49-14,103.03)
   (I)   Notwithstanding divisions (A) through (H) of this section, the
governing body may prohibit contracts over a specific dollar amount in which an
officer of the governing body may have an interest.
(Neb. RS 49-14,103.05)
   (J)   The governing body may exempt from divisions (A) through (H) of this
section, contracts involving the amount set forth in the village master fee
list in which an officer of that body may have an interest.
(Neb. RS 49-14,103.06)
(Prior Code, § 1-902)
Statutory reference:
   Other provisions on conflicts of interest, see Neb. RS 18-305 through 18-312
and 49-1499.03 through 49-14,103
   Penalty for violation of restrictions on contracts, see Neb. RS 49-14,103.04
INTERGOVERNMENTAL RISK MANAGEMENT
§ 30.060 AUTHORITY.
   The Board of Trustees and any one or more public agencies, as defined in
Neb. RS 44-4303, may make and execute an agreement providing for joint and
cooperative action in accordance with Neb. RS 44-4301 through 44-4339, to form,
become members of and operate a risk management pool for the purpose of
providing to members risk management services and insurance coverages in the
form of group self-insurance or standard insurance, including any combination
of group self-insurance and standard insurance, to protect members against
losses arising from any of the following:
   (A)   General liability;
   (B)   Damage, destruction or loss of real or personal property, including
but not limited to, loss of use or occupancy, and loss of income or extra
expense resulting from loss of use or occupancy;
   (C)   Errors and omissions liability; and
   (D)   Worker’s compensation liability.
(Neb. RS 44-4301 through 44-4339) (Prior Code, § 1-1001)
NOTICES
§ 30.075 NOTICES; PUBLICATION.
   If the village is required to publish a notice or advertisement in a legal
newspaper in or of general circulation in the village, and if there is no legal
newspaper in or of general circulation in the village, then the village shall
publish such notice or advertisement in a legal newspaper in or of general
circulation in the county in which the village is located. If there is no legal
newspaper in or of general circulation in such county, then the village shall
publish such notice or advertisement by posting a written or printed copy
thereof in each of three public places in the village for the same period of
time the village is required to publish the notice or advertisement in a legal
newspaper.
VILLAGE POLICIES
§ 30.090 NIMS ADOPTED.
   All departments, officials, personnel, standard operating procedures and
local emergency operation plans of the village shall comply with and utilize
the National Incident Management System as the all hazards, incident response
system during all emergency operations conducted by, for and within the
village.
(Res. 2006-10, passed 6-15-2006)
§ 30.091 MULTI-JURISDICTIONAL HAZARD MITIGATION PLAN.
   The Board of Trustees does herewith adopt the Lower Platte North Natural
Resources District Multi-Jurisdictional Hazard Mitigation Plan Update in its
entirety and request approval of the plan at the federal level.
(Res. 2010-06, passed 10-21-2010; Res. 2015-05, passed 7-14-2015; Res. 2020-09,
passed 10-13-2020)
§ 30.092 AMERICAN WITH DISABILITIES ACT.
   (A)   Generally. The village will ensure that no qualified disabled
individual shall, solely on the basis of his or her disability, be excluded
from the participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to
discrimination under any of its programs, services or activities as provided by
§ 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, being 29 U.S.C. § 794 and 42 U.S.C. §§
1231 et seq., and the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990 (ADA), being 42
U.S.C. §§ 12101 et seq. The village further ensures that every effort will be
made to provide nondiscrimination in all of its programs or activities
regardless of the funding source.
   (B)   Definition. For the village’s purposes, a DISABLED PERSON is defined
as any person who:
      (1)   Has a physical or mental impairment that substantially limits one
or more major life activities;
      (2)   Has a record of such an impairment; or
      (3)   Is regarding as having such an impairment.
   (C)   Authorities.
      (1)   Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended, provides
that “No otherwise qualified disabled individual in the United States, as
defined in § 7(6), shall, solely by reason of his or her disability, be
excluded for the participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected
to discrimination under any program or activity receiving federal financial
assistance.”
      (2)   29 U.S.C. § 794 (October 29, 1992 to the Rehabilitation Act of
1973) substitutes “a disability” for “handicaps” and “disability” for
“handicap”.
      (3)   49 C.F.R. part 27.13 (Nondiscrimination on the Basis of Disability
in Programs and Activities Receiving or Benefiting from Federal Financial
Assistance) states, “This part applies to each recipient of federal financial
assistance from the Department of Transportation and to each program or
activity that receives or benefits from such assistance.”
      (4)   49 C.F.R. part 28.102 (Enforcement of Nondiscrimination on the
Basis of Disability in Programs or Activities Conducted by the Department of
Transportation) states, “This part applies to all programs or activities
conducted by the Department of Transportation except for programs and
activities conducted outside the United States that do not involve individuals
with disabilities in the United States.”
(Res. 2013-04, passed - -2013)
CHAPTER 31: ELECTED OFFICIALS; ORDINANCES
Section
Board of Trustees
   
31.01   Chairperson; selection and duties
   
31.02   Organization
   
31.03   Powers
   
31.04   Vacancy; general provisions
   
31.05   Vacancy due to unexcused absences
Ordinances, Resolutions and Motions
   
31.20   Grant of power
   
31.21   Introduction
   
31.22   Resolutions and motions
   
31.23   Style
   
31.24   Title
   
31.25   Reading; passage
   
31.26   Publication or posting
   
31.27   Certificate of publication or posting
   
31.28   Effective date; emergency ordinances
   
31.29   Amendments and revisions
BOARD OF TRUSTEES
§ 31.01 CHAIRPERSON; SELECTION AND DUTIES.
   (A)   All Trustees elected to office shall qualify and meet on the first
regular meeting of the Board of Trustees in December thereafter, organize,
elect a Chairperson of the Board of Trustees and appoint the officers required
by law.
   (B)   (1)   The Chairperson shall preside at all meetings of the Board of
Trustees and perform all duties of his or her office in accordance with the
laws of the state and the ordinances of the village.
      (2)   The Chairperson of the Board of Trustees shall cause the ordinances
of the Board to be printed and published for the information of the inhabitants
and cause such ordinances to be carried into effect. In the absence of the
Chairperson from any meeting of the Board, the Board shall have power to
appoint a Chairperson pro tempore, who shall exercise and have the powers and
perform the same duties as the regular Chairperson.
(Neb. RS 17-210)
      (3)   The Chairperson and the Chairperson pro tempore shall have the same
powers and privileges as other members of the Board of Trustees.
(Prior Code, § 1-101) (Ord. 96-1, passed 5-16-1996)
§ 31.02 ORGANIZATION.
   (A)   The corporate powers and duties of the village shall be vested in a
Board of Trustees which shall consist of five members. At the first statewide
general election held after the incorporation of the village, two Trustees
shall be elected to serve two years and three Trustees shall be elected to
serve four years. Thereafter the Board members shall be elected as provided in
the Election Act, being Neb. RS 32-101 et seq. The terms shall begin on the
first regular meeting of the Board in December following the statewide general
election.
(Neb. RS 17-202)
   (B)   The members of the Board of Trustees shall be elected at the statewide
general election as provided in division (A) of this section and each four
years thereafter. Except as provided in that division, the term of each Board
member shall be four years or until his or her successor is elected and
qualified.
(Neb. RS 32-532)
   (C)   Any person may be a Trustee who is a citizen of the United States,
resides in the village and is a registered voter.
(Neb. RS 17-203)
   (D)   Unless the village provides otherwise, members of the Board of
Trustees shall be elected from the village at large on a nonpartisan ballot.
   (E)   The Board of Trustees shall determine whether the person meets all
requirements before swearing in a Trustee.
(Neb. RS 32-602)
(Prior Code, § 1-102) (Ord. 96-2, passed 5-16-1996)
Statutory reference:
   Ability to elect Trustees at large or by ward, see Neb. RS 32-554
   Ability to provide for a partisan ballot, see Neb. RS 32-557
   Election Act, see Neb. RS 32-101
   Holding other office or employment, see Neb. RS 17-209.02 and 32-604
§ 31.03 POWERS.
   (A)   The Village Board of Trustees shall have the power to pass ordinances:
      (1)   To prevent and remove nuisances within the village or within its
one-mile zoning jurisdiction;
      (2)   To restrain and prohibit gambling;
      (3)   To provide for licensing and regulating theatrical and other
amusements within the village;
      (4)   To prevent the introduction and spread of contagious diseases;
      (5)   To establish and regulate markets;
      (6)   To erect and repair bridges;
      (7)   To erect, repair and regulate wharves;
      (8)   To regulate the landing of watercraft;
      (9)   To provide for the inspection of building materials to be used or
offered for sale in the village;
      (10)   To govern the planting and protection of shade trees in the
streets and the building of structures projecting upon or over and adjoining,
and all excavations through and under, the sidewalks of the village;
      (11)   To maintain the peace, good government and welfare of the village
and its trade and commerce; and
      (12)   To enforce all ordinances by inflicting penalties upon inhabitants
or other persons for violation of such ordinances not exceeding the amount set
forth in the village master fee list for any one offense, recoverable with
costs.
(Neb. RS 17-207)
   (B)   The village has the power and authority by ordinance to define,
regulate, suppress and prevent nuisances, and to declare what constitutes a
nuisance, and to abate and remove the same. The village may exercise this power
and authority within its corporate limits and extraterritorial zoning
jurisdiction.
   (C)   The village may enter into an interlocal agreement pursuant to the
Interlocal Cooperation Act, Neb. RS 13-801 et seq., with a county in which the
extraterritorial zoning jurisdiction of the village is located to provide for
joint and cooperative action to abate, remove or prevent nuisances within such
extraterritorial zoning jurisdiction. The governing body of such village and
the county board of such county shall first approve such interlocal agreement
by ordinance or resolution.
(Neb. RS 18-1720) (Prior Code, § 1-103) (Ord. 2001-7, passed 2-15-2001)
§ 31.04 VACANCY; GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Every elective office shall be vacant upon the happening of any of the
events specified in Neb. RS 32-560 except as provided in Neb. RS 32-561.
   (B)   (1)   Except as otherwise provided in division (C) or (D) of this
section, vacancies in village elected offices shall be filled by the Board of
Trustees for the balance of the unexpired term. Notice of a vacancy, except a
vacancy resulting from the death of the incumbent, shall be in writing and
presented to the Board at a regular or special meeting and shall appear as a
part of the minutes of that meeting. The Board shall at once give public notice
of the vacancy by causing to be published in a newspaper of general circulation
within the village or by posting in three public places in the village the
office vacated and the length of the unexpired term.
      (2)   The Chairperson of the Board shall call a special meeting of the
Board or place the issue of filling the vacancy on the agenda at the next
regular meeting at which time the Chairperson shall submit the name of a
qualified registered voter to fill the vacancy for the balance of the unexpired
term. The regular or special meeting shall occur upon the death of the
incumbent, or within four weeks after the meeting at which such notice of
vacancy has been presented. The Board shall vote upon the nominee, and if a
majority votes in favor of the nominee, the vacancy shall be declared filled.
If the nominee fails to receive a majority of the votes, the nomination shall
be rejected and the Chairperson shall, at the next regular or special meeting,
submit the name of another qualified registered voter to fill the vacancy. If
the subsequent nominee fails to receive a majority of the votes, the
Chairperson shall continue at that meeting to submit the names of qualified
registered voters in nomination and the Board shall continue to vote upon the
nominations at such meeting until the vacancy is filled. All Trustees present
shall cast a ballot for or against the nominee. Any member of the Board who has
been appointed to fill a vacancy on the Board shall have the same rights,
including voting, as if that person were elected.
   (C)   The Chairperson and Board of Trustees may, in lieu of filling a
vacancy in a village elected office as provided in division (B), call a special
election to fill that vacancy.
   (D)   If vacancies exist in the offices of one-half or more of the members
of the Board of Trustees, the Secretary of State shall conduct a special
village election to fill those vacancies. Candidates for such special election
shall file a candidate filing form pursuant to §
36.07(C).
(Neb. RS 32-569)
(Prior Code, § 1-104)
Statutory reference:
   Additional and similar provisions, see Neb. RS 32-560 through 32-572
   Ineligibility of official subjected to recall, see Neb. RS 32-1308
§ 31.05 VACANCY DUE TO UNEXCUSED ABSENCES.
   (A)   In addition to the events listed in Neb. RS 32-560 and any other
reasons for a vacancy provided by law, after notice and a hearing, a vacancy on
the Board of Trustees shall exist if a member is absent from more than five
consecutive regular meetings of the Board unless the absences are excused by a
majority vote of the remaining members.
(Neb. RS 19-3101)
   (B)   The Board shall take a vote on whether to excuse a member’s absence
from a meeting upon either:
      (1)   A written request from the member submitted to the Village Clerk;
or
      (2)   A motion of any other Board member.
   (C)   If a member has been absent from six consecutive regular meetings and
none of the absences have been excused by a majority vote of the remaining
members, the Clerk shall include this as an item on the agenda for the next
regular meeting. At that meeting, the Board shall set a date for a hearing and
direct the Clerk to give the member notice of the hearing by personal service
or first class mail to the member’s last known address.
   (D)   At the hearing, the Board member shall have the right to present
information on why one or more of the absences should be excused. If the Board
does not excuse one or more of the member’s absences by a majority vote at the
conclusion of the hearing, there shall be a vacancy on the Board.
ORDINANCES, RESOLUTIONS AND MOTIONS
§ 31.20 GRANT OF POWER.
   In addition to its special powers, the village shall have the power to make
all ordinances, bylaws, rules, regulations and resolutions, not inconsistent
with the laws of the state, as may be expedient for maintaining the peace, good
government and welfare of the village and its trade and commerce and to enforce
all ordinances by inflicting fines or penalties for the breach thereof, not
exceeding the amount set forth in the village master fee list for any one
offense, recoverable with costs.
(Neb. RS 17-505) (Prior Code, § 1-601)
Statutory reference:
   Adoption of standard codes, see Neb. RS 18-132 and 19-922
   Prosecution in county court, see Neb. RS 25-2703
§ 31.21 INTRODUCTION.
   Unless the Board of Trustees has specified other procedures, ordinances
shall be introduced by members of the Board of Trustees in one of the following
ways:
   (A)   With the recognition of the Chairperson, a member may, in the presence
and hearing of a majority of the members elected to the Board of Trustees, read
aloud the substance of the proposed ordinance and file a copy with the Village
Clerk for future consideration; or
   (B)   With the recognition of the Chairperson, a member may present the
proposed ordinance to the Clerk who, in the presence and hearing of a majority
of the members elected to the Board of Trustees, shall read aloud the substance
of the ordinance and file it for future consideration.
(Prior Code, § 1-602)
§ 31.22 RESOLUTIONS AND MOTIONS.
   Unless the Board of Trustees has specified other procedures, resolutions and
motions shall be introduced in one of the methods prescribed in §
31.21 for the introduction of ordinances. The issue raised by the resolution or
motion shall be disposed of in accordance with the usage of parliamentary law
adopted for the guidance of the Board of Trustees. A majority vote shall be
required to pass any resolution or motion. The vote on any resolution or motion
shall be by roll call vote.
(Prior Code, § 1-603)
§ 31.23 STYLE.
   The style of all village ordinances shall be: “Be it ordained by the
Chairperson and Board of Trustees of the Village of __________, Nebraska:....”
(Neb. RS 17-613) (Prior Code, § 1-604)
§ 31.24 TITLE.
   No ordinance shall contain a subject which is not clearly expressed in the
title.
(Neb. RS 17-614) (Prior Code, § 1-605)
§ 31.25 READING; PASSAGE.
   (A)   All ordinances and resolutions or orders for the appropriation or
payment of money shall require for their passage or adoption the concurrence of
a majority of all elected members of the Board of Trustees. Ordinances of a
general or permanent nature shall be read by title on three different days
unless three-fourths of the Board of Trustees vote to suspend this requirement.
Such requirement shall not be suspended for any ordinance for the annexation of
territory, or the redrawing of boundaries for Village Board of Trustees
election districts or wards or as otherwise provided by law. In case this
requirement is suspended, the ordinance shall be read by title and then moved
for final passage. Three-fourths of the Board of Trustees may require a reading
of any such ordinance in full before enactment under either procedure set out
in this section.
(Neb. RS 17-614)
   (B)   On the passage or adoption of every bylaw or ordinance, and every
resolution or order to enter into a contract by the Board of Trustees, the yeas
and nays shall be called and recorded. To pass or adopt any bylaw, ordinance or
any such resolution or order a concurrence of a majority of the whole number of
members elected to the Board of Trustees shall be required. All appointments of
the officers by the Board of Trustees shall be made viva voce, and the
concurrence of a like majority shall be required, and the names of those, and
for whom they voted, on the vote resulting in an appointment, shall be
recorded. The requirements of a roll call or viva voce vote shall be satisfied
by a village which utilizes an electronic voting device which allows the yeas
and nays of each member of the Board of Trustees to be readily seen by the
public.
(Neb. RS 17-616) (Prior Code, § 1-606) (Ord. 95-2, passed 4-26-1995)
Statutory reference:
   Adjustments to boundaries of election districts, see Neb. RS 17-614
§ 31.26 PUBLICATION OR POSTING.
   All ordinances of a general nature shall, before they take effect, be
published within 15 days after they are passed:
   (A)   In legal newspaper in or of general circulation in the village or, if
no paper is published in the village, then by posting a written or printed copy
in each of three public places in the village; or
   (B)   In book, pamphlet or electronic form.
(Neb. RS 17-613) (Prior Code, § 1-607)
Statutory reference:
   Chairperson of Board of Trustees; duties, see Neb. RS 17-210
   Additional provisions, see Neb. RS 18-131
§ 31.27 CERTIFICATE OF PUBLICATION OR POSTING.
   The passage, approval and publication or posting of an ordinance shall be
sufficiently proved by a certificate under the seal of the village from the
Village Clerk showing that the ordinance was passed and approved, and when and
in what paper the ordinance was published, or when and by whom and where the
ordinance was posted.
(Neb. RS 17-613) (Prior Code, § 1-608)
Statutory reference:
   Passage; rules and regulations, see Neb. RS 17-615
§ 31.28 EFFECTIVE DATE; EMERGENCY ORDINANCES.
   (A)   Except as provided in §
31.26 and division (B) of this section, an ordinance for the government of the
village which has been adopted by the Board of Trustees without submission to
the voters of the village shall not go into effect until 15 days after the
passage of the ordinance.
(Neb. RS 19-3701)
   (B)   In the case of riot, infectious or contagious diseases, or other
impending danger, failure of a public utility, or any other emergency requiring
its immediate operation, an ordinance shall take effect upon the proclamation
of the Chairperson and the posting thereof in at least three of the most public
places in the village. The emergency ordinance shall recite the emergency, be
passed by a three-fourths vote of the Board of Trustees, and be entered of
record on the Village Clerk’s minutes.
(Neb. RS 17-613)
(Prior Code, § 1-609)
§ 31.29 AMENDMENTS AND REVISIONS.
   No ordinance or section thereof shall be revised or amended unless the new
ordinance contains the entire ordinance or section as revised or amended and
the ordinance or section so amended is repealed, except that an ordinance
revising all the ordinances of the village and modifications to zoning or
building districts may be adopted as otherwise provided by law.
(Neb. RS 17-614) (Prior Code, § 1-610)
Statutory reference:
   Modifications to zoning or building districts, see Neb. RS 19-915
   Ordinances revising all the ordinances of the village, see Neb. RS 17-614
CHAPTER 32: APPOINTED VILLAGE OFFICIALS
Section
   
32.01   Appointment; general authority
   
32.02   Merger of offices
   
32.03   Clerk-Treasurer position created
   
32.04   Village Clerk
   
32.05   Village Treasurer
   
32.06   Village Attorney
   
32.07   Engineer; Special Engineer
   
32.08   Utilities Superintendent
   
32.09   Police Chief
   
32.10   Fire Chief
   
32.11   Building Inspector
   
32.12   Electrical Inspector
   
32.13   Plumbing Inspector
§ 32.01 APPOINTMENT; GENERAL AUTHORITY.
   (A)   (1)   The Board of Trustees may appoint a Village Clerk, Treasurer,
Attorney, Engineer, village street official and Chief of Police, and other such
officers as shall be required by ordinance or otherwise required by law.
Pursuant to division (A)(2) of this section, the Village Chief of Police or any
other police officer may appeal to the Village Board his or her removal,
demotion or suspension with or without pay. After a hearing, the Village Board
of Trustees may uphold, reverse or modify the action.
      (2)   The Village Board of Trustees shall by ordinance adopt rules and
regulations governing the removal, demotion or suspension with or without pay
of any police officer, including the Chief of Police, in accordance with the
requirements of Neb. RS 17-208. Nothing in this section shall be construed to
prevent the preemptory suspension or immediate removal from duty of an officer
by the appropriate authority, pending the hearing authorized by this section,
in cases of gross misconduct, neglect of duty or disobedience of orders.
      (3)   Division (A)(2) of this section does not apply to a police officer
during his or her probationary period.
   (B)   The Village Clerk, Treasurer, Attorney, village street official,
members of the Board of Health and other appointed officers, except regular
police officers, shall hold office for one year unless removed by the
Chairperson of the Village Board with the advice and consent of the Trustees.
(Neb. RS 17-208)
   (C)   (1)   The village may enact ordinances or bylaws to regulate and
prescribe the powers and duties of officers not provided for in state law.
(Neb. RS 17-604)
      (2)   If the Village Board of Trustees appoints any of the officials
specified in this chapter or any other officials, the officials shall have the
powers and duties, if any, provided in this chapter or as otherwise provided by
village ordinances and state law.
(Prior Code, § 1-201)
§ 32.02 MERGER OF OFFICES.
   (A)   (1)   The Board of Trustees may, by ordinance, combine or merge any
elective or appointive village office or village employment or any combination
of duties of any such offices or employments, except that the office of Trustee
shall not be combined or merged with any other village office or village
employment except as provided in division (B) of this section.
      (2)   The village offices or village employments combined or merged shall
always be construed to be separate and the effect of the combination or merger
shall be limited to a consolidation of official duties only.
   (B)   (1)   The office of Trustee shall not be combined or merged with any
other village office or village employment, except that a member of the Board
of Trustees may receive compensation to perform seasonal or emergency work upon
approval by the Board of Trustees.
      (2)   No member of the Board of Trustees shall receive compensation from
the village in excess of the maximum amount provided by law.
   (C)   For purposes of this section, volunteer firefighters and volunteer
rescue squad personnel shall not be considered village officers.
(Neb. RS 17-209.02) (Prior Code, § 1-202)
§ 32.03 CLERK-TREASURER POSITION CREATED.
   (A)   The appointive offices of Village Clerk and Village Treasurer are
hereby combined and merged, in accordance with the authority granted to the
Board of Trustees by §
32.02.
   (B)   The office so merged and combined shall always be construed to be
separate, and the effect of the combination, or merger, shall be limited to a
consolidation of official duties only.
   (C)   The salary of the officer holding the merged offices shall not be in
excess of the maximum amount provided by law for the salary of the offices so
combined.
(Prior Code, § 1-203)
§ 32.04 VILLAGE CLERK.
   (A)   The Village Clerk shall have the custody of all laws and ordinances
and shall keep a correct journal of the proceedings of the Board of Trustees.
After the period of time specified by the State Records Administrator pursuant
to the Records Management Act, Neb. RS 84-1201 et seq., the Clerk may transfer
the journal of the proceedings of the Board of Trustees to the State Archives
of the Nebraska State Historical Society for permanent preservation. The Clerk
shall also perform such other duties as may be required by the ordinances of
the village. If the Clerk is acting as the Treasurer, he or she shall also
comply with the requirements of §
32.05(A)(3).
(Neb. RS 17-605)
   (B)   (1)   It shall be the duty of the Clerk to prepare and publish the
official proceedings of the Board of Trustees within 30 days after any meeting
of the Board. The publication shall be in a newspaper of general circulation in
the village, shall set forth a statement of the proceedings of the meeting, and
shall also include the amount of each claim allowed, the purpose of the claim
and the name of the claimant, except that the aggregate amount of all payroll
claims may be included as one item. Between July 15 and August 15 of each year,
the employee job titles and the current annual, monthly or hourly salaries
corresponding to such job titles shall be published. Each job title published
shall be descriptive and indicative of the duties and functions of the
position. The charge for the publication shall not exceed the rates provided
for in Neb. RS 23-122.
(Neb. RS 19-1102)
      (2)   Publication under division (B)(1) shall be made in one legal
newspaper of general circulation in the village. If no legal newspaper is
published in the village, then the publication shall be made in one legal
newspaper published or of general circulation within the county in which the
village is located. The cost of publication shall be paid out of the general
funds of the village.
(Neb. RS 19-1103)
   (C)   The Clerk shall dispose of or destroy village public records when the
records have been determined to be of no further legal, administrative, fiscal
or historical value by the State Records Administrator pursuant to the Records
Management Act, Neb. RS 84-1201 et seq. This shall not apply to the minutes of
the Clerk and the permanent ordinance and resolution books, or any other record
classified as permanent by the State Records Administrator.
(Neb. RS 18-1701)
   (D)   (1)   The Clerk shall permit any person to examine and copy the public
records in the Clerk’s custody, and may charge a fee for providing copies of a
public record, as provided in Neb. RS 84-712 through 84-712.09.
      (2)   The Clerk may charge a reasonable fee for certified copies of any
record in his or her office as set by resolution of the Board of Trustees.
   (E)   The Clerk shall permit no records, public papers or other documents of
the village kept and preserved in his or her office to be taken therefrom,
except by such officers of the village as may be entitled to the use of the
same, but only upon their leaving a receipt therefor, and except pursuant to
Neb. RS 84-712(2). He or she shall keep all the records of his or her office,
including a record of all licenses issued by him or her, in a blank book with a
proper index. He or she shall include as part of his or her records all
petitions under which the Board of Trustees shall order public work to be done
at the expense of the property fronting thereon, together with references to
all resolutions and ordinances relating to the same. He or she shall endorse
the date and hour of filing upon every paper or document so filed in his or her
office. All such filings made by him or her shall be properly docketed.
Included in his or her records shall be all standard codes, amendments thereto
and other documents incorporated by reference and arranged in triplicate in a
manner convenient for reference. He or she shall keep an accurate and complete
account of the appropriation of the several funds and draw, sign and attest all
warrants ordered for the payment of money on the particular fund from which the
same is payable. At the end of each month, he or she shall then make a report
of the amounts appropriated to the various funds and the amount of the warrants
drawn thereon.
   (F)   The Clerk shall deliver all warrants, ordinances and resolutions under
his or her charge to the Chairperson for his or her signature. He or she shall
also deliver to officers, employees and committees all resolutions and
communications which are directed at such officers, employees or committees.
With the seal of the village, he or she shall duly attest the Chairperson’s
signature to all ordinances, deeds and papers required to be attested to when
ordered to do so by the Board of Trustees.
   (G)   The Clerk shall issue and sign all licenses, permits and occupation
tax receipts authorized by law and required by the village ordinances. He or
she shall collect all occupation taxes and license money, except where some
other village officer is specifically charged with that duty. He or she shall
keep a register of all licenses granted in the village and the purpose for
which they have been issued.
   (H)   The Clerk shall keep in a book with a proper index, copies of all
notices required to be published or posted by the Clerk by order of the Board
of Trustees or under the ordinances of the village. To each of the file copies
of the notices shall be attached the printer’s affidavit of publication, if the
notices are required to be published, or the Clerk’s certificate under seal
where the same are required to be posted only.
   (I)   The Clerk shall receive all objections to creation of paving districts
and other street improvements. He or she shall receive the claims of any person
against the village, and in the event that the claim is disallowed in part or
in whole, the Clerk shall notify the claimant or his or her agent or attorney
by letter within five days after the disallowance, and the Clerk shall then
prepare transcripts on appeals of any disallowance of a claim in all proper
cases.
(Prior Code, § 1-204) (Ord. 93-6, passed 5-20-1993)
§ 32.05 VILLAGE TREASURER.
   (A)   (1)   The Village Treasurer shall be the custodian of all money
belonging to the village. He or she shall keep a separate account of each fund
or appropriation and the debts and credits belonging thereto. He or she shall
give every person paying money into the treasury a receipt for such money,
specifying the date of payment and on what account paid. He or she shall also
file copies of such receipts with his or her monthly reports. The Treasurer
shall, at the end of every month, and as often as may be required, render an
account to the Board of Trustees, under oath, showing the state of the treasury
at the date of such account and the balance of money in the treasury. He or she
shall also accompany such accounts with a statement of all receipts and
disbursements, together with all warrants redeemed and paid by him or her,
which warrants, with any and all vouchers held by him or her, shall be filed
with his or her account in the Village Clerk’s office. If the Treasurer fails
to render his or her account within 20 days after the end of the month, or by a
later date established by the Board of Trustees, the Chairperson with the
advice and consent of the Board may use this failure as cause to remove the
Treasurer from office.
      (2)   The Treasurer shall keep a record of all outstanding bonds against
the village, showing the number and amount of each bond, for and to whom the
bonds were issued, and the date upon which any bond is purchased, paid or
canceled. He or she shall accompany the annual statement submitted pursuant to
Neb. RS 19-1101 with a description of the bonds issued and sold in that year
and the terms of sale, with every item of expense thereof.
      (3)   The Treasurer shall annually complete continuing education through
a program approved by the Auditor of Public Accounts, and proof of completion
of such program shall be submitted to the Auditor of Public Accounts.
(Neb. RS 17-606)
   (B)   (1)   The Treasurer shall prepare and publish annually within 60 days
after the close of the village fiscal year a statement of the receipts and
expenditures of funds of the village for the preceding fiscal year. The
statement shall also include the information required by Neb. RS 16-318(3) or
Neb. RS 17-606(2). Not more than the legal rate provided for in Neb. RS 33-141
shall be charged and paid for such publication.
(Neb. RS 19-1101)
      (2)   Publication shall be made in one legal newspaper of general
circulation in the village. If no legal newspaper is published in the village,
then such publication shall be made in one legal newspaper published or of
general circulation within the county in which the village is located.
(Neb. RS 19-1103)
   (C)   (1)   All warrants upon the Treasurer shall be paid in the order of
their presentation therefor and as otherwise provided in Neb. RS 77-2201
through 77-2215.
(Neb. RS 77-2201)
      (2)   The Treasurer shall keep a warrant register, which register shall
show in columns arranged for that purpose the number, the date and the amount
of each warrant presented and registered, the particular fund upon which the
same is drawn, the date of presentation, the name and address of the person in
whose name the warrant is registered, the date of payment, the amount of
interest and the total amount paid thereon, with the date when notice to the
person in whose name such warrant is registered is mailed.
(Neb. RS 77-2202)
      (3)   The Treasurer shall make duplicate receipts for all sums which
shall be paid into his or her office, which receipts shall show the source from
which such funds are derived, and shall, by distinct lines and columns, show
the amount received to the credit of each separate fund, and whether the same
was paid in cash, in warrants, or otherwise. The Treasurer shall deliver one of
the duplicates to the person making the payment and retain the other in his or
her office.
(Neb. RS 77-2209)
      (4)   The Treasurer shall daily, as money is received, foot the several
columns of the cash book and of the register, and carry the amounts forward,
and at the close of each year, in case the amount of money received by the
Treasurer is insufficient to pay the warrants registered, he or she shall close
the account for that year in the register and shall carry forward the excess.
(Neb. RS. 77-2210)
      (5)   The cash book, register and retained receipts of the Treasurer
shall at all times be open to the inspection of any person in whose name any
warrants are registered and unpaid.
(Neb. RS 77-2212)
   (D)   The Treasurer shall permit any person to examine and copy the public
records in the Treasurer’s custody, and may charge a fee for providing copies
of a public record, as provided in Neb. RS 84-712 through 84-712.09.
   (E)   The Treasurer shall keep all money belonging to the village separate
and distinct from his or her own money. He or she shall cancel all bonds,
coupons, warrants and other evidences of debt against the village, whenever
paid by him or her, by writing or stamping on the face thereof, “Paid by the
Village Treasurer”, with the date of payment written or stamped thereon. He or
she shall collect all special taxes, allocate special assessments to the
several owners, and obtain from the County Treasurer a monthly report as to the
collection of delinquent taxes.
(Prior Code, §§ 1-205 through 1-207)
§ 32.06 VILLAGE ATTORNEY.
   (A)   The Village Attorney shall be the legal advisor of the Board of
Trustees. He or she shall commence, prosecute and defend all suits and actions
necessary to be commenced, prosecuted or defended on behalf of the village, or
that may be ordered by the Board. When requested, he or she shall attend
meetings of the Board and give them his or her opinion upon any matters
submitted to him or her, either orally or in writing, as may be required. He or
she shall draft or review for legal correctness ordinances, contracts,
franchises and other instruments as may be required, and he or she shall
perform such other duties as may be imposed upon him or her by general law or
ordinance. The Board shall have the right to pay the Village Attorney
compensation for legal services performed by him or her for it on such terms as
the Board and Attorney may agree, and to employ additional legal assistance and
to pay for such legal assistance out of the funds of the village.
(Neb. RS 17-610)
   (B)   The Village Attorney shall also examine, when requested to do so by
the Board of Trustees, the ordinance records and advise and assist the Village
Clerk as much as may be necessary to the end that each procedural step will be
taken in the passage of each ordinance to insure that it will be a valid and
subsisting local law in so far as its passage and approval are concerned.
(Prior Code, § 1-208)
§ 32.07 ENGINEER; SPECIAL ENGINEER.
   (A)   The Village Engineer shall, when requested by the Board of Trustees,
make estimates of the cost of labor and material which may be done or furnished
by contract with the village and make all surveys, estimates and calculations
necessary to be made for the establishment of grades, the building of culverts,
sewers, electric light systems, waterworks, power plants, public heating
systems, bridges, curbing and gutters, the improvement of streets, and the
erection and repair of buildings and shall perform such other duties as the
Board may require.
(Neb. RS 17-568.01)
   (B)   The Village Engineer, when ordered to do so by the Village Board of
Trustees, shall make surveys, estimates and calculations necessary to be made
for the establishment and maintenance of public works by the village.
(Neb. RS 17-213.01)
   (C)   The Board of Trustees may employ a special engineer to make, or assist
in making, any estimate necessary or to perform any other duty provided for in
Neb. RS 17-568.01. Any work executed by such special engineer shall have the
same validity and serve in all respects as though executed by the Village
Engineer.
(Neb. RS 17-568)
   (D)   The Village Engineer shall make a record of the minutes of his or her
surveys and of all work done for the village and, when directed by the Board of
Trustees, shall accurately make such plats, sections, profiles and maps as may
be necessary in the prosecution of any public work, which shall be public
records and belong to the village and be turned over to his or her successor.
(Prior Code, § 1-209)
Statutory reference:
   Duties related to areas to be annexed, see Neb. RS 18-3301
   Duties related to sewerage systems, see Neb. RS 17-919
§ 32.08 UTILITIES SUPERINTENDENT.
   (A)   (1)   As soon as a system of waterworks or mains or portion or
extension of any system of waterworks or water supply has been established by
the village, the Chairperson shall nominate and by and with the advice and
consent of the Board of Trustees shall appoint any competent person who shall
be known as the Utilities Superintendent of the village and whose term of
office shall be for one fiscal year or until his or her successor is appointed
and qualified. Annually at the first regular meeting of the Board of Trustees
in December, the Utilities Superintendent shall be appointed as provided in
this section.
      (2)   The Utilities Superintendent may at any time, for sufficient cause,
be removed by a two- thirds vote of the Board of Trustees. Any vacancy
occurring in the office of Utilities Superintendent by death, resignation,
removal from office or removal from the village may be filled in the manner
provided in this section for the appointment of the Superintendent.
      (3)   The Utilities Superintendent shall, before he or she enters upon
the discharge of his or her duties, execute a bond or provide evidence of
equivalent insurance to the village in a sum to be fixed by the Board of
Trustees, but not less than the amount set forth in the village master fee
list, conditioned upon the faithful discharge of his or her duties, and such
bond shall be signed by two or more good and sufficient sureties, to be
approved by the Board of Trustees or executed by a corporate surety.
      (4)   The Utilities Superintendent, subject to the supervision of the
Board of Trustees, shall have the general management and control of the system
of waterworks or mains or portion or extension of any system of waterworks or
water supply in the village.
      (5)   In a village where no Board of Public Works exists, and the village
has other public utilities than its waterworks system, the Board of Trustees
shall by ordinance designate the Utilities Superintendent as Public Works
Commissioner with authority to manage not only the system of waterworks but
also other public utilities, and all of the provisions of this division (A)
applying to the Utilities Superintendent shall apply to the Public Works
Commissioner.
(Neb. RS 17-541)
   (B)   (1)   The Utilities Superintendent shall collect all money received by
the village on account of its system of waterworks and shall faithfully account
for and pay over the same to the Village Treasurer, taking his or her receipt
therefor in duplicate, filing one of the same with the Village Clerk.
      (2)   He or she shall make a detailed report to the Board of Trustees, at
least once every six months, of the condition of the water system, of all
mains, pipes, hydrants, reservoirs and machinery, and such improvements,
repairs, and extension thereof as he or she may think proper. The report shall
show the amount of receipts and expenditures on account thereof for the
preceding six months. No money shall be expended for improvements, repairs or
extension of the waterworks system except upon recommendation of the Utilities
Superintendent.
      (3)   The Utilities Superintendent shall perform such other duties as may
be prescribed by ordinance.
      (4)   The Utilities Superintendent shall be paid such salary as the Board
of Trustees may by ordinance provide, and upon his or her written
recommendation, the Board shall employ such laborers and clerks as may to them
seem necessary.
      (5)   If the village owns public utilities other than the waterworks
system and the Utilities Superintendent has been designated by ordinance as the
Public Works Commissioner under the authority of division (A) of this section,
then all provisions of this division (B) in reference to a Utilities
Superintendent shall apply to the Public Works Commissioner.
(Neb. RS 17-543)
(Prior Code, § 1-210)
§ 32.09 POLICE CHIEF.
   (A)   The Village Chief of Police shall at all times have power to make or
order an arrest, with proper process, for any offense against the laws of the
state or ordinances of the village and bring the offender to trial before the
proper officer and to arrest without process in all cases where any such
offense shall be committed or attempted to be committed in his or her presence.
(Neb. RS 17-213)
   (B)   The Village Chief of Police shall direct the police work of the
village and shall be responsible for the maintenance of law and order. Unless
the Board of Trustees provides otherwise, he or she shall act as Health
Inspector and Building Inspector. He or she shall file the necessary complaints
in cases arising out of violations of village ordinances and shall make all
necessary reports required by the village ordinances or the laws of the state.
   (C)   If the village has an agreement with the County Sheriff for law
enforcement purposes, the County Sheriff shall have all the powers and duties
of the Village Chief of Police and village police officers as specified in the
agreement.
(Prior Code, § 1-211)
§ 32.10 FIRE CHIEF.
   The Fire Chief shall be elected by the members of the Fire Department. He or
she shall enforce all laws and ordinances covering the prevention of fires, the
storage and use of explosives and flammable substances, the installation of
fire alarm systems, the maintenance of fire extinguishing equipment, the
regulation of fire escapes and the inspection of all premises requiring
adequate fire escapes.
(Prior Code, § 1-212)
§ 32.11 BUILDING INSPECTOR.
   The Village Building Inspector shall conduct surveys and make inspections in
any area of the village to determine whether all buildings and structures are
in compliance with the village ordinances. He or she shall investigate all
complaints whether they are verbal, written or in the form of a petition
alleging, and charging that a violation of the village ordinances exists, and
that a building, or structure is unfit, or unsafe for human habitation. The
Building Inspector is authorized upon properly identifying himself or herself
to enter, inspect, survey and investigate between the hours of 8:00 a.m. and 5:
00 p.m., or at any time if an emergency exists, or if requested by the owner,
or occupant thereof. He or she shall keep records of all complaints received,
inspection reports, orders and complaints issued. The records shall be
available for public inspection, and he or she shall prepare an annual report
including statistics based on the records kept. The Building Inspector shall
have no financial interest in the furnishing of labor, materials or appliances
for the construction, alteration or maintenance of a building, except where he
or she is the owner of a building, and he or she shall not act as an agent for
any said dealer, or as an agent for the sale, lease or rental of any real
estate. The Building Inspector shall report to the Board of Trustees as often
as they may deem necessary, and shall have such other duties, and issue such
permits as they may direct. The Building Inspector may be removed at any time
for good, and sufficient cause by the Board of Trustees.
(Prior Code, § 1-213)
§ 32.12 ELECTRICAL INSPECTOR.
   The Village Electrical Inspector shall enforce all laws relating to the
installation of electrical wiring, and connections thereto. When acting in good
faith, and. without malice in the scope of his or her official duties, he or
she shall not himself or herself be held personally liable for any damage that
may accrue to persons, or property as the result of any act required by him or
her, or by reason of any act or omission in the discharge of his or her duties.
He or she shall, in the discharge of his or her official duties, and upon
proper identification, have authority to enter into any building, structure or
premises at any reasonable hour. He or she shall perform such other duties, and
issue any permits that the Board of Trustees may direct. The Electrical
Inspector may be removed at any time for good and sufficient cause by the Board
of Trustees.
(Prior Code, § 1-214)
§ 32.13 PLUMBING INSPECTOR.
   The Village Plumbing Inspector shall enforce all laws relating to the
installation of plumbing and connections thereto. When acting in good faith,
and without malice in the scope of his or her official duties, he or she shall
not himself or herself be held personally liable for any damage that may accrue
to persons, or property as the result of any act required by him or her or by
reason of any act, or omission in the discharge of his or her duties. He or she
shall, in the discharge of his or her official duties, and upon proper
identification, have authority to enter into any building, structure or
premises at any reasonable hour. He or she shall perform such other duties and
issue any permits that the Board of Trustees may direct. The Plumbing Inspector
may be removed at any time for good and sufficient cause by the Board of
Trustees.
(Prior Code, § 1-215)
CHAPTER 33: COMMISSIONS AND BOARDS
Section
   
33.01   Standing committees
   
33.02   Planning Commission
   
33.03   Recreation Commission
   
33.04   Civil defense
§ 33.01 STANDING COMMITTEES.
   (A)   At the organizational meeting of the Board of Trustees each year, the
Chairperson shall appoint members of those standing committees as the Board may
create by ordinance or resolution. The membership of the standing committees
may be changed at any time by the Chairperson. The Chairperson shall be an ex
officio member of each standing committee. The members of the standing
committees shall serve terms of office of one year, unless reappointed.
   (B)   The standing committees shall be appointed or reappointed each year
until changed by the Board of Trustees.
(Prior Code, § 2-101)
§ 33.02 PLANNING COMMISSION.
   (A)   (1)   If the Board of Trustees adopts zoning or other regulations
pursuant to Neb. RS 19-901 et seq., the Planning Commission shall consist of
five, seven or nine regular members, as specified by the Board of Trustees by
ordinance, who shall represent, insofar as is possible, the different
professions or occupations in the village and shall be appointed by the
Chairperson of the Board of Trustees by and with the approval of a majority
vote of the members elected to the Board. Two of the regular members may be
residents of the area over which the village is authorized to exercise
extraterritorial zoning and subdivision regulation. When there are 200
residents in the area over which the village exercises extraterritorial zoning
and subdivision regulation, one regular member of the Commission shall be a
resident from such area. If it is determined by the Board of Trustees that 200
residents reside in the area subject to extraterritorial zoning or subdivision
regulation, and no such resident is a regular member of the Commission, the
first available vacancy on the Commission shall be filled by the appointment of
such an individual. A number of commissioners equal to a majority of the number
of regular members appointed to the Commission shall constitute a quorum for
the transaction of any business. All regular members of the Commission shall
serve without compensation. The term of each regular member shall be three
years, except that one-third or fewer of the regular members of the first
commission to be so appointed shall serve for terms of one year, one-third or
fewer for terms of two years, and the remaining members for terms of three
years. All regular members shall hold office until their successors are
appointed. Any member may, after a public hearing before the Board of Trustees,
be removed by the Chairperson of the Board with the consent of a majority vote
of the members elected to the Board for inefficiency, neglect of duty or
malfeasance in office or other good and sufficient cause. Vacancies occurring
otherwise than through the expiration of term shall be filled for the unexpired
portion of the term by the Chairperson of the Board.
      (2)   The Chairperson of the Board of Trustees may, with the approval of
a majority vote of the elected members of the Board, appoint one alternate
member to the Planning Commission. The alternate member shall serve without
compensation and shall hold no other village office. The term of the alternate
member shall be three years, and he or she shall hold office until his or her
successor is appointed and approved. The alternate member may be removed from
office in the same manner as a regular member. If the alternate member position
becomes vacant other than through the expiration of the term, the vacancy shall
be filled for the unexpired portion of the term by the Chairperson of the Board
with the approval of a majority vote of the elected members of the Board. The
alternate member may attend any meeting and may serve as a voting and
participating member of the Commission at any time when less than the full
number of regular Commission members is present and capable of voting.
(Neb. RS 19-926)
      (3)   A regular or alternate member of the Planning Commission may hold
any other municipal office except Chairperson, a member of the Village Board of
Trustees, a member of any community redevelopment authority or limited
community redevelopment authority created under Neb. RS 18-2102.01, or a member
of any citizen advisory review committee created under Neb. RS 18-2715.
   (B)   The Commission shall elect its Chairperson from its members and create
and fill such other of its offices as it may determine. The term of the
Chairperson shall be one year, and he or she shall be eligible for reelection.
The Commission shall hold at least one regular meeting in each calendar
quarter, except as provided in this section. The Board of Trustees may require
the Commission to meet more frequently and the Chairperson of the Commission
may call for a meeting when necessary to deal with business pending before the
Commission. If no business is pending before the Commission, the Chairperson
may cancel a quarterly meeting, but no more than three quarterly meetings may
be cancelled per calendar year. The Commission shall adopt rules and
regulations for the transaction of business and shall keep a record of its
resolutions, transactions, findings and determinations, which shall be a public
record.
(Neb. RS 19-927)
   (C)   No member of the Commission shall serve in the capacity of both the
Chairperson and Secretary of the Commission. The Secretary shall keep the full
and correct minutes and records of all meetings and file them with the Village
Clerk where they shall be available for public inspection during office hours.
   (D)   The Board of Trustees may provide the funds, equipment and
accommodations necessary for the work of the Commission, but the expenditures
of the Commission, exclusive of gifts, shall be within the amounts appropriated
for that purpose by the Board; and no expenditures nor agreements for
expenditures shall be valid in excess of such amounts.
(Neb. RS 19-928)
   (E)   (1)   (a)   Except as provided in Neb. RS 19-930 to 19-933, the
Planning Commission shall:
            1.   Make and adopt plans for the physical development of the
village, including any areas outside its boundaries which in the Commission’s
judgment bear relation to the planning of such village and including a
comprehensive development plan as defined by Neb. RS 19-903;
            2.   Prepare and adopt such implemental means as a capital
improvement program, subdivision regulations, building codes and a zoning
ordinance in cooperation with other interested village departments; and
            3.   Consult with and advise public officials and agencies, public
utilities, civic organizations, educational institutions and citizens with
relation to the promulgation and implementation of the comprehensive
development plan and its implemental programs. The Commission may delegate
authority to any such group to conduct studies and make surveys for the
commission, make preliminary reports on its findings, and hold public hearings
before submitting its final reports.
         (b)   The Board of Trustees shall not take final action on matters
relating to the comprehensive development plan, capital improvements, building
codes, subdivision development, the annexation of territory, or zoning until it
has received the recommendation of the Planning Commission, provided that the
Planning Commission shall make its recommendation so that it is received by the
Board of Trustees within 60 days after the Commission begins consideration of a
matter or within such other number of days as the Board of Trustees has set by
ordinance.
         (c)   A recommendation from the Planning Commission shall not be
required for subdivision of existing lots and blocks whenever all required
public improvements have been installed, no new dedication of public rights-of-
way or easements is involved, and such subdivision complies with the ordinance
requirements concerning minimum areas and dimensions of such lots and blocks,
if the Board of Trustees has designated, by ordinance, an agent pursuant to
Neb. RS 19-916.
      (2)   (a)   The Commission may, with the consent of the Board of
Trustees, in its own name:
            1.   Make and enter into contracts with public or private bodies;
            2.   Receive contributions, bequests, gifts or grant funds from
public or private sources;
            3.   Expend the funds appropriated to it by the village;
            4.   Employ agents and employees; and
            5.   Acquire, hold and dispose of property.
         (b)   The Commission may on its own authority make arrangements
consistent with its program, conduct or sponsor special studies or planning
work for any public body or appropriate agency, receive grants, remuneration or
reimbursement for such studies or work, and at its public hearings, summon
witnesses, administer oaths and compel the giving of testimony.
      (3)   (a)   The Commission may grant conditional uses or special
exceptions to property owners for the use of their property if the Board of
Trustees has, through a zoning ordinance or special ordinance, generally
authorized the Commission to exercise such powers and has approved the
standards and procedures adopted by the Commission for equitably and
judiciously granting such conditional uses or special exceptions. The granting
of a conditional use permit or special exception shall only allow property
owners to put their property to a special use if it is among those uses
specifically identified in the zoning ordinance as classifications of uses
which may require special conditions or requirements to be met by the owners
before a use permit or building permit is authorized.
         (b)   The power to grant conditional uses or special exceptions shall
be the exclusive authority of the Commission, except that the Board of Trustees
may choose to retain for itself the power to grant conditional uses or special
exceptions for those classifications of uses specified in the zoning ordinance.
The Board may exercise such power if it has formally adopted standards and
procedures for granting such conditional uses or special exceptions in a manner
that is equitable and will promote the public interest.
         (c)   An appeal of a decision by the Commission or Board regarding a
conditional use or special exception shall be made to the district court.
(Neb. RS 19-929)
(Prior Code, § 2-201)
Statutory reference:
   Other provisions on planning commissions, see Neb. RS 19-925 through 19-933
§ 33.03 RECREATION COMMISSION.
   (A)   If the Board of Trustees has provided for the creation of a Board of
Park Commissioners or Board of Park and Recreation Commissioners pursuant to
Neb. RS 17-952, the Board shall be composed of not less than three members, who
shall be residents of the village, and who shall have charge of all parks and
recreational facilities belonging to the village, and shall have the power to
establish rules for the management, care and use of the same.
(Neb. RS 17-952)
   (B)   No member of the Board of Trustees shall serve as a member of the
Recreation Commission while serving a term of office as member of the Board of
Trustees. The members of the Recreation Commission shall serve terms of office
of the length specified by the Board of Trustees and may be reappointed.
   (C)   The Recreation Commission shall organize at its meeting after
appointments are regularly considered by the Board of Trustees and select
members to serve as Chairperson and secretary. No member of the Recreation
Commission shall hold more than one Board position. The secretary shall keep
full and correct minutes and records of all meetings and file the same with the
Village Clerk where they shall be available for public inspection during office
hours.
   (D)   The Recreation Commission shall meet at such times as the Board of
Trustees may designate. Special meetings may be held upon the call of the
Chairperson of the Recreation Commission or any two members of the Commission.
A majority of the Recreation Commission members shall constitute a quorum for
the transaction of business.
   (E)   The members of the Recreation Commission shall serve without
compensation. The Recreation Commission shall be funded by the Board of
Trustees from time to time out of the General Fund.
   (F)   All members of the Recreation Commission shall be responsible for
making such reports and performing such other duties as the Board of Trustees
may, from time to time, designate.
(Prior Code, § 2-203)
§ 33.06 CIVIL DEFENSE.
   There is hereby created a Cedar Bluffs Civil Defense Organization, to be
headed by a Village Civil Defense Director to be appointed by the Village Board
by resolution. Such organization shall have such duties and responsibilities as
are set forth in the Emergency Management Act, being Neb. RS 81-829.36 through
81-829.75, within the territorial limits of the village. The Cedar Bluffs Civil
Defense Organization and the Village Board shall develop and adopt a Civil
Preparedness Code to set forth guidelines and procedures to be followed in
event of an emergency.
(Prior Code, § 3-801) (Ord. 95-13, passed 4-26-1995)
CHAPTER 34: FIRE DEPARTMENT
Section
   
34.01   Operation and funding
   
34.02   Fire Chief
   
34.03   Membership
   
34.04   Records
   
34.05   Fires
   
34.06   Distant fires
   
34.07   Fighting distant fires
   
34.08   Drills
   
34.09   Inspections
   
34.10   Notice of violation
   
34.11   Power of arrest
   
34.12   Fire investigation
§ 34.01 OPERATION AND FUNDING.
   (A)   The village may operate a Fire Department through the Fire Chief and
firefighters.
   (B)   If the village has only a voluntary fire department or companies, the
Board of Trustees may levy a tax annually of not more than the amount set forth
in the village master fee list upon the taxable value of all the taxable
property within the village for the maintenance and benefit of the fire
department or companies. The amount of such tax shall be established at the
beginning of the year and shall be included in the adopted budget statement.
Upon collection of such tax, the Village Treasurer shall disburse the same upon
the order of the Fire Chief with the approval of the Board of Trustees.
(Neb. RS 17-718) (Prior Code, § 3-401)
Statutory reference:
   Fire station acquisition, construction and maintenance, see Neb. RS 17-953
et seq.
§ 34.02 FIRE CHIEF.
   The Fire Chief shall manage the Fire Department, and it shall be his or her
duty to inform the Board of Trustees when any of the fire engines, hose,
ladders or other apparatus needs repair. Upon the written consent and directive
of the Board of Trustees, the Fire Chief shall cause the repair, improvement or
maintenance of the equipment and shall personally supervise and approve of the
same. It shall be the duty of the Fire Chief to come before the Board of
Trustees at the regular meeting in January of each year to give an annual
report to the Board of Trustees of the general condition and the proposed
additions or improvements recommended by him or her.
(Prior Code, § 3-402)
§ 34.03 MEMBERSHIP.
   (A)   The Fire Department shall consist of so many members as may be decided
by the Board of Trustees. The members may organize themselves in any way they
may decide, subject to the review of the Board of Trustees.
   (B)   The volunteer Fire Department shall not have upon its rolls at one
time more than 25 persons, for each engine and hose company in the Fire
Department, and no hook and ladder company shall have upon its rolls at any one
time more than 25 members. No organization shall be deemed to be a bona fide
fire or hook and ladder company until it has procured for active service
apparatus for the extinguishment or prevention of fires, in case of a hose
company, to the value of the amount set forth in the village master fee list,
and of a hook and ladder company to the value of the amount set forth in the
village master fee list.
(Neb. RS 35-102)
   (C)   Members in good standing are those who keep their dues promptly paid
up and are present and render active service when called out for the legitimate
purposes of the Fire Department.
(Neb. RS 35-103)
   (D)   Volunteer firefighters of the Fire Department shall be deemed
employees of the village while in the performance of their duties as members of
the Department. Members of the volunteer Fire Department, before they are
entitled to benefits under the Nebraska Workers’ Compensation Act, Neb. RS 48-
101 et seq., shall be recommended by the Fire Chief or some person authorized
to act for the Chief for membership therein to the Chairperson and Board of
Trustees and upon confirmation shall be deemed employees of the village.
Members of the Fire Department after confirmation to membership may be removed
by a majority vote of the Board of Trustees and thereafter shall not be
considered employees of the village. Firefighters of the Fire Department shall
be considered as acting in the performance and within the course and scope of
their employment when performing activities outside of the corporate limits of
the village, but only if directed to do so by the Fire Chief or some person
authorized to act for the Chief.
(Neb. RS 48-115)
   (E)   The Board of Trustees shall purchase and maintain in force a policy of
group term life insurance to age 65 covering the lives of all of the active
volunteer fire and rescue personnel, except that when any such person serves
more than one village or rural or suburban fire protection district, the policy
shall be purchased only by the first village or district which he or she
serves. The policy shall provide a minimum death benefit of the amount set
forth in the village master fee list for death from any cause and shall, at the
option of the insured, be convertible to a permanent form of life insurance at
age 65. The coverage of such policy shall terminate as to any individual who
ceases to be an active volunteer member of the Fire Department.
(Neb. RS 35-108)
   (F)   For purposes of the prohibition on receipt of any witness fee,
attendance fee or mileage fee by an employee of the village called as a witness
in connection with his or her officially assigned duties, volunteer
firefighters and rescue squad members testifying in that capacity alone shall
not be deemed employees of the village.
(Neb. RS 33-139.01)
   (G)   The Board of Trustees may compensate or reimburse any member of the
Fire Department for expenses incurred in carrying out his or her duties in an
amount set by resolution.
   (H)   All members of the Fire Department shall be subject to such rules and
regulations, and shall perform such duties, as may be prescribed or required of
them by the Fire Chief or the Board of Trustees. The members of the Fire
Department shall, during the time of a fire or great public danger, have and
exercise the powers and duties of police officers and shall have full power and
authority to arrest all persons guilty of any violation of the village code or
the laws of the state.
   (I)   Members of the Fire Department may hold meetings and engage in social
activities with the approval of the Board of Trustees. The secretary shall,
upon request, keep a record of all meetings and shall make a report to the
Board of Trustees of all meetings and activities of the Fire Department.
(Prior Code, § 3-403)
§ 34.04 RECORDS.
   The Fire Chief shall keep or cause to be kept a record of all meetings of
the Fire Department, the attendance record of all members, and a record of all
fires and shall make a full report of these records to the Village Clerk during
the last week in April each year. The record of any fire shall include the
cause, origin, circumstances, property involved and whether criminal conduct
may have been involved. In the event of sizable property damage, the Fire Chief
shall include the information of whether the losses were covered by insurance,
and if so, in what amount. All records shall be available to the public at any
reasonable time.
(Prior Code, § 3-404)
§ 34.05 FIRES.
   It shall be the duty of the Fire Department to use all proper means for the
extinguishment of fires, to protect property within the village, and to secure
the observance of all ordinances, laws and other rules and regulations with
respect to fires and fire prevention.
(Prior Code, § 3-405)
§ 34.06 DISTANT FIRES.
   Upon the permission of the Village Chairperson or Fire Chief or pursuant to
any agreement with a rural fire district for mutual aid and protection, such
fire equipment of the village as may be designated by the Board of Trustees as
rural equipment may be used beyond the corporate limits to extinguish a
reported fire.
(Prior Code, § 3-406)
§ 34.07 FIGHTING DISTANT FIRES.
   The firefighters of the village shall be considered as acting in the
performance and within the scope of their duties in fighting fire or saving
property or life outside the corporate limits of the village when directed to
do so by the Chairperson or Chief of the Fire Department or some person
authorized to act for such Chief and in so doing, may take such fire equipment
of the village as may be designated by the Board of Trustees.
(Prior Code, § 3-407)
§ 34.08 DRILLS.
   The Village Fire Department shall hold departmental fire drills at least six
times per year at such times as the members of the Fire Department shall
decide.
(Prior Code, § 3-408)
§ 34.09 INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   The Fire Chief, where a Fire Department is established, or the
Chairperson of the Board of Trustees where no Fire Department exists, at all
reasonable hours may enter into all buildings and upon all premises that are
within his or her jurisdiction for the purposes of examination in harmony with
Neb. RS 81-501.01 through 81-531, the State Natural Gas Pipeline Safety Act of
1969, Neb. RS 81-542 et seq., the Petroleum Products and Hazardous Substances
Storage and Handling Act, Neb. RS 81-15,117 et seq., and any other statutory
duties imposed upon the State Fire Marshal.
(Neb. RS 81-512)
   (B)   It shall be the duty of the Fire Chief, when directed to do so by the
Board of Trustees, to inspect or cause to be inspected by Fire Department
officers, members or some other official as often as may be necessary, but not
less than two times a year, all buildings, premises and public thoroughfares,
except the interiors of private dwellings, for the purpose of ascertaining and
causing to be corrected any conditions liable to create a fire hazard. The
inspection shall be of the storage, sale and use of flammable liquids,
combustibles and explosives; electric wiring and heating; the means and
adequacy of exits, in case of fire in schools, churches, hotels, halls,
theaters, factories, hospitals and all other buildings in which numbers of
persons congregate from time to time for any purpose whether publicly or
privately owned; the design, construction, location, installation and operation
of equipment for storing, handling and utilizing liquefied petroleum gases,
specifying the odorization of such gases and the degree thereof; and chemicals,
prozylin plastics, nitrocellulose films or any other hazardous material that
may now or hereafter exist.
(Prior Code, § 3-409)
§ 34.10 NOTICE OF VIOLATION.
   (A)   Upon the finding that the village code has been violated, the Fire
Chief shall notify, or cause to be notified, the owner, occupant or manager of
the premises where a violation has occurred. Notice may be made personally or
by delivering a copy to the premises and affixing it to the door of the main
entrance of the premises. Whenever it may be necessary to serve such an order
upon the owner, the order may be served personally, or by mailing a copy to the
owner’s last known post office address if the owner is absent from the
jurisdiction.
   (B)   Any such order shall be immediately complied with by the owner,
occupant or manager of the premises or building. The owner, occupant or manager
may, within five days after such an order by the Fire Chief or his or her
agent, appeal the order with the Board of Trustees requesting a review and it
shall be the duty of the Board of Trustees to hear the same within not less
than five days nor more than ten days from the time when the request was filed
in writing with the Village Clerk. The Board of Trustees shall then affirm,
modify or rescind the order as safety and justice may require and the decision
shall then be final, subject only to any remedy which the aggrieved person may
have at law or equity. The order shall be modified or rescinded only where it
is evident that reasonable safety exists and that conditions necessitate a
variance due to the probable hardship in complying literally with the order of
the Fire Chief. A copy of any decision so made shall be sent to both the Fire
Chief and the owner, occupant or manager making the appeal.
(Prior Code, § 3-410)
§ 34.11 POWER OF ARREST.
   The Fire Chief or the Assistant Fire Chief shall have the power, during the
time of a fire and for a period of 36 hours after its extinguishment, to arrest
any suspected arsonist, or other person hindering or resisting the firefighting
effort, or any person who conducts himself or herself in a noisy or disorderly
manner. The officials shall be severally vested with the usual powers and
authority of village police officers to command all persons to assist them in
the performance of their duties. Failure to obey a lawful order of the Fire
Chief or Assistant Fire Chief shall be an offense.
(Prior Code, § 3-411) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 34.12 FIRE INVESTIGATION.
   The Fire Chief shall investigate or cause to be investigated the cause,
origin and circumstances of every fire occurring in the village by which
property has been destroyed or damaged. All fires of unknown origin shall be
reported, and such officer shall especially make an investigation and report as
to whether such fire was the result of carelessness, accident or design. The
investigation shall begin immediately after the occurrence of the fire, and the
State Fire Marshal shall have the right to supervise and direct the
investigation whenever he or she deems it expedient or necessary. The officer
making the investigation of fires occurring in the village shall forthwith
notify the State Fire Marshal and shall within one week of the occurrence of
the fire furnish him or her a written statement of all the facts relating to
the cause and origin of the fire and such further information as he or she may
call for.
(Neb. RS 81-506) (Prior Code, § 3-412)
CHAPTER 35: POLICE DEPARTMENT
Section
   
35.01   Duties
   
35.02   Arrest jurisdiction
   
35.03   Law enforcement reserve force
§ 35.01 DUTIES.
   The Police Department shall consist of the Chief of Police and such further
number of regular police officers as may be duly ordered by resolution of the
Board of Trustees. The Chief of Police shall subject to the direction of the
Chairperson, have control and management of all matters relating to the Police
Department, its officers and members, and shall have the custody and control of
all property and books belonging to the Department. He or she shall devote his
or her whole time to the municipal affairs, interests of the village, and to
the preservation of peace, order, safety and cleanliness thereof. The
Department shall execute and enforce all laws and also the orders of the
Chairperson. It shall be the duty of the Department to protect the rights of
persons and property. There shall be a proper police force at all fires. The
Department shall take notice of all nuisances, impediments, obstructions and
defects in the streets, avenues, alleys, business places and residences of the
village. The Department shall execute, or cause to be executed, the processes
issued and shall cause all persons arrested to be brought before the proper
court for trial as speedily as possible. The Chief of Police and all regular
and special police officers shall become thoroughly conversant with the laws of
the village, and shall see that the same are strictly enforced and shall make
sworn complaints against any person or persons for violation of the same.
(Prior Code, § 3-501)
§ 35.02 ARREST JURISDICTION.
   (A)   Every village police officer shall have the power and authority to
enforce the laws of this state and the village or otherwise perform the
functions of that office anywhere within his or her primary jurisdiction.
PRIMARY JURISDICTION shall mean the geographic area within territorial limits
of the village.
   (B)   Any village police officer who is within this state but beyond the
territorial limits of his or her primary jurisdiction shall have the power and
authority to enforce the laws of this state or any legal ordinance of the
village or otherwise perform the functions of his or her office, including the
authority to arrest and detain suspects, as if enforcing the laws or performing
the functions within the territorial limits of his or her primary jurisdiction
in the following cases:
      (1)   Any village police officer, if in a fresh attempt to apprehend a
person suspected of committing a felony, may follow such person into any other
jurisdiction in this state and there arrest and detain such person and return
such person to the officer’s primary jurisdiction;
      (2)   Any village police officer, if in a fresh attempt to apprehend a
person suspected of committing a misdemeanor or a traffic infraction, may
follow such person anywhere in an area within 25 miles of the boundaries of the
officer’s primary jurisdiction and there arrest and detain such person and
return such person to the officer’s primary jurisdiction;
      (3)   (a)   Any village police officer shall have such enforcement and
arrest and detention authority when responding to a call in which a local,
state or federal law enforcement officer is in need of assistance.
         (b)   A LAW ENFORCEMENT OFFICER IN NEED OF ASSISTANCE shall mean:
            1.   A law enforcement officer whose life is in danger; or
            2.   A law enforcement officer who needs assistance in making an
arrest and the suspect:
               a.   Will not be apprehended unless immediately arrested;
               b.   May cause injury to himself or herself or others or damage
to property unless immediately arrested; or
               c.   May destroy or conceal evidence of the commission of a
crime.
      (4)   If the village, under the provisions of the Interlocal Cooperation
Act, enters into a contract with any other municipality or county for law
enforcement services or joint law enforcement services, law enforcement
personnel may have such enforcement authority within the jurisdiction of each
of the participating political subdivisions if provided for in the agreement.
Unless otherwise provided in the agreement, the village shall provide liability
insurance coverage for its own law enforcement personnel as provided in Neb. RS
13-1802.
(Neb. RS 29-215) (Prior Code, § 3-502) (Ord. 95-12, passed 4-26-1995)
§ 35.03 LAW ENFORCEMENT RESERVE FORCE.
   A Law Enforcement Reserve Force is established and the appointment of such
reserve police officers as may be deemed necessary to serve is authorized in
accordance with section (d) of Article 14 of Chapter 81 of Neb. RS 81-1438
through 81-1446, inclusive.
(Res. 2007-07, passed 2-15-2007)
CHAPTER 36: ELECTIONS
Section
   
36.01   Election of officers; certification
   
36.02   Board of Trustees; terms; qualifications
   
36.03   Tie votes
   
36.04   Joint, general
   
36.05   Joint, general; notice
   
36.06   Joint, special
   
36.07   Filing fee
   
36.08   Petition candidates
   
36.09   Caucus candidates
   
36.10   Officials
   
36.11   Officials oath
   
36.12   Voter qualifications
   
36.13   Ballots
   
36.14   Certificate of nomination
   
36.15   Vacancies
   
36.16   Candidate qualifications
   
36.17   Exit polls
§ 36.01 ELECTION OF OFFICERS; CERTIFICATION.
   All village elections involving the election of officers shall be held in
accordance with the Election Act and in conjunction with the statewide general
election. No later than January 5 of each even- numbered year, the Board of
Trustees shall certify to the Secretary of State, the Election Commissioner or
the County Clerk, the name of the village, the number of officers to be
elected, the length of the terms of office, the vacancies to be filled by
election and length of remaining term, and the number of votes to be cast by a
registered voter for each office.
(Neb. RS 17-202, 32-404(2), 32-556) (Prior Code, § 1-701) (Ord. 96-5, passed 5-
16-1996)
§ 36.02 BOARD OF TRUSTEES; TERMS; QUALIFICATIONS.
   (A)   The members of the Village Board of Trustees shall be elected from the
village at large unless the registered voters of the village have voted to
elect its Board members by wards.
   (B)   The members of the Village Board of Trustees shall be elected at the
statewide general election as provided in Neb. RS 17-202, and each four years
thereafter. Except as provided in such section, the term of each Trustee shall
be four years or until his or her successor is elected and qualified.
   (C)   Any person may be a Trustee who is a citizen of the United States,
resides in the village and is a registered voter.
(Neb. RS 17-202, 17-203, 32-532, 32-554) (Prior Code, § 1-702) (Ord. 96-6,
passed 5-16-1996)
§ 36.03 TIE VOTES.
   (A)   If a recount after a primary election results in any two or more
persons having an equal and the highest number of votes for the same nomination
for the same county, city, village, or school district office, the County
Canvassing Board shall, in the presence of the candidates or their
representatives, determine by lot which of the candidates shall be nominated.
The Election Commissioner or County Clerk shall notify such candidates by
certified mail to appear at his or her office on a given day and hour to
determine the same before the County Canvassing Board. The Election
Commissioner or County Clerk shall make a certificate of nomination for the
person so nominated and shall cause such certificate to be delivered to the
person entitled thereto.
   (B)   If a recount after a general or special election results in any two or
more persons having an equal and the highest number of votes for the same
county, city, village or school district office, the County Canvassing Board
shall, in the presence of the candidates or their representatives, determine by
lot which of the candidates shall be elected. The Election Commissioner or
County Clerk shall notify such candidates by certified mail to appear at his or
her office on a given day and hour to determine the same before the County
Canvassing Board. The Election Commissioner or County Clerk shall make a
certificate of election for the person so elected and shall cause such
certificate to be delivered to the person entitled thereto.
   (C)   If a recount after a primary election results in any two or more
persons having an equal and the highest number of votes for nomination to an
office canvassed by the Board of State Canvassers, the Board shall decide by
lot which of such persons is nominated.
   (D)   If a recount after a general or special election results in any two or
more persons having an equal and the highest number of votes for the office of
the Governor, Secretary of State, Auditor of Public Accounts, State Treasurer,
Attorney General or other officer elected to an executive department, the
legislature shall choose one of such persons for the office. If the office
involved in the recount is the office of the Governor, the Lieutenant Governor
shall be the candidate for Lieutenant Governor chosen by the person selected by
the legislature as Governor.
   (E)   If a recount after a general or special election results in any two or
more persons having an equal and the highest number of votes for an office
canvassed by the Board of State Canvassers, the Board shall decide by lot which
of such persons is elected, except officers elected to the executive
department.
(Neb. RS 32-1122)
§ 36.04 JOINT, GENERAL.
   (A)   All village issues and offices shall be combined on the statewide
primary and general election ballots whenever possible. The issuance of
separate ballots shall be avoided in a statewide election if village offices or
issues can reasonably be combined with the nonpartisan ballot and state law
does not require otherwise. All village elections involving the election of
officers shall be held in accordance with the Election Act, Neb. RS 32-101 et
seq., and in conjunction with the statewide primary or general election.
(Neb. RS 32-556)
   (B)   When the village holds an election in conjunction with the statewide
primary or general election, the election shall be held as provided in the
Election Act, Neb. RS 32-101 et seq. Any other election held by the village
shall be held as provided in the Election Act unless otherwise provided by the
charter, code, or bylaws of the village.
   (C)   The village shall furnish to the Secretary of State and Election
Commissioner or County Clerk any maps and additional information which the
Secretary of State and Election Commissioner or County Clerk may require in the
proper performance of their duties in the conduct of elections and
certification of results.
(Neb. RS 32-404)
(Prior Code, § 1-704)
§ 36.05 JOINT, GENERAL; NOTICE.
   The notice of election required to be published by the Election Commissioner
or County Clerk pursuant to Neb. RS 32-802 shall serve as the notice
requirement for all village elections which are held in conjunction with the
statewide primary or general election.
(Prior Code, § 1-705)
§ 36.06 JOINT, SPECIAL.
   (A)   (1)   Except as provided in Neb. RS 77-3444, any issue to be submitted
to the registered voters at a special election by the village shall be
certified by the Village Clerk to the Election Commissioner or County Clerk on
or before the eighth Friday prior to the election. A special election may be
held by mail as provided in Neb. RS 32-952 through 32-959. Any other special
election under this section shall be subject to division (B) of this section.
      (2)   In lieu of submitting the issue at a special election, the village
may submit the issue at a statewide primary or general election or at any
scheduled county election, except that no such issue shall be submitted at a
statewide election or scheduled county election unless the issue to be
submitted has been certified by the Village Clerk to the Election Commissioner
or County Clerk by March 1 for the primary election and by September 1 for the
general election.
      (3)   After the Election Commissioner or County Clerk has received the
certification of the issue to be submitted, he or she shall be responsible for
all matters relating to the submission of the issue to the registered voters,
except that the Village Clerk shall be responsible for the publication or
posting of any required special notice of the submission of the issue other
than the notice required to be given of the statewide election issues. The
Election Commissioner or County Clerk shall prepare the ballots and issue
ballots for early voting and shall also conduct the submission of the issue,
including the receiving and counting of ballots on the issue. The election
returns shall be made to the Election Commissioner or County Clerk. The ballots
shall be counted and canvassed at the same time and in the same manner as the
other ballots. Upon completion of the canvass of the vote by the County
Canvassing Board, the Election Commissioner or County Clerk shall certify the
election results to the Board of Trustees. The canvass by the County Canvassing
Board shall have the same force and effect as if made by the Board of Trustees.
   (B)   (1)   A village that has submitted an issue for a special election
under division (A)(1) of this section may cancel the special election if the
Secretary of State, Election Commissioner or County Clerk receives a resolution
adopted by the political subdivision canceling the special election on or
before the fourth Thursday prior to the election. No cancellation shall be
effective after such date. If a special election is canceled in such manner,
the village shall be responsible for the costs incurred that are related to the
canceled election. Such costs shall include all chargeable costs as provided in
Neb. RS 32-1202 associated with preparing for and conducting a special
election.
      (2)   A village that has submitted an issue at a statewide primary or
general election or at any scheduled county election under division (A)(2) of
this section may withdraw the issue from the ballot if the Secretary of State,
Election Commissioner or County Clerk receives a resolution adopted by the
village withdrawing the issue from the ballot no later than March 1 prior to a
statewide primary election or September 1 prior to a statewide general
election. No withdrawal shall be effective after such date. Any issue withdrawn
in this manner shall not be printed on the ballot.
(Neb. RS 32-559)
   (C)   Any special election under the Election Act, Neb. RS 32-101 et seq.,
shall be held on the first Tuesday following the second Monday of the selected
month unless otherwise specifically provided. Except as otherwise specifically
provided, no special election shall be held under the Election Act in April,
May, June, October, November, or December of an even-numbered year unless it is
held in conjunction with the statewide primary or general election. No special
election shall be held under the Election Act in September of an even-numbered
year except as provided in Neb. RS 32-564 and except for a special election by
a political subdivision pursuant to Neb. RS 13-519 or Neb. RS 77-3444 to
approve a property tax levy or exceed a property tax levy limitation.
(Neb. RS 32-405)
(Prior Code, § 1-706)
§ 36.07 FILING FEE.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (D) or (E) of this section, a filing
fee shall be paid to the Village Treasurer by or on behalf of each candidate
for village office prior to filing for office. The fee shall be placed in the
General Fund of the village. No candidate filing forms shall be filed until the
proper payment or the proper receipt showing the payment of such filing fee is
presented to the filing officer. On the day of the filing deadline, the Village
Treasurer’s office shall remain open to receive filing fees until the hour of
the filing deadline.
   (B)   Except as provided in division (D) or (E) of this section, the filing
fee shall be a sum equal to 1% of the annual salary as of November 30 of the
year preceding the election for the office for which he or she files as a
candidate.
   (C)   All declared write-in candidates shall pay the filing fees that are
required for the office at the time that they present the write-in affidavit to
the filing officer.
   (D)   No filing fee shall be required for any candidate filing for an office
in which a per diem is paid rather than a salary or for which there is a salary
of less than the amount set forth in the village master fee list.
   (E)   (1)   No filing fee shall be required of any candidate completing an
affidavit requesting to file for elective office in forma pauperis.
      (2)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
         AVAILABLE RESOURCES. Includes every type of property or interest in
property that an individual owns and may convert into cash except:
            1.   Real property used as a home;
            2.   Household goods of a moderate value used in the home; and
            3.   Assets to a maximum value of the amount set forth in the
village master fee list used by a recipient in a planned effort directed
towards self-support.
         PAUPER. A person whose income and other resources for maintenance are
found under assistance standards to be insufficient for meeting the cost of his
or her requirements and whose reserve of cash or other available resources does
not exceed the maximum available resources that an eligible individual may own.
   (F)   If any candidate dies prior to an election, the spouse of the
candidate may file a claim for refund of the filing fee with the Board of
Trustees prior to the date of the election. Upon approval of the claim by the
Board of Trustees, the filing fee shall be refunded.
(Neb. RS 32-608) (Prior Code, § 1-707)
§ 36.08 PETITION CANDIDATES.
   (A)   (1)   Any registered voter who was not a candidate in the primary
election and who was not registered to vote with a party affiliation on or
after March 1 and before the general election in the calendar year of the
general election may have his or her name placed on the general election ballot
for a partisan office by filing petitions as prescribed in this section and
Neb. RS 32-621 or by nomination by political party convention or committee
pursuant to Neb. RS 32-627 or 32-710.
      (2)   Any candidate who was defeated in the primary election and any
registered voter who was not a candidate in the primary election may have his
or her name placed on the general election ballot if a vacancy exists on the
ballot under Neb. RS 32-625(2) and the candidate files for the office by
petition as prescribed in divisions (B) and (C) of this section, files as a
write-in candidate as prescribed in Neb. RS 32-615, or is nominated by
political party convention or committee pursuant to Neb. RS 32-710.
(Neb. RS 32-616)
   (B)   Petitions for nomination shall conform to the requirements of Neb. RS
32-628. Petitions shall state the office to be filled and the name and address
of the candidate. Petitions for partisan office shall also indicate the party
affiliation of the candidate. A sample copy of the petition shall be filed with
the filing officer prior to circulation. Petitions shall be signed by
registered voters residing in the village, if candidates are chosen at large,
or in the ward in which the officer is to be elected, if candidates are chosen
by ward, and shall be filed with the filing officer in the same manner as
provided for candidate filing forms in §
34.07. Petition signers and petition circulators shall conform to the
requirements of Neb. RS 32-629 and 32-630. No petition for nomination shall be
filed unless there is attached thereto a receipt showing the payment of the
filing fee required pursuant to Neb. RS 32-608.
      (2)   The petitions shall be filed by September 1 in the year of the
general election, and all signed petitions not filed with the Secretary of
State by such date shall become invalid.
(Neb. RS 32-617)
   (C)   (1)   The number of signatures of registered voters needed to place
the name of a candidate upon the nonpartisan ballot for the general election
shall be at least 10% of the total number of registered voters voting for
Governor or President of the United States at the immediately preceding general
election in the village or in the ward in which the officer is to be elected,
not to exceed 2,000.
      (2)   The number of signatures of registered voters needed to place the
name of a candidate for an office upon the partisan ballot for the general
election shall be as follows:
         (a)   For each partisan office to be filled by the registered voters
of the entire state, at least 4,000, and at least 750 signatures shall be
obtained in each congressional district in the state;
         (b)   For each partisan office to be filled by the registered voters
of a county, at least 20% of the total number of registered voters voting for
Governor or President of the United States at the immediately preceding general
election within the county, not to exceed 2,000, except that the number of
signatures shall not be required to exceed 25% of the total number of
registered voters voting for the office at the immediately preceding general
election; and
         (c)   For each partisan office to be filled by the registered voters
of a political subdivision other than a county, at least 20% of the total
number of registered voters voting for Governor or President of the United
States at the immediately preceding general election within the political
subdivision, not to exceed 2,000.
(Neb. RS 32-618)
(Prior Code, § 1-708)
§ 36.09 CAUCUS CANDIDATES.
   (A)   The Board of Trustees may, by ordinance, call a caucus for the purpose
of nomination of candidates for offices to be filled in the village election.
This caucus shall be held at least ten days before the filing deadline for that
election, and the Board of Trustees shall publish notice of the caucus in at
least one legal newspaper in or of general circulation in the county at least
once each week for two consecutive weeks before the caucus.
(Neb. RS 17-601.01)
   (B)   The Chairperson of the caucus at which candidates are nominated shall
notify the Village Clerk in writing of the candidates so nominated, not later
than two days following the caucus. The Village Clerk shall then notify the
persons so nominated of their nomination, this notification to take place not
later than five days after the caucus. No candidate so nominated shall have his
or her name placed upon the ballot unless, not more than ten days after the
holding of the caucus, he or she files with the Village Clerk a written
statement accepting the nomination of the caucus and pays the filing fee, if
any, for the office for which he or she was nominated.
(Neb. RS 17-601.02)
   (C)   The provisions of this section shall not preclude in any manner any
person from filing for the offices to which this section is applicable, either
by direct filing or by petition.
(Neb. RS 17-601.03)
(Prior Code, § 1-709)
§ 36.10 OFFICIALS.
   The County Clerk shall at least 15 days prior to the state primary
elections, give notice of the appointment by each political party of three
judges and two clerks of election in each election unit in the village, to be
known as the Receiving Board. Each of the appointees referred to shall be of
good character, approved integrity, well informed, able to read, write and
speak the English language, reside in the election precinct in which he or she
is to serve, be entitled to vote in his or her election unit, and hold office
for a term of two years, or until judges and clerks of election are appointed
for the next state primary election.
(Neb. RS 32-230) (Prior Code, § 1-710)
§ 36.11 OFFICIALS OATH.
   Before entering upon his or her duties, each judge or clerk of election and
each inspector shall sign an oath to be returned to the County Clerk after the
polls close. The oath need not be taken and signed before a person authorized
to administer oaths. If the oath is printed in the sign-in register, the
signing of the sign-in register shall be complete and sufficient compliance
with the requirements of Neb. RS 11-101.01. The form of the oath shall be as
provided in such section.
(Neb. RS 32-238)
§ 36.12 VOTER QUALIFICATIONS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      REGISTERED VOTER. An elector who has a current voter registration record
on file with the Election Commissioner or County Clerk in the county of his or
her residence.
(Neb. RS 32-115)
   (B)   All registered voters residing within the corporate limits of the
village on or before election day shall be entitled to vote at all village
elections.
(Neb. RS 17-602)
(Prior Code, § 1-712)
Statutory reference:
   Definition of elector, see Neb. RS 32-110
§ 36.13 BALLOTS.
   The Election Commissioner or County Clerk shall prepare the necessary
ballots for every election in which candidates for elective office are
certified to or filed with the Election Commissioner or County Clerk or
whenever any question is to be submitted to a vote of the registered voters of
any locality and not to the state generally. The ballots shall be printed in
English and in any other language required pursuant to the Voting Rights Act
Language Assistance Amendments of 1992. If a question is submitted to the
registered voters of any city or village alone, the Village Clerk shall provide
the necessary ballots. Sample ballots shall be prepared for each precinct and
shall be the same as the official ballots for the precinct. The official ballot
shall be headed with the words “Official Ballot”, and the sample ballot shall
be headed with the words “Sample Ballot”. All official and sample ballots shall
be in the possession of the Election Commissioner, County Clerk or City or
Village Clerk at least ten days before the election and subject to inspection
by the candidates or their agents. One set of sample ballots shall be posted in
the office of the Election Commissioner or County Clerk not later than ten days
prior to the election. Two sample ballots shall be posted at each polling place
in each precinct on the morning of election day by the judges and clerks of
election at or near the polling place. Additional sample ballots may be
printed. No person other than an Election Commissioner, County Clerk or Village
Clerk shall print or cause to be printed or distributed any ballot marked
“Official Ballot”.
(Neb. RS 32-805)
§ 36.14 CERTIFICATE OF NOMINATION.
   The Election Commissioner or County Clerk shall, on or before the sixth
Monday after the election, prepare, sign and deliver a certificate of
nomination or a certificate of election to each person whom the County
Canvassing Board has declared to have received the highest vote for county,
city or village offices. No person shall be issued a certificate of nomination
as a candidate of a political party unless such person has received a number of
votes at least equal to 5% of the total ballots cast at the primary election by
registered voters affiliated with that political party in the district which
the office for which he or she is a candidate serves. The certificate shall be
substantially as follows:
      State of Nebraska. At an election held on the          day of
                           20    ,                                 was elected
to the office of                                          for the term of      
years from the          day of                            20     (or when
filling a vacancy, for the residue of the term ending on the          day of
                           20    ). Given at          day of
                           20    .
(Neb. RS 32-1033)
§ 36.15 VACANCIES.
   A vacancy on the Board of Trustees shall be filled as provided in Neb. RS
32-569, except that the Board of Trustees situated in more than one county
shall have power to fill by appointment any vacancy that may occur in their
number.
(Neb. RS 32-568)
§ 36.16 CANDIDATE QUALIFICATIONS.
   (A)   Any person seeking an elective office shall be a registered voter at
the time of filing for the office pursuant to Neb. RS 32-606 or 32-611.
   (B)   Any person filing for office shall meet the constitutional and
statutory requirements of the office for which he or she is filing. If a person
is filing for a partisan office, he or she shall be a registered voter
affiliated with the appropriate political party if required pursuant to Neb. RS
32-702. If the person is required to sign a contract or comply with a bonding
or equivalent commercial insurance policy requirement prior to holding such
office, he or she shall be at least 19 years of age at the time of filing for
the office.
   (C)   A person shall not be eligible to file for an office if he or she
holds the office and his or her term of office expires after the beginning of
the term of office for which he or she would be filing. This division (C) does
not apply to filing for an office to represent a different district, ward,
subdistrict or subdivision of the same governmental entity as the office held
at the time of filing.
   (D)   (1)   Except as provided in division (D)(2) below, a person shall not
be eligible to file for an office until he or she has paid any outstanding
civil penalties and interest imposed pursuant to the Nebraska Political
Accountability and Disclosure Act. The filing officer shall determine such
eligibility before accepting a filing. The Nebraska Accountability and
Disclosure Commission shall provide the filing officers with current
information or the most current list of such outstanding civil penalties and
interest owed pursuant to Neb. RS 49-14,123(13).
      (2)   A person owing a civil penalty to the commission shall be eligible
to file for an office if:
         (a)   The matter in which the civil penalty was assessed is pending on
appeal before a state court; and
         (b)   The person files with the commission a surety bond running in
favor of the state with surety by a corporate bonding company authorized to do
business in this state and conditioned upon the payment of the civil penalty
imposed under the Nebraska Political Accountability and Disclosure Act.
   (E)   The governing body of the political subdivision swearing in the
officer shall determine whether the person meets all requirements prior to
swearing in the officer.
(Neb. RS 32-602)
§ 36.17 EXIT POLLS.
   (A)   No person shall conduct an exit poll, a public opinion poll or any
other interview with voters on election day seeking to determine voter
preference within 20 feet of the entrance of any polling place, or, if inside
the polling place or building, within 100 feet of any voting booth.
   (B)   (1)   No poll watcher shall interfere with any voter in the
preparation or casting of such voter’s ballot or prevent any election worker
from performing the worker’s duties.
      (2)   A poll watcher shall not provide assistance to a voter as described
in Neb. RS 32-918 unless selected by the voter to provide assistance as
provided in Neb. RS 32-918.
      (3)   A poll watcher shall not do any electioneering or disseminate any
information or materials advertising or advocating for or against any ballot
measure while engaged in observing at a polling place.
      (4)   A poll watcher shall maintain a distance of at least eight feet
from the sign-in table, the sign-in register, the polling booths, the ballot
box and any ballots which have not been cast, except that if the polling place
is not large enough for a distance of eight feet, the judge of election shall
post a notice of the minimum distance the poll watcher must maintain from the
sign-in table, the sign-in register, the polling booths, the ballot box and any
ballots which have not been cast. The posted notice shall be clearly visible to
the voters and shall be posted prior to the opening of the polls on election
day. The minimum distance shall not be determined to exclude a poll watcher
from being in the polling place.
(Neb. RS 32-1525) (Prior Code, § 1-718) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 37: FISCAL MANAGEMENT
Section
General Provisions
   
37.01   Expenditures
   
37.02   Contract
   
37.03   Annual audit; financial statements
   
37.04   Claims
   
37.05   Warrants
   
37.06   Special Assessment Fund
   
37.07   Sinking funds
   
37.08   Deposit of funds
   
37.09   Investment of funds
   
37.10   Bond issues
   
37.11   Debt collection; authority to contract with collection agency
Budget
   
37.25   Fiscal year
   
37.26   Budget statement filing
   
37.27   Budget hearing
   
37.28   Budget filing
   
37.29   Expenditures prior to adoption of budget
   
37.30   Budget procedure
   
37.31   Appropriations
   
37.32   Proprietary functions; fiscal year; budget statements; filing; hearing;
adoption; reconciliation
   
37.33   Revision of budget
Tax Levies
   
37.45   All purpose levy
   
37.46   Extraordinary levy
   
37.47   Inadequate valuation
   
37.48   All purpose levy; allocation
   
37.49   All purpose levy; abandonment
   
37.50   General property tax
   
37.51   Property tax levy and request; authority to set
   
37.52   Motor vehicle tax
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 37.01 EXPENDITURES.
   (A)   The Board of Trustees shall have no power to appropriate, issue or
draw any order or warrant on the Village Treasurer for money, unless the same
has been appropriated or ordered by ordinance, or the claim for the payment of
which such order or warrant is issued has been allowed according to the
provisions of §
37.04, and funds for the class or object out of which such claim is payable
have been included in the adopted budget statement or transferred according to
law.
(Neb. RS 17-708)
   (B)   No contract shall be hereafter made by the Board of Trustees, or any
committee or member thereof, and no expense shall be incurred by any of the
officers or departments of the village, whether the object of the expenditures
shall have been ordered by the Board of Trustees or not, unless an
appropriation shall have been previously made concerning such expense, except
as otherwise expressly provided in division (A) of this section.
(Neb. RS 17-709)
(Prior Code, § 1-813)
§ 37.02 CONTRACT.
   (A)   Except as provided in Neb. RS 18-412.01 for a contract with a public
power district to operate, renew, replace or add to the electric distribution,
transmission or generation system of the village, no contract for enlargement
or general improvements, such as water extensions, sewers, public heating
systems, bridges, work on streets or any other work or improvement when the
cost of the enlargement or improvement is assessed to the property, costing
over the amount set forth in the village master fee list, shall be made unless
it is first approved by the Board of Trustees.
   (B)   Except as provided in Neb. RS 18-412.01, before the Board of Trustees
makes any contract in excess of the amount set forth in the village master fee
list for enlargement or general improvements, such as water extensions, sewers,
public heating systems, bridges, work on streets or any other work or
improvement when the cost of the enlargement or improvement is assessed to the
property, an estimate of the cost shall be made by the Village Engineer and
submitted to the Board of Trustees. In advertising for bids as provided in
divisions (C) and (E) of this section, the Board of Trustees may publish the
amount of the estimate.
   (C)   Advertisements for bids shall be required for any contract costing
over the amount set forth in the village master fee list entered into:
      (1)   For enlargement or general improvements, such as water extensions,
sewers, public heating systems, bridges, work on streets or any other work or
improvement when the cost of the enlargement or improvement is assessed to the
property; or
      (2)   For the purchase of equipment used in the construction of the
enlargement or general improvements.
   (D)   A village electric utility may enter into a contract for the
enlargement or improvement of the electric system or for the purchase of
equipment used for the enlargement or improvement without advertising for bids
if the price is:
      (1)   Thirty thousand dollars or less;
      (2)   Sixty thousand dollars or less and the village electric utility has
gross annual revenue from retail sales in excess of the amount set forth in the
village master fee list;
      (3)   Ninety thousand dollars or less and the village electric utility
has gross annual revenue from retail sales in excess of the amount set forth in
the village master fee list; or
      (4)   One hundred twenty thousand dollars or less and the village
electric utility has gross annual revenue from retail sales in excess of the
amount set forth in the village master fee list.
   (E)   The advertisement provided for in division (C) of this section shall
be published at least seven days prior to the bid closing in a legal newspaper
published in or of general circulation in the village. In case of a public
emergency resulting from infectious or contagious diseases, destructive
windstorms, floods, snow, war or an exigency or pressing necessity or
unforeseen need calling for immediate action or remedy to prevent a serious
loss of or serious injury or damage to life, health or property, estimates of
costs and advertising for bids may be waived in the emergency ordinance
authorized by Neb. RS 17-613 when adopted by a three-fourths vote of the Board
of Trustees and entered of record.
   (F)   If, after advertising for bids as provided in this section, the Board
of Trustees receives fewer than two bids on a contract or if the bids received
by the Board of Trustees contain a price which exceeds the estimated cost, the
Board of Trustees may negotiate a contract in an attempt to complete the
proposed enlargement or general improvements at a cost commensurate with the
estimate given.
   (G)   If the materials are of such a nature that, in the opinion of the
manufacturer and with the concurrence of the Board of Trustees, no cost can be
estimated until the materials have been manufactured or assembled to the
specific qualifications of the village, the Board of Trustees may authorize the
manufacture and assemblage of those materials and may thereafter approve the
estimated cost expenditure when it is provided by the manufacturer.
(Neb. RS 17-568.01)
   (H)   Any village bidding procedure may be waived by the Board of Trustees:
      (1)   When materials or equipment are purchased at the same price and
from the same seller as materials or equipment which have formerly been
obtained pursuant to the state bidding procedure in the State Procurement Act,
Neb. RS 81-145 through 81-162;
      (2)   When the contract is negotiated directly with a sheltered workshop
pursuant to Neb. RS 48-1503; or
      (3)   When required to comply with any federal grant, loan or program.
(Neb. RS 17-568.02)
   (I)   (1)   Notwithstanding any other provisions of law or a home rule
charter, a village which has established, by an interlocal agreement with any
county, a joint purchasing division or agency may purchase personal property
without competitive bidding if the price for the property has been established
by the federal General Services Administration or the materiel division of the
Department of Administrative Services.
      (2)   For the purpose of this division (I), the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
         PERSONAL PROPERTY. Includes but is not limited to supplies, materials
and equipment used by or furnished to any officer, office, department,
institution, board or other agency.
         PURCHASING or PURCHASE. The obtaining of personal property by sale,
lease or other contractual means.
(Neb. RS 18-1756)
(Prior Code, § 1-814)
Statutory reference:
   Requirements for public lettings, see Neb. RS 73-101 et seq.
§ 37.03 ANNUAL AUDIT; FINANCIAL STATEMENTS.
   The Board of Trustees shall cause an audit of the municipal accounts to be
made by a qualified accountant as expeditiously as possible following the close
of the fiscal year. Such audit shall be made on a cash or accrual method at the
discretion of the Board of Trustees. The said audit shall be completed, and the
annual audit report made not later than six months after the close of the
fiscal year. The accountant making the audit shall submit not less than three
copies of the audit report to the Board of Trustees. All public utilities or
other enterprises which substantially generate their own revenue shall be
audited separately, except in villages having a population of less than 800,
and the results of such audits shall appear separately in the annual audit
report, and such audits shall be on an accrual basis and shall contain
statements and materials which conform to generally accepted accounting
principles. The audit report shall set forth the financial position and results
of financial operations for each fund or group of accounts of the village as
well as an opinion by the accountant with respect to the financial statements.
Two copies of the annual audit report shall be filed with the Village Clerk,
and shall become a part of the public records of the Village Clerk’s office,
and will at all times thereafter, be open for public inspection. One copy shall
be filed with the Auditor of Public Accounts; provided, that all villages may
file an unaudited statement of cash receipts and disbursements annually in lieu
of an annual audit. Such unaudited statement shall be filed with the Auditor of
Public Accounts in a form prescribed by him or her. The unaudited statement of
cash receipts and disbursements shall become a part of the public records of
the Village Clerk and shall at all times thereafter be open and subject to
public inspection. Every Board of Trustees that is required herein to submit to
an audit of its accounts shall provide and file with the Village Clerk, not
later than August 1 of each year, financial statements showing its actual and
budgeted figures for the most recently completed fiscal year.
(Neb. RS 19-2901 through 19-2909, 13-606) (Prior Code, § 1-815)
§ 37.04 CLAIMS.
   (A)   (1)   All liquidated and unliquidated claims and accounts payable
against the village shall:
         (a)   Be presented in writing;
         (b)   State the name and address of the claimant and the amount of the
claim; and
         (c)   Fully and accurately identify the items or services for which
payment is claimed or the time, place, nature and circumstances giving rise to
the claim.
      (2)   As a condition precedent to maintaining an action for a claim,
other than a tort claim as defined in Neb. RS 13-903, the claimant shall file
such claim within 90 days of the accrual of the claim in the office of the
Village Clerk.
      (3)   The Village Clerk shall notify the claimant or his or her agent or
attorney by letter mailed to the claimant’s address within five days if the
claim is disallowed by the Board of Trustees.
      (4)   No costs shall be recovered against the village in any action
brought against it for any claim or for any claim allowed in part which has not
been presented to the Board of Trustees to be audited, unless the recovery is
for a greater sum than the amount allowed with the interest due.
(Neb. RS 17-714)
   (B)   Upon the allowance of claims by the Board of Trustees, the order for
their payment shall specify the particular fund or appropriation out of which
they are payable as specified in the adopted budget statement; and no order or
warrant shall be drawn in excess of 85% of the current levy for the purpose for
which it is drawn, unless there is sufficient money in the treasury at the
credit of the proper fund for its payment; provided that if there exists at the
time such warrant is drawn, obligated funds from the federal government or the
state, or both from the federal government and the state, for the general
purpose or purposes of such warrant, then such warrant may be drawn in excess
of 85% of the current levy for the purpose for which it is drawn to the
additional extent of 100% of such obligated federal or state funds. No claim
shall be audited or allowed unless an order or warrant for the payment thereof
may legally be drawn.
(Neb. RS 17-715)
(Prior Code, § 1-816)
§ 37.05 WARRANTS.
   All warrants drawn upon the Village Treasurer must be signed by the
Chairperson and countersigned by the Village Clerk, stating the particular fund
to which the same is chargeable, the person to whom payable, and for what
particular object. No money shall be otherwise paid than upon such warrants so
drawn. Each warrant shall specify the amount included in the adopted budget
statement for such fund upon which it is drawn and the amount already expended
of such fund.
(Neb. RS 17-711) (Prior Code, § 1-817)
§ 37.06 SPECIAL ASSESSMENT FUND.
   All money received on special assessments shall be held by the Village
Treasurer as a special fund to be applied to the payment of the improvement for
which the assessment was made, and this money shall be used for no other
purpose whatever, unless to reimburse the village for money expended for any
such improvement.
(Neb. RS 17-710) (Prior Code, § 1-818)
§ 37.07 SINKING FUNDS.
   (A)   The village is hereby empowered to receive money or property by
donation, bequest, gift, devise or otherwise for the benefit of any one or more
of the public purposes for which sinking funds are established by the
provisions of this section, as stipulated by the donor. Title to any money or
property so donated shall vest in the Board of Trustees, or in its successors
in office, who shall become the owners thereof in trust to the uses of the
sinking fund or funds; provided. In the event of a donation of real estate, the
Board of Trustees may manage the real estate as in the case of real estate
donated to the village for village library purposes under the provisions of
Neb. RS 51-215 and 51-216.
(Neb. RS 19-1301)
   (B)   The Board of Trustees, subject to all the limitations set forth in
this section, shall have the power to levy a tax of not to exceed the amount
set forth in the village master fee list in any one year upon the taxable value
of all the taxable property within the village for a term of not to exceed ten
years, in addition to the amount of tax which may be annually levied for the
purposes of the adopted budget statement of the village, for the purpose of
establishing a sinking fund for the construction, purchase, improvement,
extension, original equipment or repair, not including maintenance, of any one
or more of the following public improvements, including acquisition of any land
incident to the making thereof: Village libraries; village auditoriums or
community houses for social or recreational purposes; village halls; village
public libraries, auditoriums or community houses in a single building; village
swimming pools; village jails; village fire stations, together with
firefighting equipment or apparatus; village parks; village cemeteries; village
medical buildings, together with furnishings and equipment; or village
hospitals. The village shall not be authorized to levy the tax or to establish
the sinking fund as provided in this division (B) if, having bonded
indebtedness, such village has been in default in the payment of interest
thereon or principal thereof for a period of ten years prior to the date of the
passage of the resolution providing for the submission of the proposition for
establishment of the sinking fund as required in division (C) of this section.
(Neb. RS 19-1302)
   (C)   Before any sinking fund or funds are established or before any annual
tax is levied for any such planned village improvements mentioned in division
(B) of this section by the village, the Board of Trustees shall declare its
purpose by resolution to submit to the qualified electors of the village at the
next general village election the proposition to provide the village with the
specific village improvement planned under this section. The resolution of
submission shall, among other things, set forth a clear description of the
improvement planned, the estimated cost according to the prevailing costs, the
amount of annual levy over a definite period of years, not exceeding ten years,
required to provide such cost, and the specific name or designation for the
sinking fund sought to be established to carry out the planned improvement,
together with a statement of the proposition for placement upon the ballot at
the election. Notice of the submission of the proposition, together with a copy
of the official ballot containing the same, shall be published in its entirety
three successive weeks before the day of the election in a legal newspaper in
or of general circulation in the village or, if no legal newspaper is in or of
general circulation in the village, in a legal newspaper in or of general
circulation in the county in which the village is located. No such sinking fund
shall be established unless the same has been authorized by a majority or more
of the legal votes of the village cast for or against the proposition. If less
than a majority of the legal votes favor the establishment of the sinking fund,
the planned improvement shall not be made, no annual tax shall be levied
therefor, and no sinking fund or sinking funds shall be established in
connection therewith, but such resolution of submission shall immediately be
repealed. If the proposition shall carry at such election in the manner
prescribed in this division (C), the Board of Trustees and its successors in
office shall proceed to do all things authorized under such resolution of
submission but never inconsistent with this section. The election provided for
under this section shall be conducted as provided under the Election Act, Neb.
RS 32-101 et seq.
(Neb. RS 19-1303)
   (D)   All funds received by the Village Treasurer, by donation or by tax
levy, as hereinbefore provided, shall, as they accumulate, be immediately
invested by the Treasurer, with the written approval of the Board of Trustees,
in the manner provided in §
37.51. Whenever investments of such sinking fund or funds are made, as
aforesaid, the nature and character of the same shall be reported to the Board
of Trustees, and the investment report shall be made a matter of record by the
Village Clerk in the proceedings of the Village Board. The sinking fund, or
sinking funds, accumulated under the provisions of this section, shall
constitute a special fund, or funds, for the purpose or purposes for which the
same was authorized and shall not be used for any other purpose unless
authorized by 60% of the qualified electors of the village voting at a general
election favoring such change in the use of the sinking fund or sinking funds;
provided that the question of the change in the use of the sinking fund or
sinking funds, when it fails to carry, shall not be resubmitted in substance
for a period of one year from and after the date of such election.
(Neb. RS 19-1304)
(Prior Code, § 1-819)
Statutory reference:
   Additional levy limitations, see Neb. RS 17-702
§ 37.08 DEPOSIT OF FUNDS.
   (A)   (1)   The Village Treasurer shall deposit, and at all times keep on
deposit, for safekeeping, in banks, capital stock financial institutions or
qualifying mutual financial institutions of approved and responsible standing,
all money collected, received or held by him or her as Village Treasurer. These
deposits shall be subject to all regulations imposed by law or adopted by the
Board of Trustees for the receiving and holding thereof. The fact that a
stockholder, director or other officer of the bank, capital stock financial
institution or qualifying mutual financial institution is also serving as a
member of the Board of Trustees or as any other officer of the village shall
not disqualify the bank, capital stock financial institution or qualifying
mutual financial institution from acting as a depository for the village funds.
      (2)   The Board of Trustees shall require from all banks, capital stock
financial institutions, or qualifying mutual financial institutions a bond in
such penal sum as may be the maximum amount on deposit at any time less the
amount insured or guaranteed by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation or,
in lieu thereof, security given as provided in the Public Funds Deposit
Security Act, Neb. RS 77-2386 et seq., to secure the payment of all such
deposits and accretions. The Board of Trustees shall approve this bond or
giving of security. The Village Treasurer shall not be liable for any loss of
any money sustained by reason of the failure of any such depository so
designated and approved.
(Neb. RS 17-607)
   (B)   The insurance afforded to depositors in banks, capital stock financial
institutions or qualifying mutual financial institutions through the Federal
Deposit Insurance Corporation shall be deemed and construed to be a surety bond
or bonds to the extent that the deposits are insured or guaranteed by that
corporation, and for deposits so insured or guaranteed, no other surety bond or
bonds or other security shall be required.
(Neb. RS 77-2362)
   (C)   Neb. RS 77-2366 shall apply to deposits in capital stock financial
institutions. Neb. RS 77-2365.01 shall apply to deposits in qualifying mutual
financial institutions.
(Neb. RS 17-607, 77-2362)
(Prior Code, § 1-820)
Statutory reference:
   Other provisions on deposits of public funds, see Neb. RS 77-2363 and 77-
2364
§ 37.09 INVESTMENT OF FUNDS.
   (A)   When the Village Treasurer holds funds of the village in excess of the
amount required for maintenance or set aside for betterments and improvements,
the Board of Trustees may, by resolution, direct and authorize the Treasurer to
invest the surplus funds in the outstanding bonds or registered warrants of the
village, bonds and debentures issued either singly or collectively by any of
the 12 federal land banks, the 12 intermediate credit banks or the 13 banks for
cooperatives under the supervision of the Farm Credit Administration, or in
interest-bearing bonds or the obligations of the United States. The interest on
such bonds or warrants shall be credited to the fund out of which the bonds or
warrants were purchased.
(Neb. RS 17-608)
   (B)   All income received by the village from public utilities and from the
payment and collection of water taxes, rents, rates or assessments shall be
applied to the payment of running expenses, interest on bonds or money borrowed
and the erection and construction of public utilities; should there be any
surplus, it shall be annually created into a sinking fund for the payment of
public utility bonds or for the improvements of the works, or into the General
Fund as the Board may direct. The surplus remaining, if any, may, if the Board,
be invested in interest-bearing bonds or obligations of the United States.
(Neb. RS 17-540)
   (C)   The Board of Trustees may, by resolution, direct and authorize the
Treasurer to dispose of the surplus electric light, water or gas funds, or the
funds arising from the sale of electric light, water, or natural gas
distribution properties, by the payment of outstanding electric light, water or
gas distribution bonds or water warrants then due. The excess, if any, after
such payments, may be transferred to the General Fund of the village.
(Neb. RS 17-609)
   (D)   (1)   Whenever the village has accumulated a surplus of any fund in
excess of its current needs or has accumulated a sinking fund for the payment
of its bonds and the money in such sinking fund exceeds the amount necessary to
pay the principal and interest of any such bonds which become due during the
current year, the Board of Trustees may invest any such surplus in excess of
current needs or such excess in its sinking fund in certificates of deposit, in
time deposits, and in any securities in which the State Investment Officer is
authorized to invest pursuant to the State Capital Expansion Act, Neb. RS 17-
1269 et seq., and the State Funds Investment Act, Neb. RS 17-1237 et seq., and
as provided in the authorized investment guidelines of the State Investment
Council in effect on the date the investment is made. The State Investment
Officer shall, upon request, furnish a copy of current authorized investment
guidelines of the State Investment Council.
      (2)   Nothing in division (D)(1) above shall be construed to authorize
investments in venture capital or to expand the investment authority of a local
government investment pool under the Public Entities Pooled Investment Act,
being Neb. RS 77-23,109 et seq.
(Neb. RS 77-2341)
(Prior Code, § 1-821)
§ 37.10 BOND ISSUES.
   The Board of Trustees may, after meeting all the requirements of state law,
issue bonds, fund bonds and retire bonds for such purposes as may be permitted
by state law. The Board of Trustees shall have the authority to levy special
assessments for the payment of interest and principal on these bonds and may
spread the payments up to the maximum number of years permitted by state law.
(Prior Code, § 1-822)
Statutory reference:
   Bonds in general, see Neb. RS 18-1801 through 18-1805
   General provisions, see Neb. RS 10-101 through 10-143
§ 37.11 DEBT COLLECTION; AUTHORITY TO CONTRACT WITH COLLECTION AGENCY.
   (A)   The village may contract to retain a collection agency licensed
pursuant to the Collection Agency Act, being Neb. RS 45-601 et seq., within or
without this state, for the purpose of collecting public debts owed by any
person to the village.
   (B)   No debt owed pursuant to division (A) of this section may be assigned
to a collection agency unless:
      (1)   There has been an attempt to advise the debtor by first-class mail,
postage prepaid, at the last known address of the debtor:
         (a)   Of the existence of the debt; and
         (b)   That the debt may be assigned to a collection agency for
collection if the debt is not paid; and
      (2)   At least 30 days have elapsed from the time the notice was sent.
   (C)   A collection agency which is assigned a debt under this section shall
have only those remedies and powers which would be available to it as an
assignee of a private creditor.
   (D)   For purposes of this section, debt shall include all delinquent fees
or payments except delinquent property taxes on real estate. In the case of
debt arising as a result of an order or judgment of a court in a criminal or
traffic matter, a collection fee may be added to the debt. The collection fee
shall be the amount set forth in the village master fee list. The collection
fee shall be paid by the person who owes the debt directly to the person or
agency providing the collection service.
(Neb. RS 45-623) (Prior Code, § 1-824) (Ord. 95-7, passed 4-26-1995)
BUDGET
§ 37.25 FISCAL YEAR.
   The fiscal year of the village and any public utility of the village
commences on October 1 and extends through the following September 30 except as
provided in the Municipal Proprietary Function Act, Neb. RS 18-2801 et seq.
(Neb. RS 17-701) (Prior Code, § 1-801) (Ord. 96-7, passed 5-16-1996)
§ 37.26 BUDGET STATEMENT FILING.
   (A)   The Board of Trustees shall annually or biennially prepare a proposed
budget statement on forms prescribed and furnished by the Auditor of Public
Accounts. The proposed budget statement shall be made available to the public
prior to publication of the notice of the hearing on the proposed budget
statement pursuant to §
37.27. A proposed budget statement shall contain the following information,
except as provided by state law:
      (1)   For the immediately preceding fiscal year or biennial period, the
revenue from all sources, including motor vehicle taxes, other than revenue
received from personal and real property taxation, allocated to the funds and
separately stated as to each such source: the unencumbered cash balance at the
beginning and end of the year or biennial period; the amount received by
taxation of personal and real property; and the amount of actual expenditures;
      (2)   For the current fiscal year or biennial period, actual and
estimated revenue from all sources, including motor vehicle taxes, allocated to
the funds and separately stated as to each such source: the actual unencumbered
cash balance available at the beginning of the year or biennial period; the
amount received from personal and real property taxation; and the amount of
actual and estimated expenditures, whichever is applicable. This statement
shall contain the cash reserve for each fiscal year or biennial period and
shall note whether or not the reserve is encumbered. The cash reserve
projections shall be based upon the actual experience of prior years or
biennial periods. The cash reserve shall not exceed 50% of the total budget
adopted exclusive of capital outlay items;
      (3)   For the immediately ensuing fiscal year or biennial period, an
estimate of revenue from all sources, including motor vehicle taxes, other than
revenue to be received from taxation of personal and real property, separately
stated as to each such source: the actual or estimated unencumbered cash
balances, whichever is applicable, to be available at the beginning of the year
or biennial period; the amounts proposed to be expended during the year or
biennial period; and the amount of cash reserve, based on actual experience of
prior years or biennial periods, which cash reserve shall not exceed 50% of the
total budget adopted exclusive of capital outlay items;
      (4)   A statement setting out separately the amount sought to be raised
from the levy of a tax on the taxable value of real property:
         (a)   For the purpose of paying the principal or interest on bonds
issued or authorized to be issued by the Board of Trustees or the legal voters
of the political subdivision; and
         (b)   For all other purposes.
      (5)   A uniform summary of the proposed budget statement, including each
proprietary function fund included in a separate proprietary budget statement
prepared pursuant to the Municipal Proprietary Function Act, Neb. RS 18-2801 et
seq., and a grand total of all funds maintained by the Board of Trustees; and
      (6)   A list of the proprietary functions which are not included in the
budget statement. These proprietary functions shall have a separate budget
statement, which is approved by the Board of Trustees as provided in the
Municipal Proprietary Function Act, Neb. RS 18-2801 et seq.
   (B)   The actual or estimated unencumbered cash balance required to be
included in the budget statement by this section shall include deposits and
investments of the village as well as any funds held by the County Treasurer
for the village and shall be accurately stated on the proposed budget
statement.
   (C)   The village shall correct any material errors in the budget statement
detected by the Auditor of Public Accounts or by other sources.
(Neb. RS 13-504)
   (D)   The estimated expenditures plus the required cash reserve for the
ensuing fiscal year or biennial period less all estimated and actual
unencumbered balances at the beginning of the year or biennial period and less
the estimated income from all sources, including motor vehicle taxes, other
than taxation of personal and real property shall equal the amount to be
received from taxes, and that amount shall be shown on the proposed budget
statement pursuant to this section. The amount to be raised from taxation of
personal and real property, as determined above, plus the estimated revenue
from other sources, including motor vehicle taxes, and the unencumbered
balances shall equal the estimated expenditures, plus the necessary required
cash reserve, for the ensuing year or biennial period.
(Neb. RS 13-505)
(Prior Code, § 1-802) (Ord. 95-3, passed 4-26-1995)
§ 37.27 BUDGET HEARING.
   (A)   The Board of Trustees shall each year or biennial period conduct a
public hearing on its proposed budget statement. Such hearing shall be held
separately from any regularly scheduled meeting of the governing body and shall
not be limited by time. Notice of the place and time of the hearing, together
with a summary of the proposed budget statement, shall be published at least
four calendar days prior to the date set for hearing in a newspaper of general
circulation within the village’s jurisdiction. For purposes of such notice, the
four calendar days shall include the day of publication but not the day of
hearing. When the total operating budget, not including reserves, does not
exceed the amount set forth in the village master fee list, the proposed budget
summary may be posted at the Board of Trustee’s principal headquarters. At such
hearing, the governing body shall make at least three copies of the proposed
budget statement available to the public and shall make a presentation
outlining key provisions of the proposed budget statement, including, but not
limited to, a comparison with the prior year’s budget. Any member of the public
desiring to speak on the proposed budget statement shall be allowed to address
the governing body at the hearing and shall be given a reasonable amount of
time to do so.
   (B)   After the hearing, the proposed budget statement shall be adopted, or
amended and adopted as amended, and a written record shall be kept of the
hearing. The amount to be received from personal and real property taxation
shall be certified to the levying board after the proposed budget statement is
adopted or is amended and adopted as amended. The certification of the amount
to be received from personal and real property taxation shall specify
separately the amount to be applied to the payment of principal or interest on
bonds issued or authorized to be issued by the Board of Trustees or the legal
voters of the political subdivision and the amount to be received for all other
purposes.
   (C)   If the adopted budget statement reflects a change from that shown in
the published proposed budget statement, a summary of the changes shall be
published within 20 calendar days after its adoption in the manner provided in
this section, but without provision for hearing, setting forth the items
changed and the reasons for the changes.
(Neb. RS 13-506) (Prior Code, § 1-803)
§ 37.28 BUDGET FILING.
   Upon approval by Board of Trustees, the budget shall be filed with the
Auditor of Public Accounts. The Auditor may review the budget for errors in
mathematics, improper accounting and noncompliance with the Nebraska Budget Act
or Neb. RS 13-518 to 13-522. If the Auditor detects such errors, he or she
shall immediately notify the Board of such errors. The Board shall correct any
such error as provided in §
37.33. Warrants for the payment of expenditures provided in the budget adopted
under this section shall be valid notwithstanding any errors or noncompliance
for which the Auditor has notified the Board.
(Neb. RS 13-506) (Prior Code, § 1-804) (Ord. 95-4, passed 4-26-1995; Ord. 96-8,
passed 5-16-1996)
§ 37.29 EXPENDITURES PRIOR TO ADOPTION OF BUDGET.
   (A)   On and after the first day of its fiscal year in 1993 and of each
succeeding year or on or after the first day of its biennial period and until
the adoption of the budget by the Board of Trustees in September, the Board of
Trustees may expend any balance of cash on hand for the current expenses of the
village. Except as provided in division (B) of this section, the expenditures
shall not exceed an amount equivalent to the total amount expended under the
last budget in the equivalent period of the prior budget year or biennial
period. The expenditures shall be charged against the appropriations for each
individual fund or purpose as provided in the budget when adopted.
(Neb. RS 13-509.01)
   (B)   The restriction on expenditures in division (A) of this section may be
exceeded upon the express finding of the Board of Trustees that expenditures
beyond the amount authorized are necessary to enable the village to meet its
statutory duties and responsibilities. The finding and approval of the
expenditures in excess of the statutory authorization shall be adopted by the
Board of Trustees in open public session. Expenditures authorized by this
section shall be charged against appropriations for each individual fund or
purpose as provided in the budget when adopted, and nothing in this section
shall be construed to authorize expenditures by the village in excess of that
authorized by any other statutory provision.
(Neb. RS 13-509.02)
(Prior Code, § 1-804.01) (Ord. 95-5, passed 4-26-1995)
§ 37.30 BUDGET PROCEDURE.
   The Manual of Instructions for City/Village: Budgets, prepared by the
Auditor of Public Accounts, State Capitol, Lincoln, Nebraska 68509 is
incorporated by reference for the purpose of proper budget preparation.
(Prior Code, § 1-805)
§ 37.31 APPROPRIATIONS.
   The Board of Trustees shall adopt a budget statement pursuant to the State
Budget Act, Neb. RS 13-501 et seq., to be termed “The Annual Appropriation
Bill,” in which the Board may appropriate those sums of money as may be deemed
necessary to defray all necessary expenses and liabilities of the village.
(Neb. RS 17-706) (Prior Code, § 1-806) (Ord. 95-6, passed 4-26-1995; Ord. 96-9,
passed 5-16-1996)
§ 37.32 PROPRIETARY FUNCTIONS; FISCAL YEAR; BUDGET STATEMENTS; FILING; HEARING;
ADOPTION; RECONCILIATION.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      PROPRIETARY FUNCTION. A water supply or distribution utility, a
wastewater collection or treatment utility, an electric generation,
transmission, or distribution utility, a gas supply, transmission or
distribution utility, an integrated solid waste management collection, disposal
or handling utility, or a hospital or a nursing home owned by the village.
(Neb. RS 18-2803)
      SUBSIDIZATION. The costs of operation of a proprietary function are
regularly financed by appropriations from the village’s General Fund in excess
of the amount paid by the village to the proprietary function for actual
service or services received.
(Neb. RS 18-2804)
   (B)   The Board of Trustees may establish a separate fiscal year for each
proprietary function, except that any proprietary function which is subsidized
by appropriations from the village’s General Fund shall have the same fiscal
year as the village.
   (C)   (1)   At least 30 days prior to the start of the fiscal year of each
proprietary function, a proposed proprietary budget statement shall be prepared
in writing and filed with the Village Clerk containing the following
information:
         (a)   For the immediately preceding fiscal year, the revenue from all
sources, the unencumbered cash balance at the beginning and end of the year,
the amount received by taxation, and the amount of actual expenditure;
         (b)   For the current fiscal year, actual and estimated revenue from
all sources separately stated as to each such source, the actual unencumbered
cash balance available at the beginning of the year, the amount received from
taxation, and the amount of actual and estimated expenditure, whichever is
applicable;
         (c)   For the immediately ensuing fiscal year, an estimate of revenue
from all sources separately stated as to each such source, the actual or
estimated unencumbered cash balance, whichever is applicable, to be available
at the beginning of the year, the amounts proposed to be expended during the
fiscal year, and the amount of cash reserve based on actual experience of prior
years; and
         (d)   A uniform summary of the proposed budget statement which shall
include a total of all funds maintained for the proprietary function.
      (2)   (a)   The statement shall contain the estimated cash reserve for
each fiscal year and shall note whether or not the reserve is encumbered.
         (b)   The cash reserve projections shall be based upon the actual
experience of prior years.
      (3)   Each proprietary budget statement shall be filed on forms
prescribed and furnished by the Auditor of Public Accounts following
consultation with representatives of such governing bodies as operate
proprietary functions subject to the provisions of the Municipal Proprietary
Function Act, Neb. RS 18-2801 et seq.
(Neb. RS 18-2805)
   (D)   (1)   After a proposed proprietary budget statement is filed with the
Village Clerk, the Board of Trustees shall conduct a public hearing on the
statement. Notice of the time and place of the hearing, a summary of the
proposed proprietary budget statement, and notice that the full proposed
proprietary budget statement is available for public review with the Village
Clerk during normal business hours shall be published one time at least five
days prior to the hearing in a legal newspaper in or of general circulation
within the Board’s jurisdiction or by mailing to each resident within the
Board’s jurisdiction.
      (2)   After the hearing, the proposed proprietary budget statement shall
be adopted or amended and adopted as amended, and a written record shall be
kept of the hearing. If the adopted proprietary budget statement reflects a
change from the proposed proprietary statement presented at the hearing, a copy
of the adopted proprietary budget statement shall be filed with the Village
Clerk within 20 days after its adoption and published in a legal newspaper in
or of general circulation within the Board’s jurisdiction or by mailing to each
resident within the Board’s jurisdiction.
(Neb. RS 18-2806)
   (E)   If the actual expenditures for a proprietary function exceed the
estimated expenditures in the proprietary budget statement during its fiscal
year, the Board of Trustees shall adopt a proprietary function reconciliation
statement within 90 days after the end of the fiscal year which reflects any
difference between the adopted proprietary budget statement for the previous
fiscal year and the actual expenditures and revenue for that fiscal year. After
the adoption of a proprietary function reconciliation statement, it shall be
filed with the Village Clerk and published in a legal newspaper in or of
general circulation within the Board’s jurisdiction or by mailing to each
resident within the Board’s jurisdiction. If the difference between the adopted
proprietary budget for the previous fiscal year and the actual expenditures and
revenues for that fiscal year is greater than 10%, the proprietary function
reconciliation statement shall only be adopted following a public hearing.
(Neb. RS 18-2807)
   (F)   If the budget of a proprietary function is included in the village
budget statement created pursuant to the State Budget Act, Neb. RS 13-501 et
seq., the Municipal Proprietary Function Act, Neb. RS 18-2801 et seq., need not
be followed for that proprietary function. Any income from a proprietary
function which is transferred to the General Fund of the village shall be shown
as a source of revenue in the village budget statement created pursuant to the
State Budget Act, being Neb. RS 13-501 et seq.
(Neb. RS 18-2808)
(Prior Code, § 1-825) (Ord. 95-8, passed 4-26-1995)
§ 37.33 REVISION OF BUDGET.
   (A)   (1)   Unless otherwise provided by law, the Board of Trustees may
propose to revise the previously adopted budget statement and shall conduct a
public hearing on that proposal whenever during the current fiscal year it
becomes apparent to the Board of Trustees that:
         (a)   There are circumstances which could not reasonably have been
anticipated at the time the budget for the current year was adopted;
         (b)   The budget adopted violated Neb. RS 13-518 through 13-522, such
that the revenue of the current fiscal year for any fund thereof will be
insufficient, additional expenses will be necessarily incurred, or there is a
need to reduce the budget requirements to comply with Neb. RS 13-518 through
13-522; or
         (c)   The Board of Trustees has been notified by the Auditor of Public
Accounts of a mathematical or accounting error or noncompliance with the State
Budget Act, Neb. RS 13-501 et seq.
      (2)   The public hearing requirement shall not apply to emergency
expenditures pursuant to Neb. RS 81-829.51.
   (B)   (1)   Notice of the time and place of the hearing shall be published
at least four calendar days prior to the date set for hearing in a newspaper of
general circulation within the Board’s jurisdiction. For purposes of such
notice, the four calendar days shall include the day of publication but not the
day of hearing.
      (2)   This published notice shall set forth:
         (a)   The time and place of the hearing;
         (b)   The amount in dollars of additional or reduced money required
and for what purpose;
         (c)   A statement setting forth the nature of the unanticipated
circumstances and, if the budget requirements are to be increased, the reasons
why the previously adopted budget of expenditures cannot be reduced during the
remainder of the current year to meet the need for additional money in that
manner;
         (d)   A copy of the summary of the originally adopted budget
previously published; and
         (e)   A copy of the summary of the proposed revised budget.
   (C)   At the hearing any taxpayer may appear or file a written statement
protesting any application for additional money. A written record shall be kept
of all such hearings.
   (D)   Upon conclusion of the public hearing on the proposed revised budget
and approval of the proposed revised budget by the Board of Trustees, the Board
shall file with the County Clerk of the county or counties in which the Board
of Trustees is located, and with the Auditor of Public Accounts, a copy of the
revised budget, as adopted. The Board of Trustees may then issue warrants in
payment for expenditures authorized by the adopted revised budget. These
warrants shall be referred to as registered warrants and shall be repaid during
the next fiscal year from funds derived from taxes levied therefor.
   (E)   Within 30 days after the adoption of the budget under §
37.30, the Board of Trustees may, or within 30 days after notification of an
error by the Auditor of Public Accounts, the Board shall correct an adopted
budget which contains a clerical, mathematical or accounting error which does
not affect the total amount budgeted by more than 1% or increase the amount
required from property taxes. No public hearing shall be required for such a
correction. After correction, the Board of Trustees shall file a copy of the
corrected budget with the County Clerk of the county or counties in which the
Board of Trustees is located and with the Auditor of Public Accounts. The Board
of Trustees may then issue warrants in payment for expenditures authorized by
the budget.
(Neb. RS 13-511) (Prior Code, § 1-827) (Ord. 2001-4, passed 2-15-2001)
TAX LEVIES
§ 37.45 ALL PURPOSE LEVY.
   Notwithstanding provisions in the statutes of Nebraska and this code to the
contrary, for any fiscal year the Board of Trustees may decide to certify to
the County Clerk for collection one all-purpose levy required to be raised by
taxation for all village purposes instead of certifying a schedule of levies
for specific purposes added together. Subject to the limits in §
37.48, the all-purpose levy shall not exceed an annual levy of the amount set
forth in the village master fee list upon the taxable valuation of all the
taxable property in the village.
(Neb. RS 19-1309) (Prior Code, § 1-807)
§ 37.46 EXTRAORDINARY LEVY.
   Otherwise authorized extraordinary levies to service and pay bonded
indebtedness of the village may be made by the village in addition to such all-
purpose levy.
(Neb. RS 19-1309) (Prior Code, § 1-808)
§ 37.47 INADEQUATE VALUATION.
   If the valuation of the village has been reduced so that the maximum levy
permitted by §
37.45 is inadequate to produce the necessary revenue, said maximum levy may be
exceeded upon presentation to the Board of Trustees of petitions signed by a
majority of the registered voters of the village requesting such action and
specifying the extent to, and the period of time, not to exceed five years, in
which such maximum may be exceeded. No signature may be withdrawn after the
petitions have been filed with the Board of Trustees. The Board of Trustees
shall cause such petitions, accompanied by the certificate of the County Clerk
that he or she has examined the petitions and that they have been signed by a
majority of the registered voters of the village, to be filed with the County
Board in which the village is located. After such filing, the Board of Trustees
may exceed the maximum mill levy to the extent and for the period of time
specified in the petitions.
(Neb. RS 19-1309) (Prior Code, § 1-809)
§ 37.48 ALL PURPOSE LEVY; ALLOCATION.
   The Board of Trustees shall allocate the amount raised by the all purpose
levy to the several departments of the village in its annual budget and
appropriation ordinance, or in other legal manner, as the Board of Trustees
shall deem best.
(Neb. RS 19-1310) (Prior Code, § 1-810)
§ 37.49 ALL PURPOSE LEVY; ABANDONMENT.
   The village shall be bound by its election of the all purpose levy during
the ensuing fiscal year, but may abandon such method in succeeding fiscal
years.
(Neb. RS 19-1311) (Prior Code, § 1-811)
§ 37.50 GENERAL PROPERTY TAX.
   The Board of Trustees shall, at the time and in the manner provided by law,
cause to be certified to the County Clerk the amount of tax to be levied upon
the taxable value of all the taxable property of the village which the village
requires for the purposes of the adopted budget statement for the ensuing year,
including all special assessments and taxes assessed as otherwise provided. The
County Clerk shall place the same on the property tax lists to be collected in
the manner provided by law for the collection of county taxes in the county
where the village is situated. In all sales for any delinquent taxes for
municipal purposes, if there are other delinquent taxes due from the same
person or a lien on the same property, the sale shall be for all the delinquent
taxes. Such sales and all sales made under or by virtue of this section or the
provision of law herein referred to shall be of the same validity and in all
respects be deemed and treated as though such sales had been made for the
delinquent county taxes exclusively.
(Neb. RS 17-702) (Prior Code, § 1-812)
§ 37.51 PROPERTY TAX LEVY AND REQUEST; AUTHORITY TO SET.
   (A)   The property tax request for the prior year shall be the property tax
request for the current year for purposes of the levy set by the County Board
of Equalization in Neb. RS 77-1601 unless the Board of Trustees passes by a
majority vote a resolution or ordinance setting the tax request at a different
amount. Such resolution or ordinance shall only be passed after a special
public hearing called for such purpose is held and after notice is published in
a newspaper of general circulation in the area of the village at least five
days prior to the hearing.
   (B)   The hearing notice shall contain the following information:
      (1)   The dollar amount of the prior year’s tax request and the property
tax rate that was necessary to fund that tax request;
      (2)   The property tax rate that would be necessary to fund last year’s
tax request if applied to the current year’s valuation; and
      (3)   The proposed dollar amount of the tax request for the current year
and the property tax rate that will be necessary to fund that tax request.
   (C)   Any resolution setting a tax request under this section shall be
certified and forwarded to the County Clerk prior to October 14 of the year for
which the tax request is to apply.
   (D)   Any tax levy which is not in compliance with this section and Neb. RS
77-1601 shall be construed as an unauthorized levy under Neb. RS 77-1606.
(Neb. RS 77-1632) (Prior Code, § 1-826) (Ord. 2001-2, passed 2-15-2001)
§ 37.52 MOTOR VEHICLE TAX.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      LIMITS OF THE VILLAGE. Includes the extraterritorial zoning jurisdiction
of the village.
      PERSON. Includes bodies corporate, societies, communities, the public
generally, individuals, partnerships, limited liability companies, joint-stock
companies, cooperatives and associations. PERSON does not include any federal,
state or local government or any political subdivision thereof.
   (B)   (1)   Except as otherwise provided in division (D) of this section,
the governing body of the village shall have power to require any individual
whose primary residence or person who owns a place of business which is within
the limits of the village and that owns and operates a motor vehicle within
such limits to pay an annual motor vehicle fee and to require the payment of
such fee upon the change of ownership of such vehicle. All such fees which may
be provided for under this section shall be used exclusively for constructing,
repairing, maintaining or improving streets, roads, alleys, public ways or
parts thereof or for the amortization of bonded indebtedness when created for
such purposes.
      (2)   To ensure compatibility with the Vehicle Title and Registration
System maintained by the Department of Motor Vehicles:
         (a)   Any village that collects the annual motor vehicle fee
authorized under this section shall use the plate types listed under Neb. RS
60-3,104 and, as applicable, weight categories listed under the Motor Vehicle
Registration Act, being Neb. RS 60-301 et seq. when reporting information to
the Vehicle Title and Registration System; and
         (b)   Any village that adopts an annual motor vehicle fee under this
section or that modifies an existing motor vehicle fee shall notify the
Department of Motor Vehicles of such new or modified fee within ten business
days after the passage of the ordinance authorizing such new or modified fee
and at least 60 days prior to the implementation of such new or modified fee.
   (C)   No motor vehicle fee shall be required under this section if:
      (1)   A vehicle is used or stored but temporarily in the village for a
period of six months or less in a 12-month period;
      (2)   An individual does not have a primary residence or a person does
not own a place of business within the limits of the village and does not own
and operate a motor vehicle within the limits of the village; or
      (3)   An individual is a full-time student attending a postsecondary
institution within the limits of the village and the motor vehicle’s situs
under the Motor Vehicle Certificate of Title Act, being Neb. RS 60-101 et seq.
is different from the place at which he or she is attending such institution.
   (D)   After December 31, 2012, no motor vehicle fee shall be required of any
individual whose primary residence is or person who owns a place of business
within the extraterritorial zoning jurisdiction of the village.
   (E)   The fee shall be paid to the County Treasurer of the county in which
the village is located when the registration fees as provided in the Motor
Vehicle Registration Act, Neb. RS 60-301 et seq., are paid. These fees shall be
credited by the County Treasurer to the Road Fund of the village.
(Neb. RS 18-1214) (Prior Code, § 1-823)
CHAPTER 38: FEE SCHEDULE
Section
   
38.01   Fee schedule; zoning and subdivisions
   
38.02   Insufficient funds
§ 38.01 FEE SCHEDULE; ZONING AND SUBDIVISIONS.
   (A)   In order to provide for the administration of the zoning ordinance and
subdivision regulations of the village the following fees will be assessed upon
application for the following items:
Administrative plat              As set forth in the village master fee list
Appeal to Board of Adjustment    As set forth in the village master fee list
Application for variance         As set forth in the village master fee list
Certificate of compliance        As set forth in the village master fee list
Certificate of occupancy         As set forth in the village master fee list
Conditional use permit           As set forth in the village master fee list
Final plat application           As set forth in the village master fee list
Home occupation permit           As set forth in the village master fee list
Moving structure/building permit As set forth in the village master fee list
Preliminary plat application     As set forth in the village master fee list
Subdivision amendment            As set forth in the village master fee list
Vacation of plat                 As set forth in the village master fee list
Zoning change or amendment       As set forth in the village master fee list
Zoning meeting with the Planning As set forth in the village master fee list
Commission
Zoning permit                    As set forth in the village master fee list
 
   (B)   All fees are to be paid to the village and submitted to the Village
Clerk. When a permit, change and the like is not granted upon any application,
the village shall retain the fee paid by the applicant.
   (C)   Fee schedule guideline.
      (1)   Administrative plat. To provide for lot splits, lot combinations
and boundary adjustments;
      (2)   Appeal to Board of Adjustment. Appeal for any alleged error,
requirement, decision or determination made by a village official based on or
made in enforcement of zoning regulations;
      (3)   Application for variance. Relief from or variation of provisions of
zoning requirements set forth in the Comprehensive Plan;
      (4)   Certificate of compliance. Sent once construction project has been
completed to meet codes and requirements;
      (5)   Certificate of occupancy. New construction or commercial
construction is completed and meets requirements, certificate to occupy said
premises;
      (6)   Conditional use permit. Issued by Planning Commission and Village
Board that authorized the applicant to make a conditional use of property
according to provisions of Comprehensive Plan;
      (7)   Final plat application. Final plan of a plat, subdivision or
dedication;
      (8)   Home occupation permit. In-home or home-based businesses require a
permit to operate;
      (9)   Moving structure/building permit. To move a structure into or
within the village;
      (10)   Preliminary plat application. Preliminary plan of a plat,
subdivision or dedication prepared in accordance with the Comprehensive Plan;
      (11)   Subdivision amendment. A change or amendment to the subdivision
regulations in the Comprehensive Plan (approval through Planning Commission and
Village Board);
      (12)   Vacation of plat. After duly recorded final plat, call to vacate
said plat to the Planning Commission;
      (13)   Zoning change or amendment. A change or amendment to the zoning
regulations in the Comprehensive Plan (approval through Planning Commission and
Village Board); and
      (14)   Zoning permit. Fee for building permits.
(Res. 2005-7, passed 8-18-2005; Res. 2010-04, passed 9-16-2010)
§ 38.02 INSUFFICIENT FUNDS.
   A fee of the amount set forth in the village master fee list for
insufficient funds and accepting check funds after six months of outstanding
credit for resident from time of last insufficient funds is adopted. This six-
month time frame of outstanding credit will be from original due date of water
and service, not including the disconnect notice date.
(Res. 2017-03, passed 5-9-2017)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
51.   WATER
      
52.   SEWERS
      
53.   DRILLING
CHAPTER 50: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
50.01   Billing
   
50.02   Discontinuance of service; notice procedure
   
50.03   Diversion of services; penalty
   
50.04   Lien
   
50.05   Diversion of services; meter tampering, unauthorized reconnection;
prohibited; evidence
   
50.06   Meters change
   
50.07   Full deposit reimbursement
   
50.08   Water service charge
Rates
   
50.20   Sewer rates
   
50.21   Water rates
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 50.01 BILLING.
   (A)   Utility bills shall be a joint bill for all utilities including water
and sewer, and shall be due and payable by the fifteenth of the month at the
office of the Village Clerk. It shall be the duty of the Village Clerk to
compute or cause to be computed a joint utility bill for the monthly periods
ending in March, June, September and December according to the appropriate
provisions of this code. It shall be the duty of all utilities customers to
cause to be mailed or to present themselves at the office of the Village Clerk
and pay their bill for all utility charges.
(Neb. RS 17-537, 18-503, 19-1404)
   (B)   The billing cycle for water and sewer bills will be according to the
periods between readings and the minimum monthly charge will reflect an
accounts water/sewer base rate plus a minimum of 1,000 gallons of water usage.
If an average has not been established, the rate will be based upon number of
people in the household, plus the minimum 1,000-gallon usage. Accounts that are
started or terminated in a partial billing cycle will be charged the full
monthly water and sewer fee plus the actual water usage.
   (C)   Utility bills shall be due ten days after presentation. Should the due
date fall on a weekend or holiday, bills shall be due on the following workday.
Failure to make payment of bills by the due date will result in the mailing of
a notice of discontinuance of utility services titled “Disconnection Notice”.
The subscriber shall have eight working days following the mailing of said
notice to make payment of original bill. After disconnect, reconnection may be
had during regular working hours upon payment of the past due billing along
with the non-recoverable $50 fee. Reconnection may be had after hours or on
weekends and holidays upon receipt of payment of the past due billing and a
non-recoverable $75 fee.
   (D)   A set balance of $4.99 can be carried over to the next billing cycle.
Any balance exceeding this amount will result in disconnection.
(Prior Code, § 3-301) (Ord. 95-10, passed 4-26-1995; Res. 2007-10, passed 4-19-
2007; Res. 2017-12, passed 10-10-2017; Res. 2020-05, passed 6-9-2020)
§ 50.02 DISCONTINUANCE OF SERVICE; NOTICE PROCEDURE.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      DOMESTIC SUBSCRIBER. Shall not include municipalities, cities, villages,
political subdivisions, companies, corporations, partnerships, limited
liability companies or businesses of any nature.
(Neb. RS 70-1602)
   (B)   No utility owned and operated by the village furnishing water, natural
gas or electricity at retail in the village shall discontinue service to any
domestic subscriber for nonpayment of any past-due account unless the utility
first gives written notice by mail to any subscriber whose service is proposed
to be terminated at least seven days prior to termination. As to any subscriber
who has previously been identified as a welfare recipient to the utility by the
Department of Health and Human Services, the notice shall be by certified mail
and notice of such proposed termination shall be given to the department.
(Neb. RS 70-1603)
   (C)   Prior to the discontinuance of service to any domestic subscriber by a
utility owned and operated by the village, the domestic subscriber, upon
request, shall be provided a conference with the Board of Trustees. A utility
owned and operated by the village shall not be subject to Neb. RS 70-1608 to
70-1614, but the Board of Trustees shall establish a procedure to resolve
utility bills when a conference is requested by a domestic subscriber. The
procedure shall be in writing and a copy of such procedure shall be furnished
upon the request of any domestic subscriber. The Board of Trustees shall notify
the domestic subscriber of the time, place, and date scheduled for such
conference.
(Neb. RS 70-1604)
   (D)   The utility shall establish a third-party notice procedure for the
notification of a designated third party of any proposed discontinuance of
service and shall advise its subscribers, including new subscribers, of the
availability of such procedures.
(Neb. RS 70-1607)
   (E)   This section shall not apply to any disconnections or interruptions of
services made necessary by the utility for reasons of repair or maintenance or
to protect the health or safety of the domestic subscriber or of the general
public.
(Neb. RS 70-1615)
(Prior Code, § 3-302)
   (F)   The village authorizes the Water and Utility Superintendent to shut
water service off to a consumer for failing to complete the backflow hazard
survey five business days after notification by either certified letter or
personal service of said notification letter and survey. Water service will be
turned back on after receipt of the completed water backflow survey.
(Res. 2019-07, passed 12-10-2019)
§ 50.03 DIVERSION OF SERVICES; PENALTY.
   (A)   It is an offense for any person to do any of the following:
      (1)   To connect any instrument, device or contrivance with any wire
supplying or intended to supply electricity or electric current or to connect
any pipe or conduit supplying gas or water, without the knowledge and consent
of any village utility supplying such products or services, in such a manner
that any portion thereof may be supplied to any instrument by or at which
electricity, electric current, gas or water may be consumed without passing
through the meter made or provided for measuring or registering the amount or
quantity thereof passing through it;
      (2)   To knowingly use or knowingly permit the use of electricity,
electric current, gas or water obtained unlawfully pursuant to this section;
      (3)   To reconnect electrical, gas or water service without the knowledge
and consent of any village utility supplying such service if the service has
been disconnected pursuant to Neb. RS 70-1601 through 70-1615 or §
50.02 of this code; or
      (4)   To willfully injure, alter or by any instrument, device or
contrivance in any manner interfere with or obstruct the action or operation of
any meter made or provided for measuring or registering the amount or quantity
of electricity, electric current, gas or water passing through it, without the
knowledge and consent of any village utility supplying the electricity,
electric current, gas or water passing or intended to pass through the meter.
   (B)   Proof of the existence of any wire, pipe or conduit connection or
reconnection or of any injury, alteration, interference or obstruction of a
meter is prima facie evidence of the guilt of the person in possession of the
premises where that connection, reconnection, injury, alteration, interference
or obstruction is proved to exist.
(Neb. RS 28-515.02) (Prior Code, § 3-303) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 50.04 LIEN.
   (A)   All water rates, taxes, or rent assessed by the Board of Trustees
shall be a lien upon the premises or real estate, upon or for which the same is
used or supplied; and such taxes, rents, or rates shall be paid and collected
and such lien enforced in such manner as the Board of Trustees shall by
ordinance direct and provide.
(Neb. RS 17-538)
   (B)   All sewer charges established by the Board of Trustees shall be a lien
upon the premises or real estate for which such water is used or supplied. Such
lien shall be enforced in such manner as the Board or Trustees provides by
ordinance.
(Neb. RS 17-925.01)
   (C)   If the service charge established by the Board of Trustees for the use
of any village sewage disposal plant and sewerage system is not paid when due,
such sum may be recovered by the village in a civil action or it may be
certified to the County Assessor and assessed against the premises served and
collected or returned in the same manner as other village taxes are certified,
assessed, collected, and returned.
(Neb. RS 18-503)
   (D)   Unless the Board of Trustees otherwise provides, on June 1 of each
year, the Village Clerk shall report to the Board a list of all unpaid accounts
due for utilities service together with a description of the premises served.
If the Board approves the report, the Clerk shall certify the report to the
County Clerk to be collected as a special tax in the manner provided by law.
(Prior Code, § 3-304)
§ 50.05 DIVERSION OF SERVICES; METER TAMPERING, UNAUTHORIZED RECONNECTION;
PROHIBITED; EVIDENCE.
   (A)   It is an offense for any person to do any of the following:
      (1)   To connect any instrument, device or contrivance with any wire
supplying or intended to supply electricity or electric current or to connect
any pipe or conduit supplying gas or water, without the knowledge and consent
of any village utility supplying such products or services, in such a manner
that any portion thereof may be supplied to any instrument by or at which
electricity, electric current, gas, or water may be consumed without passing
through the meter made or provided for measuring or registering the amount or
quantity thereof passing through it;
      (2)   To knowingly use or knowingly permit the use of electricity,
electric current, gas or water obtained unlawfully pursuant to this section;
      (3)   To reconnect electrical, gas or water service without the knowledge
and consent of any village utility supplying such service if the service has
been disconnected pursuant to Neb. RS 70-1601 through 70-1615 or §
50.02 of this code; or
      (4)   To willfully injure, alter or by any instrument, device or
contrivance in any manner interfere with or obstruct the action or operation of
any meter made or provided for measuring or registering the amount or quantity
of electricity, electric current, gas or water passing through it, without the
knowledge and consent of any village utility supplying the electricity,
electric current, gas or water passing or intended to pass through the meter.
   (B)   Proof of the existence of any wire, pipe or conduit connection or
reconnection or of any injury, alteration, interference or obstruction of a
meter is prima facie evidence of the guilt of the person in possession of the
premises where that connection, reconnection, injury, alteration, interference
or obstruction is proved to exist.
(Neb. RS 28-515.02)
   (C)   For purposes of this division (C), the definitions found in Neb. RS
25-21,275 shall apply.
      (1)   (a)   The village utility may bring a civil action for damages
against any person who commits, authorizes, solicits, aids, abets or attempts
bypassing, tampering or unauthorized metering when that act results in damages
to the utility. A village utility may bring a civil action for damages pursuant
to this section against any person receiving the benefit of utility service
through means of bypassing, tampering or unauthorized metering.
         (b)   In any civil action brought pursuant to this section, the
village utility shall be entitled, upon proof of willful or intentional
bypassing, tampering or unauthorized metering, to recover as damages:
            1.   The amount of actual damage or loss if the amount of the
damage or loss is susceptible of reasonable calculation; or
            2.   Liquidated damages of $750 if the amount of actual damage or
loss is not susceptible of reasonable calculation.
         (c)   In addition to damage or loss under division (C)(1)(b)1. or (C)
(1)(b)2. of this section, the utility may recover all reasonable expenses and
costs incurred on account of the bypassing, tampering or unauthorized metering
including, but not limited to, disconnection, reconnection, service calls,
equipment, costs of the suit and reasonable attorney fees in cases within the
scope of Neb. RS 25-1801.
(Neb. RS 25-21,276)
      (2)   (a)   There shall be a rebuttable presumption that a tenant or
occupant at any premises where bypassing, tampering or unauthorized metering is
proven to exist caused or had knowledge of that bypassing, tampering or
unauthorized metering if the tenant or occupant had access to the part of the
utility supply system on the premises where the bypassing, tampering or
unauthorized metering is proven to exist and was responsible or partially
responsible for payment, either directly or indirectly, to the utility or to
any other person for utility services to the premises.
         (b)   There shall be a rebuttable presumption that a customer at any
premises where bypassing, tampering or unauthorized metering is proven to exist
caused or had knowledge of that bypassing, tampering or unauthorized metering
if the customer controlled access to the part of the utility supply system on
the premises where the bypassing, tampering or unauthorized metering was proven
to exist.
(Neb. RS 25-21,277)
      (4)   (a)   The remedies provided by this section shall be deemed to be
supplemental and additional to powers conferred by existing laws.
         (b)   The remedies provided in this section are in addition to and not
in limitation of any other civil or criminal statutory or common-law remedies.
(Neb. RS 25-21,278)
(Prior Code, § 3-305) (Ord. 96-11, passed 5-16-1996) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 50.06 METERS CHANGE.
   (A)   The Village Utilities Superintendent will notify the water user by
mail in regards to the meter needing changed. Three letters will be sent to the
customer, the third being sent by certified mail.
   (B)   Upon no reply after receiving the certified letter, water services may
be disconnected after three business days until a time has been set up for
replacement or the meter has been replaced.
(Res. 2021-06, passed 3-9-2021)
§ 50.07 FULL DEPOSIT REIMBURSEMENT.
   The Board of Trustees adopt a procedure for a full water deposit
reimbursement after one year of outstanding credit for the resident.
(Res. 2013-03, passed 3-12-2013)
§ 50.08 WATER SERVICE CHARGE.
   After a ten-day or more of resident occupancy, the occupant shall pay a full
month’s water and sewer rates charge that shall be in effect as of August 14,
2012, as set by the Chairperson and Village Board of Trustees.
(Res. 2012-05, passed 8-14-2012)
RATES
§ 50.20 SEWER RATES.
   (A)   The charges established by this section for the use of the municipal
sewage system of the village are hereby found and declared to be made and
established on a fair and impartial basis for the services rendered by the
village.
   (B)   (1)   For the use of said sanitary sewage system, each residential or
commercial business user shall pay a monthly sewer use charge for the purpose
of this section. The term USER shall consist of one family or one business or
establishment and in the event that there are multiple families or multiple
businesses or establishments, using the same sewer connection, each user shall
pay the sewer use charge hereby established.
      (2)   The rates applicable shall be as follows:
 
Time Period             Classification             Monthly Rate
October 1, 2023 through Residential and commercial $33 per month service charge
September 30, 2024
October 1, 2024 through Residential and commercial $36.25 per month service
September 30, 2025                                 charge
 
   (C)   The village shall not supply sewer service to any person outside the
corporate limits without special permission from the Village Board; provided,
the entire cost of laying mains, service pipe and supply pipe shall be paid by
the consumer. Nothing herein shall be construed to obligate the village to
provide sewer service to nonresidents. For service by municipal sanitary
sewerage system outside the corporate limits of the village, for all users,
each such user shall pay a monthly sewer use charge.
   (D)   All sewer use charges provided for by this section shall be billed
monthly in conjunction with water services for service during the preceding
month and shall be due and payable as of that time. All monthly bills shall be
mailed by the village to the consumer on or about the first day of the month
preceding the month in which the monthly bill is owed. All bills shall be
payable on the sixteenth day of the month following the period of service and
shall be paid to the Village Clerk or his or her designate, in the drop box, or
online. If any charge for the services of the sewer system shall not be paid by
the sixteenth day of the month in which it shall become due and payable, a
charge of 5% shall be added thereto and collected therewith. If any bills for
the service of the sewer system shall remain unpaid after the twenty-sixth day
of the month following the rendition of the sewer charges, the sewer service
shall be disconnected and shall not be reconnected except upon payment in full
of the delinquent charges assessed and upon further payment of a reconnect fee
of $50 during normal business hours and $75 after normal business hours. The
village shall mail written notice to the consumer after the sixteenth day of
the month where any charge for the services of the sewer system shall be due
informing the consumer that the delinquency exists. The village may also take
any action authorized by law to effect collection of the delinquent charges.
All sewer use charges prescribed by this section shall be a lien upon the
premises and the real estate for which the sewer use service is supplied and
used, and if not paid when due, such charge shall be certified to the Village
Treasurer and may be recovered by the village in an action at law from the
owner or person, firm or corporation using the service, or it may be certified
to the tax assessor and assessed against the premises serviced, or collected or
returned in the same manner as other municipal taxes are certified, assessed,
collected and returned. Users commencing or ending their use of the sewerage
system after the first day of any month shall pay the sewer use charge for said
part of the period pro-rata for the number of days such service is used during
such partial period for the service furnished.
(Res. 2007-3, passed 10-30-2007; Res. 2011-2, passed 3-17-2011; Res. 2015-04,
passed 5-12-2015; Ord. 2023-03, passed 10-10-2023)
§ 50.21 WATER RATES.
   The rates charged by the village for municipal water services on a monthly
rate basis shall be as follows:
Time Period Classification Monthly Rate
Time Period             Classification             Monthly Rate
October 1, 2023 through                            $23 per month service charge
September 30, 2024      Residential and commercial plus $1.75 per 1,000 gallons
                                                   or fraction thereof of usage
                                                   $36.25 per month service
                       Nonresident                charge plus $1.75 gallons or
                                                   fraction thereof of usage
                                                   $54.75 per month service
                       Large meters               charge plus $1.75 gallons or
                                                   fractions thereof of usage.
October 1, 2024 through                            $26 per month service charge
September 30, 2025      Residential and commercial plus $2 per 1,000 gallons or
                                                   fraction thereof of usage
                                                   $41.75 per month service
                       Nonresident                charge plus $2 gallons or
                                                   fraction thereof of usage
                                                   $63 per month service charge
                       Large meters               plus $2 gallons or fractions
                                                   thereof of usage
October 1, 2025 through                            $29 per month service charge
September 30, 2026      Residential and commercial plus $2.25 per 1,000 gallons
                                                   or fraction thereof of usage
                                                   $45.75 per month service
                       Nonresident                charge plus $2.25 gallons or
                                                   fraction thereof of usage
                                                   $69 per month service charge
                       Large meters               plus $2.25 gallons or
                                                   fractions thereof of usage
 
(Res. 2007-2, passed 10-30-2007; Res. 2011-1, passed 3-17-2011; Res. 2015-03,
passed 5-12-2015; Ord. 2023-02, passed 10-10-2023)
CHAPTER 51: WATER
Section
General Provisions
   
51.01   Operation and funding
   
51.02   Definitions
   
51.03   Consumer’s application
   
51.04   Service to nonresidents
   
51.05   Water contract
   
51.06   Installation procedure
   
51.07   Installation expense
   
51.08   Repairs and maintenance
   
51.09   Fees and collection
   
51.10   Minimum rates
   
51.11   Water bills
   
51.12   Lien
   
51.13   Single premises
   
51.14   Restricted use
   
51.15   Fire hydrants
   
51.16   Pollution
   
51.17   Mandatory hook-ups
   
51.18   Water service contracts
   
51.19   Police reports
   
51.20   Inspection
   
51.21   Destruction of property
   
51.22   Deposit
   
51.23   Fluoride
Backflow/Backsiphonage Prevention
   
51.35   Statement of policy
   
51.36   Definitions
   
51.37   Cross connections prohibited
   
51.38   Prohibition on auxiliary water systems
   
51.39   Survey and investigations
   
51.40   Where protection is required
   
51.41   Type of protection required
   
51.42   Backflow prevention devices
   
51.43   Installation
   
51.44   Testing
   
51.45   Authorized representative; authority
   
51.46   Appeals
   
51.47   Violation and penalties
   
51.48   Conflicts with other applicable codes
   
51.49   Liability claims
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 51.01 OPERATION AND FUNDING.
   The village owns and operates the Village Water Department through the
Utilities Superintendent. The Board of Trustees, for the purpose of defraying
the cost of the care, management and maintenance of the Village Water
Department may each year levy a tax not exceeding the maximum limit prescribed
by state law, on the actual valuation of all real estate and personal property
within the corporate limits that is subject to taxation. The revenue from the
said tax shall be known as the Water Fund and shall remain in the custody of
the Village Treasurer. The Utilities Superintendent shall have the direct
management and control of the Village Water Department and shall faithfully
carry out the duties of his or her office. The Utilities Superintendent shall
have the authority to adopt rules and regulations for the sanitary and
efficient management of the Water Department subject to the supervision and
review of the Board of Trustees. The Board of Trustees shall set the rates to
be charged for services rendered by ordinance and shall file a copy of the
rates in the office of the Village Clerk for public inspection at any
reasonable time.
(Prior Code, § 3-101)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-531, 17-534, 19-1305
§ 51.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   MAIN. Any pipe other than a supply or service pipe that is used for the
purpose of carrying water to, and dispersing the same in the village.
   SEPARATE PREMISES. More than one consumer procuring water from the same
service or supply pipe. The second premises may be a separate dwelling,
apartment, building or structure used for a separate business.
   SERVICE PIPE. Any pipe extending from the shut-off, stop box or curb cock at
or near the lot line to and beyond the property line of the consumer to the
location on the premises where the water is to be dispersed.
   SUPPLY PIPE. Any pipe tapped into a main and extending from there to a point
at or near the lot line of the consumer’s premises where the shut-off, stop box
or curb cock is located.
(Prior Code, § 3-102)
§ 51.03 CONSUMER’S APPLICATION.
   Every person or persons desiring a supply of water must make application
therefor to the Utilities Superintendent. The Superintendent may require any
applicant to make a service deposit in such amount as has been set by the Board
of Trustees and placed on file at the office of the Village Clerk. Water may
not be supplied to any house or private service pipe except upon the order of
the Superintendent.
(Prior Code, § 3-103)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-537
§ 51.04 SERVICE TO NONRESIDENTS.
   The Department shall not supply water service to any person outside the
corporate limits without special permission from the Board of Trustees;
provided, the entire cost of laying mains, service pipe and supply pipe shall
be paid by the consumer. Nothing herein shall be construed to obligate the
village to provide water service to nonresidents.
(Prior Code, § 3-104)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 19-2701
§ 51.05 WATER CONTRACT.
   The village through its Water Department, shall furnish water to persons
within its corporate limits whose premises abut a street or alley in which a
commercial main now is or may hereafter be laid. The village may furnish water
to persons within its corporate limits whose premises do not abut a street or
alley in which a village commercial main is now or may hereafter be laid and
may also furnish water to persons whose premises are situated outside the
corporate limits of the village, as and when, according to law, the Board of
Trustees may see fit to do so. The rules, regulations and water rates
hereinafter named in this chapter, shall be considered a part of every
application hereafter made for water service and shall be considered a part of
the contract between every consumer now or hereafter served. Without further
formality, the making of application on the part of any applicant or the use or
consumption of water service by present consumers thereof and the furnishing of
water service to said consumer shall constitute a contract between the consumer
and the village, to which said contract both parties are bound. If the consumer
shall violate any of the provisions of said contract or any reasonable rules
and regulations that the Board of Trustees may hereafter adopt, the Utilities
Superintendent or his or her agent, may cut off or disconnect the water service
from the building or premises or place of such violation. No further connection
for water service to said building, premises or place shall again be made save
or except by order of said Superintendent or his or her agent.
(Prior Code, § 3-105)
§ 51.06 INSTALLATION PROCEDURE.
   In making excavations in streets, alleys or sidewalks for the purpose of
installing pipe, or making repairs, the paving, stones and earth must be
removed and deposited in a manner that will occasion the least inconvenience to
the public and provide for adequate drainage. No person shall leave an
excavation made in the street, alley or sidewalk open at any time without a
barricade, and during the night, warning lights. After service pipes are laid,
the streets, alleys and sidewalks shall be restored to good condition. If the
excavation in any street, alley or sidewalk is left open or unfinished for a
period of 24 hours or more, the Utilities Superintendent shall have the duty to
finish or correct the work, and all expenses so incurred shall be charged to
the consumer. All installations or repairs of pipes require two inspections by
the Utilities Superintendent. The first inspection shall be made when
connections or repairs are completed and before the pipes are covered. The
second inspection shall be made after the dirt work is completed and the
service is restored. It is the customer’s responsibility to notify the
Superintendent at the time the work is ready for each inspection. All
installation shall be done under the supervision and strictly in accordance
with the rules, regulations and specifications prescribed for such installation
by the Utilities Superintendent; provided that the said rules, regulations and
specifications have been reviewed and approved by the Board of Trustees.
(Prior Code, § 3-106)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-537
§ 51.07 INSTALLATION EXPENSE.
   No person other than the Utilities Superintendent or his or her duly
authorized agent shall tap the water main. The customer shall pay the entire
cost of tapping the main, installing the meter and the stop box. This cost
shall include a reimbursement to the village for the time spent by village
employees to do work at a rate determined by the Utilities Superintendent. The
rate is intended to fully compensate the village for wage and fringe benefit
costs, together with a reasonable allowance for the use of village equipment. A
tap for a three-quarter inch pipe shall be deemed to be the minimum or base tap
fee. Nonresidents shall pay such tap fees and installation charges in such sums
as the Utilities Superintendent, pursuant to resolution of the Board of
Trustees, shall in each case fix. The extension of commercial mains into
unsupplied territory within the corporate limits, may be made by means of water
extension districts. The customer shall bear the expense of all other costs
that are necessary to bring the water service from the curb stop to the
customer’s property.
(Prior Code, § 3-107) (Ord. 95-10, passed 4-26-1995)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-542
§ 51.08 REPAIRS AND MAINTENANCE.
   The village shall repair or replace, as the case may be, the curb stop, the
stop box and all fittings required for connection of copper tubing at the main.
The customer shall bear the expense of all other costs that are necessary to
bring the water service from the curb stop to the customer’s property. When
leaks occur in service pipes, the Utilities Superintendent shall shut off water
service until the leak is repaired at the expense of the customer to the
satisfaction of the Utilities Superintendent. All water meters shall be kept in
repair by the village at the expense of the village. When meters are worn out,
they shall be replaced and reset by the village at the expense of the village;
provided, that if the customer permits or allows a water meter to be damaged,
injured or destroyed through his or her own recklessness, carelessness or
neglect so that the meter must be repaired or replaced, the Utilities
Superintendent shall bill and collect from the customer the cost of such meter
repair or replacement in the same manner as water rent is collected. Permitting
a water meter to be damaged or destroyed by freezing shall always be considered
negligence on the part of the customer. All meters shall be tested at the
customer’s request at the expense of the customer any reasonable number of
times; provided, that if the test shows the water meter to be running 2% or
more fast, the expense of such test shall be borne by the village. The village
reserves the right to test any water service meter at any time, and if said
meter is found to be beyond repair the village shall always have the right to
place a new meter on the customer’s water service fixtures at the village’s
expense. Should a consumer’s meter fail to register properly, the customer
shall be charged for water during the time the meter is out of repair on the
basis of s semi-annual consumption during the same semi-annual period of the
preceding year; provided, that if no such basis for comparison exists, the
customer shall be charged such amount as may be reasonably fixed by the
Utilities Superintendent. It shall be unlawful for any person to tamper with
any water meter, or by any means or device to divert water from the service
pipe so that the same shall not pass through said meter, or while passing
through said meter, to cause the same to register inaccurately.
(Prior Code, § 3-108) (Ord. 95-10, passed 4-26-1995) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-537
§ 51.09 FEES AND COLLECTION.
   The Board of Trustees has the power and authority to fix the rates to be
paid by the water consumers for the use of water from the Water Department. All
such fees shall be on file for public inspection at the office of the Village
Clerk. The Village Clerk shall bill the consumers and collect all money
received by the village on the account of the Water Department. He or she shall
faithfully account for, and pay to the Village Treasurer all revenue collected
by him or her, taking his or her receipt therefor in duplicate, filing one with
the Village Clerk and keeping the other on file in the Water Department’s
official records.
(Prior Code, § 3-109)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-540
§ 51.10 MINIMUM RATES.
   All water consumers shall be liable for the minimum rate provided by
ordinance unless and until the consumer shall, by written order, direct the
Utilities Superintendent to shut off the water at the stop box, in which case
he or she shall not be liable thereafter for water rental until the water is
turned on again.
(Prior Code, § 3-110)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-542
§ 51.11 WATER BILLS.
   Water bills shall be due and payable monthly at the office of the Village
Clerk. Said water meters shall be read or cause to be read at the end of the
months of March, June, September and December. It shall be the duty of the
customer of the Water Department to present themselves at the office of the
Village Clerk to pay their bills in net cash. The Utilities Superintendent
shall direct the Village Clerk to charge and collect from each customer for the
amount of water consumed since the last examination together with any other
charges, properly itemized, due the Water Department. Bills shall be due by the
fifteenth day of the month and shall be deemed delinquent on the thirtieth day
of the month. Upon being deemed to be delinquent, as herein defined, the
Village Clerk shall give a written notice to the customer of such delinquency
and shall demand payment immediately. If payment is not received the Village
Clerk shall follow the procedures set forth in Chapter 50 of this code of
ordinances to discontinue service to the customer.
(Prior Code, § 3-111)
§ 51.12 LIEN.
   In addition to all other remedies, if a customer shall for any reason remain
indebted to the village for water service furnished, such amount due, together
with any rents and charges in arrears, shall be considered a delinquent water
rent which is hereby declared to be a lien upon the real estate for which the
same was used. The Village Clerk shall notify in writing or cause to be
notified in writing, all owners of premises or their agents whenever their
tenants or lessees are 60 days or more delinquent in the payment of water rent.
It shall be the duty of the Utilities Superintendent on the first day of June
of each year to report to the Board of Trustees a list of all unpaid accounts
due for water together with a description of the premises upon which the same
was used. The report shall be examined, and if approved by the Board of
Trustees, shall be certified by the Village Clerk to the County Clerk to be
collected as a special tax in the manner provided by law.
(Prior Code, § 3-112)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-538
§ 51.13 SINGLE PREMISES.
   No consumer shall supply water to other families, or allow them to take
water from his or her premises, nor after water is supplied into a building
shall any person make or employ a plumber or other person to make a tap or
connection with the pipe upon the premises for alteration, extension or
attachment without the written permission of the Utilities Superintendent. It
shall further be unlawful for any person to tamper with any water meter or by
means of any contrivance or device to divert the water from the service pipe so
that the water will not pass through the meter or while passing through said
meter to cause the meter to register inaccurately.
(Prior Code, § 3-113) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-537
§ 51.14 RESTRICTED USE.
   The Board of Trustees or the Utilities Superintendent may order a reduction
in the use of water or shut off the water on any premises in the event of a
water shortage due to fire or other good and sufficient cause. The village
shall not be liable for any damages caused by shutting off the supply of water
of any consumer while the system or any part thereof is undergoing repairs or
when there is a shortage of water due to circumstances over which the village
has no control.
(Prior Code, § 3-114)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-537
§ 51.15 FIRE HYDRANTS.
   All hydrants for the purpose of extinguishing fires are hereby declared to
be public hydrants, and it shall be unlawful for any person other than members
of the Village Fire Department under the orders of the Fire Chief, or the
Assistant Fire Chief; or members of the Water Department to open or attempt to
open any of the hydrants and draw water from the same, or in any manner to
interfere with the hydrants.
(Prior Code, § 3-115) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.16 POLLUTION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to pollute or attempt to pollute any
stream or source of water for the supply of the Village Water Department.
(Prior Code, § 3-116) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-536
§ 51.17 MANDATORY HOOK-UPS.
   All persons within 300 feet of a water main shall be required, upon notice
by the Board of Trustees, to hook-up with the village water system.
(Prior Code, § 3-117)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-539
§ 51.18 WATER SERVICE CONTRACTS.
   Contracts for water service are not transferable. Any person wishing to
change from one location to another shall make a new application and sign a new
contract. If any consumer shall move from the premises where service is
furnished, or if the said premises is destroyed by fire or other casualty, he
or she shall at once inform the Utilities Superintendent who shall cause the
water service to be shut off at the said premises. If the consumer should fail
to give such notice, he or she shall be charged for all water used on the said
premises until the Utilities Superintendent is otherwise advised of such
circumstances.
(Prior Code, § 3-118)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-537
§ 51.19 POLICE REPORTS.
   It shall be the duty of the village police to report to the Utilities
Superintendent all cases of leakage and waste in the use of water and all
violations of the village code relating to the Water Department. They shall
have the additional duty of enforcing the observance of all such regulations.
(Prior Code, § 3-119)
§ 51.20 INSPECTION.
   The Utilities Superintendent, or his or her duly authorized agents, shall
have free access, at any reasonable time, to all parts of each premises and
building to, or in which, water is delivered for the purpose of examining the
pipes, fixtures and other portions of the system to ascertain whether there is
any disrepair or unnecessary waste of water.
(Prior Code, § 3-120)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-537
§ 51.21 DESTRUCTION OF PROPERTY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to willfully or carelessly break, injure
or deface any building, machinery, apparatus, fixture, attachment or
appurtenance of the Village Water Department. No person may deposit anything in
a stop box or commit any act tending to obstruct or impair the intended use of
any of the above mentioned property without the written permission of the
Utilities Superintendent.
(Prior Code, § 3-121) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.22 DEPOSIT.
   A $25 deposit shall be required of all renters and tenants in order to
commence water service to their residence. Said deposit shall be kept on file
by the Village Clerk and shall be applies against any unpaid balance owed by
the renter or tenant.
(Prior Code, § 3-123)
§ 51.23 FLUORIDE.
   Fluoride shall not be added to the water supply of the village.
(Prior Code, § 3-125)
BACKFLOW/BACKSIPHONAGE PREVENTION
§ 51.35 STATEMENT OF POLICY.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of §§
51.35 through
51.49 is:
      (1)   To protect the public potable water supply of the village water
system from contamination or pollution within the consumer’s internal
distribution system or private water system contaminants or pollutants which
could backflow through the service connection into the public potable water
supply system;
      (2)   To promote the elimination, containment, isolation or control of
existing cross connections, actual or potential, between the public or
consumer’s potable water systems and nonpotable water systems, plumbing
fixtures and industrial process systems; and
      (3)   To provide for the maintenance of a continuing program of cross
connection control which will systematically and effectively prevent the
contamination or pollution of all potable water systems.
   (B)   Application. Sections
51.35 through
51.49 shall apply to all premises served by the public potable water system of
the village.
   (C)   Policy. Sections
51.35 through
51.49 will be reasonably interpreted. It is the village’s intent to recognize
the varying degrees of hazard and to apply the principle that the degree of
protection shall be commensurate with the degree of hazard.
   (D)   Responsibility. The Village Water Department shall be primarily
responsible for protection of the public potable water distribution system from
contamination or pollution due to backflow or contaminants or pollutants
through the water service connection. The cooperation of all consumers is
required to implement and maintain the program to control cross connections.
The consumer is responsible for preventing contamination of the water system
within consumer’s own premises.
(Prior Code, § 3-126) (Ord. 95-11, passed 4-26-1995)
§ 51.36 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AIR GAP SEPARATION. The unobstructed vertical distance through the free
atmosphere between the lowest opening from any pipe or faucet supplying water
to a tank, plumbing fixture or other device and the overflow level rim of the
receptacle.
   APPROVED TESTER. A person qualified to make inspections; to test and repair
backflow prevention/cross connection control devices; and who is approved by
the village.
   AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE. Any person designated by the village to
administer this cross connection control subchapter. Unless designated by the
Board of Trustees, the AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE shall be the Utilities
Superintendent, or any other person he or she may delegate.
   AUXILIARY WATER SUPPLY. Any water source or system, other than the public
water supply, that may be available in the building or premises.
   BACKFLOW. The flow other than the intended direction of flow, of any foreign
liquids, gases or substances into the distribution system of a public water
supply.
   BACKFLOW PREVENTION DEVICE. Any device, method or type of construction
intended to prevent backflow into a potable water system provided backflow
preventers have been tested and approved by a reputable testing laboratory.
   BACKSIPHONAGE. The flowing back of water or other foreign liquids, gases or
substances into the water distribution system due to negative pressure in the
piping of the water distribution system.
   CONSUMER. The owner or person in control of any premises supplied by or in
any manner connected to a public water system.
   CONTAINMENT. Protection of the public water supply by installing a cross
connection control device or air gap separation on the main service line to a
facility, or as an installation within equipment handling potentially hazardous
materials.
   CONTAMINATION. An impairment of the quality of the water by sewage, process
fluids or other wastes to a degree which could create the actual hazard to the
public health through poisoning or through spread of disease by exposure.
   CROSS CONNECTION. Any physical link between a potable water supply and any
other substance, fluid or source, which makes possible contamination of the
potable water supply due to the reversal of flow of the water in the piping or
distribution system.
   HAZARD, DEGREE OF. An evaluation of the potential risk to public health and
the adverse effect of the hazard upon the potable water system.
      (1)   HAZARD, HEALTH. Any condition, device or practice in the water
supply system and its operation which could create or may create a danger to
the health and well-being of the water consumer.
      (2)   HAZARD, PLUMBING. A plumbing type cross connection in a consumer’s
potable water system that has not been properly protected by a vacuum breaker,
air-gap separation or backflow prevention device.
      (3)   HAZARD, POLLUTIONAL. An actual or potential threat to the physical
properties of the water system or to the consumer’s potable water system but
which would constitute a nuisance or be aesthetically objectionable or could
cause damage to the system or its appurtenances, but would not be dangerous to
health.
      (4)   HAZARD, SYSTEM. An actual or potential threat of severe damage to
the physical properties of the public potable water system or the consumer’s
potable water system, or of a pollution or contamination which would have a
protracted effect on the quality of the potable water in the system.
   ISOLATION. Protection of a facility service line by installing a cross
connection control device or air gap separation on an individual fixture,
appurtenance or system.
   POLLUTION. The presence of any foreign substance (organic, inorganic or
biological) in water which tends to degrade its quality so as to constitute a
hazard or impair the usefulness of the water to a degree which does not create
an actual hazard to the public health but which does adversely and unreasonably
affect such waters for domestic use.
   PUBLIC POTABLE WATER SYSTEM. Any publicly or privately owned water system
supplying water to the general public which is satisfactory for drinking,
culinary and domestic purposes and meets the requirements of the Nebraska
Department of Health.
   SERVICE CONNECTION. The terminal end of a service line from the public water
system. If a meter is installed at the end of the service, then the service
connection means the down stream end of the meter.
   WATER DEPARTMENT. The Village Water Department of the Village of Cedar
Bluffs, Nebraska.
(Prior Code, § 3-127) (Ord. 95-11, passed 4-26-1995)
§ 51.37 CROSS CONNECTIONS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No water service connection shall be installed or maintained to any
premises where actual or potential cross connections to the public potable or
consumer’s water system may exist, unless such actual or potential cross
connections are abated or controlled to the satisfaction of the village, and as
required by the laws of the state or regulations of the Nebraska Department of
Health or its authorized representative.
   (B)   No connection shall be installed or maintained whereby an auxiliary
water supply may enter a public potable water system.
   (C)   No water service connection shall be installed or maintained to any
premises in which the plumbing system, facilities and fixtures have not been
constructed and installed using acceptable plumbing practices considered by the
Village Water Department as necessary for the protection of health and safety.
(Prior Code, § 3-128) (Ord. 95-11, passed 4-26-1995) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.38 PROHIBITION ON AUXILIARY WATER SYSTEMS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to maintain any auxiliary water supply
system which is physically connected to the public potable water system in any
manner.
(Prior Code, § 3-129) (Ord. 95-11, passed 4-26-1995) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.39 SURVEY AND INVESTIGATIONS.
   (A)   The consumer’s premises shall be open at all reasonable times to the
village or its authorized representative, for the conduction of surveys and
investigations of water use practices within the consumer’s premises to
determine whether there are actual or potential cross connections to the
consumer’s water system.
   (B)   On request by the village or its authorized representative, the
consumer shall conduct periodic surveys and furnish requested information on
water use practices within the premises and in the consumer’s water system to
determine whether there are actual or potential cross connections. The consumer
shall provide the survey results to the village or its authorized
representative.
(Prior Code, § 3-130) (Ord. 95-11, passed 4-26-1995)
§ 51.40 WHERE PROTECTION IS REQUIRED.
   (A)   An approved backflow prevention device shall be installed between the
service connection and the point of potential backflow into a consumer’s water
supply system when, in the judgment of the village or its authorized
representative, a health, plumbing, pollution or system hazard exists.
   (B)   An approved air gap separation or backflow prevention device shall be
installed at the service connection or within any premises where, in the
judgment of the Village Water Department, the nature and extent of activities
on the premises, or the materials used in connection with the activities or
materials stored on the premises, would present an immediate and dangerous
hazard to health should a cross connection occur, even though such cross
connection may not exist at the time the backflow prevention device is required
to be installed. This includes, but is not limited to, the following
situations:
      (1)   Premises having internal cross connections that are not
correctable, or intricate plumbing arrangements which make it impractical to
ascertain whether or not cross connections exist;
      (2)   Premises where entry is restricted so that inspections for cross
connections cannot be made with sufficient frequency or at sufficiently short
notice to assure the cross connections do not exist;
      (3)   Premises having a repeated history of cross connections being
established or re-established;
      (4)   Premises which, due to the nature of the enterprise therein, are
subject to recurring modification or expansion;
      (5)   Premises on which any substance is handled under pressure so as to
permit entry into the public water supply system or where a cross connection
could reasonably be expected to occur. This shall include the handling of
process waters and cooling waters; and
      (6)   Premises where toxic or hazardous materials are handled such that
if a backsiphonage or backpressure should occur, a serious health hazard may
result.
   (C)   By §§
51.35 through
51.49, the village does require installation of a self-draining hose bib type
backflow prevention device on all external threaded hose bibs.
   (D)   The following types of facilities fall into one or more of the
categories or premises where an approved air gap separation or approved
backflow prevention device may be required by the village or its authorized
representative or the Nebraska Department of Health to protect the public water
supply and must be installed at these facilities unless all hazardous or
potentially hazardous conditions have been eliminated or corrected by other
methods to the satisfaction of the village or its authorized representative and
the Nebraska Department of Health:
      (1)   Agricultural chemical facilities;
      (2)   Hospitals, mortuaries, dental clinics, nursing and convalescent
homes, medical buildings;
      (3)   Premises having water recirculating systems as used for boilers or
cooling systems;
      (4)   Bulk water loading facilities;
      (5)   Car washes, automobile servicing facilities;
      (6)   Chill water systems;
      (7)   Feedlots;
      (8)   Fire suppression systems;
      (9)   Hazardous waste storage and disposal sites;
      (10)   Irrigation and lawn sprinkler systems;
      (11)   Laundries and dry cleaning;
      (12)   Beauty salons, barbershops, massage parlors, health clubs;
      (13)   Schools;
      (14)   Sewage treatment and pumping stations;
      (15)   Testing and film laboratories;
      (16)   Food and beverage processing plants;
      (17)   Chemical or petroleum processing and storage plants;
      (18)   Packing houses;
      (19)   Premises having radioactive materials, such as laboratories,
industries and hospitals;
      (20)   Veterinary establishments, kennels, feedyards, stables, rodeo
grounds, pet grooming salons;
      (21)   Properties with any of the following conditions:
         (a)   Livestock waterers and tank fillers;
         (b)   Use of hose aspirators for spraying chemicals;
         (c)   Swimming pools, hot tubs and spas;
         (d)   Faucets, hydrants and hose bibs with hose threads;
         (e)   Plumbing fixtures with faucet mouth below rim;
         (f)   Water softeners and home water treatment systems;
         (g)   Heat pumps;
         (h)   Heat exchangers using coils or water jackets;
         (i)   Soft drink dispenser and bar carbonators;
         (j)   Commercial type flush value urinals and toilets;
         (k)   Bidet or sitz bath; and
         (l)   Trough urinal.
      (22)   Other commercial or industrial facilities which may constitute
potential cross connection.
(Prior Code, § 3-131) (Ord. 95-11, passed 4-26-1995)
§ 51.41 TYPE OF PROTECTION REQUIRED.
   The type of protection required by §§
51.35 through
51.49 shall depend on the degree of hazard which exists, as follows.
   (A)   An approved air gap separation shall be installed where the potable
water system may be contaminated with substances that could cause a severe
health hazard.
   (B)   An approved air gap separation shall be installed where the potable
water system may be contaminated with a substance that could cause a health
hazard.
   (C)   An approved air gap separation or an approved backflow prevention
device shall be installed where the public potable water system may be polluted
with substances that could cause a pollutional hazard not dangerous to health.
(Prior Code, § 3-132) (Ord. 95-11, passed 4-26-1995)
§ 51.42 BACKFLOW PREVENTION DEVICES.
   Any backflow prevention device required by §§
51.35 through
51.49 shall be of a model or construction approved by the village and the
Nebraska Department of Health.
   (A)   Air gap separation to be approved shall be at least twice the diameter
of the supply pipe, measured vertically above the top rim of the vessel, but in
no case less than one inch.
   (B)   Double check valve assemblies or reduced pressure principle backflow
prevention devices shall appear on the current list of approved backflow
prevention devices established by the Nebraska Department of Health, unless the
device was installed at the time the ordinance from which this subchapter is
derived was passed and complies with required inspection, maintenance and
performance standards.
   (C)   Any backflow preventer which does meet current protection standards
shall be replaced with an approved backflow preventer at the customer’s
expense.
(Prior Code, § 3-133) (Ord. 95-11, passed 4-26-1995)
§ 51.43 INSTALLATION.
   (A)   Backflow prevention devices required by this policy shall be installed
at a location and in a manner approved by the village or its authorized
representative. All devices shall be installed at the expense of the consumer.
   (B)   Backflow prevention devices installed at the service connection shall
be located on the consumer’s side of the water meter (if one is installed) or
as close to meter as is reasonably practical, and in any event, prior to any
other connection.
   (C)   Backflow prevention devices shall be conveniently accessible for
maintenance and testing, protected from freezing, and where no part of the
device will be submerged or subject to flooding by any fluid. All devices shall
be installed according to manufacturer’s recommendations.
(Prior Code, § 3-134) (Ord. 95-11, passed 4-26-1995)
§ 51.44 TESTING.
   Backflow and backsiphonage prevention devices designed to be tested shall be
tested for proper operation annually or when necessary in the opinion of the
village or its authorized representative. Actual testing shall be at the
expense of the consumer. Any required maintenance or repairs shall be at the
expense of the consumer and subject to the approval of the village. If testing
shall require entry into the premises, the village’s authorized representative
shall give notice setting forth a proposed date and time to the consumer at
least ten days in advance by first class mail. If the consumer cannot make the
appointment, the consumer shall contact the village’s authorized representative
to arrange another date and time.
(Prior Code, § 3-135) (Ord. 95-11, passed 4-26-1995)
§ 51.45 AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE; AUTHORITY.
   The authorized representative shall have the authority to issue any order
consistent with the provisions of §§
51.35 through
51.49 in order to protect the public health and safety. Any order of the
authorized representative shall be in writing and shall clearly state the
nature of the order, compliance requirements and set a reasonable date by which
compliance must be met. All orders will be mailed to the consumer by first
class mail.
(Prior Code, § 3-136) (Ord. 95-11, passed 4-26-1995)
§ 51.46 APPEALS.
   (A)   In the event that it is claimed that the true intent and meaning of §§
51.35 through
51.49 has been wrongfully interpreted by the authorized representative; that
the time allowed for compliance with any order of the authorized representative
is too short; or that conditions peculiar to a particular premises make it
unreasonably difficult to meet the literal requirement prescribed by this
subchapter, the owner may file a written notice of appeal with the Village
Clerk within ten days after the decisions or order of the authorized
representative has been made. The Board of Trustees shall hear all appeals and
shall have the power and authority, when appealed to, to modify the decision or
order of the authorized representative. Such a decision shall be final, subject
only to any remedy which the aggrieved party may have at law or equity.
   (B)   Appeals shall be in writing and shall state the reason for the appeal.
(Prior Code, § 3-137) (Ord. 95-11, passed 4-26-1995)
§ 51.47 VIOLATION AND PENALTIES.
   (A)   The village or its authorized representative shall deny or discontinue
the water service to any premises or any consumer wherein any backflow
prevention device required by this policy is not installed, tested and
maintained in a manner acceptable to the village or its authorized
representative, or if it is found that the backflow prevention device has been
removed or bypassed, or if any unprotected cross connection exists.
   (B)   Water service to such premises shall not be restored until the
consumer is in compliance with this cross connection ordinance to the
satisfaction of the village or its authorized representative.
   (C)   Any person who shall violate or refuse to comply with the enforcement
of any of the provisions of this subchapter shall be deemed guilty of a
misdemeanor, and shall be fined no less than $25 for each offense. A new
violation shall be deemed to have been committed every 24 hours of such failure
to comply.
(Prior Code, § 3-138) (Ord. 95-11, passed 4-26-1995)
§ 51.48 CONFLICTS WITH OTHER APPLICABLE CODES.
   The provisions of §§
51.35 through
51.49 shall be read as concurrent provisions with the most current edition of
the National Standard Plumbing Code and the rules and regulations of the
Nebraska Department of Health. In the event of conflicting provisions, the most
restrictive shall apply.
(Prior Code, § 3-139) (Ord. 95-11, passed 4-26-1995)
§ 51.49 LIABILITY CLAIMS.
   The authorized representative shall be relieved from personal liability. The
village shall hold harmless the authorized representative, when acting in good
faith and without malice, from all personal liability for any damage that may
occur to any person or property as a result of any act required or authorized
by this title, or by reason of any act or omission of the authorized
representative in the discharge of his or her duties hereunder. Any suit
brought carrying out the provisions of this subchapter shall be defended by the
village, or the village’s insurance carrier, if any through final determination
of such proceeding.
(Prior Code, § 3-140) (Ord. 95-11, passed 4-26-1995)
CHAPTER 52: SEWERS
Section
General Provisions
   
52.001   Operation and funding
   
52.002   Definition of terms
   
52.003   Application for permit
   
52.004   Sewer contract
   
52.005   Service contracts
   
52.006   Rate setting
   
52.007   Surcharges
   
52.008   Collection of sewer use fees
   
52.009   User charge review
   
52.010   User notification
   
52.011   Classification
   
52.012   Sanitary supply system; destruction of property
   
52.013   Installation procedure
   
52.014   Preliminary treatment or flow equalizing facilities: maintenance by
owner
   
52.015   Sump pumps
   
52.016   Municipal powers
   
52.017   Severability
Public Sewers Required
   
52.030   Unlawful deposit of wastes
   
52.031   Unlawful discharge of untreated sewage
   
52.032   Cesspools, privies and septic tanks prohibited
   
52.033   Mandatory hook-up
Private Sewage Disposal
   
52.045   When applicable
   
52.046   Permit required
   
52.047   Permit; when effective; inspections
   
52.048   Specifications
   
52.049   Maintenance
   
52.050   Additional requirements
Building Sewer Installation
   
52.065   Permit required
   
52.066   Classification; permit application
   
52.067   Expense
   
52.068   Installation expense
   
52.069   Repairs and replacement
   
52.070   Single premises
   
52.071   Use of existing sewer
   
52.072   Construction codes
   
52.073   Unlawful connection
   
52.074   Inspections
   
52.075   Excavations
Hazardous and Prohibited Discharges
   
52.090   Stormwater, surface water, groundwater, cooling water and process
water
   
52.091   Flammable, toxic, corrosive and obstructive substances; preliminary
treatment
   
52.092   Specific prohibitions as determined by Superintendent
   
52.093   Discharge of hazardous and prohibited substances; rejection,
pretreatment, control of discharge rate or use fee surcharge
   
52.094   Special exceptions permitted; use fee surcharge
Grease, Oil and Sand Interceptors
   
52.105   When required
Control Manholes/Sampling Stations
   
52.120   When required; installation and maintenance
   
52.121   Method
Compliance with Chapter; Inspections
   
52.135   Generally
   
52.136   Injury liability
   
52.137   Easements
 
   
52.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 52.001 OPERATION AND FUNDING.
   (A)   The village owns and operates the village sewer system through the
Utilities Superintendent. The Board of Trustees, for the purpose of defraying
the cost of the operation, maintenance and replacement (OM&R) of the village
sewer system may establish a user charge system based on actual use and revise
the charges, if necessary, to accomplish the following:
      (1)   Maintain the proportional distribution of operation, maintenance
and replacement (OM&R) costs among users and user classes;
      (2)   Generate adequate revenues to pay the costs of OM&R; and
      (3)   Apply excess revenues collected from a class of users to the costs
of OM&R attributable to that class for the next year and adjust the rates
accordingly.
   (B)   The revenue from the said user charge system based on actual use shall
be known as the Sewer Maintenance Fund. The Utilities Superintendent shall have
the direct management and control of the Sewer Department and shall faithfully
carry out the duties of his or her office. He or she shall have the authority
to adopt rules and regulations for the sanitary and efficient management of the
Department subject to the supervision and review of the Board of Trustees.
(Prior Code, § 3-201)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-925.01
§ 52.002 DEFINITION OF TERMS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND (BOD). Includes the quantity of oxygen utilized in
the biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory procedure
in five days at 20°C, expressed in parts per million by weight.
   BUILDING OR HOUSE DRAIN. Includes that part of the lowest horizontal piping
of a drainage system which receives the discharge from soil, waste or other
drainage pipes inside the walls of the building and conveys it to the building
sewer, beginning five feet (one and one-half meters) outside the inner face of
the building wall.
   BUILDING OR HOUSE SEWER. Includes that part of a house or building drainage
system extending from the house or building drain to its connection with the
main sewer.
   BUILDING SEWER. The extension from the building drain to the public sewer or
other place of disposal.
   COMBINED SEWER. A sewer receiving both surface runoff and sewage.
   EASEMENT. An acquired legal right for the specific use of land owned by
others.
   FLOATABLE OIL. Oil, fat or grease in a physical state such that it will
separate by gravity from wastewater by treatment in an approved pretreatment
facility. A wastewater shall be considered free of floatable fat if it is
properly pretreated and the wastewater does not interfere with the collection
system.
   GARBAGE. Solid wastes from the domestic and commercial preparation, cooking
and dispensing of food, and from the handling, storage and sale of produce.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTES. The liquid wastes from industrial manufacturing
processes, trade or business as distinct from sanitary sewage.
   MAY. Is permissive; the term SHALL is mandatory.
   MUNICIPALITY. The Village of Cedar Bluffs, Nebraska.
   NATURAL OUTLET. Any outlet into a watercourse, pond, ditch, lake or other
body of surface or groundwater.
   NORMAL SEWAGE. Sewage not exceeding maximum tolerance of contamination of
300 milligrams per liter BOD or 350 milligrams per liter of suspended solids.
   PARTS PER MILLION. A weight-to-weight ratio; the parts-per-million value
multiplied by the factor 8.345 shall be equivalent to pounds per million
gallons of water.
   PERSON. Any individual, firm, company, association, society, corporation or
group.
   pH. Includes the logarithm of the reciprocal of the weight of hydrogen ions
in grams per liter of solution.
   PLUMBING FIXTURES. Includes receptacles intended to receive and discharge
water liquid or water-carried wastes into the sewer system with which they are
connected.
   PROPERLY SHREDDED GARBAGE. The wastes from the preparation, cooking and
dispensing of food that have been shredded to such a degree that all particles
will be carried freely under the flow conditions normally prevailing in public
sewers, with no particle greater than one-half inch (1.27 centimeters) in any
dimension.
   PUBLIC SEWER. A sewer in which all owners of abutting properties have equal
rights, and is controlled by public authority.
   REPLACEMENT. Expenditures for obtaining and installing equipment,
accessories or appurtenances which are necessary during the service life of the
treatment works to maintain the capacity and performance for which such works
were designed and constructed.
   SANITARY SEWER. Includes a sewer which carries sewage and to which storm,
surface and ground waters are not intentionally admitted.
   SERVICE CHARGE. The basic assessment levied on all users of the public sewer
system whose waste does not exceed in strength the concentration values
established as representative of normal sewage.
   SEWAGE. Includes a combination of the water-carried wastes from residences,
business buildings, institutions and industrial establishments together with
such ground, surface and storm waters as may be present.
   SEWAGE TREATMENT PLANT. Any arrangement of devices and structures used for
treating sewage.
   SEWAGE WORKS. All facilities for collecting, pumping, treating and disposing
of sewage.
   SEWER. A pipe or conduit for carrying sewage.
   SEWER SYSTEM. Includes all facilities for collecting, pumping, treating and
disposing of sewage.
   SHALL. Is mandatory; the term MAY is permissive.
   SLUG. Any discharge of water, sewage or industrial waste which in
concentration of any given constituent or in quantity of flow exceeds for any
period of duration longer than 15 minutes more than five times the average 24-
hour concentration or flows during normal operation.
   SOIL PIPE. Includes any pipe which conveys the discharge of water closets
with or without the discharge from other fixtures to the house or building
drain.
   STORM SEWER. A sewer which carries storm and surface waters and drainage,
but excludes sewage and industrial wastes, other than unpolluted cooling water.
   SUPERINTENDENT. The Utilities Superintendent of the Village of Cedar Bluffs,
or his or her authorized deputy, agent or representative.
   SUSPENDED SOLIDS. Includes solids that either float on the surface of, or
are in suspension in water, sewage or other liquids, and are removable by
filtering.
   TRAP. Includes a fitting or device so constructed as to prevent the passage
of air or gas through a pipe without materially affecting the flow of sewage or
waste through it.
   TRAP SEAL. Includes the vertical distance between the crown weir and the dip
of the trap.
   WASTEWATER FACILITIES. The structures, equipment and processes required to
collect, carry away, and treat domestic and industrial wastes and dispose of
the effluent.
   WATERCOURSE. A natural or artificial channel for the passage of water either
continuously or intermittently.
(Prior Code, § 3-202) (Ord. 95-10, passed 4-26-1995)
§ 52.003 APPLICATION FOR PERMIT.
   Any person wishing to connect with the sewer system shall make an
application therefor to the Utilities Superintendent. The Superintendent may
require any applicant to make a service deposit in such amount as he or she
deems necessary subject to the review of the Board of Trustees. Sewer service
may not be supplied to any house or building except upon the written order of
the Utilities Superintendent. The Department shall not supply sewer service to
any person outside the corporate limits without special permission from the
Board of Trustees; including the entire expense of tearing out and replacing
any existing improvements such as streets, shall be paid by such consumers.
Nothing herein shall be construed to obligate the village to provide sewer
service to nonresidents.
(Prior Code, § 3-203) (Ord. 95-10, passed 4-26-1995)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-574, 18-503
§ 52.004 SEWER CONTRACT.
   The village through the Village Sewer Department shall furnish sewer
services to persons within its corporate limits whose premises abut a street or
alley in which a commercial main is now or may hereafter be laid. The village
may also furnish sewer service to persons whose premises are situated outside
the corporate limits of the village, as and when, according to law, the Board
of Trustees may see fit to do so. The rules, regulations and sewer rental rates
hereinafter named in this chapter, shall be considered a part of every
application hereafter made for sewer service and shall be considered a part of
the contract between every customer now or hereafter served. Without further
formality, the making of the application on the part of any applicant or the
use of sewer service by present customers thereof shall constitute a contract
between the customer and the village to which said contract both parties are
bound. If the customer shall violate any of the provisions of said contract or
any reasonable rules and regulations that the Board of Trustees may hereafter
adopt, the Utilities Superintendent, or his or her agent, may cut off or
disconnect the sewer service from the building or premises of such violation.
No further connection for sewer service to said building or premises shall
again be made save or except by order of the Superintendent or his or her
agent.
(Prior Code, § 3-204)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-901, 17-902, 18-503
§ 52.005 SERVICE CONTRACTS.
   Contracts for sewer service are not transferable. Any person wishing to
change from one location to another shall make a new application and sign a new
contract. If any customer shall move from the premises where service is
furnished, or if the said premises is destroyed by fire or other casualty, he
or she shall at once inform the Utilities Superintendent who shall cause the
sewer service to be shut off from the said premises. If the customer should
fail to give notice, he or she shall be charged for that period of time until
the official in charge of sewers is otherwise advised of such circumstances.
(Prior Code, § 3-205)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-901, 17-902, 18-503
§ 52.006 RATE SETTING.
   Customers of the Village Sewer Department shall be charged a rate, based
upon water usage, as set by the Board of Trustees. The rates shall be on file
at the office of the Village Clerk available for public inspection at any
reasonable time.
(Prior Code, § 3-206) (Ord. 95-10, passed 4-26-1995)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 18-509
§ 52.007 SURCHARGES.
   In addition to other elements of the total user charge system in §§
52.093 and
52.135, the ordinance on file with the Village Clerk shall provide for the
following surcharges:
   (A)   A high strength waste surcharge established for pollutant levels (BOD,
SS and the like) which exceed the levels contained in the domestic strength
wastewater of the service area. The surcharge shall be expressed as a formula
with a per unit charge established for each applicable pollutant (see 40 C.F.R.
part 35.9000); and
   (B)   The authority and intent shall be established to require each user
discharging any toxic pollutants to pay the increased costs of managing the
effluent or the sludge of the treatment works resulting from such discharge.
(Prior Code, § 3-207)
§ 52.008 COLLECTION OF SEWER USE FEES.
   Sewer use fees shall be part of a joint utilities bill and shall be
collected in conjunction with the water bill by following the procedures set
forth in §
50.01 of this code of ordinances. In the event that a customer fails to pay his
or her sewer bill as required, the bill shall be deemed delinquent and subject
to the provisions of §
50.02.
(Prior Code, § 3-208)
§ 52.009 USER CHARGE REVIEW.
   The Board of Trustees shall review, at least annually, the user charge
system and revise the charges, if necessary, to accomplish the following:
   (A)   Maintain the proportional distribution of operation, maintenance and
replacement (OM&R) costs among users and user classes;
   (B)   Generate adequate revenues to pay the costs of OM&R; and
   (C)   Apply excess revenues collected from a class of users to the costs of
OM&R attributable to that class for the next year and adjust the rates
accordingly.
(Prior Code, § 3-209)
§ 52.010 USER NOTIFICATION.
   Each user will be notified, at least annually, with a regular bill, of the
rate and that portion of the user charges ad valorem taxes which are
attributable to wastewater treatment.
(Prior Code, § 3-210)
§ 52.011 CLASSIFICATION.
   The Board of Trustees may classify for the purpose of rental fees the
customers of the Village Sewer Department; provided, that such classifications
are reasonable and do not discriminate unlawfully against any consumer or group
of consumers. The classification must be approved by the Environmental
Protection Agency, relative to the user charge grant condition.
(Prior Code, § 3-211)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-925.02
§ 52.012 SANITARY SUPPLY SYSTEM; DESTRUCTION OF PROPERTY.
   No person or persons shall maliciously, willfully or negligently break,
damage, destroy, uncover, deface, or tamper with any structure, appurtenance or
equipment which is part of the wastewater facilities. Any person or persons
violating this provision shall be subject to immediate arrest under charge of
disorderly conduct.
(Prior Code, § 3-212) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.013 INSTALLATION PROCEDURE.
   In making excavations in streets, alleys or sidewalks for the purpose of
installing pipe, or making repairs, the paving, stones and earth must be
removed and deposited in a manner that will occasion the least inconvenience to
the public and provide for adequate drainage. No person shall leave an
excavation made in the street, alley or sidewalk open at any time without a
barricade, and during the night, warning lights. After the house sewer is laid,
the public ways and property shall be restored to good condition. If the
excavation in the public ways and property is left open or unfinished for a
period of 24 hours or more, the Utilities Superintendent shall have the duty to
finish or correct the work, and all expenses so incurred shall be charged to
the owner, occupant or lessee of the property. All installations or repairs of
pipes require one inspection by the Utilities Superintendent. The inspection
shall be made when connections or repairs are complete and before the pipe is
covered. It is the customer’s responsibility to notify the Utilities
Superintendent at the time the work is ready for the inspection. All
installation shall be done under the supervision and strictly in accordance
with the rules, regulations and specifications for such installation prescribed
by the Utilities Superintendent; provided, that the said rules, regulations and
specifications have been reviewed and approved by the Board of Trustees.
(Prior Code, § 3-234)
§ 52.014 PRELIMINARY TREATMENT OR FLOW EQUALIZING FACILITIES: MAINTENANCE BY
OWNER.
   Where preliminary treatment or flow-equalizing facilities are provided for
any waters or wastes, they shall be maintained continuously in satisfactory and
effective operation by the owner at his or her expense.
(Prior Code, § 3-240)
§ 52.015 SUMP PUMPS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to allow the drainage, including water
and other matter, to drain into the village sanitary sewer system. Such
drainage from sump pumps may be discharged into the village storm sewer system.
(Prior Code, § 3-250) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.016 MUNICIPAL POWERS.
   The village has the legal authority to enforce its system of user charges,
industrial cost recovery charge, and sewer use regulations on all existing or
future users of the system whether located inside or outside the village
limits.
(Prior Code, § 3-248)
§ 52.017 SEVERABILITY.
   The invalidity of any section, clause, sentence or provision of this chapter
shall not affect the validity of any other part of this chapter which can be
given effect without such invalid part or parts.
(Prior Code, § 3-249)
PUBLIC SEWERS REQUIRED
§ 52.030 UNLAWFUL DEPOSIT OF WASTES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, deposit or permit to be
deposited in any unsanitary manner on public or private property within the
village or within one mile of the corporate limits thereof, or in any area
under the jurisdiction of said village, any human or animal excrement, garbage
or other objectionable waste.
(Prior Code, § 3-213) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.031 UNLAWFUL DISCHARGE OF UNTREATED SEWAGE.
   It shall be unlawful to discharge to any natural outlet within the village,
or within one mile of the corporate limits thereof, or in any area under the
jurisdiction of said village, any sewage or other polluted waters, except where
suitable treatment has been provided in accordance with subsequent provisions
of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 3-214) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.032 CESSPOOLS, PRIVIES AND SEPTIC TANKS PROHIBITED.
   Except as hereinafter provided, it shall be unlawful to construct or
maintain any privy, privy vault, septic tank, cesspool or other facility
intended or used for the disposal of sewage.
(Prior Code, § 3-215) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.033 MANDATORY HOOK-UP.
   The owner of all houses, buildings or properties used for human employment,
recreation or other purposes, situated within the village and abutting on any
street, alley or right-of-way in which there is now located or may in the
future be located a public sanitary or combined sewer of the village, is hereby
required at his or her expense to install suitable toilet facilities therein,
and to connect such facilities directly with the proper public sewer in
accordance with the provisions of this chapter within 90 days after date of
official notice to do so; provided, that said public sewer is within 100 feet
(30.5 meters) of the property line.
(Prior Code, § 3-216)
PRIVATE SEWAGE DISPOSAL
§ 52.045 WHEN APPLICABLE.
   (A)   Where a public sanitary or combined sewer is not available under the
provisions of §
52.046, the building sewer shall be connected to a private sewage disposal
system complying with the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   At such time as a public sewer becomes available to a property served
by a private wastewater disposal system, as provided in §
52.046, a direct connection shall be made to the public sewer within 60 days in
compliance with this chapter, and any septic tanks, cesspools, and similar
private wastewater disposal facilities shall be cleaned of sludge and filled
with suitable material.
(Prior Code, § 3-217)
§ 52.046 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   Before commencement of construction of a private sewage disposal system the
owner shall first obtain a written permit signed by the Superintendent. The
application for such permit shall be made on a form furnished by the village,
which the applicant shall supplement by any plans, specifications and other
information as are deemed necessary by the Superintendent.
(Prior Code, § 3-218)
§ 52.047 PERMIT; WHEN EFFECTIVE; INSPECTIONS.
   A permit for a private sewage disposal system shall not become effective
until the installation is completed to the satisfaction of the Superintendent.
He or she shall be allowed to inspect the work at any stage of construction
and, in any event, the applicant for the permit shall notify the Superintendent
when the work is ready for final inspection, and before any underground
portions are covered. The inspection shall be made within 24 hours of the
receipt of notice by the Superintendent.
(Prior Code, § 3-219)
§ 52.048 SPECIFICATIONS.
   The type, capacities, location and layout of a private sewage disposal
system shall comply with all recommendations of the Department of Public Health
of the state. No permit shall be issued for any private sewage disposal system
employing subsurface soil absorption facilities when the area of the lot is
less than 10,000 square feet. No septic tank or cesspool shall be permitted to
discharge to any natural outlet.
(Prior Code, § 3-220)
§ 52.049 MAINTENANCE.
   The owner shall operate and maintain the private sewage disposal facilities
in a sanitary manner at all times, at no expense to the village.
(Prior Code, § 3-221)
§ 52.050 ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS.
   No statement contained in §§
52.045 through
52.049 shall be construed to interfere with any additional requirements that
may be imposed by the Health Officer.
(Prior Code, § 3-222)
BUILDING SEWER INSTALLATION
§ 52.065 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   No unauthorized person shall uncover, make any connections with or opening
into, use, alter or disturb any public sewer or appurtenance thereof without
first obtaining a written permit from the Superintendent.
(Prior Code, § 3-223) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.066 CLASSIFICATION; PERMIT APPLICATION.
   (A)   There shall be two classes of building sewer permits:
      (1)   For residential and commercial service; and
      (2)   For service to establishments producing industrial wastes.
   (B)   In either case, the owner or his or her agent shall make application
on a special form furnished by the village. The permit application shall be
supplemented by any plans, specifications or other information considered
pertinent in the judgment of the Superintendent.
(Prior Code, § 3-224)
§ 52.067 EXPENSE.
   All costs and expense incidental to the installation and connection of the
building sewer shall be borne by the owner. The owner shall indemnify the
village from any loss or damage that may directly or indirectly be occasioned
by the installation of the building sewer.
(Prior Code, § 3-225)
§ 52.068 INSTALLATION EXPENSE.
   The customer, upon approval of his or her application for sewer service,
shall pay to the Utilities Superintendent a tap fee which compensate the
village for the expense of processing his or her application and tapping the
sewer main. The Utilities Superintendent, in his or her discretion, may direct
the customer to hire a licensed plumber to tap the main. The customer shall
then be required to pay the expense of procuring the materials required as well
as the services of a licensed plumber and shall pay all other costs of
installation.
(Prior Code, § 3-226)
§ 52.069 REPAIRS AND REPLACEMENT.
   (A)   The Village Sewer Department may require the owner of any property
which is within the village and connected to the public sewers or drains to
repair or replace any connection line which serves the owner’s property and is
broken, clogged or otherwise in need of repair or replacement. The property
owner’s duty to repair or replace such a connection line shall include those
portions upon the owner’s property and those portions upon public property or
easements up to and including the point of junction with the public main.
   (B)   The Village Clerk shall give the property owner notice by registered
letter or certified mail, directed to the last-known address of such owner or
the agent of such owner, directing the repair or replacement of such connection
line. If within 30 days of mailing such notice the property owner fails or
neglects to cause such repairs or replacements to be made, the Utilities
Superintendent may cause such work to be done and assess the cost upon the
property served by such connection.
(Prior Code, § 3-227)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 18-1748
§ 52.070 SINGLE PREMISES.
   A separate and independent building sewer shall be provided for every
building; except where one building stands at the rear of another on an
interior lot and no private sewer is available or can be constructed to the
rear building through an adjoining alley, court, yard or driveway, the building
sewer from the front building may be extended to the rear building and the
whole considered as one building sewer, but the village does not and will not
assume any obligation or responsibility for damage caused by or resulting from
any such single connection aforementioned.
(Prior Code, § 3-228)
§ 52.071 USE OF EXISTING SEWER.
   Old building sewers may be used in connection with new buildings only when
they are found, on examination and test by the Superintendent, to meet all
requirements of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 3-229)
§ 52.072 CONSTRUCTION CODES.
   (A)   The size, slope, alignment, materials of construction of a building
sewer, and the methods to be used in excavating, placing of the pipe, jointing,
testing and backfilling the trench, shall all conform to the requirements of
the building and plumbing code or other applicable rules and regulations of the
village. In the absence of code provisions or in amplification thereof, the
materials and procedures set forth in appropriate specifications of the
A.S.T.M. and W.P.C.F. Manual of Practice No. 9 shall apply.
   (B)   Whenever possible, the building sewer shall be brought to the building
at an elevation below the basement floor. In all buildings in which any
building drain is too low to permit gravity flow to the public sewer, sanitary
sewage carried by such building drain shall be lifted by an approved means and
discharged to the building sewer.
   (C)   The connection of the building sewer into the public sewer shall
conform to the requirements of the building and plumbing code or other
applicable rules and regulations of the village, or the procedures set forth in
appropriate specifications of the A.S.T.M. and the W.P.C.F. Manual of Practice
No. 9. All such connections shall be made gastight and watertight, and verified
by proper testing. Any deviation from the prescribed procedures and materials
must be approved by the Superintendent before installation.
(Prior Code, § 3-230)
§ 52.073 UNLAWFUL CONNECTION.
   No person shall make connection of roof downspouts, interior and exterior
foundation drains, areaway drains, or other sources of surface runoff or
groundwater to a building sewer or building drain which in turn is connected
directly or indirectly to a public sanitary sewer unless such connection is
approved by the Superintendent for purposes of disposal of polluted surface
drainage; provided, that if responsibility can be determined, the party
responsible for disposal of polluted surface drainage into the public sanitary
sewer shall pay a user charge equivalent to the cost of treating the polluted
drainage.
(Prior Code, § 3-231) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.074 INSPECTIONS.
   The applicant for the building sewer permit shall notify the Superintendent
when the building sewer is ready for inspection and connection to the public
sewer. The connection and testing shall be made under the supervision of the
Superintendent or his or her representative.
(Prior Code, § 3-232)
§ 52.075 EXCAVATIONS.
   All excavations for building sewer installation shall be adequately guarded
with barricades and lights so as to protect the public from hazard. Streets,
sidewalks, parkways and other public property disturbed in the course of the
work shall be restored in a manner satisfactory to the village.
(Prior Code, § 3-233)
HAZARDOUS AND PROHIBITED DISCHARGES
§ 52.090 STORMWATER, SURFACE WATER, GROUNDWATER, COOLING WATER AND PROCESS
WATER.
   (A)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any stormwater,
surface water, groundwater, roof runoff, subsurface drainage, including
interior and exterior foundation drains, uncontaminated cooling water or
unpolluted industrial waters to any sanitary sewer.
   (B)   Stormwater and all other unpolluted drainage shall be discharged to
such sewers as are specifically designated as combined sewers or storm sewers,
or to a natural outlet approved by the Superintendent. Industrial cooling water
or unpolluted process water may be discharged, on approval of the
Superintendent, to a storm sewer, combined sewer or natural outlet. The
contributor of any identifiable discharge of polluted water to the sanitary
sewer system shall be held responsible for reimbursing the village for such
costs. The costs shall be determined by the Superintendent with the approval of
the Board of Trustees.
(Prior Code, § 3-235) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.091 FLAMMABLE, TOXIC, CORROSIVE AND OBSTRUCTIVE SUBSTANCES; PRELIMINARY
TREATMENT.
   (A)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any of the
following described waters or wastes to any public sewers:
      (1)   Any gasoline, benzene, naphtha, fuel oil or other flammable or
explosive liquid, solid or gas;
      (2)   Any waters or wastes containing toxic or poisonous solids, liquids
or gases in sufficient quantity, either singly or by interaction with other
wastes, to injure or interfere with any waste treatment process, constitute a
hazard to humans or animals, create a public nuisance or create any hazard in
the receiving waters of the wastewater treatment plant;
      (3)   Any waters or wastes having a pH lower than 5.5, or having any
other corrosive property capable of causing damage or hazard to structures,
equipment and personnel of the sewage works;
      (4)   Solid or viscous substances in quantities or of such size capable
of causing obstruction to the flow in sewers, or other interference with the
proper operation of the sewage facilities such as, but not limited to, ashes,
cinders, sand, mud, straw, shavings, metal, glass, rags, feathers, tar,
plastics, wood, unground garbage, whole blood, paunch manure, hair and
fleshings, entrails and paper dishes, cups, milk containers and the like,
either whole or ground by garbage grinders;
      (5)   Any waters or wastes having:
         (a)   A five-day BOD greater than 300 parts per million by weight;
         (b)   Containing more than 350 parts per million by weight of
suspended solids;
         (c)   Having an average daily flow greater than 2% of the average
sewage flow of the village; or
         (d)   A chlorine requirement greater than demanded by normal sewage as
evaluated by the village’s consulting engineer shall be subject to the review
of the Superintendent.
   (B)   Where necessary in the opinion of the Superintendent, the owner shall
provide, at his or her expense, such preliminary treatment as may be necessary
to:
      (1)   Reduce the biochemical oxygen demand to 300 parts per million by
weight;
      (2)   Reduce the suspended solids to 350 parts per million by weight;
      (3)   Control the quantities and rates of discharge of such waters or
wastes; or
      (4)   Reduce the chlorine requirement to conform with normal sewage.
   (C)   Plans, specifications and other pertinent information relating to
proposed preliminary treatment facilities shall be submitted for the approval
of the Superintendent and no construction of such facilities shall be commenced
until said approvals are obtained in writing.
(Prior Code, § 3-236) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.092 SPECIFIC PROHIBITIONS AS DETERMINED BY SUPERINTENDENT.
   (A)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged the following
described substances, materials, waters or wastes if it appears likely in the
opinion of the Superintendent that such wastes can harm either the sewers,
sewage treatment process, or equipment, have an adverse effect on the receiving
stream, or can otherwise endanger life, limb, public property or constitute a
nuisance. In forming his or her opinion as to the acceptability of these
wastes, the Superintendent will give consideration to such factors as the
quantities of subject wastes in relation to flows and velocities in the sewers,
materials of construction of the sewers, nature of the sewage treatment
process, capacity of the sewage treatment plant, and other pertinent factors.
   (B)   The substances prohibited are:
      (1)   Any liquid or vapor having a temperature higher than 150°F (65°C);
      (2)   Any water or waste containing fats, wax, grease or oils, whether
emulsified or not, in excess of 100 mg/l or containing substances which may
solidify or become viscous at temperatures between 32° and 150°F (0° and 65°C);
      (3)   Any garbage that has not been properly shredded. The installation
and operation of any garbage grinder equipped with a motor three-fourths
horsepower (0.76 hp metric) or greater shall be subject to the review and
approval of the Superintendent;
      (4)   Any waters or wastes containing strong acid iron pickling wastes,
or concentrated plating solutions whether neutralized or not;
      (5)   Any water or wastes containing iron, chromium, copper, zinc and
similar objectionable or toxic substances; or wastes exerting an excessive
chlorine requirement, to such degree that any such material received in the
composite sewage at the sewage treatment works exceeds the limits established
by the Superintendent for such materials;
      (6)   Any waters or wastes containing phenols or other taste- or odor-
producing substances, in such concentrations exceeding limits which may be
established by the Superintendent as necessary, after treatment of the
composite sewage, to meet the requirements of state, federal or other public
agencies of jurisdiction for such discharge to the receiving waters;
      (7)   Any radioactive wastes or isotopes of such half-life or
concentration as may exceed limits established by the Superintendent in
compliance with applicable state or federal regulations;
      (8)   Any waters of wastes having a pH in excess of 9.5;
      (9)   Materials which exert or cause:
         (a)   Unusual concentrations of inert suspended solids (such as, but
not limited to, Fuller’s earth, lime slurries and lime residues) or of
dissolved solids, (such as but not limited to, sodium chloride or sodium
sulfate);
         (b)   Excessive discoloration (such as, but not limited to, dye wastes
and vegetable tanning solutions);
         (c)   Unusual BOD, chemical oxygen demand or chlorine requirements in
such quantities as to constitute a significant load on the sewage treatment
works; and
         (d)   Unusual volume of flow or concentration of wastes constituting
“slugs” as defined in §
52.002.
      (10)   Waters or wastes containing substances which are not amenable to
treatment or reduction by the sewage treatment processes employed, or are
amenable to treatment only to such degree that the sewage treatment plant
effluent cannot meet the requirements of other agencies having jurisdiction
over discharge to the receiving waters.
(Prior Code, § 3-237) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.093 DISCHARGE OF HAZARDOUS AND PROHIBITED SUBSTANCES; REJECTION,
PRETREATMENT, CONTROL OF DISCHARGE RATE OR USE FEE SURCHARGE.
   (A)   If any waters or wastes are discharged, or are proposed to be
discharged to the public sewers, which waters contain the substances or possess
the characteristics enumerated in §
52.092, and which in the judgment of the Superintendent, may have a deleterious
effect upon the sewage works, processes, equipment or receiving waters, or
which otherwise create a hazard to life to constitute a public nuisance, the
Superintendent may:
      (1)   Reject the wastes;
      (2)   Require pretreatment to an acceptable condition for discharge to
the public sewers;
      (3)   Require control over the quantities and rates of discharge; and/or
      (4)   Require payment to cover the added cost of handling and treating
the wastes not covered by existing taxes or sewer charges under the provisions
of §
52.135.
   (B)   If the Superintendent permits the pretreatment or equalization of
waste flows, the design and installation of the plants and equipment shall be
subject to the review and approval of the Superintendent, and subject to the
requirements of all applicable codes, ordinances and laws.
(Prior Code, § 3-238)
§ 52.094 SPECIAL EXCEPTIONS PERMITTED; USE FEE SURCHARGE.
   No statement contained in this chapter shall be construed as preventing any
special agreement or arrangement between the village and any industrial concern
whereby an industrial waste of unusual strength or character may be accepted by
the village for treatment, subject to payment therefor, by the industrial
concern.
(Prior Code, § 3-243)
GREASE, OIL AND SAND INTERCEPTORS
§ 52.105 WHEN REQUIRED.
   Grease, oil and sand interceptors shall be provided when, in the opinion of
the Superintendent, they are necessary for the proper handling of liquid wastes
containing grease in excessive amounts, or any flammable wastes, sand or other
harmful ingredients; except that such interceptors shall not be required for
private living quarters or dwelling units. All interceptors shall be of a type
and capacity approved by the Superintendent and shall be located as to be
readily and easily accessible for cleaning and inspection. In the maintaining
of these interceptors the owner(s) shall be responsible for the proper removal
and disposal by appropriate means of the captured material and shall maintain
records of the dates, and means of disposal which are subject to review by the
Superintendent. Any removal and hauling of the collected materials not
performed by owner(s)’ personnel must be performed by currently licensed waste
disposal firms.
(Prior Code, § 3-239)
CONTROL MANHOLES/SAMPLING STATIONS
§ 52.120 WHEN REQUIRED; INSTALLATION AND MAINTENANCE.
   When required by the Superintendent, the owner of any property serviced by a
building sewer carrying industrial wastes shall install a suitable control
manhole together with such necessary meters and other appurtenances in the
building sewer to facilitate observation, sampling and measurement of the
wastes. Such manhole, when required, shall be accessibly and safely located,
and shall be constructed in accordance with plans approved by the
Superintendent. The manhole shall be installed by the owner at his or her
expense, and shall be maintained by him or her so as to be safe and accessible
at all times.
(Prior Code, § 3-241)
§ 52.121 METHOD.
   All measurements, tests, and analyses of the characteristics of waters and
wastes to which reference is made in this chapter, shall be determined in
accordance with the latest edition of Standard Methods for the Examination of
Water and Wastewater, published by the American Public Health Association, and
shall be determined at the control manhole provided, or upon suitable samples
taken at said control manhole. In the event no special manhole has been
required, the control manhole shall be considered to be the nearest downstream
manhole in the public sewer to the point at which the building sewer is
connected. Sampling shall be carried out by customarily accepted methods to
reflect the effect of constituents upon the sewage works and to determine the
existence of hazards to life, limb and property. (The particular analyses
involved will determine whether a 24-hour composite of all outfalls of a
premises is appropriate or whether a grab sample or samples should be taken.
Normally, but not always, BOD and suspended solids analyses are obtained from
24-hour composites of all outfalls whereas pHs are determined from periodic
grab samples.)
(Prior Code, § 3-242)
COMPLIANCE WITH CHAPTER; INSPECTIONS
§ 52.135 GENERALLY.
   The Superintendent and other duly authorized employees of the village
bearing proper credentials and identification shall be permitted to enter all
properties for the purposes of inspection, observation, measurement, sampling
and testing system in accordance with the provisions of this chapter. The
Superintendent or his or her representatives shall have no authority to inquire
into any processes including metallurgical, chemical, oil, refining, ceramic,
paper or other industries beyond that point having a direct bearing on the kind
and source of discharge to the sewers or waterways or facilities for waste
treatment.
(Prior Code, § 3-244)
§ 52.136 INJURY LIABILITY.
   While performing the necessary work on private properties referred to in §
52.135, the Superintendent or duly authorized employees of the village shall
observe all safety rules applicable to the premises established by the company
and the company shall be held harmless for injury or death to the village
employees and the village shall indemnify the company against loss or damage to
its property by village employees and against liability claims and demands for
personal injury or property damage asserted against the company and growing out
of the gauging and sampling operation, except as such may be caused by
negligence or failure of the company to maintain safe conditions as required in
§
52.014.
(Prior Code, § 3-245)
§ 52.137 EASEMENTS.
   The Superintendent and other duly authorized employees of the village
bearing proper credentials and identification shall be permitted to enter all
private properties through which the village holds a duly negotiated easement
for the purposes of, but not limited to, inspection, observation, measurement,
sampling, repair, and maintenance of any portion of the sewage works lying
within said easement. All entry and subsequent work, if any, on said easement,
shall be done in full accordance with the terms of the duly negotiated easement
pertaining to the private property involved.
(Prior Code, § 3-246)
§ 52.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person found to be violating any provision of this chapter except
§
52.094 shall be served by the village with written notice stating the nature of
the violation and providing a reasonable time limit for the satisfactory
correction thereof. The offender shall, within the period of time stated in
such notice, permanently cease all violations.
   (B)   Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall
become liable to the village for any expense, loss or damage occasioned the
village by reason of such violation.
(Prior Code, § 3-247)
CHAPTER 53: DRILLING
Section
   
53.01   Drilling and operation of wells and underground facilities or
contaminating facilities without permit unlawful
   
53.02   Utilizing the geothermal properties of the ground
   
53.03   Procedure to obtain a permit
   
53.04   Drilling or installation of other facilities within designated distance
from municipal water sources; prohibited
 
   
53.99   Penalty
§ 53.01 DRILLING AND OPERATION OF WELLS AND UNDERGROUND FACILITIES OR
CONTAMINATING FACILITIES WITHOUT PERMIT UNLAWFUL.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, corporation or other legal entity to
drill and/or operate any of the following facilities within the corporate
limits or zoning jurisdiction of the village, without first having obtained the
proper permit from the Board of Trustees potable water well; any other well;
sewage lagoon; absorption or disposal field for water; cesspool; dumping
grounds; feedlot; livestock pasture or corral; chemical product storage
facility; petroleum product storage facility; pit toilet; sanitary landfill;
septic tank; sewage treatment plant; sewage wet well.
(Prior Code, § 3-141) (Ord. 96-24, passed 11-21-1996) Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.02 UTILIZING THE GEOTHERMAL PROPERTIES OF THE GROUND.
   (A)   Must be a closed loop system;
   (B)   Joints must be made by heat fusion;
   (C)   Antifreeze must be potassium acetate, propeylene glycol or other food
grade substance;
   (D)   Wells must be scaled from bottom to top with a cement slurrie;
   (E)   Piping will consist of polybutylene or polyethylene pipe; and
   (F)   Will be located no closer than 100 feet to the village’s drinking
water source.
(Prior Code, § 3-142) (Ord. 96-24, passed 11-21-1996)
§ 53.03 PROCEDURE TO OBTAIN A PERMIT.
   In order to obtain a permit to drill and/or operate any of the facilities
listed in §§
53.01 and
53.02, the owner of property on which the proposed facility is to be located,
must make application on the proper form provided by the Board of Trustees.
Such application must be presented to the Village Board at any regular or
special meeting. After reviewing the application of any person desiring to
drill or operate any of the above described facilities, the Board of Trustees
must approve or deny said permit.
(Prior Code, § 3-143) (Ord. 96-24, passed 11-21-1996)
§ 53.04 DRILLING OR INSTALLATION OF OTHER FACILITIES WITHIN DESIGNATED DISTANCE
FROM MUNICIPAL WATER SOURCES; PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Under no circumstances shall the Trustees approve any permit to drill
or operate any of the below described facilities within the indicated number of
feet from the village’s municipal water wells:
Facility Feet
Facility                               Feet
Potable water well                     Within 1,000 feet
Closed loop geothermal well            Within 100 feet
Any other well                         Within 1,000 feet
Sewage lagoon                          Within 1,000 feet
Absorption or disposal field for water Within 500 feet
Cesspool                               Within 500 feet
Dumping grounds                        Within 500 feet
Feedlot or feedlot runoff              Within 500 feet
Livestock pasture or corral            Within 500 feet
Chemical product storage facility      Within 500 feet
Petroleum product storage facility     Within 500 feet
Pit toilet                             Within 500 feet
Sanitary landfill                      Within 500 feet
Septic tank                            Within 500 feet
Sewage treatment plant                 Within 500 feet
Sewage wet well                        Within 500 feet
 
   (B)   These footages are taken from Nebraska Regulation Title 179, Chapter
2, and will change automatically if said title footages are revised.
(Prior Code, § 3-144) (Ord. 96-24, passed 11-21-1996)
§ 53.99 PENALTY.
   Any person, corporation or other legal entity found violating any provision
of §§
53.01 through
53.04 shall be subject to a fine, not to exceed $100. The continuation of a
violation shall be deemed an additional crime for every 24 hours of such
continued violation. In addition, the village may obtain injunctive relief, and
sue for damages and remediation, and pursue any other remedy available to it
under the laws of the state or other authority having jurisdiction over such
matters.
(Prior Code, § 3-145) (Ord. 96-24, passed 11-21-1996)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
71.   TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
      
72.   PROHIBITIONS AND ENFORCEMENT
      
73.   PARKING
      
74.   RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
      
75.   TRAFFIC AND PARKING SCHEDULES
CHAPTER 70: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
70.01   Definitions
   
70.02   Registration; operator and vehicle license
 
   
70.99   Penalty
§ 70.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this title, the following definitions and the other
definitions in Neb. RS 60-606 through 60-676 shall apply unless the context
clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALLEY. A highway intended to provide access to the rear or side of lots or
buildings and not intended for the purpose of through vehicular traffic.
(Neb. RS 60-607)
   AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLE. Such fire department vehicles, police
vehicles, rescue vehicles, and ambulances as are publicly owned, such other
publicly or privately owned vehicles as are designated by the Director of Motor
Vehicles, and such publicly owned military vehicles of the National Guard as
are designated by the Adjutant General pursuant to Neb. RS 55-133.
(Neb. RS 60-610)
   BUSINESS DISTRICT. The territory contiguous to and including a highway when
within any 600 feet along such highway there are buildings in use for business
or industrial purposes, including, but not limited to, hotels, banks, office
buildings, railroad stations or public buildings which occupy at least 300 feet
of frontage on one side or 300 feet collectively on both sides of a highway.
(Neb. RS 60-613)
   HIGHWAY. The entire width between the boundary limits of any street, road,
avenue, boulevard or way which is publicly maintained when any part thereof is
open to the use of the public for purposes of vehicular travel.
(Neb. RS 60-624)
   MANUAL. The Manual on Uniform Traffic Control Devices adopted by the
Department of Transportation pursuant to Neb. RS 60-6,118.
(Neb. RS 60-631)
   MOTOR VEHICLE. Every self-propelled land vehicle, not operated upon rails,
except bicycles, mopeds, self-propelled chairs used by persons who are
disabled, and electric personal assistive mobility devices.
(Neb. RS 60-638)
   PEACE OFFICER. The Village Chief of Police or other chief law enforcement
official, any village police officer, or any other person authorized to enforce
village ordinances. With respect to directing traffic only, PEACE OFFICER shall
also include any person authorized to direct or regulate traffic.
(Neb. RS 60-646)
   RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT. The territory contiguous to and including a highway
not comprising a business district when the property on such highway for a
distance of 300 feet or more is in the main improved with residences or
residences and buildings in use for business.
(Neb. RS 60-654)
   ROADWAY. That portion of a highway improved, designed or ordinarily used for
vehicular travel, exclusive of the berm or shoulder. If a highway includes two
or more separate roadways, the term ROADWAY shall refer to any such roadway
separately but not to all such roadways collectively.
(Neb. RS 60-656)
   SCHOOL CROSSING ZONE. The area of a roadway designated to the public by the
Board of Trustees as a school crossing zone through the use of a sign or
traffic control device as specified by the Board in conformity with the Manual
but does not include any area of a freeway. A SCHOOL CROSSING ZONE starts at
the location of the first sign or traffic control device identifying the school
crossing zone and continues until a sign or traffic control device indicates
that the SCHOOL CROSSING ZONE has ended.
(Neb. RS 60-658.01)
   SHOULDER. That part of the highway contiguous to the roadway and designed
for the accommodation of stopped vehicles, for emergency use, and for lateral
support of the base and surface courses of the roadway.
(Neb. RS 60-661)
   TRAFFIC. Pedestrians, ridden or herded animals, and vehicles and other
conveyances either singly or together while using any highway for purposes of
travel.
(Neb. RS 60-669)
   TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICE. Any sign, signal, marking or other device not
inconsistent with the Nebraska Rules of the Road placed or erected by authority
of the Board of Trustees or any official having jurisdiction for the purpose of
regulating, warning or guiding traffic.
(Neb. RS 60-670)
   TRAFFIC CONTROL SIGNAL. Any signal, whether manually, electrically or
mechanically operated, by which traffic is alternately directed to stop and
permitted to proceed.
(Neb. RS 60-671)
   TRAFFIC INFRACTION. The violation of any provision of the state’s Rules of
the Road, Neb. RS 60-601 et seq., or of any law, ordinance, order, rule, or
regulation regulating traffic which is not otherwise declared to be a
misdemeanor or a felony or, in this title, an offense.
(Neb. RS 60-672)
   VEHICLE. Every device in, upon, or by which any person or property is or may
be transported or drawn upon a highway except devices moved solely by human
power or used exclusively upon stationary rails or tracks.
(Neb. RS 60-676)
(Prior Code, § 5-101) (Ord. 95-16, passed 4-26-1995)
§ 70.02 REGISTRATION; OPERATOR AND VEHICLE LICENSE.
   (A)   No person shall operate or park a motor vehicle upon any street, alley
or public highway within the village without having first registered the same
in accordance with Neb. RS Chapter 60, Article 3 and Neb. RS 60-321, except as
provided in this section. A person may operate a motor vehicle without
registration for a period not to exceed 30 days from the date of purchase. Upon
registration, such vehicle shall have the required number plates displayed upon
said vehicle in the manner and places provided for by Neb. RS 60-323. If a
citation is issued to an owner or operator of a vehicle for a violation of this
division (A) and the owner properly registers and licenses the vehicle not in
compliance and pays all taxes and fees due and the owner or operator provides
proof of such registration to the prosecuting attorney within ten days after
the issuance of the citation, no prosecution for the offense cited shall occur.
   (B)   No person shall operate a motor vehicle upon any street, alley or
public highway without having obtained a motor vehicle operator’s license in
accordance with Neb. RS Chapter 60, Article 4, It shall be unlawful for any
person to operate a motor vehicle upon any street, alley or public highway
during the period that his or her operator’s license has been revoked or
canceled.
(Neb. RS 60-301 et seq.) (Prior Code, § 5-306) (Ord. 92-7, passed 5-21-1992;
Ord. 96-12, passed 5-16-1996) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Unless otherwise declared in this title with respect to particular
offenses, a violation of any provision of this title shall constitute a traffic
infraction.
(Neb. RS 60-682)
   (B)   Any person who is found guilty of a traffic infraction in violation of
this title for which a penalty has not been specifically provided shall be
fined the amount set forth in the village master fee list.
(Neb. RS 60-689) (Prior Code, § 5-701)
Statutory reference:
   Other provisions on traffic infractions, see Neb. RS 60-684 through 60-
694.01
CHAPTER 71: TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
71.01   Truck routes
   
71.02   Traffic lanes; designation
   
71.03   Arterial streets; designation
   
71.04   Crosswalks
Turning
   
71.15   U-turns
   
71.16   Turning; generally
Right-of-Way
   
71.30   Generally
   
71.31   Slow moving vehicles
   
71.32   Emergency vehicles
Traffic Control Devices
   
71.45   Signs; signals
   
71.46   Signs; defacing or interfering with
   
71.47   Signs; unauthorized display
   
71.48   Traffic control devices; traffic surveillance devices; defacing or
interfering with
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 71.01 TRUCK ROUTES.
   (A)   (1)   The Board of Trustees may by ordinance or resolution prohibit
the operation of vehicles upon any highway or impose restrictions as to the
weight of vehicles, for a total period not to exceed 180 days in any one
calendar year, when operated upon any highway under the jurisdiction of and for
the maintenance of which the Board is responsible whenever any such highway by
reason of deterioration, rain, snow or other climatic condition will be
seriously damaged or destroyed unless the use of vehicles thereon is prohibited
or the permissible weight thereof reduced.
      (2)   The Board shall erect or cause to be erected and maintained signs
designating the provisions of the ordinance or resolution at each end of that
portion of any highway affected thereby, and the ordinance or resolution shall
not be effective until such signs are erected and maintained.
   (B)   The Board may also, by ordinance or resolution, prohibit the operation
of trucks or other commercial vehicles or impose limitations as to the weight
thereof on designated highways, which prohibitions and limitations shall be
designated by appropriate signs placed on such highways.
(Neb. RS 60-681) (Prior Code, § 5-201)
§ 71.02 TRAFFIC LANES; DESIGNATION.
   (A)   The Board of Trustees with respect to highways under its jurisdiction
and within the reasonable exercise of the police power may regulate or prohibit
stopping, standing or parking.
(Neb. RS 60-680) (Prior Code, § 5-202)
   (B)   If the Board regulates or prohibits stopping, standing or parking all
vehicles or a particular kind or class of vehicles on a highway or a portion of
a highway, no person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle subject to such
regulation or prohibition on the highway or portion thereof longer than a
period of time necessary to load and unload freight or passengers.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.03 ARTERIAL STREETS; DESIGNATION.
   The Board of Trustees may, by resolution, designate any street or portion
thereof as an arterial street and shall provide for appropriate signs or
markings when such street has been so designated.
(Neb. RS 60-680) (Prior Code, § 5-203)
§ 71.04 CROSSWALKS.
   The Board of Trustees may, by resolution, establish and maintain, by
appropriate devices, markers or lines upon the street, crosswalks, at
intersections where there is particular danger to pedestrians crossing the
street, and at such other places as they may deem necessary.
(Neb. RS 60-680) (Prior Code, § 5-209)
TURNING
§ 71.15 U-TURNS.
   No vehicle shall be turned so as to proceed in the opposite direction. No
vehicle shall be turned so as to proceed in the opposite direction at any
intersection or where a sign is posted indicating that U-turns are prohibited.
(Neb. RS 60-6,160, 60-680) (Prior Code, § 5-204) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.16 TURNING; GENERALLY.
   Vehicles turning to the right into an intersecting street shall approach
such intersection in the lane of traffic nearest to the right hand side of the
highway and must turn the corner as near the right hand curb as possible to
keep between the curb to the right and the center of the intersection of the
two streets. The driver of a vehicle intending to turn to the left shall
approach such center line of the highway, and in turning shall pass as near as
possible to the center of the intersection, passing as closely as practicable
to the right thereof before turning such vehicle to the left. For the purposes
of this section, the CENTER OF THE INTERSECTION shall mean the meeting point of
the medial lines of the highways intersecting one another.
(Neb. RS 60-6,159) (Prior Code, § 5-205)
RIGHT-OF-WAY
§ 71.30 GENERALLY.
   (A)   When two vehicles approach, or enter an intersection at approximately
the same time, the driver of the vehicle on the left shall yield the right-of-
way to the vehicle on the right when the paths of such vehicles intersect and
there is danger of a collision, unless otherwise directed by a village police
officer stationed at the intersection.
   (B)   The driver of a vehicle intending to turn to the left within an
intersection, or into an alley, private road or driveway shall yield the right-
of-way to any vehicle approaching from the opposite direction which is within
the intersection or so close thereto as to constitute an immediate hazard.
   (C)   The driver of a vehicle on any street shall yield the right-of-way to
a pedestrian crossing such street within any clearly marked crosswalk, or at
any regular pedestrian crossing at the end of a block where the movement of
traffic is being regulated by traffic officers or traffic direction devices.
Every pedestrian crossing a street at any point other than a pedestrian
crossing, crosswalk or intersection shall yield the right-of-way to vehicles
upon the street.
   (D)   The driver of a vehicle emerging from or entering an alley, building,
private road or driveway shall yield the right-of-way to any pedestrian
approaching on any sidewalk.
   (E)   The driver of a vehicle entering a village street from a private road
or drive shall yield the right-of-way to all vehicles approaching on such
streets.
   (F)   The driver of a vehicle upon a street shall yield the right-of-way to
authorized emergency vehicles when the latter are operated upon official
business and the drivers thereof make proper use of visual or audible signals.
(Neb. RS 60-6,146 through 60-6,154) (Prior Code, § 5-206) (Ord. 95-17, passed
4-26-1995)
§ 71.31 SLOW MOVING VEHICLES.
   Vehicles moving slowly shall keep as close as possible to the curb on the
right, allowing more swiftly moving vehicles free passage to their left.
Vehicles in motion shall be kept between the curb at the right and the center
of the street.
(Neb. RS 60-6,133, 60-680) (Prior Code, § 5-207)
§ 71.32 EMERGENCY VEHICLES.
   Upon the approach of any authorized emergency vehicle, every vehicle within
one block of the route of such emergency vehicle shall immediately stop, except
at the time they are on or crossing a street intersection, in which event, such
vehicle shall drive clear of the street intersection and then stop. Every
vehicle along the route of such emergency vehicle shall immediately move to a
position as near the right hand curb as possible and remain there until such
authorized emergency vehicle or vehicles have passed; provided, said vehicles
are operated on official business and the drivers thereof make use of proper
visual or audible signals.
(Neb. RS 60-6,151) (Prior Code, § 5-208)
TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES
§ 71.45 SIGNS; SIGNALS.
   (A)   The driver of any vehicle shall obey the instructions of any traffic-
control device applicable thereto placed in accordance with the state’s Rules
of the Road, Neb. RS 60-601 et seq., or this title, unless otherwise directed
by a peace officer, subject to the exceptions granted to the driver of an
authorized emergency vehicle in the Rules and this title.
   (B)   No provision of the Rules or this title for which traffic control
devices are required shall be enforced against an alleged violator if at the
time and place of the alleged violation an official device is not in proper
position and sufficiently legible to be seen by a reasonably observant person.
Whenever any provision of the Rules or this title does not state that traffic
control devices are required, such provision shall be effective even though no
devices are erected or in place.
   (C)   Whenever traffic control devices are placed in position approximately
conforming to the requirements of the Rules or this title, such devices shall
be presumed to have been so placed by the official act or direction of lawful
authority unless the contrary is established by competent evidence.
   (D)   Any traffic control device placed pursuant to the Rules or this title
and purporting to conform with the lawful requirements pertaining to such
devices shall be presumed to comply with the requirements of the Rules or this
title unless the contrary is established by competent evidence.
(Neb. RS 60-6,119)
   (E)   The Board of Trustees shall place and maintain such traffic control
devices upon highways under its jurisdiction as it deems necessary to indicate
and to carry out the provisions of this title or to regulate, warn, or guide
traffic. All such traffic control devices erected pursuant to this title shall
conform with the Manual.
(Neb. RS 60-6,121)
(Prior Code, § 5-210) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.46 SIGNS; DEFACING OR INTERFERING WITH.
   No person shall, without lawful authority, attempt to or in fact alter,
deface, injure, knock down or remove any traffic control device, any railroad
sign or signal, or any part of such a device, sign or signal.
(Neb. RS 60-6,129) (Prior Code, § 5-303) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.47 SIGNS; UNAUTHORIZED DISPLAY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to maintain or display upon, or in view
of any street, any unofficial sign, signal or device which purports to be, is
an imitation of, or resembles an official traffic sign or signal which attempts
to direct the movement of traffic, or which hides from view, or interferes with
the effectiveness of any official sign or signal. Every such prohibited sign,
signal or device is hereby declared to be a public nuisance, and any police
officer is hereby empowered to remove the same, or cause it to be removed,
without notice.
(Neb. RS 60-6,127) (Prior Code, § 5-304) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.48 TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES; TRAFFIC SURVEILLANCE DEVICES; DEFACING OR
INTERFERING WITH.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to willfully or maliciously deface,
injure, remove, obstruct, knock down or interfere with any official traffic
sign or signal, traffic control device or traffic control surveillance device.
(Neb. RS 60-6,129, 60-6,130) (Prior Code, § 5-211) Penalty, see §
70.99
CHAPTER 72: PROHIBITIONS AND ENFORCEMENT
Section
   
72.01   Littering
   
72.02   Glass; pointed objects
§ 72.01 LITTERING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to drop, or cause to be left, upon any
municipal highway, street or alley, except at places designated by the Board of
Trustees, any rubbish, debris or waste, and any person so doing shall be guilty
of littering.
(Neb. RS 39-311) (Prior Code, § 5-301) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.02 GLASS; POINTED OBJECTS.
   No person shall throw, cast, lay or place upon any street any thorns, nails,
tacks, glass, bottles, window glass, or other articles made of, or containing,
glass, and in case of an accident causing the breaking of any glass upon any
street, the owner or person in charge of such glass, or the person responsible
for such breakage, shall at once remove, or cause the same to be removed, from
the street.
(Neb. RS 39-311) (Prior Code, § 5-302) Penalty, see §
70.99
CHAPTER 73: PARKING
Section
General Provisions
   
73.01   Generally
   
73.02   Designation
   
73.03   Areas
   
73.04   Obstructing alleys
   
73.05   Alleys
   
73.06   Fire hydrants and stations
   
73.07   Street intersections
   
73.08   Obstructing traffic
   
73.09   Curb
   
73.10   Display or repair
   
73.11   Current registration
   
73.12   Time limit
   
73.13   Emergency vehicles
   
73.14   Removal of illegally parked vehicles
Handicapped or Disabled Persons Parking
   
73.25   Designation of on-street parking spaces; display of permits
   
73.26   Designation of off-street parking spaces; display of permits
   
73.27   Handicapped parking infraction: defined
   
73.28   Permit issuance
   
73.29   Motor vehicle permit issuance
   
73.30   Permit contents, duplicate permits
   
73.31   Permits; period valid; renewal; fee
   
73.32   Permits nontransferable; violation; suspension
   
73.33   Removal of unauthorized vehicle; penalty
   
73.34   Citation, issuance; complaint; trial
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 73.01 GENERALLY.
   (A)   The Board of Trustees with respect to highways under its jurisdiction
and within the reasonable exercise of the police power may regulate or prohibit
stopping, standing or parking.
(Neb. RS 60-680)
   (B)   If the Board regulates or prohibits stopping, standing or parking all
vehicles or a particular kind or class of vehicles on a highway or a portion of
a highway, no person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle subject to such
regulation or prohibition on the highway or portion thereof longer than a
period of time necessary to load and unload freight or passengers.
(Prior Code, § 5-501)
   (C)   No person shall stop, park or leave standing any vehicle, whether
attended or unattended, upon a roadway outside of a business or residential
district when it is practicable to stop, park or leave such vehicle off such
part of a highway, but in any event an unobstructed width of the roadway
opposite a standing vehicle shall be left for the free passage of other
vehicles and a clear view of such stopped vehicle shall be available from a
distance of 200 feet in each direction upon such highway. Such parking,
stopping or standing shall in no event exceed 24 hours.
   (D)   No person shall stop, park or leave standing any vehicle on a freeway
except in areas designated or unless so directed by a peace officer, except
that when a vehicle is disabled or inoperable or the driver of the vehicle is
ill or incapacitated, such vehicle shall be permitted to park, stop, or stand
on the shoulder facing in the direction of travel with all wheels and
projecting parts of such vehicle completely clear of the traveled lanes, but in
no event shall such parking, standing or stopping upon the shoulder of a
freeway exceed 12 hours.
   (E)   No person, except law enforcement, Fire Department, emergency
management, public or private ambulance, or authorized Department of
Transportation or local authority personnel, shall loiter or stand or park any
vehicle upon any bridge, highway or structure which is located above or below
or crosses over or under the roadway of any highway or approach or exit road
thereto.
   (F)   Whenever a vehicle is disabled or inoperable in a roadway or for any
reason obstructs the regular flow of traffic for reasons other than an
accident, the driver shall move or cause the vehicle to be moved as soon as
practical so as to not obstruct the regular flow of traffic.
   (G)   This section does not apply to the driver of any vehicle which is
disabled while on the roadway in such manner and to such extent that it is
impossible to avoid stopping and temporarily leaving such disabled vehicle in
such position until such time as it can be removed pursuant to division (D) of
this section.
(Neb. RS 60-6,164) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 73.02 DESIGNATION.
   The Board of Trustees may, by resolution, designate any street, or portion
thereof, where vehicles shall be parked parallel with and adjacent to the curb
or at an angle so as to have the right front wheel at the curb.
(Neb. RS 60-680, 60-6,167) (Prior Code, § 5-502)
§ 73.03 AREAS.
   (A)   The Board of Trustees may, by resolution, set aside any street, alley,
public way or portion thereof where the parking of a particular kind or class
of vehicle shall be prohibited, or where the parking of any vehicle shall be
prohibited.
   (B)   No vehicle prohibited from parking thereon shall stand or be parked
adjacent to the curb of said street, alley, public way or portion thereof,
longer than a period of time necessary to load and unload freight or
passengers.
(Neb. RS 39-697) (Prior Code, § 5-503)
§ 73.04 OBSTRUCTING ALLEYS.
   No vehicle, while parked shall have any portion thereof projecting into any
alley entrance.
(Neb. RS 39-697) (Prior Code, § 5-504)
§ 73.05 ALLEYS.
   (A)   No person shall park a vehicle with any portion thereof projecting
into any alley entrance.
   (B)   (1)   No person shall park a vehicle in any alley, except for the
purpose of loading or unloading during the time necessary to load or unload,
which shall not exceed the maximum limit of one-half hour.
      (2)   Every vehicle while loading or unloading in an alley shall be
parked in such manner as will cause the least obstruction possible to traffic
in the alley.
(Prior Code, § 5-505) Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 60-680
§ 73.06 FIRE HYDRANTS AND STATIONS.
   No vehicle shall be parked within 15 feet in either direction of any fire
hydrant nor within 20 feet of the driveway entrance to any fire station. The
curb space within such area of 15 feet in either direction of such fire hydrant
shall be painted red to indicate such prohibition.
(Prior Code, § 5-506)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 60-6,166
§ 73.07 STREET INTERSECTIONS.
   Except in compliance with traffic control devices, no vehicle shall be
parked or left standing for any purpose, except momentarily to load or
discharge passengers, within 25 feet of the intersection or curb lines, or if
none, then within 15 feet of the intersection of property lines, nor where said
curb lines are painted red to indicate such prohibition.
(Prior Code, § 5-507)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 60-6,166
§ 73.08 OBSTRUCTING TRAFFIC.
   No person shall, except in case of an accident or emergency, stop any
vehicle in any location where stopping will obstruct any street, intersection
or entrance to an alley or public or private drive.
(Prior Code, § 5-508)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 60-680
§ 73.09 CURB.
   (A)   No vehicle shall park on any street with its left side to the curb,
unless said street has been designated to be a “one-way” street by the Board of
Trustees. Vehicles must not be parked at any curb in such a position as to
prevent another vehicle already parked at the curb from moving away.
   (B)   Except when otherwise provided by the Board of Trustees, every vehicle
stopped or parked upon a one-way roadway shall be so stopped or parked parallel
to the curb or edge of such roadway, in the direction of authorized traffic
movement, with its right-hand wheels within 12 inches of the right-hand curb or
edge of the roadway or its left-hand wheels within 12 inches of the left-hand
curb or edge of such roadway.
(Prior Code, § 5-509)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 60-6,167
§ 73.10 DISPLAY OR REPAIR.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to park upon any highway or public place
within the village any vehicle displayed for sale. Except when necessary due to
a breakdown or other emergency, no person shall adjust or repair, or race the
motor of, any motor vehicle or motorcycle while standing on the highways of the
village. No person or employee connected with a garage or repair shop shall use
sidewalks or highways in the vicinity of the garage or shop for the purpose of
working on vehicles of any description.
(Prior Code, § 5-510) Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 60-680
§ 73.11 CURRENT REGISTRATION.
   It shall be unlawful to park or place on the highways or other public
property any vehicle required to be registered by the Motor Vehicle
Registration Act, Neb. RS 60-301 et seq., that is not registered in accordance
with the Act.
Penalty, see §
70.99
(Prior Code, § 5-512) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 73.12 TIME LIMIT.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to park a vehicle on a public street for over 24
consecutive hours except where a different maximum time limit is posted.
   (B)   If the Board of Trustees adopts a resolution entirely prohibiting, or
fixing a time limit for, the parking and stopping of vehicles on any highway,
it is unlawful to park or stop any vehicle in such highway for a period of time
longer than fixed in the resolution.
(Prior Code, § 5-513) Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 60-680
§ 73.13 EMERGENCY VEHICLES.
   (A)   Subject to the conditions stated in the state’s Rules of the Road,
Neb. RS 60-601 et seq., and this title, the driver of an authorized emergency
vehicle, when responding to an emergency call, when pursuing an actual or
suspected violator of the law, or when responding to, but not when returning
from a fire alarm, may:
      (1)   Stop, park or stand, irrespective of the provisions of the Rules
and this title, and disregard regulations governing direction of movement or
turning in specified directions; and
      (2)   Except for wreckers towing disabled vehicles and highway
maintenance vehicles and equipment:
         (a)   Proceed past a steady red indication, a flashing red indication
or a stop sign but only after slowing down as may be necessary for safe
operation; and
         (b)   Exceed the maximum speed limits so long as he or she does not
endanger life, limb or property.
   (B)   Except when operated as a police vehicle, the exemptions granted in
division (A) of this section shall apply only when the driver of such vehicle,
while in motion, sounds an audible signal by bell, siren, or exhaust whistle as
may be reasonably necessary and when such vehicle is equipped with at least one
lighted light displaying a red light visible under normal atmospheric
conditions from a distance of 500 feet to the front of such vehicle.
   (C)   The exemptions granted in division (A) shall not relieve the driver
from the duty to drive with due regard for the safety of all persons, nor shall
such provisions protect such driver from the consequences of his or her
reckless disregard for the safety of others.
   (D)   Authorized emergency vehicles operated by police and fire departments
shall not be subject to the size and weight limitations of Neb. RS 60-6,288 to
60-6,290 and 60-6,294.
(Neb. RS 60-6,114) (Prior Code, § 5-515)
§ 73.14 REMOVAL OF ILLEGALLY PARKED VEHICLES.
   (A)   Whenever any peace officer, or any authorized employee of a law
enforcement agency who is employed by the village and specifically empowered by
ordinance to act, finds a vehicle standing upon a highway in violation of any
of the provisions of this chapter, the individual may remove the vehicle, have
such vehicle removed or require the driver or other person in charge of the
vehicle to move such vehicle to a position off the roadway of the highway or
from the highway.
   (B)   (1)   The owner or other person lawfully entitled to the possession of
any vehicle towed or stored shall be charged with the reasonable cost of towing
and storage fees.
      (2)   Any towing or storage fee shall be a lien upon the vehicle prior to
all other claims.
      (3)   Any person towing or storing a vehicle shall be entitled to retain
possession of the vehicle until the charges are paid.
      (4)   The lien provided for in this section shall not apply to the
contents of any vehicle.
(Neb. RS 60-6,165) (Prior Code, § 5-516)
HANDICAPPED OR DISABLED PERSONS PARKING
§ 73.25 DESIGNATION OF ON-STREET PARKING SPACES; DISPLAY OF PERMITS.
   (A)   (1)   The Board of Trustees may designate parking spaces for the
exclusive use of:
         (a)   Handicapped or disabled persons whose motor vehicles display the
distinguishing license plates issued to handicapped or disabled persons
pursuant to Neb. RS 60-3,113.04 and 60-3,113.08;
         (b)   Handicapped or disabled persons whose motor vehicles display a
distinguishing license plate issued to a handicapped or disabled person by
another state;
         (c)   Such other handicapped or disabled persons or temporarily
handicapped or disabled persons, as certified by the village, whose motor
vehicles display the permit specified in section; and
         (d)   Such other motor vehicles, as certified by the village, which
display such permit.
      (2)   All such permits shall be displayed by attaching the permit to the
motor vehicle’s rearview mirror so as to be clearly visible through the front
windshield. When there is no rearview mirror, the permit shall be displayed on
the dashboard.
   (B)   If the Board of Trustees so designates a parking space, it shall be
indicated by a sign which is in conformance with the Manual on Uniform Traffic
Control Devices. In addition to such sign, the space may also be indicated by
blue paint on the curb or edge of the paved portion of the street adjacent to
the space.
(Neb. RS 18-1736, 18-1737) (Prior Code, § 5-511) (Ord. 92-5, passed 5-21-1992;
Ord. 95-21, passed 4-26-1995; Ord. 96-13, passed 5-16-1996)
§ 73.26 DESIGNATION OF OFF-STREET PARKING SPACES; DISPLAY OF PERMITS.
   (A)   The Board of Trustees and any person in lawful possession of any off-
street parking facility may designate stalls or spaces in such facility for the
exclusive use of:
      (1)   Handicapped or disabled persons whose vehicles display the
distinguishing license plates issued to such individuals pursuant to Neb. RS
60-3,113.04 and 60-3,113.08;
      (2)   Such other handicapped or disabled persons or temporarily
handicapped or disabled persons, as certified by the Board of Trustees, whose
vehicles display the identification specified in §
73.30; and
      (3)   Such other motor vehicles, as certified by the Board of Trustees,
which display such identification.
   (B)   Such designation shall be made by posting immediately adjacent to and
visible from each stall or space a sign which is in conformance with the
eleventh edition of the Manual on Uniform Traffic Control Devices for Streets
and Highways issued by the Federal Highway Administration.
(Neb. RS 18-1737) (Prior Code, § 5-511.01) (Ord. 92-5, passed 5-21-1992)
§ 73.27 HANDICAPPED PARKING INFRACTION: DEFINED.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   HANDICAPPED OR DISABLED PERSON. Any individual with a severe visual or
physical impairment which limits personal mobility and results in an inability
to travel unassisted more than 200 feet without the use of a wheelchair,
crutch, walker or prosthetic, orthotic or other assistant device, any
individual whose mobility is limited as a result of respiratory problems, and
any individual who has lost all or substantially all the use of one or more
limbs.
   HANDICAPPED PARKING INFRACTION. The violation of any section of this
subchapter regulating:
      (1)   The use of parking spaces designated for use by handicapped or
disabled persons; or
      (2)   The obstruction of any wheelchair ramps constructed or created in
accordance and in conformity with the Federal Americans with Disabilities Act
of 1990, being 42 U.S.C. §§ 12101 et seq.
   TEMPORARILY HANDICAPPED OR DISABLED PERSON. Any handicapped or disabled
person whose personal mobility is expected to be limited in such a manner for
no longer than one year.
(Neb. RS 18-1741.01, 60-3,113 et seq.) (Prior Code, § 5-511.02) (Ord. 92-5,
passed 5-21-1992; Ord. 96-14, passed 5-16-1996)
§ 73.28 PERMIT ISSUANCE.
   (A)   The Village Clerk shall take an application from a handicapped or
disabled person or temporarily handicapped or disabled person or his or her
parent, legal guardian or foster parent for a permit which will entitle the
holder thereof or a person driving a motor vehicle for the purpose of
transporting such holder to park in those spaces provided for by this
subchapter when the holder of the permit will enter or exit the motor vehicle
while it is parked in such areas. For purposes of this section, the handicapped
or disabled person or temporarily handicapped or disabled person shall be
considered the holder of the permit.
   (B)   A person applying for a permit or for the renewal of a permit shall
complete an application, shall provide proof of identity, and shall submit a
completed medical form signed by a physician, physician assistant or nurse
practitioner certifying that the person who will be the holder meets the
definition of handicapped or disabled person or temporarily handicapped or
disabled person. In the case of a temporarily handicapped or disabled person,
the certifying physician, physician assistant or nurse practitioner shall
indicate the estimated date of recovery or that the temporary handicap or
disability will continue for a period of six months, whichever is less. A
person may hold only one permit under this section or a permit under §
73.30, but not both.
   (C)   Before issuing a permit, the Village Clerk shall enter all information
required in the manner prescribed in Neb. RS 60-3,113.01 et seq.. The Village
Clerk shall submit to the Department of Motor Vehicles the name, address and
license number of all persons receiving a permit pursuant to this section.
(Neb. RS 60-3,113.113 et seq.) (Prior Code, § 5-511.03) (Ord. 92-5, passed 5-
21-1992; Ord. 96-15, passed 5-16-1996)
§ 73.29 MOTOR VEHICLE PERMIT ISSUANCE.
   (A)   The Village Clerk shall take an application from any person for a
motor vehicle permit which will entitle the holder thereof or a person driving
the motor vehicle for the purpose of transporting handicapped or disabled
persons or temporarily handicapped or disabled persons to park in those spaces
provided by this subchapter, if the motor vehicle is used primarily for the
transportation of handicapped or disabled persons or temporarily handicapped or
disabled persons. Such parking permit shall be used only when the motor vehicle
for which it was issued is being used for the transportation of a handicapped
or disabled person or temporarily handicapped or disabled person and such
person will enter or exit the motor vehicle while it is parked in such
designated spaces.
   (B)   A person applying for a permit or for the renewal of a permit pursuant
to this section shall apply for a permit for each motor vehicle used for the
transportation of handicapped or disabled persons or temporarily handicapped or
disabled persons, shall complete such forms as are provided by the Department
of Motor Vehicles, and shall demonstrate to the Village Clerk that each such
motor vehicle is used primarily for the transportation of handicapped or
disabled persons or temporarily handicapped or disabled persons. A person may
hold either a permit under this section or a permit under §
73.30, but not both.
   (C)   The Village Clerk shall issue a permit to an approved applicant, and
before issuing such permit, shall enter all information required in the manner
prescribed by Neb. RS 60-3,113.01 et seq.. The Village Clerk shall submit to
the Department of Motor Vehicles the name, address and license number of all
persons receiving a permit pursuant to this section.
(Neb. RS 60-3,113.01 et seq.) (Prior Code, § 5-511.04) (Ord. 92-5, passed 5-21-
1992; Ord. 96-16, passed 5-16-1996)
§ 73.30 PERMIT CONTENTS, DUPLICATE PERMITS.
   (A)   The permit issued by the Village Clerk shall be constructed of a
durable plastic designed to resist normal wear or fading for the term of the
permit’s issuance and printed so as to minimize the possibility of alteration
following issuance. The permit shall be of a design, size, configuration, color
and construction and contain such information as specified in the rules and
regulations adopted and promulgated by the United States Department of
Transportation in the Uniform System for Handicapped Parking, 23 C.F.R. part
1235.
   (B)   In addition to the requirements of division (A) of this section, the
permit shall show such identifying information with regard to the handicapped
or disabled person or temporarily handicapped or disabled person to whom it is
issued as is necessary to the enforcement of this division (B).
   (C)   No permit shall be issued to any person or for any motor vehicle if
any parking permit has been issued to such person or for such motor vehicle and
such permit has been suspended pursuant to §
73.32. At the expiration of such suspension, a permit may be renewed upon the
payment of the permit fee.
   (D)   A duplicate permit may be provided by the Village Clerk without cost
if the original permit is destroyed, lost, or stolen. Such duplicate permit
shall be issued in the same manner as the original permit and shall be valid
for the remainder of the period for which the original permit was issued.
(Neb. RS 60-3,113.01 et seq.) (Prior Code, § 5-511.05) (Ord. 92-5, passed 5-21-
1992; Ord. 93-9, passed 5-20-1993; Ord. 96-17, passed 5-16-1996)
§ 73.31 PERMITS; PERIOD VALID; RENEWAL; FEE.
   (A)   All permits authorized under this subchapter for handicapped or
disabled parking prior to September 10, 1993, shall be issued for a period
ending January 1 of the fourth year following the date of issuance. All permits
authorized under this subchapter for handicapped or disabled parking after
September 9, 1993, and before September 10, 1995, shall be issued for a period
of three years. Upon expiration of a permanent permit, it may be renewed
pursuant to the provisions of this section. After September 9, 1995, all
permanently issued permits authorized by this subchapter shall be issued for a
period ending September 30 of the third year following the date of issuance and
shall expire on that date, except that an application for the renewal of a
permit filed with the Village Clerk within 30 days of the date after its
expiration shall be deemed to have been filed prior to the date of its
expiration.
   (B)   All permits authorized under this subchapter prior to September 10,
1995, for temporarily handicapped or disabled parking shall be issued for a
period ending 90 days after the date of issuance but may be renewed for up to
three additional 90-day periods. All permits authorized under this subchapter
after September 9, 1995, for temporarily handicapped or disabled parking shall
be issued for a period ending not more than six months after the date of
issuance but may be renewed for a one-time period not to exceed six months. For
the renewal period, there shall be submitted an additional application with
proof of a handicap or disability and the required permit fee.
   (C)   A permit fee of as set forth in the village master fee list shall be
charged for each permit.
(Neb. RS 60-3,115.05) (Prior Code, § 5-511.06) (Ord. 92-5, passed 5-21-1992;
Ord. 96-18, passed 5-16-1996)
§ 73.32 PERMITS NONTRANSFERABLE; VIOLATION; SUSPENSION.
   Permits issued under this subchapter shall not be transferable, and shall be
used only by the party to whom issued or for the motor vehicle for which issued
and only for the purposes for which it is issued. No person shall alter or
reproduce in any manner a permit issued pursuant to this subchapter. Any
violation of this section shall be cause for suspension of such permit for a
period of six months. At the expiration of such period, a suspended permit may
be renewed upon payment of the permit fee.
(Neb. RS 60-3,113.07) (Prior Code, § 5-511.07) (Ord. 92-5, passed 5-21-1992;
Ord. 96-19, passed 5-16-1996)
§ 73.33 REMOVAL OF UNAUTHORIZED VEHICLE; PENALTY.
   (A)   The owner or person in lawful possession of an off-street parking
facility, after notifying the Police or Sheriff’s Department, and the village
providing on-street parking or owning, operating or providing an off-street
parking facility, may cause the removal, from a stall or space designated
exclusively for handicapped or disabled persons or temporarily handicapped or
disabled persons, of any vehicle not displaying the proper permit or the
distinguishing license plates specified in this subchapter if there is posted
immediately adjacent to and visible from such stall or space a sign which
clearly and conspicuously states the area so designated as a tow-in zone.
   (B)   Anyone parking in any on-street parking space which has been
designated exclusively for handicapped or disabled persons or temporarily
handicapped or disabled persons or motor vehicles for the transportation of
such persons, or in any so exclusively designated parking space in any off-
street parking facility, without properly displaying the proper permit or when
the handicapped or disabled person to whom or for whom the license plate or
permit is issued will not enter or exit the vehicle while it is parked in the
designated space shall be guilty of a handicapped parking infraction as defined
in section, and shall be subject to the procedures as set forth in section and
the penalty provided for in this chapter. The display on a motor vehicle of a
distinguishing license plate or permit issued to a handicapped or disabled
person by and under the duly constituted authority of another state shall
constitute a full and complete defense in any action for a handicapped parking
infraction. If the identity of the person who parked the vehicle in violation
of this section cannot be readily determined, the owner or person in whose name
the vehicle is registered shall be held prima facie responsible for such
violation and shall be guilty and subject to the penalty provided for in this
chapter.
   (C)   In the case of a privately owned off-street parking facility, the
owner or person in lawful possession of such facility shall not be required to
inform the village of a violation of this section prior to the village issuing
the violator a handicapped parking infraction citation.
(Neb. RS 18-1737) (Prior Code, § 5-511.08) (Ord. 92-5, passed 5-21-1992; Ord.
93-10, passed 5-20-1993; Ord. 96-20, passed 5-16-1996)
§ 73.34 CITATION, ISSUANCE; COMPLAINT; TRIAL.
   (A)   For any offense classified as a handicapped parking infraction, a
handicapped parking citation may be issued by any peace officer or by any
person designated by ordinance by the Board of Trustees to exercise the
authority to issue a citation for any handicapped parking infraction.
   (B)   When a handicapped parking citation is issued for a handicapped
parking infraction, the person issuing the handicapped parking citation shall
enter thereon all required information, including the name and address of the
cited person or, if not known, the license number and description of the
offending motor vehicle, the offense charged, and the time and place the person
cited is to appear in court. Unless the person cited requests an earlier date,
the time of appearance shall be at least three days after the issuance of the
handicapped parking citation. One copy of the handicapped parking citation
shall be delivered to the person cited or attached to the offending motor
vehicle.
   (C)   At least 24 hours before the time set for the appearance of the cited
person, either the Village Attorney or other person authorized by law to issue
a complaint for the particular offense shall issue and file a complaint
charging such person with a handicapped parking infraction or such person shall
be released from the obligation to appear as specified.
   (D)   The trial of any person for a handicapped parking infraction shall be
by the court without a jury. A person cited for a handicapped parking violation
may waive his or her right to trial.
(Neb. RS 18-1741.01, 18-1741.04, 18-1741.06) (Prior Code, § 5-511.09) (Ord. 95-
22, passed 4-26-1995)
CHAPTER 74: RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
Section
Motorcycles
   
74.01   Helmet required
Bicycles
   
74.15   Operation
All-Terrain Vehicles
   
74.30   Findings
   
74.31   Definitions
   
74.32   Operation
   
74.33   Exceptions
   
74.34   Headlights
   
74.35   Equipment; requirement
   
74.36   Prohibitions
   
74.37   Competition
   
74.38   Accident report
   
74.39   Enforcement
 
   
74.99   Penalty
MOTORCYCLES
§ 74.01 HELMET REQUIRED.
   A person shall not operate or be a passenger on a motorcycle or moped on any
highway unless such person is wearing a protective helmet of the type and
design manufactured for use by operators of such vehicles and unless such
helmet is secured properly on his or her head with a chin strap while the
vehicle is in motion. All such protective helmets shall be designed to reduce
injuries to the user resulting from head impacts and shall be designed to
protect the user by remaining on the user’s head, deflecting blows, resisting
penetration and spreading the force of impact. Each such helmet shall consist
of lining, padding and chin strap and shall meet or exceed the standards
established in the United States Department of Transportation’s Federal Motor
Vehicle Safety Standard No. 218, 49 C.F.R. § 571.218, for motorcycle helmets.
(Neb. RS 60-6,278 through 60-6,282) (Prior Code, § 5-305) (Ord. 95-18, passed
4-26-1995)
BICYCLES
§ 74.15 OPERATION.
   (A)   No person shall operate a bicycle on a street or highway within the
village with another person on the handlebars or in any position in front of
the operator.
   (B)   No bicycle shall be operated faster than is reasonable and proper, but
every bicycle shall be operated with reasonable regard to the safety of the
operator and any other persons upon the streets and highways.
   (C)   Persons operating bicycles shall observe all traffic signs and stop at
all stop signs.
   (D)   No bicycle shall be operated on any street or highway from sunset to
sunrise without a headlight visible from the front thereof for not less than
500 feet on a clear night and a red reflector on the rear of a type which shall
be visible on a clear night from all distances between 100 feet and 600 feet to
the rear when directly in front of lawful lower beams of headlights on a motor
vehicle. A red light visible from a distance of 500 feet to the rear may be
used in addition to such red reflector.
   (E)   Any person who operates a bicycle upon a street or highway shall not
ride more than single file except on parts of streets or highways set aside for
the exclusive use of bicycles.
   (F)   (1)   Any person who operates a bicycle upon a roadway at less than
the normal speed of traffic at the time and place and under conditions then
existing shall ride as near to the right-hand curb or right- hand edge of the
roadway as practicable except when:
         (a)   Overtaking and passing another bicycle or vehicle proceeding in
the same direction;
         (b)   Preparing for a left turn onto a private road or driveway or at
an intersection;
         (c)   Reasonably necessary to avoid conditions that make it unsafe to
continue along the right-hand curb or right-hand edge of the roadway, including
fixed or moving objects, stopped or moving vehicles, bicycles, pedestrians,
animals or surface hazards;
         (d)   Riding upon a lane of substandard width which is too narrow for
a bicycle and a vehicle to travel safely side by side within the lane; or
         (e)   Lawfully operating a bicycle on the paved shoulders of a highway
included in the state highway system as provided in Neb. RS 60-6,142.
      (2)   Any person who operates a bicycle upon a roadway with a posted
speed limit of 35 mph or less on which traffic is restricted to one direction
of movement and which has two or more marked traffic lanes may ride as near to
the left-hand curb or left-hand edge of the roadway as practicable. Whenever a
person operating a bicycle leaves the roadway to ride on the paved shoulder or
leaves the paved shoulder to enter the roadway, the person shall clearly signal
his or her intention and yield the right-of-way to all other vehicles.
   (G)   No person shall park a bicycle on any sidewalk unless a bicycle stand
is located on said sidewalk.
   (H)   No person shall operate a bicycle on the sidewalks within the business
district.
(Neb. RS 60-6,315, 60-6,317, 60-6,318) (Prior Code, § 5-401) (Ord. 95-19,
passed 4-26-1995)
ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLES
§ 74.30 FINDINGS.
   (A)   The Nebraska Legislature has provided an act to amend Neb. RS 60-6,356
relating to the operations of all-terrain vehicles and has enacted new
legislation revising said rules, repealing the original section.
   (B)   This subchapter as now described, authorizes the operation of all-
terrain vehicles upon certain designated highways within the state and
authorizes incorporated cities and villages to adopt ordinances in accordance
with this section.
   (C)   It is the intent of this subchapter to serve the village’s compelling
interest to promote and improve the quality of life of the citizens of the
village, to wit; by authorizing the operation of all-terrain and utility type
vehicles upon the streets, highways and alleys of the village in accordance
with the established provisions of Neb. RS 60-6,356.
(Ord. 2007-1, passed 8-11-2020)
§ 74.31 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLE.
      (1)   Any motorized off highway device which is principally designed,
manufactured and sold exclusively for off road use, and:
         (a)   Travels on three or more low pressure tires:
         (b)   Is designed for operators use with no more than one passenger
either seated beside or directly behind the operator:
         (c)   Has a dry weight of 1,000 pounds or less;
         (d)   Has a width of no more than 55 inches, has an engine
displacement of not less that 90 cubic centimeters nor more than 1,000 cubic
centimeters; and
         (e)   Has handlebars or any other steering assembly for steering
control.
      (2)   This definition does not include electrically powered toys.
   HIGHWAY. The entire width between the boundary limits of any street, road,
avenue, boulevard, alley or way which is publicly maintained when any part
thereof is open to the use of the public for purposes of vehicular travel.
   MOTOR VEHICLE. Any vehicle which is propelled by any power other than
muscular power, except for the following:
      (1)   Self-propelled chairs used by persons who are disabled;
      (2)   Mopeds;
      (3)   Vehicles that only run on tracks or rails;
      (4)   Go carts, riding lawn mowers and garden tractors; and
      (5)   Electric scooters.
   UTILITY TYPE VEHICLES. Any motorized off-highway vehicle which:
      (1)   Is nor less than 48 inches nor more than 74 inches in width;
      (2)   Is more than 135 inches, including the bumper in length;
      (3)   Had a dry weight of not less than 900 pounds, nor more than 2,000
pounds;
      (4)   Travels on four or more low-pressure tires, is equipped with a
steering wheel and bench or bucket type seating designed for at least two
persons to sit side by side; and
      (5)   A utility type vehicle does not include low speed vehicles.
(Ord. 2007-1, passed 8-11-2020)
§ 74.32 OPERATION.
   An all-terrain vehicle or golf cart as defined in §
74.31 may be operated within the incorporated boundaries of the village as
authorized in Neb. RS 60-6,356(2) when such operation occurs:
   (A)   Only between the hours of sunrise and sunset;
   (B)   The operation of said all-terrain vehicle or golf cart is in
compliance with the Nebraska Rules of the Road as contained in Neb. RS Chapter
60, as well as all ordinances of the village;
   (C)   The operator of an all-terrain vehicle or golf cart as authorized in
this section shall have a valid Class 0 operator’s license or a farm permit as
provided in Neb. RS 60-4,126;
   (D)   The operator shall have liability insurance coverage for the all-
terrain vehicle or golf cart while operating the all-terrain vehicle on a
highway. The person operating the all-terrain vehicle or golf cart shall
provide proof of such insurance coverage to any peace officer requesting such
proof within five days of such a request;
   (E)   The operator shall not operate such vehicle at a speed in excess of 20
mph;
   (F)   When operation of an all-terrain vehicle or golf cart as authorized in
this section, the headlight and taillight of the vehicle shall be on and the
vehicle shall be equipped with a bicycle safety flag which extends not less
than five feet above the ground and shall be attached to the rear of such
vehicle. The bicycle safety flag shall be triangular in shape with an area of
not less than 30 square inches and shall be day-glow in color;
   (G)   The operator of any all-terrain vehicles or golf carts in use upon the
highways, streets or alleys within the village shall display a current village
license tag. This tag shall be displayed upon the left side of the fuel tank or
other prominent location upon the left or rear side of the vehicle so as to
make the tag immediately visible to any peace officer;
   (H)   (1)   Permanent registration license tag may be purchased from the
Village Clerk during normal business hours for a fee in the amount set forth in
the village master fee list. Permanent registration license tag will not be
transferable. Annual registration license tag may be purchased from the Village
Clerk during normal business hours for a fee of the amount set forth in the
village master fee list. Proof of insurance and proof of ownership of the all-
terrain vehicle shall be presented to the Village Clerk in order to purchase a
registration tag.
      (2)   License tags purchased after February 1 shall be subject to a late
fee of the amount set forth in the village master fee list.
(Ord. 2007-1, passed 8-11-2020)
§ 74.33 EXCEPTIONS.
   All-terrain vehicles may be operated without complying with this subchapter,
on highways in parades which have been authorized by the state or any
department, board, commission or political subdivision of the state.
(Ord. 2007-1, passed 8-11-2020)
§ 74.34 HEADLIGHTS.
   Every all-terrain vehicle shall display a lighted headlight and taillight
during the period of time from one-half hour after sunset to one-half hour
before sunrise and at any time when visibility is reduced due to insufficient
light or unfavorable atmospheric conditions.
(Prior Code, § 5-603)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 60-6,357
§ 74.35 EQUIPMENT; REQUIREMENT.
   Every all-terrain vehicle shall be equipped with:
   (A)   A brake system maintained in good operating condition;
   (B)   An adequate muffler system in good working condition; and
   (C)   A United States Forest Service qualified spark arrester.
(Prior Code, § 5-604)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 60-6,358
§ 74.36 PROHIBITIONS.
   No person shall:
   (A)   Equip the exhaust system of an all-terrain vehicle with a cutout,
bypass or similar device;
   (B)   Operate an all-terrain vehicle with an exhaust system so modified; or
   (C)   Operate an all-terrain vehicle with the spark arrester removed or
modified except for use in closed-course competition events.
(Prior Code, § 5-605)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 60-6,359
§ 74.37 COMPETITION.
   All-terrain vehicles participating in competitive events may be exempted
from §§
74.34 through
74.36 at the discretion of the Director of Motor Vehicles.
(Prior Code, § 5-606)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 60-6,360
§ 74.38 ACCIDENT REPORT.
   If an accident results in the death of any person or in the injury of any
person which requires the treatment of the person by a physician, the operator
of each all-terrain vehicle involved in the accident shall give notice of the
accident in the same manner as provided in Neb. RS 60-6,361.
(Prior Code, § 5-607)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 60-6,361
§ 74.39 ENFORCEMENT.
   Any peace officer of the state or of any political subdivision, including
conservation officers of the Game and Parks Commission shall be charged with
the enforcement of the provisions of §§
74.34 through
74.38.
(Prior Code, § 5-609)
§ 74.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter, for which no other
penalty is provided, shall be subject to the penalty provisions of §
10.99.
   (B)   A person who violates §§
74.30 through
74.33 shall be punished by a fine as set forth in the village master fee list.
(Ord. 2007-1, passed 8-11-2020)
   (C)   Any violation of §§
74.34 through
74.38 which is also a violation under Neb. RS Chapter 39 or Neb. RS Chapter 60
may be punished under the penalty provisions of such chapter.
(Prior Code, § 5-608)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 60-6,362
CHAPTER 75: TRAFFIC AND PARKING SCHEDULES
Schedule
   
I.   Speed regulations
   
II.   Speed limits; regulatory sign posting
   
III.   Snow emergency routes: snow removal
SCHEDULE I. SPEED REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Speed; regulations. No vehicle shall be drawn, driven or propelled on
any street, alley or public place in the village at a greater speed than is
reasonable and proper under existing conditions, having due regard to the
traffic and use of the highway, or in any event greater than:
 
Street/Highway                 Restricted Area                   Speed Limit
Main Street                    King to Fourth                    20 mph
King Street                    Highway 105 to north edge of      20 mph
                               village limits
All streets within the village
not otherwise posted per the                                    25 mph
streets and highways listed in
this table
Fourth Street                  Highway 105 to north edge of      35 mph
                               village limits
Highway 105                    a/k/a County Road X , a/k/a State 45 mph
                               Spur 78H
 
(Prior Code, § 5-307)
   (B)   Speed; electronic detector.
      (1)   The speed of any motor vehicle within the village may be determined
by the use of radio microwaves or other electronic device. The results of such
determinations shall be accepted as prima facie evidence of the speed of such
motor vehicle in any court, or legal proceedings, where the speed of the motor
vehicle is at issue.
      (2)   The driver of any such motor vehicle may be arrested without a
warrant under the authority herein granted if the arresting officer is in
uniform or displays his or her badge of authority; provided, that such officer
shall have observed the recording of the speed of such motor vehicle by the
radio microwaves, or other electronic device or had received a radio message
from the officer who observed the speed of the motor vehicle recorded by the
radio microwaves or other electronic device. In the event of an arrest based on
such a message, such radio message must have been dispatched immediately after
the speed of the motor vehicle had been recorded, and must include a
description of the vehicle and recorded speed.
(Prior Code, § 5-308)
(Ord. 98-2, passed 3-19-1998)
SCHEDULE II. SPEED LIMITS; REGULATORY SIGN POSTING.
   The regulatory traffic control signs on the below listed streets of the
village shall be erected in accordance with §§
71.45 through
71.48 and Neb. RS 60-6,186.
Restricted Area Traffic Control Signs to be Posted
Restricted Area                              Traffic Control Signs to be Posted
King Street from Highway 105/County Road X,  25 mph
to East Oak Street
King Street from East Oak Street to East Elm 20 mph school zone
Street
King Street from East Elm Street to the end  25 mph
of the Village limit
East Oak Street from King Street to Park     20 mph school zone
Street
East Main Street from Prince Street to King  25 mph
Street
East Main Street from King Street to First   20 mph school zone
Street
West Main Street from First Street to Third  20 mph business district
Street
West Main Street from Third Street to Fourth 25 mph
Street
Fourth Street/County Road 17 from Highway    35 mph county road
105/County Road X to village limit
All other streets within the village         25 mph
All alleys within the village                10 mph
 
(Res. 2007-08, passed 2-15-2007)
SCHEDULE III: SNOW EMERGENCY ROUTES: SNOW REMOVAL.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to park or stand any vehicle on any street within
the snow emergency routes within the village described as:
      (1)   All of King Street;
      (2)   Main Street from King Street to Fourth Street; and
      (3)   Second Street from main to the State Spur.
   (B)   No parking on snow routes when a snowfall of two inches or more, and
or if a snow emergency is in effect, and or until snow removal operation have
been completed. In the business district (East Main Street from First Street to
Second Street) overnight parking will be odd/even until snow emergency is over,
and or snow removal operation has been completed. If school is session the no
parking will be suspended during school hours on East Main Street from Park
Street to King Street.
   (C)   The Village Police or Utility Superintendent may order any street or
alley, or portion thereof, vacated for weather emergencies or street
maintenance. Notice shall be given by local news stations, local radio and/or
social media. Four street maintenance attempts will be made to personally
notify the owner or operator of a vehicle parked on such street or alley.
   (D)   Any person parking a vehicle in violation of this section shall be
subject to a fine of the amount set forth in the village master fee list for
each 24-hour period, or a portion thereof, that the vehicle is in violation of
this section and may be towed at owner’s expense.
(Prior Code, § 5-514) (Ord. 93-4, passed 3-10-1993; Ord. 2021-01, passed 1-12-
2021)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-557
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   HEALTH REGULATIONS
      
91.   GARBAGE
      
92.   NUISANCES
      
93.   ANIMALS
      
94.   FIRE PREVENTION AND REGULATIONS
      
95.   PARKS AND RECREATION
      
96.   MUNICIPAL AUDITORIUM
      
97.   FAIR HOUSING
CHAPTER 90: HEALTH REGULATIONS
Section
   
90.01   Generally
   
90.02   Enforcement official
   
90.03   State rules
   
90.04   County Health Board
 
   
90.99   Penalty
§ 90.01 GENERALLY.
   For the purpose of promoting the health and safety of the residents of the
village, the Board of Health shall, from time to time, adopt such rules and
regulations relative thereto and shall make such inspections, prescribe such
penalties, and make such reports as may be necessary toward that purpose.
(Prior Code, § 4-101)
Statutory reference:
   Authority to regulate, see Neb. RS 17-208
§ 90.02 ENFORCEMENT OFFICIAL.
   The Chief of Police, or other official designated by the Board of Trustees,
as the quarantine officer, shall be the chief health officer of the village. It
shall be his or her duty to notify the Board of Trustees and the Board of
Health of health nuisances within the village and its zoning jurisdiction.
(Prior Code, § 4-102)
Statutory reference:
   Quarantine officer, see Neb. RS 17-208
§ 90.03 STATE RULES.
   The Rules and Regulations Relating to Public Health, Department of Health of
the state are hereby incorporated by reference when the same are applicable to
the village, in their present form and as they may hereafter be amended. One
copy of each of the said pamphlets is filed at the office of the Municipal
Clerk and shall be available for public inspection at any reasonable time.
(Prior Code, § 4-103)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 18-132, 19-902
§ 90.04 COUNTY HEALTH BOARD.
   It shall be the duty of the Board of Health to work closely with the County
Health Board in protecting the health and welfare of the residents of the
village.
(Prior Code, § 4-104)
§ 90.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, or any person’s agent or servant, who violates any of the
provisions of this chapter, unless otherwise specifically provided herein,
shall be deemed guilty of an offense and upon conviction thereof shall be fined
in any sum not exceeding the amount set forth in the village master fee list. A
new violation shall be deemed to have been committed every 24 hours of failure
to comply with the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   (1)   Whenever a nuisance exists as defined in Chapter 92 of this code
of ordinances, the village may proceed by a suit in equity to enjoin, abate and
remove the same in the manner provided by law.
      (2)   Whenever, in any action, it is established that a nuisance exists,
the court may, together with the fine or penalty imposed, enter an order of
abatement as a part of the judgment in the case.
(Prior Code, § 4-401) (Ord. 2001-8, passed 2-15-2001)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-207, 17-505, 18-1720, 18-1722
CHAPTER 91: GARBAGE
Section
General Provisions
   
91.01   Definitions
   
91.02   Garbage, trash and waste
   
91.03   Dead animals
Collection
   
91.15   Authority
   
91.16   Notice; removal
   
91.17   Nuisance
   
91.18   Lien
 
   
91.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 91.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   GARBAGE. Kitchen refuse, decayed waste, dead animals or anything that may
decompose and become offensive to the public health.
(Prior Code, § 4-201)
   RUBBISH. Discarded machinery, chips, pieces of wood, sticks, dead trees,
branches, bottles, broken glass, crockery, tin cans, boxes, papers, rags or any
other litter or debris that is not an immediate hazard to the health of the
residents of the village.
(Prior Code, § 4-202)
   WASTE. Cinders, ashes, plaster, brick, stone, sawdust or sand.
(Prior Code, § 4-203)
   YARD WASTE. Grass and leaves.
(Prior Code, § 4-203.01) (Ord. 95-14, passed 4-26-1995)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 13-2016.01
§ 91.02 GARBAGE, TRASH AND WASTE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to keep in, on, or about any
dwelling, building or premises, or any other place in the village, decayed
vegetable or animal substance, garbage or refuse matter of any kind that may be
injurious to the public health or offensive to the residents of the village
unless the same is kept in receptacles that have been designated and approved
in any garbage collection contract which the village has entered.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to throw or sweep into the streets, alleys, parks
or other public grounds any dirt, paper, nails, pieces of glass, refuse, waste
or rubbish of any kind.
   (C)   No person may permit garbage, rubbish, waste or refuse to collect and
all persons shall remove the same from their property within 24 hours after
being notified to do so by the Village Police Chief who shall represent the
Board of Health.
   (D)   Any person having garbage, rubbish, waste or refuse that is subject to
decay or fermentation within a short period of time shall be required to place
the same in receptacles that have been provided pursuant to any garbage
contract entered into by the village.
(Prior Code, § 4-204) Penalty, see §
91.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 19-2106
§ 91.03 DEAD ANIMALS.
   (A)   All dead animals shall be immediately removed and buried by the owner
of such animals; and if the owner of such animal cannot be found within two
hours after discovering the same, then such animal shall be removed by and at
the expense of the village.
   (B)   Dead animals shall not be buried within the corporate limits of the
village, nor within one mile thereof, nor in or above the course of ground
water that is used for drinking purposes by the village or its inhabitants.
Such animals may, however, be buried in the municipal dumping ground.
(Prior Code, § 4-205)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-207
COLLECTION
§ 91.15 AUTHORITY.
   (A)   The Board of Trustees for the village may provide for the collection
and removal of garbage or refuse found upon any lot or land within its
corporate roads or alleys abutting such lot or land which constitutes a public
nuisance.
   (B)   The village may require the owner, duly authorized agent or tenant of
such lot or land to remove the garbage or refuse from such lot or land and
streets, roads or alleys.
(Prior Code, § 4-206)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 18-1752
§ 91.16 NOTICE; REMOVAL.
   (A)   Notice that removal of garbage or refuse is necessary shall be given
to each owner or owner’s duly authorized agent and to the tenant if any.
   (B)   Such notice shall be provided by personal service or by certified
mail.
   (C)   After providing such notice, the village through its proper offices
shall, in addition to other proper remedies, remove the garbage or refuse, or
cause it to be removed from such lot or land and streets, roads or alleys.
(Prior Code, § 4-207)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 18-1752
§ 91.17 NUISANCE.
   If the Chairperson declares that the accumulation of such garbage or refuse
upon any lot or land constitutes an immediate nuisance and hazard to public
health and safety, the village shall remove the garbage or refuse, or cause it
to be removed, from such lot or land within 48 hours after notice by personal
service or following receipt of a certified letter in accordance with §
91.18 if such garbage or refuse has not been removed.
(Prior Code, § 4-208)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 18-1303
§ 91.18 LIEN.
   Whenever a village removes any garbage or refuse, or causes it to be
removed, from any lot or land pursuant to this subchapter, it shall, after a
hearing conducted by the Board of Trustees, assess the cost of the removal
against such lot or land.
(Prior Code, § 4-209)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 18-1303
§ 91.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, or any person’s agent or servant, who violates any of the
provisions of this chapter, unless otherwise specifically provided herein,
shall be deemed guilty of an offense and upon conviction thereof shall be fined
in any sum not exceeding the amount set forth in the village master fee list. A
new violation shall be deemed to have been committed every 24 hours of failure
to comply with the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   (1)   Whenever a nuisance exists as defined in 
Chapter 92 of this code of ordinances, the village may proceed by a suit in
equity to enjoin, abate and remove the same in the manner provided by law.
      (2)   Whenever, in any action, it is established that a nuisance exists,
the court may, together with the fine or penalty imposed, enter an order of
abatement as a part of the judgment in the case.
(Prior Code, § 4-401) (Ord. 2001-8, passed 2-15-2001)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-207, 17-505, 18-1720, 18-1722
CHAPTER 92: NUISANCES
Section
   
92.01   Generally defined
   
92.02   Specifically defined
   
92.03   Abatement procedure
   
92.04   Jurisdiction
   
92.05   Adjoining landowners; intervention before trial
   
92.06   Dead or diseased trees
 
   
92.99   Penalty
§ 92.01 GENERALLY DEFINED.
   A NUISANCE consists in doing any unlawful act, or omitting to perform a
duty, or suffering or permitting any condition or thing to be or exist, which
act, omission, condition or thing either:
   (A)   Injures or endangers the comfort, repose, health or safety of others;
   (B)   Offends decency;
   (C)   Is offensive to the senses;
   (D)   Unlawfully interferes with, obstructs, tends to obstruct or renders
dangerous for passage any stream, public park, parkway, square, street or
highway in the village;
   (E)   In any way renders other persons insecure in life or the use of
property; or
   (F)   Essentially interferes with the comfortable enjoyment of life and
property, or tends to depreciate the value of the property of others.
(Prior Code, § 4-301)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 18-1720
§ 92.02 SPECIFICALLY DEFINED.
   The maintaining, using, placing, depositing, leaving or permitting of any of
the following specific acts, omissions, places, conditions and things are
hereby declared to be nuisances:
   (A)   Any odorous, putrid, unsound or unwholesome grain, meat, hides, skins,
feathers, vegetable matter, or the whole or any part of any dead animal, fish
or fowl;
   (B)   Privies, vaults, cesspools, dumps, pits or like places which are not
securely protected from flies or rats, or which are foul or malodorous;
   (C)   Filthy, littered, or trash-covered cellars, houseyards, barnyards,
stableyards, factory yards, mill yards, vacant areas in rear of stores,
granaries, vacant lots, houses, buildings or premises;
   (D)   Animal manure in any quantity which is not securely protected from
flies and the elements, or which is kept or handled in violation of any
ordinance of the village;
   (E)   Liquid household waste, human excreta, garbage, butcher’s trimmings
and offal, parts of fish, or any waste vegetable or animal matter in any
quantity; provided, that nothing herein contained shall prevent the temporary
retention of waste in receptacles in a manner provided by the health officer of
the village, nor the dumping of non-putrefying waste in a place and manner
approved by the health officer;
   (F)   Tin cans, bottles, glass, cans, ashes, small pieces of scrap iron,
wire metal articles, bric-a-brac, broken stone or cement, broken crockery,
broken glass, broken plaster and all trash or abandoned material, unless the
same be kept in covered bins or galvanized iron receptacles;
   (G)   Trash, litter, rags, accumulations of barrels, boxes, crates, packing
crates, mattresses, bedding, excelsior, packing hay, straw or other packing
material, lumber not neatly piled, scrap iron, tin, or other metal not neatly
piled, old automobiles or parts thereof, or any other waste materials when any
of the articles or materials create a condition in which flies or rats may
breed or multiply, or which may be a fire danger, or which are so unsightly as
to depreciate property values in the vicinity thereof;
   (H)   Any unsightly building, billboard or other structure, or any old,
abandoned or partially destroyed building or structure or any building or
structure commenced and left unfinished, which buildings, billboards or other
structures are either a fire hazard, a menace to the public health or safety,
or are so unsightly as to depreciate the value of property in the vicinity
thereof;
   (I)   All places used or maintained as junk yards, or dumping grounds, or
for the wrecking and disassembling of automobiles, trucks, tractors or
machinery of any kind, or for the storing or leaving of worn-out, wrecked, or
abandoned automobiles, trucks, tractors or machinery of any kind, or of any of
the parts thereof, or for the storing or leaving of any machinery or equipment
used by contractors or builders or by other persons, which places are kept or
maintained so as to essentially interfere with the comfortable enjoyment of
life or property by others, or which are so unsightly as to tend to depreciate
property values in the vicinity thereof;
   (J)   Stagnant water permitted or maintained on any lot or piece of ground;
   (K)   Stockyards, granaries, mills, pig pens, cattle pens, chicken pens or
any other place, building or enclosure, in which animals or fowl of any kind
are confined or on which is stored tankage or any other animal or vegetable
matter, or on which any animal or vegetable matter including grain is being
processed, when the places in which the animals are confined, or the premises
on which the vegetable or animal matter is located, are maintained and kept in
such a manner that foul and noxious odors are permitted to emanate therefrom to
the annoyance of inhabitants of the village or are maintained and kept in such
a manner as to be injurious to the public health; or
   (L)   All other things specifically designated as nuisances elsewhere in
this code.
(Prior Code, § 4-302)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 18-1720
§ 92.03 ABATEMENT PROCEDURE.
   (A)   The owner or occupant of any real estate within the corporate limits
or extraterritorial zoning jurisdiction of the village shall keep such real
estate free of nuisances. Except to the extent that conflicting procedures are
otherwise provided, the procedures in this section shall apply to abatement of
nuisances.
   (B)   Upon determination by the Board of Health or designated official that
the owner or occupant of any such real estate has failed to keep the real
estate free of nuisances, notice to abate and remove such nuisance and notice
of the right to a hearing before the Board of Trustees and the manner in which
it may be requested shall be given to each owner or owner’s duly authorized
agent and to the occupant, if any, by personal service or by certified mail. If
notice by personal service or certified mail is unsuccessful, notice shall be
given by publication in a newspaper of general circulation in the village or by
conspicuously posting the notice on the real estate upon which the nuisance is
to be abated and removed. The notice shall describe the condition as found by
the Board of Health or designated official and state that the condition has
been declared a nuisance and must be remedied at once.
   (C)   If within five days after receipt of such notice or publication or
posting, whichever is applicable, the owner or occupant of the real estate does
not request a hearing with the village or fails to comply with the order to
abate and remove the nuisance, the village may have such work done.
   (D)   If within five days after receipt of such notice or publication or
posting, whichever is applicable, the owner or occupant requests in writing a
hearing with the Board of Trustees, the Board shall fix a time and place at
which a hearing will be held. Notice of the hearing shall be given by personal
service or certified mail and require the owner or occupant to appear before
the Board to show cause why such condition should not be found to be a nuisance
and remedied. The notice shall be given not less than seven nor more than 14
days before the time of the hearing. Upon the date fixed for the hearing and
pursuant to the notice, the Board shall hear all objections made by the owner
or occupant and shall hear evidence submitted by the Board of Health or
designated official. If after consideration of all the evidence, the Board of
Trustees finds that the condition is a nuisance, it shall, by resolution, order
and direct the owner or occupant to remedy the nuisance at once. If the owner
or occupant refuses or neglects to promptly comply with the order to abate and
remove the nuisance, the Board may have such work done.
   (E)   The costs and expenses of any such work shall be paid by the owner. If
unpaid for two months after such work is done, the village may either:
      (1)   Levy and assess the costs and expenses of the work upon the real
estate so benefitted as a special assessment in the same manner as other
special assessments for improvements are levied and assessed; or
      (2)   Recover in a civil action the costs and expenses of the work upon
the real estate and the adjoining streets and alleys.
(Prior Code, § 4-303)
Statutory reference:
   Authority to regulate and abate nuisances, see Neb. RS 18-1720
   Nuisances prohibited, see Neb. RS 28-1321
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-563, 18-1720
   Zoning jurisdiction, Neb. RS 17-1001
§ 92.04 JURISDICTION.
   The Chairperson and Chief of Police of the village are directed to enforce
this municipal code against all nuisances. The jurisdiction of the Chairperson,
Chief of Police, and court shall extend to, and the territorial application of
this chapter shall include, all territory adjacent to the limits of the village
within one mile thereof and all territory within the corporate limits.
(Prior Code, § 4-304)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 18-1720
§ 92.05 ADJOINING LANDOWNERS; INTERVENTION BEFORE TRIAL.
   In cases of appeal from an action of the Board of Trustees condemning real
property as a nuisance or as dangerous under the police powers of the village,
the owners of the adjoining property may intervene in the action at any time
before trial.
(Prior Code, § 4-305)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 19-710
§ 92.06 DEAD OR DISEASED TREES.
   (A)   (1)   It is hereby declared a nuisance for a property owner to permit,
allow or maintain any dead or diseased trees within the right-of-way of streets
within the corporate limits of the village or within the extraterritorial
zoning jurisdiction.
      (2)   Notice to abate and remove such nuisance and notice of the right to
a hearing and the manner in which it may be requested shall be given to each
owner or owner’s duly authorized agent and to the occupant, if any. The village
shall establish the method of notice by ordinance. If notice is given by first-
class mail, such mail shall be conspicuously marked as to its importance.
Within five days after receipt of such notice, the owner or occupant of the lot
or piece of ground may request a hearing with the village to appeal the
decision to abate or remove the nuisance by filing a written appeal with the
office of the Village Clerk. A hearing on the appeal shall be held within 14
days after the filing of the appeal and shall be conducted by an elected or
appointed officer as designated in the ordinance. The hearing officer shall
render a decision on the appeal within five business days after the conclusion
of the hearing. If the appeal fails, the village may have the work done to
abate and remove the dead or diseased trees. If the owner or occupant of the
lot or piece of ground does not request a hearing with the village within five
days after receipt of such notice or fails to comply with the order to abate
and remove the nuisance, the village may have such work done. The village may
levy and assess all or any portion of the costs and expenses of the work upon
the lot or piece of ground so benefitted as a special assessment.
(Neb. RS 17-555)
   (B)   It is hereby declared a nuisance for a property owner to permit, allow
or maintain any dead or diseased trees on private property within the corporate
limits of the village or within its one-mile zoning jurisdiction. The
provisions in division (A)(2) of this section shall apply to such nuisances.
For the purpose of carrying out the provisions of this section, the village
police shall have the authority to enter upon private property to inspect the
trees thereon.
(Prior Code, § 4-306) (Ord. 95-15, passed 4-26-1995)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 18-1720, 28-1321
§ 92.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, or any person’s agent or servant, who violates any of the
provisions of this chapter, unless otherwise specifically provided herein,
shall be deemed guilty of an offense and upon conviction thereof shall be fined
in any sum not exceeding the amount set forth in the village master fee list. A
new violation shall be deemed to have been committed every 24 hours of failure
to comply with the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   (1)   Whenever a nuisance exists as defined in this 
Chapter 92, the village may proceed by a suit in equity to enjoin, abate and
remove the same in the manner provided by law.
      (2)   Whenever, in any action, it is established that a nuisance exists,
the court may, together with the fine or penalty imposed, enter an order of
abatement as a part of the judgment in the case.
(Prior Code, § 4-401) (Ord. 2001-8, passed 2-15-2001)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-207, 17-505, 18-1720, 18-1722
CHAPTER 93: ANIMALS
Section
Animals Generally
   
93.01   Definitions
   
93.02   Running at large
   
93.03   Banned from village
   
93.04   Wild animals
   
93.05   Killing and injuring
   
93.06   Enclosures
   
93.07   Fowl; banned from village
Pitting Animals
   
93.20   Definitions
   
93.21   Prohibited
   
93.22   Spectators prohibited
Dogs
   
93.35   License
   
93.36   License tag
   
93.37   Wrongful licensing
   
93.38   Owner defined
   
93.39   Kennel
   
93.40   Uncollared
   
93.41   Running at large
   
93.42   Capture impossible
   
93.43   Vicious; dangerous
   
93.44   Interference with police
   
93.45   Killing and poisoning
   
93.46   Barking and offensive
   
93.47   Female in season
   
93.48   Fighting
   
93.49   Liability of owner
   
93.50   Removal of tag
   
93.51   Rabies suspected
   
93.52   Impounding
Dangerous Dogs
   
93.65   Definitions
   
93.66   Restrained
   
93.67   Confined
   
93.68   Failure to comply
   
93.69   Additional regulations
 
   
93.99   Penalty
ANIMALS GENERALLY
§ 93.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ANIMAL. Any vertebrate member of the animal kingdom other than an uncaptured
wild creature.
   ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER. Any person authorized by law or employed or
appointed for the purpose of aiding in the enforcement of this chapter or any
other law or ordinance relating to the licensing, control, seizure or
impoundment of animals.
   OWNER. Any person who owns, possesses, keeps, harbors or has charge, custody
or control of an animal or permits an animal to habitually remain or be lodged
or fed within his or her house, store, building, enclosure, yard, lot, grounds
or premises. OWNER does not include any veterinarian or kennel operator
temporarily maintaining on his or her premises an animal owned by another
person for not more than 30 days.
   RUN AT LARGE. Not being under the actual control of the owner by means of:
      (a)   A leash, cord, chain or other suitable means of physical restraint
which is securely fastened or tethered in a manner sufficient to keep the
animal on the premises where tethered;
      (b)   A leash, cord, chain or other suitable means of physical restraint
of six feet or less in length physically held by the owner;
      (c)   Being confined within a cage, receptacle, enclosed vehicle, fenced
enclosure or shelter; or
      (d)   Being within the real property limits of the owner and in the
owner’s presence and under direct and effective voice or other control.
§ 93.02 RUNNING AT LARGE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the owner of any cow, hog, horse, mule,
sheep, goat, dog, chicken, turkey, goose or other animal except a cat to permit
the animal to run at large at any time on any of the public ways and property
or the property of another in the village or to be tethered or staked out in
such a manner so as to allow the animal to reach or pass into any public way or
property or any property of another.
   (B)   The owner of a cat may permit the cat to run at large within the
corporate limits subject to any restrictions or prohibitions otherwise imposed
by the Board of Trustees.
   (C)   Any animal found running at large or tethered or staked out in
violation of this section is a public nuisance and may be impounded or
destroyed as provided in this chapter.
   (D)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to permit anyone to own an
animal in the corporate limits of the village that is prohibited by the Board
of Trustees.
(Prior Code, § 6-201) Penalty, see §
93.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority to regulate, see Neb. RS 17-526 and 17-547
   Fine for permitting collarless dog to run at large, see Neb. RS 54-607
§ 93.03 BANNED FROM VILLAGE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to keep or maintain within the corporate
limits any horse, mule, sheep, cow, goat, swine or other livestock.
(Prior Code, § 6-202) Penalty, see §
93.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-123, 17-207
§ 93.04 WILD ANIMALS.
   No wild animals may be kept within the corporate limits except wild animals
kept for exhibition purposes by circuses and educational institutions.
(Prior Code, § 6-203) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.05 KILLING AND INJURING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to kill, administer or cause to be
administered poison of any sort to, or in any manner injure, maim or destroy or
attempt to injure, maim or destroy any animal or to place any poison or
poisoned food where it is accessible to an animal, except that:
   (A)   This section shall not apply to any law enforcement officer or animal
control officer acting within his or her power and duty;
   (B)   This section shall not apply if the animal is vicious, dangerous or
showing characteristics of rabies and cannot be captured without danger to the
persons attempting to effect a capture of the animal; and
   (C)   Any owner of a dog that he or she wishes to be destroyed may place the
dog in an animal pound or shelter or with a licensed veterinarian to be
humanely destroyed and disposed of according to the provisions in this chapter
or other provisions of law.
(Prior Code, § 6-204) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.06 ENCLOSURES.
   All pens, cages, sheds, yards or any other area or enclosure for the
confinement or animals not specifically barred within the corporate limits
shall be kept in a clean and orderly manner so as not to become a menace or
nuisance to the neighborhood in which the enclosure is located.
(Prior Code, § 6-205) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.07 FOWL; BANNED FROM VILLAGE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to keep or maintain within the corporate
limits any poultry, chickens, turkeys, geese or any other fowl; provided, that
those residents who are keeping or maintaining fowl at the time of the adoption
of this section may continue to keep and maintain such fowl in their present
enclosures. It shall be unlawful to build, construct or erect a new enclosure
to house or pen such fowl.
(Prior Code, § 6-206) Penalty, see §
93.99
PITTING ANIMALS
§ 93.20 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BEARBAITING. The pitting of any animal against a bear.
   COCKFIGHTING. The pitting of a fowl against another fowl.
   DOGFIGHTING. The pitting of a dog against another dog.
   PITTING. Bringing animals together in combat.
(Prior Code, § 6-207)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 27-101
§ 93.21 PROHIBITED.
   No person shall knowingly promote, engage in or be employed at dogfighting,
cockfighting, bearbaiting or pitting an animal against another. Nor shall any
person knowingly receive money for the admission of another person to a place
kept for such purpose. Nor shall any person knowingly own, use, train, sell or
possess an animal for the purpose of animal pitting. Nor shall any person
knowingly permit any act as described in this section to occur on any premises
owned or controlled by him or her.
(Prior Code, § 6-208) Penalty, see §
93.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 27-101
§ 93.22 SPECTATORS PROHIBITED.
   No person shall knowingly and willingly be present at and witness as a
spectator dogfighting, cockfighting, bearbaiting or the pitting of an animal
against another as prohibited in §
93.21.
(Prior Code, § 6-209) Penalty, see §
93.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 27-101
DOGS
§ 93.35 LICENSE.
   (A)   Any owner of a dog over the age of six months within the village
shall, within 30 days after acquisition of the dog, acquire a license for the
dog annually by or before the May 1 of each year. Licenses shall be issued by
the Village Clerk upon payment of a license tax in the amount established by
the Board of Trustees, plus the fee amount set forth in the village master fee
list required under Neb. RS 54-603(3). It shall be unlawful for the owner of a
dog to wrongfully and knowingly license an unspayed female dog as a male or
spayed female dog if the Board has established different license taxes for such
dogs.
   (B)   The tax shall be delinquent from and after May 10. The owner of any
dog brought into or harbored within the corporate limits subsequent to May 1 of
any year shall be liable for payment of the dog tax, and such tax shall be
delinquent if not paid within ten days thereafter. The license shall not be
transferable, and no refund will be allowed in case of death, sale or other
disposition of the licensed dog.
   (C)   (1)   The owner shall state, at the time the application is made and
upon printed forms provided for such purpose, his or her name and address and
the name, breed, color and sex of each dog owned by him or her.
      (2)   A certificate of rabies vaccination, effective for the ensuing year
of the license, shall be presented when application for a license is made, and
no license or tag shall be issued until the certificate is shown.
   (D)   Every service animal shall be licensed as required by this section,
but no license tax shall be charged. Upon the retirement or discontinuance of
the animal as a service animal, the owner of the animal shall be liable for the
payment of the required license tax.
(Neb. RS 54-603)
   (E)   All license taxes, fees and other collections shall be credited to the
General Fund of the village, except as otherwise provided by Neb. RS 54-603.
(Prior Code, § 6-101) Penalty, see §
93.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority to impose license tax, require rabies certificate, and destroy
unlicensed dogs, see Neb. RS 17-526, 54-603 and 71-4412
§ 93.36 LICENSE TAG.
   (A)   (1)   Upon the payment of the license tax, the Clerk shall issue to
the owner of the dog a license certificate and a metallic tag, which shall be
valid until April 30 following such licensing.
      (2)   The Clerk shall issue tags of a suitable design that are different
in appearance each year.
   (B)   The metallic tag and the rabies tag shall be properly attached to the
collar or harness of the dog.
   (C)   If a license tag is lost, upon satisfactory evidence that the original
tag was issued in accordance with the provisions of this section, the Clerk
shall issue a duplicate or new tag for the balance of the year for which the
license tax has been paid and shall charge and collect a fee established by the
Board of Trustees for each duplicate or new tag so issued.
(Prior Code, § 6-102)
§ 93.37 WRONGFUL LICENSING.
   It shall be unlawful for the owner of any dog to permit or allow such dog to
wear any licensing identification other than the metallic tag issued by the
Clerk.
(Prior Code, § 6-103) Penalty, see §
93.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-526, 54-603
§ 93.38 OWNER DEFINED.
   Any person who shall harbor or permit any dog to be for ten days or more in
or about his or her house, store or enclosure, or to remain to be fed, shall be
deemed the owner and possessor of such dog and shall be deemed to be liable for
all penalties herein prescribed.
(Prior Code, § 6-104) Penalty, see §
93.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 54-606, 71-4401
§ 93.39 KENNEL.
   (A)   Definition of terms. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      DOG. Both male and female.
      KENNEL. The ownership, possession, keeping or harboring of more than two
dogs, but not more than eight dogs, over the age of six months, for the
purposes of breeding, feeding, buying or selling or raising of such animals, or
any of the said purposes, or permitting more than two dogs, but not more than
eight dogs, over the age of six months, to be or to remain upon his or her
premises.
      OWNER. Person or persons, firms, associations or corporation owning,
possessing, keeping or harboring a dog or permitting the same to be or to
remain on or about his or her premises.
   (B)   Licensing required. Any person or persons maintaining a dog kennel, as
defined above, shall be required to obtain a kennel license. A kennel license
shall be issued after application is made to Village Clerk and after a hearing
on said application is held before the Planning Commission and Village Board Of
Trustees. At the time of said application for kennel license, the owner shall
state, upon printed forms provided for such purpose, the owner’s name and
address, the location of said kennel on the premises and the number of dogs to
be kept in said kennel. Further, the kennel shall have a minimum of 48 square
feet per adult dog and the applicant shall have written permission from the
adjoining landowners and/or lessees waiving objections to said kennel.
   (C)   Kennel area defined. The area comprising any kennel proposed to be
licensed shall be definite and certain, and the same shall be neither enlarged
nor the location thereof changed, without first obtaining the consent of the
Planning Commission and Village Board of Trustees. No licensee in the feeding
of said dogs shall openly expose dead animal flesh, garbage, or refuse, or
slaughter or kill any animal within said kennel for the purpose or permitting
the dogs to feed upon the same; and, provided further, it shall be the duty of
the licensee of any kennel to keep the same in a clean state and free from any
matter creating offensive odors.
   (D)   Licensing fee and deadlines. A fee of the amount set forth in the
village master fee list per year shall be charged for a kennel license. A
person maintaining such kennel shall license the same by May l of each year.
The license shall be delinquent from and after May 10.
   (E)   License revocation. A kennel license so issued may be revoked after a
hearing before the Planning Commission and Village Board of Trustees if said
kennel is not operating in accordance with applicable village laws and zoning
requirements. No kennel shall be maintained in a manner which created offensive
odors to neighbors. Upon receipt of a complaint, the Planning Commission shall
set a hearing date to determine whether said license shall be recommended for
revocation. Said recommendation shall go before the Village Board of Trustees
who may revoke said license.
   (F)   Exceptions. It is specifically provided that any person or persons
maintaining a kennel, as defined above, shall not have to comply with §
93.35 requiring the licensing of each dog in said kennel, but it is
specifically provided that each dog in said kennel, over the age of six months,
shall have a certificate or other substantial proof evidencing that each dog in
said kennel is currently vaccinated for rabies, said certificate or other
substantial proof to be available for inspection to officers of the Village
Police Department or members of the Village Board of Trustees upon request.
   (G)   Prohibition. No owner shall be permitted to own, possess, keep or
harbor more than eight dogs over the age of six months for any purpose within
the corporate limits of the village, and/or within the zoning jurisdiction of
the village.
   (H)   Severability. Should any section, paragraph, sentence or word of this
section hereby adopted be declared for any reason to be invalid, it is the
intent to the Chairperson and Board of Trustees of the village that it would
have passed all other portions of this section independent of the elimination
herefrom of any such portion as may be declared invalid.
(Prior Code, § 6-105) (Ord. 90-10, passed 3-22-1990) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.40 UNCOLLARED.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of every owner of a dog to securely place upon
the neck of the dog a good and sufficient collar with a metallic plate thereon.
The plate shall be plainly inscribed with the name of the owner.
(Neb. RS 54-605)
   (B)   The owner of a dog may use a harness instead of a collar as long as
the harness meets all other requirements of division (A) of this section.
(Prior Code, § 6-106) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.41 RUNNING AT LARGE.
   It shall be unlawful for the owner of any dog to allow such dog to run at
large at any time within the corporate limits of the village. It shall be the
duty of the village police to cause any dog found to be running at large within
the village to be taken up and the owner notified. RUNNING AT LARGE shall mean
any dog found off the premises of the owner, and not under control of the owner
or a responsible person, either by leash, cord, chain, wire, rope, cage of
other suitable means of physical restraint.
(Prior Code, § 6-107) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.42 CAPTURE IMPOSSIBLE.
   The village police shall have the authority to kill any animals showing
vicious tendencies, or characteristics of rabies which make capture impossible
because of the danger involved.
(Prior Code, § 6-108)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 54-605
§ 93.43 VICIOUS; DANGEROUS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to own, keep, harbor or allow to be in
or upon any premises occupied by him or her, or under his or her charge or
control within the corporate limits of the village, any dog of a cross,
dangerous, or ferocious disposition as manifested by biting, habitual snapping
or growling or otherwise acting so as to endanger any person or domestic
animal:
   (A)   Said dog is secured on the premises of the owner by a chain, enclosed
kennel or fence at least six feet in height, so that the dog cannot be closer
than six feet to the public street, sidewalk or property line;
   (B)   Said dog is secured in such a manner that it cannot go beyond the
property line of the owner; and
   (C)   Said dog is secured in such a manner that it will not injure or pose a
threat of injury to any person who is lawfully on the premises of the owner.
(Prior Code, § 6-109) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.44 INTERFERENCE WITH POLICE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to hinder, delay or interfere with any
village police officer who is performing any duty enjoined upon him or her by
the provisions of this subchapter, or to break open, or in any manner directly
or indirectly aid, counsel, or advise the breaking open of the animal shelter,
any ambulance wagon, or other vehicle used for the collecting or conveying of
dogs.
(Neb. RS 28-906) (Prior Code, § 6-110) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.45 KILLING AND POISONING.
   It shall be unlawful to kill, or to administer, or cause to be administered,
poison of any sort to a dog, or in any manner to injure, maim or destroy, or in
any manner attempt to injure, maim, or destroy any dog that is the property of
another person, or to place any poison, or poisoned food where the same is
accessible to a dog; provided, that this section shall not apply to village
police officer acting within their power and duty.
(Prior Code, § 6-111) Penalty, see §
93.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 28-1008, 28-1012.01, 28-1013
§ 93.46 BARKING AND OFFENSIVE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to own, keep or harbor any animal which
by loud, continued or frequent barking, howling or yelping shall annoy or
disturb any neighborhood, or person, or which habitually barks at or chases
pedestrians, drivers or vehicles while they are on any public sidewalks,
streets, or alleys in the village. Upon the complaint of any person, filed with
any village employee, that any animal owned by the person named in the
complaint is an annoyance or disturbance, or otherwise violates the provisions
of this section, or if a law enforcement officer hears or see an animal which
by its actions is in violation of this section, the police shall notify the
owner to silence and restrain the animal. If such violations occur again, the
police shall issue a citation and the owner shall be fined in accordance to the
applicable village fee schedule.
(Prior Code, § 6-112) (Ord. 2020-02, passed 5-12-2020) Penalty, see §
93.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-526
§ 93.47 FEMALE IN SEASON.
   It is hereby declared unlawful for the owner, keeper or harborer of a female
dog to permit her to run at large within the village while in season. Any such
female dog found running at large in violation of this section shall be
declared to be a public nuisance and as such may be removed or killed according
to the provisions herein.
(Prior Code, § 6-113) Penalty, see §
93.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-526
§ 93.48 FIGHTING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, by agreement or otherwise, to set dogs
to fighting, or by any gesture or word to encourage the same to fight.
(Prior Code, § 6-114) Penalty, see §
93.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-526
§ 93.49 LIABILITY OF OWNER.
   It shall be unlawful for the owner to allow a dog to injure or destroy any
real or personal property of any description belonging to another person. The
owner of the dog, in addition to the usual judgment upon conviction, may be
made to be liable to the person injured in an amount equal to the value of the
damage sustained.
(Prior Code, § 6-115) Penalty, see §
93.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority to guard against injuries or annoyances, see Neb. RS 17-526
   Statutory liability for damages, see Neb. RS 54-601, 54-602
§ 93.50 REMOVAL OF TAG.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to remove, or cause to be removed, the
collar, harness, metallic license tag or rabies tag from any dog without the
consent of the owner of the dog.
(Prior Code, § 6-116) Penalty, see §
93.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority to guard against injuries or annoyances, see Neb. RS 17-526
§ 93.51 RABIES SUSPECTED.
   Any domestic animal which has bitten any person or caused an abrasion of the
skin of any person shall be subjected to post-incident management as provided
in rules and regulations adopted and promulgated by the Department.
(Neb. RS 71-4406) (Prior Code, § 6-117)
§ 93.52 IMPOUNDING.
   (A)   (1)   The rabies control authority may authorize an animal pound or
pounds or may enter into a cooperative agreement with a licensed veterinarian
for the establishment and operation of a pound.
      (2)   Any dog or hybrid of the family Canidae found outside the owner’s
premises whose owner does not possess a valid certificate of rabies vaccination
and valid rabies vaccination tag for the dog or hybrid of the family Canidae
shall be impounded. The rabies control authority may require the impoundment of
domestic or hybrid animals other than dogs or hybrid of the family Canidae. All
impounded domestic or hybrid animals shall be given proper care, treatment and
maintenance. Each impounded domestic or hybrid animal shall be kept and
maintained at the pound for a period of not less than 72 hours unless reclaimed
earlier by the owner.
      (3)   Notice of impoundment of all animals, including any significant
marks of identification, shall be posted at the pound as public notification of
impoundment. Any unvaccinated domestic or hybrid animal may be reclaimed by its
owner during the period of impoundment by payment of prescribed pound fees and
by complying with the rabies vaccination requirement of this subchapter within
72 hours of release. Any vaccinated domestic or hybrid animal impounded because
its owner has not presented a valid certificate of rabies vaccination and a
valid rabies vaccination tag for the domestic or hybrid animal may be reclaimed
by its owner by furnishing proof of rabies vaccination and payment of all
impoundment fees prior to release.
      (4)   At the expiration of impoundment a domestic or hybrid animal may be
claimed by payment of established pound fees and by compliance with the rabies
vaccination requirement of this subchapter within 72 hours of release. If the
domestic or hybrid animal is unclaimed at the end of five days, the authorities
may dispose of the domestic or hybrid animal in accordance with applicable laws
or rules and regulations.
(Neb. RS 71-4408)
   (B)   Impoundment fees shall be paid by the owner. Fees for impoundment at
public facilities shall be established by the rabies control authority.
(Neb. RS 71-4411)
(Prior Code, § 6-118)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-548
DANGEROUS DOGS
§ 93.65 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      ANIMAL CONTROL AUTHORITY. An entity authorized to enforce the animal
control laws of the village, and includes any local law enforcement agency or
other agency designated by the village to enforce the animal control laws of
the village.
      ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER. Any individual employed, appointed or authorized
by an animal control authority for the purpose of aiding in the enforcement of
this section or any other law or ordinance relating to the licensing of
animals, control of animals, or seizure and impoundment of animals and includes
any state or local law enforcement or other employee whose duties in whole or
in part include assignments that involve the seizure and impoundment of any
animal.
      DANGEROUS DOG.
         (a)   Any dog that, according to the records of the animal control
authority:
            1.   Has killed a human being;
            2.   Has inflicted injury on a human being that requires medical
treatment;
            3.   Has killed a domestic animal without provocation; or
            4.   Has been previously determined to be a potentially dangerous
dog by an animal control authority, the owner has received notice of such
determination from an animal control authority or an animal control officer,
and the dog inflicts an injury on a human being that does not require medical
treatment, injures a domestic animal, or threatens the safety of humans or
domestic animals.
         (b)   A dog shall not be defined as a DANGEROUS DOG if the individual
was tormenting, abusing or assaulting the dog at the time of the injury or has,
in the past, been observed or reported to have tormented, abused or assaulted
the dog.
         (c)   A dog shall not be defined as a DANGEROUS DOG if the injury,
damage or threat was sustained by an individual who, at the time, was
committing a willful trespass as defined in Neb. RS 20-203, 28-520 or 28-521,
was committing any other tort upon the property of the owner of the dog, was
tormenting, abusing or assaulting the dog, or has, in the past, been observed
or reported to have tormented, abused or assaulted the dog, or was committing
or attempting to commit a crime.
         (d)   A dog shall not be defined as a DANGEROUS DOG if the dog is a
police animal as defined in Neb. RS 28-1008.
      DOMESTIC ANIMAL. A cat, a dog or livestock. Livestock includes buffalo,
deer, antelope, fowl and any other animal in any zoo, wildlife park, refuge,
wildlife area or nature center intended to be on exhibit.
      MEDICAL TREATMENT. Treatment administered by a physician or other
licensed health care professional that results in sutures or surgery or
treatment for one or more broken bones.
      OWNER. Any person, firm, corporation, organization, political subdivision
or department possessing, harboring, keeping or having control or custody of a
dog.
      POTENTIALLY DANGEROUS DOG.
         (a)   Any dog that when unprovoked:
            1.   Inflicts an injury on a human being that does not require
medical treatment;
            2.   Injures a domestic animal; or
            3.   Chases or approaches a person upon streets, sidewalks or any
public grounds in a menacing fashion or apparent attitude of attack.
         (b)   Any specific dog with a known propensity, tendency or
disposition to attack when unprovoked, to cause injury, or to threaten the
safety of humans or domestic animals.
(Neb. RS 54-617) (Prior Code, § 6-119)
§ 93.66 RESTRAINED.
   (A)   A dangerous dog that has been declared as such shall be spayed or
neutered and implanted with a microchip identification number by a licensed
veterinarian within 30 days after such declaration. The cost of both procedures
is the responsibility of the owner of the dangerous dog. Written proof of both
procedures and the microchip identification number shall be provided to the
animal control authority after the procedures are completed.
   (B)   No owner of a dangerous dog shall permit the dog to go beyond the
property of the owner unless the dog is restrained securely by a chain or
leash.
   (C)   Except as provided in division (D) of this section or for a reasonable
veterinary purpose, no owner of a dangerous dog shall transport such dog or
permit such dog to be transported to another county, city or village in this
state.
   (D)   An owner of a dangerous dog may transport such dog or permit such dog
to be transported to another county, city or village in this state for the
purpose of permanent relocation of the owner if the owner has obtained written
permission prior to such relocation from the animal control authority of the
county, city or village in which the owner resides and from the county, city or
village in which the owner will reside. Each animal control authority may grant
such permission based upon a reasonable evaluation of both the owner and the
dog, including if the owner has complied with the laws of this state and of the
county, city or village in which he or she resides with regard to dangerous
dogs after the dog was declared dangerous. An animal control authority shall
not grant permission under this section if the county, city or village has an
ordinance or resolution prohibiting the relocation of dangerous dogs. After the
permanent relocation, the animal control authority of the county, city or
village in which the owner resides shall monitor the owner and such dog for a
period of at least 30 days but not to exceed 90 days to ensure the owner’s
compliance with the laws of this state and of such county, city or village with
regard to dangerous dogs. Nothing in this division (D) shall permit the
rescindment of the declaration of dangerous dog.
(Neb. RS 54-618) (Prior Code, § 6-120)
§ 93.67 CONFINED.
   (A)   No person, firm, partnership, limited liability company or corporation
shall own, keep or harbor or allow to be in or on any premises occupied by him,
her, or it or under his, her or its charge or control any dangerous dog without
such dog being confined so as to protect the public from injury.
   (B)   While unattended on the owner’s property, a dangerous dog shall be
securely confined, in a humane manner, indoors or in a securely enclosed and
locked pen or structure suitably designed to prevent the entry of young
children and to prevent the dog from escaping. The pen or structure shall have
secure sides and a secure top. If the pen or structure has no bottom secured to
the sides, the sides shall be embedded into the ground at least one foot. The
pen or structure shall also protect the dog from the elements. The pen or
structure shall be at least ten feet from any property line of the owner. The
owner of a dangerous dog shall post warning signs on the property where the dog
is kept that are clearly visible from all areas of public access and that
inform persons that a dangerous dog is on the property. Each warning sign shall
be no less than ten inches by 12 inches and shall contain the words warning and
dangerous animal in high-contrast lettering at least three inches high on a
black background.
(Neb. RS 54-619) (Prior Code, § 6-121) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.68 FAILURE TO COMPLY.
   (A)   Any dangerous dog may be immediately confiscated by an animal control
officer if the owner is in violation of this section. The owner shall be
responsible for the reasonable costs incurred by the animal control authority
for the care of a dangerous dog confiscated by an animal control officer or for
the destruction of any dangerous dog if the action by the animal control
authority is pursuant to law and if the owner violated this section.
(Neb. RS 54-620)
   (B)   In addition to any other penalty, a court may order the animal control
authority to dispose of a dangerous dog in an expeditious and humane manner.
(Neb. RS 54-621)
(Prior Code, § 6-122) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.69 ADDITIONAL REGULATIONS.
   Nothing in this subchapter shall be construed to restrict or prohibit any
governing body of the municipality from establishing and enforcing laws or
ordinances at least as stringent as the provisions of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 6-123)
Statutory reference:
   Owner felony liability; serious bodily injury second offense, see Neb. RS
54-622.01
   Prior conviction; ownership of dangerous dog prohibited for ten years after,
see Neb. RS 54-623
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 54-624
§ 93.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter, for which no other
penalty is provided, shall be subject to the penalty provisions of §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person or persons violating any of the provisions of §
93.39 shall be deemed guilty of an infraction and upon conviction thereof,
shall be punished with a fine as set forth in the village master fee list for
each offense; provided further, it shall be unlawful for any person to continue
to operate and maintain, or attempt to continue to operate and maintain a dog
kennel within the zoning jurisdiction of the village after the revocation of
his or her license to do so, and in so doing, each and every day thereafter
shall constitute a separate offense, and upon conviction thereof, shall be
punishable by a fine as set forth in the village master fee list for each
offense of which said persons stand convicted.
(Prior Code, § 6-105)
   (C)   (1)   (a)   Any owner whose dangerous dog violates §§
93.65 through
93.69 by inflicting on a human being a serious bodily injury as defined in Neb.
RS 28-109 is guilty of a Class I misdemeanor for the first offense, whether or
not the same dangerous dog is involved.
         (b)   It is a defense to a violation of division (C)(1) of this
section that the dangerous dog was, at the time of the infliction of the
serious bodily injury, in the custody of or under the direct control of a
person other than the owner or the owner’s immediate family.
(Neb. RS 54-622.01)
      (2)   If a dangerous dog of an owner with a prior conviction under §§
93.65 through
93.69 attacks or bites a human being or domestic animal, in addition to any
other penalty, the dangerous dog shall be immediately confiscated by an animal
control authority, placed in quarantine for the proper length of time, and
thereafter destroyed in an expeditious and humane manner.
(Neb. RS 54-623)
(Ord. 90-10, passed 3-22-1990)
CHAPTER 94: FIRE PREVENTION AND REGULATIONS
Section
Fires
   
94.001   Preservation of property
   
94.002   Disorderly spectator
   
94.003   Equipment
   
94.004   Interference
   
94.005   Obstruction
   
94.006   Assistance
   
94.007   Driving over hose
   
94.008   Traffic control
   
94.009   False alarm
   
94.010   Pedestrians
Fire Prevention
   
94.025   Fire Prevention Code
   
94.026   Fire Code enforcement
   
94.027   Lawful entry
   
94.028   Violation; notice
   
94.029   School drills
   
94.030   Fire limits defined
   
94.031   Fire limits building permit
   
94.032   Removal required
   
94.033   Removal or repair required
   
94.034   Fire prohibited
   
94.035   Open burning ban; waiver
   
94.036   Outdoor fireplace; enumerated
Fireworks
   
94.050   Defined
   
94.051   Permitted fireworks
   
94.052   Sale
Poisonous and Flammable Gas
   
94.065   Storage
Explosives
   
94.080   Blasting permits
 
   
94.999   Penalty
FIRES
§ 94.001 PRESERVATION OF PROPERTY.
   (A)   The Fire Chief, or any officer in charge of the Fire Department, shall
have the authority and power to cause the removal of property whenever it shall
become necessary for the preservation of more valuable property, the protection
of human life, or to prevent the spreading of fire to adjoining property.
   (B)   The Fire Chief may direct the village firefighters to remove any
building, structure or fence for the purpose of checking the progress of any
fire.
   (C)   The Fire Chief shall have the authority to blow up, or cause to be
blown up, with explosives any building or structure during the progress of a
fire for the purpose of checking the progress of the same.
(Prior Code, § 7-101)
§ 94.002 DISORDERLY SPECTATOR.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person during the time of a fire and for
a period of 36 hours after its extinguishment to hinder, resist or refuse to
obey the Village Fire Chief, or to act in a noisy or disorderly manner.
   (B)   The Fire Chief and Assistant Fire Chief shall have the power and
authority during such time to arrest or command any such person to assist them
in the performance of their official duties.
(Prior Code, § 7-102) Penalty, see §
94.999
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 28-908
§ 94.003 EQUIPMENT.
   It shall be unlawful for any person except the Fire Chief and the members of
the Village Fire Department to molest, destroy, handle or in any other way to
interfere with the use and storage of any of the fire trucks and other
apparatus belonging to the village.
(Prior Code, § 7-103) Penalty, see §
94.999
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 28-519
§ 94.004 INTERFERENCE.
   A person commits the offense of interfering with a firefighter if at any
time and place where any firefighter is discharging or attempting to discharge
any official duties, the person willfully:
   (A)   Resists or interferes with the lawful efforts of any firefighter in
the discharge or attempt to discharge an official duty;
   (B)   Disobeys the lawful orders given by any firefighter while performing
his or her duties;
   (C)   Engages in any disorderly conduct which delays or prevents a fire from
being extinguished within a reasonable time; or
   (D)   Forbids or prevents others from assisting or extinguishing a fire, or
exhorts another person, as to whom he or she has no legal right or obligation
to protect or control, not to assist in extinguishing a fire.
(Neb. RS 28-908) (Prior Code, § 7-104) Penalty, see §
94.999
§ 94.005 OBSTRUCTION.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to obstruct the use of a fire
hydrant, or have or place any material within 15 feet of the said hydrant.
   (B)   Any vehicle or material found as an obstruction may be immediately
removed by the Fire Chief or any member of the Fire Department, at the risk,
cost and expense of the owner or claimant.
(Prior Code, § 7-105) Penalty, see §
94.999
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 60-6,166
§ 94.006 ASSISTANCE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to refuse, after the command of the Fire
Chief or Assistant Fire Chief, to aid in extinguishing a fire or to assist in
the removal and protection of property.
(Prior Code, § 7-106) Penalty, see §
94.999
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 28-908
§ 94.007 DRIVING OVER HOSE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, without the consent of the Fire Chief
or Assistant Fire Chief. to drive any vehicle over unprotected hose of the Fire
Department.
(Prior Code, § 7-107) Penalty, see §
94.999
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 60-6,184
§ 94.008 TRAFFIC CONTROL.
   (A)   Every vehicle already stationary when the fire alarm shall have been
sounded must remain so for a period of five minutes after the sounding of the
fire alarm.
   (B)   No vehicle, except by the specific direction of the Fire Chief or
Assistant Fire Chief, shall follow, approach or park closer than 500 feet to
any fire vehicle, or to any fire hydrant to which a hose is connected.
   (C)   Nothing herein shall be construed to apply to vehicles carrying
doctors, members of the Fire Department, or emergency vehicles.
(Prior Code, § 7-108) Penalty, see §
94.999
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 60-6,183
§ 94.009 FALSE ALARM.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to intentionally and without good and
reasonable cause raise any false alarm of fire.
(Prior Code, § 7-109) Penalty, see §
94.999
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 28-907, 35-520
§ 94.010 PEDESTRIANS.
   It shall be unlawful for any pedestrian to enter or remain in any street
after a fire alarm shall have sounded until the fire trucks shall have
completely passed.
(Prior Code, § 7-110) Penalty, see §
94.999
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 28-908
FIRE PREVENTION
§ 94.025 FIRE PREVENTION CODE.
   The rules and regulations promulgated by the office of the State Fire
Marshal relating to fire prevention are incorporated by reference into this
code and made a part of this section as if set out in full herein together with
all subsequent amendments thereto. One copy of the Fire Prevention Code shall
be on file with the Village Clerk and shall be available for public inspection
at any reasonable time.
(Prior Code, § 7-201)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 18-132, 19-902, 19-922, 81-502
§ 94.026 FIRE CODE ENFORCEMENT.
   It shall be the duty of all village officials to enforce the incorporated
fire code provisions and all infractions shall be immediately brought to the
attention of the Fire Chief.
(Prior Code, § 7-202)
§ 94.027 LAWFUL ENTRY.
   It shall be the duty of the owner, lessee, or occupant of any building or
structure, except the interiors of private dwellings, to allow the Fire Chief
to inspect, or cause to be inspected, as often as necessary the said structure
for the purpose of ascertaining and enumerating all conditions therein that are
likely to cause fire, or any other violations of the provisions of the village
ordinances affecting the hazard of fire.
(Prior Code, § 7-203)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 81-512
§ 94.028 VIOLATION; NOTICE.
   It shall be the duty of the owner, lessee or occupant of any building or
structure that was lawfully inspected as hereinbefore prescribed, and who
receives written or verbal notice of a violation of any of the provisions of
the village ordinances to correct the condition that violates the said
ordinance or ordinances within five days from the date of receipt of such
notice.
(Prior Code, § 7-204)
§ 94.029 SCHOOL DRILLS.
   It shall be the duty of the officials and teachers of all the schools in the
village to cooperate with the Village Fire Department in conducting fire drills
in such number and at such times as the Fire Chief shall prescribe; provided,
that at least one fire drill shall be held each month. All doors and exits
leading to the outside of the school shall be kept unlocked during school
hours.
(Prior Code, § 7-205)
§ 94.030 FIRE LIMITS DEFINED.
   The following described territory in the village shall be and constitute the
fire limits:
      The South half of Blocks Two and Five and the North half of the Blocks
Three and Four, all in the Original Town of the Village of Cedar Bluffs,
Nebraska.
(Prior Code, § 7-206)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-550
§ 94.031 FIRE LIMITS BUILDING PERMIT.
   Prior to the moving or construction of any building in the fire limits,
application must be made to the Board of Trustees. Construction shall include
the enlarging or alteration of any building in the fire limits. Such
application shall be furnished by the Village Clerk and shall require such
information as the Board of Trustees deems necessary to determine whether or
not to grant a building permit.
(Prior Code, § 7-207)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-550
§ 94.032 REMOVAL REQUIRED.
   In the event that any wooden or combustible building or structure, or any
non-combustible building which stands within the fire limits is damaged to the
extent of 50% or more of its value, exclusive of the foundation, it shall not
be repaired or rebuilt, but shall be taken down and removed within 60 days from
the date of such fire or other casualty.
(Prior Code, § 7-208)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-550
§ 94.033 REMOVAL OR REPAIR REQUIRED.
   In the event that a building within the fire limits becomes damaged by fire,
wind, flood, vandalism or any other cause, to the extent of less than 50% of
its value, exclusive of the foundation, it shall be the duty of the owner,
lessee or occupant to remove or repair the said building in accordance with the
provisions of this subchapter. It shall be unlawful for any person to allow a
building to stand in such damaged or decayed condition. Any such building shall
be removed or repaired within 30 days after receiving notice to do so by the
Board of Trustees.
(Prior Code, § 7-209) Penalty, see §
94.999
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-550
§ 94.034 FIRE PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to set out a fire on the pavement, or
near any curb, now built or hereafter to be built, within the village.
(Prior Code, § 7-210) Penalty, see §
94.999
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-556
§ 94.035 OPEN BURNING BAN; WAIVER.
   (A)   There shall be a statewide open burning ban on all bonfires, outdoor
rubbish fires and fires for the purpose of clearing land. The Fire Chief of the
Village Fire Department or his or her designee may waive an open burning ban
issued under this section for an area under his or her jurisdiction by issuing
an open burning permit to a person requesting permission to conduct open
burning. Said permit issued by the Fire Chief shall be in writing, signed by
the Fire Chief, and on a form provided by the State Fire Marshal.
   (B)   The Village Fire Chief or his or her designee may waive the open
burning ban in his or her district when conditions are acceptable to the Chief.
Anyone burning in such district when the open burning ban has been waived must
notify the Fire Department of his or her intention to burn.
(Prior Code, § 7-211)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 81-520.01
§ 94.036 OUTDOOR FIREPLACE; ENUMERATED.
   (A)   Outdoor fireplaces.
      (1)   The term OUTDOOR FIREPLACES shall include portable fire pits,
chimineas and fire rings. These outdoor fireplaces use wood as a fuel and are
used for contained recreational fires for the purpose of outdoor cooking and
personal enjoyment. Outdoor fireplaces do not include barbecue grills that use
propane or charcoal as a fuel and used primarily for outdoor cooking. PORTABLE
FIRE PITS are defined as being commercially designed and intended to confine
and control outdoor wood fires. CHIMINEAS are defined as an outdoor patio
fireplace, usually made from clay, intended to confine and control outdoor wood
fires.
      (2)   All outdoor fireplaces shall meet the following requirements.
         (a)   Size. The fuel area for a fire pit shall not be larger than
three feet in diameter and a height of not more than two feet.
         (b)   Location. Outdoor fireplaces shall be placed on a stable non-
combustible surface. All outdoor fireplaces will be placed on a firm,
noncombustible surface while in use and it shall be 15 feet from any property
line and ten feet from the nearest structure. Outdoor fireplaces shall not be
located on combustible balconies or decks or on any balcony above the first
floor. Outdoor fireplaces shall not be located under any combustible balcony or
any overhanging part of a structure.
   (B)   Types of materials being burnt. Outdoor fireplaces shall only burn
commercial logs and untreated wood; natural sawn dry wood will be allowed to be
burned. Petroleum products, rubbish, grass, leaves, cardboard, plastics, rubber
or any material that may be blown out of the containment or cause excessive
heat, smoke or offensive smell shall not be permitted.
   (C)   Amount of materials being burnt. The amount of material being burnt
shall be limited to ensure the flames are confined inside the fuel area of the
outdoor fireplace
   (D)   Supervision. Outdoor fireplaces shall be under constant supervision by
at least one responsible person of age 18 or older from the ignition of the
fire until the fire is completely extinguished and embers are cool and the fire
will not rekindle.
   (E)   Provisions for protection. A garden hose connected to a water supply
or other approved fire extinguishing equipment shall be readily available for
use.
   (F)   Wind and weather conditions. Outdoor fireplaces shall not be operated
when winds are blowing over ten mph and wind direction will cause smoke, embers
or other burning materials to be carried by the wind toward any building or
other combustible materials. Outdoor fireplaces shall not be operated when
weather conditions are extremely dry.
   (G)   Maintenance. The property owner or tenant is responsible to ensure
proper maintenance and care is accomplished in accordance with the
manufacturer’s instructions. The outdoor fireplace will be checked regularly
for the appearance of cracks and other physical deterioration or loose parts.
(Ord. passed 5-12-2020) Penalty, see §
94.999
FIREWORKS
§ 94.050 DEFINED.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   FIREWORKS. Any composition or device designed for the purpose of producing a
visible or audible effect by combustion, deflagration, or detonation and which
meets the definition of common or special fireworks set forth by the United
States Department of Transportation in Title 49, Code of Federal Regulations.
(Prior Code, § 7-301)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 28-1241
§ 94.051 PERMITTED FIREWORKS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to ignite or cause to be exploded
fireworks or firecrackers of any description whatsoever, except sparklers,
vesuvious fountains, spray fountains, torches, color fire cones, star and comet
type color aerial shells without explosive charges for the purpose of making a
noise, color wheels, lady fingers, not exceeding seven-eighths inch in length
or one-eighth inch in diameter, and which do not contain more than 50
milligrams each in weight of explosive material.
   (B)   The provision of this section shall not apply to any fireworks to be
used for purpose of public exhibitions or display under authorization of the
Board of Trustees or to fireworks furnished for agricultural purpose pursuant
to written authorization from the State Fire Marshal.
(Prior Code, § 7-302) Penalty, see §
94.999
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-556, 28-1241, 28-1244, 28-1245
§ 94.052 SALE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to sell, hold for sale, or offer for
sale as distributor, jobber or retailer any fireworks without first obtaining a
license from the State Fire Marshal for that calendar year. Licensed vendors
shall only sell fireworks which have been approved by the State Fire Marshal
and such permissible fireworks may be sold at retail only between June 24 and
July 5 of each year.
(Prior Code, § 7-303) Penalty, see §
94.999
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 28-1246 through 28-1250
POISONOUS AND FLAMMABLE GAS
§ 94.065 STORAGE.
   In addition to notifying the Village Fire Department pursuant to Neb. RS 28-
1233(3), any person desiring to store or keep for any period of time explosive
materials as defined in Neb. RS 28-1213, or any form of poisonous or flammable
gases or liquefied petroleum gases within the village shall register such
information with the Village Clerk 24 hours prior to such storage. The transfer
of such explosives or gases to another person within the village shall require
the person receiving such explosives or gases to register the transfer and the
new location of the explosives and gases with the Village Clerk. The transfer
of explosive materials and gases to a new location by the owner shall require
registration of the new location with the Village Clerk. This section shall not
apply to the storage of five gallons or less of gasoline.
(Prior Code, § 7-401) (Ord. 95-25, passed 4-26-1995)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-549, 17-556, 28-1229, 28-1233
EXPLOSIVES
§ 94.080 BLASTING PERMITS.
   In addition to notifying the Village Fire Department pursuant to Neb. RS 28-
1233(3), any person desiring to discharge explosive materials, as defined in
Neb. RS 28-1213, within the village, shall apply for and secure a permit from
the Board of Trustees 24 hours prior to such discharge, and shall discharge
such explosive materials in conformance with the conditions specified in the
permit. In no case shall any person perform blasting operations unless
operating under the direct supervision of a person in possession of a valid
user’s permit issued by the Nebraska State Patrol.
(Prior Code, § 7-501) (Ord. 95-26, passed 4-26-1995)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-549, 17-556, 28-1229, 28-1233
§ 94.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, or any person’s agent or servant, who violates any of the
provisions of this chapter, unless otherwise specifically provided herein,
shall be deemed guilty of an offense and upon conviction thereof shall be fined
in any sum not exceeding the amount set forth in the village master fee list. A
new violation shall be deemed to have been committed every 24 hours of failure
to comply with the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   (1)   Whenever a nuisance exists as defined in Chapter 92 of this code
of ordinances, the village may proceed by a suit in equity to enjoin, abate and
remove the same in the manner provided by law.
      (2)   Whenever, in any action, it is established that a nuisance exists,
the court may, together with the fine or penalty imposed, enter an order of
abatement as a part of the judgment in the case.
(Prior Code, § 7-601) (Ord. 2001-8, passed 2-15-2001)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-207, 17-505, 18-1720, 18-1722
CHAPTER 95: PARKS AND RECREATION
Section
Parks Department
   
95.01   Operation and funding
   
95.02   Injury to property
PARKS DEPARTMENT
§ 95.01 OPERATION AND FUNDING.
   (A)   If the village has already acquired or hereafter acquires land for
park purposes or recreational facilities or has already built or hereafter
builds swimming pools, recreational facilities or dams, the Board of Trustees
may each year make and levy a tax upon the taxable value of all the taxable
property in the village. The levy shall be collected and put into the village
treasury and shall constitute the park and recreation fund of the village. The
funds so levied and collected shall be used for amusements, for laying out,
improving and beautifying such parks, for maintaining, improving, managing and
beautifying such swimming pools, recreational facilities or dams, and for the
payment of salaries and wages of persons employed in the performance of such
labor.
(Neb. RS 17-951)
   (B)   If the Board of Trustees creates a Board of Park Commissioners or
Board of Park and Recreation Commissioners, when such Board has been appointed
and qualified, all accounts against the park fund or park and recreation fund,
as the case may be, shall be audited by such Board, and warrants against the
fund shall be drawn by the Chairperson of the Board, and warrants so drawn
shall be paid by the Village Treasurer out of the fund.
(Neb. RS 17-952)
   (C)   (1)   Whether the title to real estate for parks, public grounds,
swimming pools or dams, either for recreational or conservational purposes,
shall be acquired by gift, devise or purchase as provided in Neb. RS 17-948,
the jurisdiction of the Board of Trustees or Park Board shall at once be
extended over such real estate; and the Board of Trustees or Park Board shall
have power to enact bylaws, rules or ordinances for the protection and
preservation of any real estate acquired, and to provide rules and regulations
for the closing of the park or swimming pool, in whole or in part, to the
general public, and charge admission thereto during such closing, either by the
village or by any person, persons or corporation leasing same. They may provide
suitable penalties for the violation of such bylaws, rules, or ordinances; and
the police power of the village shall be at once extended over the same.
(Neb. RS 17-949)
      (2)   The Park Board shall not enter into a contract of any nature that
involves an expenditure of funds, except for ordinary operating expenses,
unless the contract has been approved by resolution of the majority of the
members of the Board of Trustees prior to the contractual agreement.
(Prior Code, § 3-601)
Statutory reference:
   Levy limits, see Neb. RS 77-3442
   Parks and recreational facilities generally, see Neb. RS 17-948 through 17-
952
§ 95.02 INJURY TO PROPERTY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to maliciously or willfully cut down,
injure or destroy any tree, plant or shrub in any village park or recreational
facility. It shall be unlawful for any person to injure or destroy any sodded
or planted area or injure or destroy any building, structure, equipment, fence,
bench, table, or any other property of any village park or recreational area.
No person shall commit any waste on or litter the village parks or other public
grounds.
(Prior Code, § 3-602) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Littering of public and private property, see Neb. RS 28-523
CHAPTER 96: MUNICIPAL AUDITORIUM
Section
   
96.01   Ownership
   
96.02   Rentals
   
96.03   Rules and regulations
§ 96.01 OWNERSHIP.
   The village owns and manages the village auditorium through the Board of
Trustees. The Board of Trustees, for the purpose of defraying the cost of the
management, maintenance and improvements on the village auditorium may each
year levy a tax not exceeding the maximum limit prescribed by state law, on the
actual valuation of all real estate and personal property within the village
that is subject to taxation. The revenue from the said tax shall be known as
the Auditorium Fund and shall include all gifts, grants, deed of conveyance,
bequests, or other valuable income-producing personal property and real estate
from any source for the purpose of endowing the village auditorium. The
Auditorium Fund shall at all times be in the custody of the Municipal
Treasurer. The Board of Trustees shall have the power to hire and supervise
such employees as it may deem necessary and shall pass such rules and
regulations for the operation of the auditorium as may be proper for its
efficient management.
(Prior Code, § 3-701)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-953 through 17-955
§ 96.02 RENTALS.
   The Board of Trustees may, for the purpose of defraying the expenses
involved in maintaining, improving, managing and beautifying the auditorium,
make a reasonable rental charge for the use by any person or organization of
the auditorium. The Board of Trustees shall prescribe rules and regulations for
such rentals. Rental rates may be structured for classes of persons and
organizations in a reasonable manner; provided, that nothing herein shall be
construed to permit or allow discrimination on the basis of race, creed, color
or national origin in the classification of persons and organizations for
rental purposes.
(Prior Code, § 3-702)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-953
§ 96.03 RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   The Board of Trustees shall have the power and authority to enact bylaws,
rules and regulations for the protection of the village auditorium and the
safety of those using the auditorium facilities. They may provide suitable
penalties for the violation of such bylaws, rules and regulations. All damage
suffered by the auditorium during any rental shall be assessed against the
person or organization responsible for the rental thereof, or shall be deducted
from the damage deposit which the Board of Trustees may in its discretion have
required prior to the said rental. The Board of Trustees may require during any
rental, persons deputized as village police to ensure that the said rules and
regulations, and the municipal code is not violated. The wages of such persons
shall be set by the Board of Trustees and shall be paid prior to the beginning
of the rental period. All rental fees, rules and regulations shall be on file
for public inspection at the office of the Village Clerk at any reasonable
time.
(Prior Code, § 3-703)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-953
CHAPTER 97: FAIR HOUSING
Section
   
97.01   Opposing discrimination
§ 97.01 OPPOSING DISCRIMINATION.
   (A)   It shall be the policy of the Board of Trustees to oppose
discriminating practices on the basis of race, color, religion, national
origin, handicap, familial status or sex in the acquisition, ownership,
possession or enjoyment of housing in accordance with the Nebraska Fair Housing
Act and Article 1, Section 25, of the Constitution of the state.
   (B)   It shall be the policy of the Board of Trustees to assist aggrieved
persons in filing complaints in regards to discriminatory housing practices by
providing information on the Nebraska Fair Housing Act and the Nebraska Equal
Opportunity Commission.
(Res. 2009-02, passed 9-18-2008)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
      
111.   PEDDLERS AND HAWKERS
      
112.   KENO LOTTERY
      
113.   TRAILERS
      
114.   JUNK YARDS
      
115.   RAILROAD COMPANIES
      
116.   STOCKYARDS
      
117.   OCCUPATION TAXES
CHAPTER 110: ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
Section
   
110.01   Definitions
   
110.02   License required
   
110.03   Location
   
110.04   Dwellings
   
110.05   License displayed
   
110.06   Licensee requirements
   
110.07   Liquor license renewal
   
110.08   Licenses; municipal powers and duties
   
110.09   Owner of premises
   
110.10   Employer
   
110.11   Minors and incompetents
   
110.12   Credit sales
   
110.13   Original package
   
110.14   Minor’s presence
   
110.15   Hours of sale
   
110.16   Sanitary conditions
   
110.17   General prohibition; exceptions
   
110.18   Acquisition and possession
   
110.19   Removal of intoxicated persons from public or quasi-public property
   
110.20   Inspections
   
110.21   Citizen complaints
   
110.22   Catering licenses
 
   
110.99   Penalty
§ 110.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For purposes of this chapter, the definitions found in Neb. RS 53-103.01
through 53-103.51 shall be used.
(Prior Code, § 10-101)
§ 110.02 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to manufacture for sale, sell, keep for
sale or to barter any alcoholic liquors within the village unless said person
shall have in full force and effect a license as provided by the Nebraska
Liquor Control Act, being Neb. RS 53-101 et seq.
(Prior Code, § 10-102) Penalty, see §
110.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 53-168.06
§ 110.03 LOCATION.
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided in division (B) of this section, no
license shall be issued for the sale at retail of any alcoholic liquor or for a
bottle club within 150 feet of any church, school, hospital or home for
indigent persons or for veterans and their wives or children. This prohibition
does not apply to any location within such distance of 150 feet:
      (1)   For which a license to sell alcoholic liquor at retail or for a
bottle club has been granted by the Nebraska Liquor Control Commission for two
years continuously prior to making of application for license;
      (2)   To hotels offering restaurant service, to regularly organized
clubs, or to restaurants, food shops or other places where sale of alcoholic
liquor is not the principal business carried on, if such place of business so
exempted was established for such purposes prior to May 24, 1935; or
      (3)   To a college or university in the state which is subject to Neb. RS
53-177.01.
   (B)   If a proposed location for the sale at retail of any alcoholic liquor
or for a bottle club is within 150 feet of any church, a license may be issued
if the Commission gives notice to the affected church and holds a hearing as
prescribed in Neb. RS 53-133 if the affected church submits a written request
for a hearing.
(Neb. RS 53-177)
   (C)   No alcoholic liquor shall be sold for consumption on the premises
within 300 feet from the campus of any college or university in the state,
except that this section:
      (1)   Does not prohibit a nonpublic college or university from
contracting with an individual or corporation holding a license to sell
alcoholic liquor at retail for the purpose of selling alcoholic liquor at
retail on the campus of such college or university at events sanctioned by such
college or university but does prohibit the sale of alcoholic liquor at retail
by such licensee on the campus of such nonpublic college or university at
student activities or events; and
      (2)   Does not prohibit sales of alcoholic liquor by a community college
culinary education program pursuant to Neb. RS 53-124.15.
   (D)   Except as otherwise provided in division (F) of this section, the
Commission may waive the 300-foot restriction in division (C) of this section
taking into consideration one or more of the following:
      (1)   The impact of retail sales of alcoholic liquor for consumption on
the premises on the academic mission of the college or university;
      (2)   The impact on students and prospective students if such sales were
permitted on or near campus;
      (3)   The impact on economic development opportunities located within or
in proximity to the campus; and
      (4)   The waiver would likely reduce the number of applications for
special designated licenses requested by the college or university or its
designee.
   (E)   (1)   To apply for a waiver under this section, the applicant shall
submit a written application to the Commission. The Commission shall notify the
governing body of the affected college or university when the Commission
receives an application for a waiver.
      (2)   The application shall include:
         (a)   The address of the location for which the waiver is requested;
         (b)   The name and type of business for which the waiver is requested;
and
         (c)   A description of the justification for the waiver explaining how
the proposed location complies with the findings prescribed in division (E)(2)
of this section.
   (F)   The Commission shall not waive the 300-foot restriction in division
(C) of this section without written approval from the governing body of the
college or university or its designee if the physical location of the property
which is the subject of the requested waiver is (a) surrounded by property
owned by the college or university including any public or private easement,
street, or right-of-way adjacent to the property owned by the college or
university or (b) adjacent to property on two or more sides owned by the
college or university including any public or private easement, street or
right-of-way adjacent to the property owned by the college or university.
   (G)   No bottle club shall be operated within 300 feet from the campus of
any college or university in the state.
(Neb. RS 53-177.01) (Prior Code, § 10-103) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.04 DWELLINGS.
   Except in the case of hotels and clubs, no alcoholic liquor shall be
manufactured or sold at retail or wholesale upon any premises which have any
access which leads from the premises to any other portion of the same building
or structure used for dwelling or lodging purposes and permitted to be used or
kept accessible for use by the public. This section does not prevent any
connection between the premises and such other portion of the building or
structure which is used only by the licensee, his or her family, or personal
guests.
(Neb. RS 53-178) (Prior Code, § 10-104) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.05 LICENSE DISPLAYED.
   Every licensee under the Nebraska Liquor Control Act, being Neb. RS 53-101
et seq. shall cause his or her license to be framed and hung in plain view in a
conspicuous place on the licensed premises.
(Neb. RS 53-148) (Prior Code, § 10-105) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.06 LICENSEE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   No license shall be issued to:
      (1)   A person who is not a resident of this state, except in case of
railroad, airline, boat or special party bus licenses;
      (2)   A person who is not of good character and reputation in the
community in which he or she resides;
      (3)   A person who is not a resident of this state and legally able to
work in this state;
      (4)   A person who has been convicted of or has pleaded guilty to a
felony under the laws of this state, any other state or the United States;
      (5)   A person who has been convicted of or has pleaded guilty to any
Class I misdemeanor pursuant Neb. RS Chapter 28, Art. 3, 4, 7, 8, 10, 11 or 12,
or any similar offense under a prior criminal statute or in another state,
except that any additional requirements imposed by this division (A)(5) on May
18, 1983, shall not prevent any person holding a license on that date from
retaining or renewing that license if the conviction or plea occurred prior to
May 18, 1983;
      (6)   A person whose license issued under the Nebraska Liquor Control
Act, being Neb. RS 53-101 et seq. has been revoked for cause;
      (7)   A person who at the time of application for renewal of any license
issued under the Act would not be eligible for that license upon initial
application;
      (8)   A partnership, unless one of the partners is a resident of this
state and unless all the members of that partnership are otherwise qualified to
obtain a license;
      (9)   A limited liability company, unless one of the members is a
resident of this state and unless all the members of that company are otherwise
qualified to obtain a license;
      (10)   A corporation, if any officer or director of the corporation or
any stockholder owning in the aggregate more than 25% of the stock of that
corporation would be ineligible to receive a license under this section for any
reason other than the reasons stated in divisions (A)(1) and (A)(3) of this
section, or if a manager of a corporate licensee would be ineligible to receive
a license under this section for any reason. This division (A)(10) shall not
apply to railroad licenses;
      (11)   A person whose place of business is conducted by a manager or
agent, unless that manager or agent possesses the same qualifications required
of the licensee;
      (12)   A person who does not own the premises for which a license is
sought or does not have a lease or combination of leases on the premises for
the full period for which the license is to be issued;
      (13)   Except as provided in this division (A)(13), an applicant whose
spouse is ineligible under this section to receive and hold a liquor license.
Such an applicant shall become eligible for a liquor license only if the
Nebraska Liquor Control Commission finds from the evidence that the public
interest will not be infringed upon if the license is granted. It shall be
prima facie evidence that when a spouse is ineligible to receive a liquor
license, the applicant is also ineligible to receive a liquor license. This
prima facie evidence shall be overcome if it is shown to the satisfaction of
the Commission:
            (a)   The licensed business will be the sole property of the
applicant; and
            (b)   The licensed premises will be properly operated.
      (14)   A person seeking a license for premises which do not meet
standards for fire safety as established by the State Fire Marshal;
      (15)   A law enforcement officer, except that this division (A)(15) shall
not prohibit a law enforcement officer from holding membership in any nonprofit
organization holding a liquor license or from participating in any manner in
the management or administration of a nonprofit organization; or
      (16)   A person less than 21 years of age.
   (B)   When a trustee is the licensee, the beneficiary or beneficiaries of
the trust shall comply with the requirements of this section, but nothing in
this section shall prohibit any such beneficiary from being a minor or person
who is mentally incompetent.
(Neb. RS 53-125) (Prior Code, § 10-106)
§ 110.07 LIQUOR LICENSE RENEWAL.
   (A)   A retail or bottle club license issued by the Nebraska Liquor Control
Commission and outstanding may be automatically renewed by the Commission in
the absence of a written request by the Board of Trustees to require the
licensee to submit an application for renewal. Any licensed retail premises
located in an area which is annexed to the village shall file a formal
application for a license, and while the application is pending, the licensee
may continue all license privileges until the original license expires or is
canceled or revoked. If that license expires within 60 days following the
annexation date of the area, the license may be renewed by order of the
Commission for not more than one year.
(Neb. RS 53-135)
   (B)   The Village Clerk shall cause to be published in a legal newspaper in
or of general circulation in the village, one time between January 10 and
January 30 of each year, individual notice in the form prescribed by law of the
right of automatic renewal of each retail liquor and beer license and each
bottle club license within the village, except that notice of the right of
automatic renewal of Class C licenses shall be published between the dates of
July 10 and July 30 of each year. If written protests to the issuance of
automatic renewal of a license are filed in the office of the Village Clerk by
three or more residents of the village on or before February 10, or August 10
for Class C licenses, the Board of Trustees shall hold a hearing to determine
whether continuation of the license should be allowed. Upon the conclusion of
any hearing required by this section, the Board of Trustees may request a
licensee to submit an application as provided in Neb. RS 53-135.
(Neb. RS 53-135.01)
(Prior Code, § 10-108)
§ 110.08 LICENSES; MUNICIPAL POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   The Board of Trustees is authorized to regulate by ordinance, not
inconsistent with the Nebraska Liquor Control Act, being Neb. RS 53-101 et
seq., the business of all retail, bottle club, craft brewery and
microdistillery licensees carried on within the corporate limits of the
village.
(Neb. RS 53-134.03)
   (B)   During the period of 45 days after the date of receipt by mail or
electronic delivery of such application from the Nebraska Liquor Control
Commission notice and a copy of an application for a new license to sell
alcoholic liquor at retail, a craft brewery license or a microdistillery
license, the Board of Trustees may make and submit to the Commission
recommendations relative to the granting or refusal to grant the license to the
applicant.
(Neb. RS 53-131)
   (C)   The Board of Trustees, with respect to licenses within the corporate
limits of the village, has the following powers, functions and duties with
respect to retail, bottle club, craft brewery and microdistillery licenses:
      (1)   To cancel or revoke for cause retail, craft brewery or
microdistillery licenses to sell or dispense alcoholic liquor or bottle club
licenses issued to persons for premises within its jurisdiction, subject to the
right of appeal to the Nebraska Liquor Control Commission;
      (2)   To enter or to authorize any law enforcement officer to enter at
any time upon any premises licensed under the Nebraska Liquor Control Act to
determine whether any provision of the Act, any rule or regulation adopted and
promulgated pursuant to the Act, or any ordinance, resolution, rule or
regulation adopted by the Board of Trustees has been or is being violated, and
at that time examine the premises of the licensee in connection with such
determination. Any law enforcement officer who determines that any provision of
the Act, any rule or regulation adopted and promulgated pursuant to the Act, or
any ordinance, resolution, rule or regulation adopted by the local governing
body has been or is being violated shall report such violation in writing to
the Executive Director of the Commission:
         (a)   Within 30 days after determining that such violation has
occurred;
         (b)   Within 30 days after the conclusion of an ongoing police
investigation; or
         (c)   Within 30 days after the verdict in a prosecution related to
such an ongoing police investigation if the prosecuting attorney determines
that reporting such violation prior to the verdict would jeopardize such
prosecution, whichever is later.
      (3)   To receive a signed complaint from any citizen within its
jurisdiction that any provision of the Act, any rule or regulation adopted and
promulgated pursuant to the Act, or any ordinance, resolution, rule, or
regulation relating to alcoholic liquor has been or is being violated and to
act upon these complaints in the manner provided in the Act;
      (4)   To receive retail, bottle club, craft brewery and microdistillery
license fees as provided in Neb. RS 53-124 and 53-124.01 and pay the same,
after the license has been delivered to the applicant, to the Village
Treasurer;
      (5)   To examine or cause to be examined any applicant or any retail,
bottle club, craft brewery or microdistillery licensee upon whom notice of
cancellation or revocation has been served as provided in the Act, to examine
or cause to be examined the books and records of any applicant or licensee,
except as otherwise provided for bottle club licensees under state law, and to
hear testimony and to take proof for its information in the performance of its
duties. For purposes of obtaining any of the information desired, the Board of
Trustees may authorize its agent or attorney to act on its behalf;
      (6)   To cancel or revoke on its own motion any license if, upon the same
notice and hearing as provided, it determines that the licensee has violated
any of the provisions of the Nebraska Liquor Control Act or any valid and
subsisting ordinance, resolution, rule or regulation duly enacted, adopted and
promulgated relating to alcoholic liquor. The order of cancellation or
revocation may be appealed to the Commission within 30 days after the date of
the order by filing a notice of appeal with the Commission. The Commission
shall handle the appeal in the manner provided for hearing on an application in
Neb. RS 53-133;
      (7)   Upon receipt from the Commission of the notice and copy of
application as provided in Neb. RS 53-131, to fix a time and place for a
hearing at which the Board of Trustees shall receive evidence, either orally or
by affidavit from the applicant and any other person, bearing upon the
propriety of the issuance of a license. Notice of the time and place of the
hearing shall be published in a legal newspaper in or of general circulation in
the village, one time not less than seven and not more than 14 days before the
time of the hearing. The notice shall include, but not be limited to, a
statement that all persons desiring to give evidence before the Board of
Trustees in support of or in protest against the issuance of the license may do
so at the time of the hearing. The hearing shall be held not more than 45 days
after the date of receipt of the notice from the Commission, and after the
hearing the Board of Trustees shall cause to be recorded in the minute record
of its proceedings a resolution recommending either issuance or refusal of the
license. The Village Clerk shall mail to the Commission by first class mail,
postage prepaid, a copy of the resolution which shall state the cost of the
published notice, except that failure to comply with this provision shall not
void any license issued by the Commission. If the Commission refuses to issue
such a license, the cost of publication of notice shall be paid by the
Commission from the security for costs;
      (8)   To review and authorize an application by a retail, bottle club,
craft brewery, farm winery or microdistillery licensee for a temporary
expansion of its licensed premises within the jurisdiction of the local
governing body to an immediately adjacent area owned or leased by the licensee
or to an immediately adjacent street, parking lot, or alley, not to exceed 50
days for calendar year 2020 and, for each calendar year thereafter, not to
exceed 15 days per calendar year, as provided in Neb. RS 53-123.12 and Neb. RS
53-129; and
      (9)   To review and authorize an application by a craft brewery, farm
winery or microdistillery licensee that holds a promotional farmers market
special designated license for a permit to use such promotional farmers market
special designated license to sell or dispense alcoholic liquor, which the
holder is licensed to produce, at a farmers market within the jurisdiction of
the local governing body as provided in Neb. RS 53-124.17. The Board of
Trustees shall electronically notify the Commission within five days after
authorization of any permit pursuant to this division (C).
(Neb. RS 53-134)
   (D)   (1)   When the Nebraska Liquor Control Commission mails or delivers to
the Village Clerk a retail, craft brewery or microdistillery license issued or
renewed by the Commission, the Clerk shall deliver the license to the licensee
upon receipt from the licensee of proof of payment of:
         (a)   The license fee if by the terms of Neb. RS 53-124 the fee is
payable to the Village Treasurer;
         (b)   Any fee for publication of notice of hearing before the Board of
Trustees upon the application for the license;
         (c)   The fee for publication of notice of renewal, if applicable, as
provided in Neb. RS 53-135.01; and
         (d)   Occupation taxes, if any, imposed by the village, except that
Class J retail licensees shall not be subject to occupation taxes.
      (2)   Notwithstanding any ordinance or charter power to the contrary, the
village shall not impose an occupation tax on the business of any person, firm,
or corporation licensed under the State Liquor Control Act, Neb. RS 53-101 et
seq., and doing business within the corporate limits of the village in any sum
which exceeds two times the amount of the license fee required to be paid under
the Act to obtain such license.
(Neb. RS 53-132)
(Prior Code, § 10-109) (Ord. 2001-3, passed 2-15-2001)
§ 110.09 OWNER OF PREMISES.
   If the owner of the licensed premises or any person from whom the licensee
derives the right to possession of the premises, or the agent of that owner or
person, knowingly permits the licensee to use the licensed premises in
violation of the terms of the Nebraska Liquor Control Act, being Neb. RS 53-101
et seq. or any village ordinance, that owner, agent or other person shall be
deemed guilty of a violation of the Act or ordinance to the same extent as the
licensee and be subject to the same punishment.
(Neb. RS 53-1,101) (Prior Code, § 10-110) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.10 EMPLOYER.
   Every act or omission of whatsoever nature constituting a violation of any
of the provisions of the Nebraska Liquor Control Act, being Neb. RS 53-101 et
seq. or any village ordinance by any officer, director, manager, or other agent
or employee of any licensee, if the act is committed or omission is made with
the authorization, knowledge, or approval of the licensee, shall be deemed and
held to be the act of the employer or licensee, and the employer or licensee
shall be punishable in the same manner as if the act or omission had been done
or omitted by the licensee personally.
(Neb. RS 53-1,102) (Prior Code, § 10-111) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.11 MINORS AND INCOMPETENTS.
   No person shall sell, furnish, give away, dispose of, exchange or deliver,
or permit the sale, gift, or procuring of any alcoholic liquors, to or for any
minor or to any person who is mentally incompetent.
(Neb. RS 53-180) (Prior Code, § 10-112) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.12 CREDIT SALES.
   (A)   No person shall sell or furnish alcoholic liquor at retail to any
person on credit, on a passbook, on an order on a store, in exchange for any
goods, wares or merchandise, or in payment for any services rendered, and if
any person extends credit for any such purpose, the debt thereby attempted to
be created shall not be recoverable at law.
   (B)   Nothing in this section shall prevent the following:
      (1)   Any club holding a Class C license from permitting checks or
statements for alcoholic liquor to be signed by members or bona fide guests of
members and charged to the account of such members or guests in accordance with
the bylaws of such club;
      (2)   Any hotel or restaurant holding a retail license from permitting
checks or statements for liquor to be signed by regular guests residing at such
hotel or eating at such restaurant and charged to the accounts of such guests;
or
      (3)   Any licensed retailer engaged in the sale of wine or distilled
spirits from issuing tasting cards to customers.
(Neb. RS 53-183) (Prior Code, § 10-113) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.13 ORIGINAL PACKAGE.
   No person, except a manufacturer or wholesaler, shall fill or refill, in
whole or in part, any original package of alcoholic liquor with the same or any
other kind or quality of alcoholic liquor. It shall be unlawful for any person
to have in his or her possession for sale at retail any bottles, casks or other
containers containing alcoholic liquor except in original packages. Nothing in
this section shall prohibit the refilling of original packages of alcoholic
liquor for strictly private use and not for resale.
(Neb. RS 53-184) (Prior Code, § 10-115) (Ord. 92-6, passed 5-21-1992) Penalty,
see §
110.99
§ 110.14 MINOR’S PRESENCE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person who owns, manages or leases an
establishment selling alcoholic beverages at retail to allow any minor under
the age of 18 years of age to frequent or otherwise remain in the establishment
unless the minor is accompanied by his or her parent or legal guardian, and
unless the minor remains seated with and under the immediate control of the
parent or legal guardian.
(Prior Code, § 10-116) Penalty, see §
110.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority to regulate, see Neb. RS 53-134.03
§ 110.15 HOURS OF SALE.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      OFF SALE. Alcoholic beverages sold at retail in the original container
for consumption off the premises of the licensed establishment.
      ON SALE. Alcoholic beverages sold at retail by the drink for consumption
on the premises of the licensed establishment.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any licensed person or persons or their
agents to sell any alcoholic beverage within the village except during the
hours provided herein:
Hours of Sale
Hours of Sale
Alcoholic liquors (except for beer and wine)
Sunday through Thursday:  
   Off sale           6:00 a.m. to 1:00 a.m. the following day
   On sale            6:00 a.m. to 1:00 a.m. the following day
      Excepting, it shall be lawful to extend hours of sale of on sale
alcoholic beverages to 2:00 a.m. with prior approval from the Village Board of
Trustees
Friday through Saturday:  
   Off sale           6:00 a.m. to 1:00 a.m. the following day
   On sale            6:00 a.m. to 2:00 a.m. the following day
Beer and wine
Sunday through Thursday:  
   Off sale           6:00 a.m. to 1:00 a.m. the following day
   On sale            6:00 a.m. to 1:00 a.m. the following day
      Excepting, it shall be lawful to extend hours of sale of on sale
alcoholic beverages to 2:00 a.m. with prior approval from Cedar Bluffs Village
Board
Friday through Saturday:  
   Off sale           6:00 a.m. to 1:00 a.m. the following day
   On sale            6:00 a.m. to 2:00 a.m. the following day
 
   (C)   No persons shall consume any alcoholic beverages on licensed premises
for a period longer that 15 minutes after the time fixed herein for stopping
the sale of alcoholic beverages on said premises.
   (D)   Noting in this section shall be constructed to prohibit licensed
premises from being open for other business on the days and hours which the
sale or dispensing of alcoholic beverages is prohibited by this section.
(Neb. RS 53-179) (Prior Code, § 10-117) (Ord. 2013-04, passed 12-10-2013)
Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.16 SANITARY CONDITIONS.
   It shall be unlawful to open for public use any retail liquor establishment
that is not in a clean and sanitary condition. Toilet facilities shall be
adequate and convenient for customers and patrons. The licensed premises shall
be subject to any health inspections the Board of Trustees or the village
police may make or cause to be made. All applications for liquor licenses shall
be viewed in part from the standpoint of the sanitary conditions, and a report
concerning the sanitary conditions shall be made at all hearings concerning the
application for or renewal of a liquor license.
(Prior Code, § 10-118) Penalty, see §
110.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority to regulate licensed premises, see Neb. RS 53-134.03
   State sanitary rules and regulations authorized, see Neb. RS 53-118
§ 110.17 GENERAL PROHIBITION; EXCEPTIONS.
   No person shall manufacture, bottle, blend, sell, barter, transport,
deliver, furnish or possess any alcoholic liquor for beverage purposes except
as specifically provided in the Nebraska Liquor Control Act, being Neb. RS 53-
101 et seq. Nothing in the act shall prevent:
   (A)   The possession of alcoholic liquor legally obtained as provided in the
act for the personal use of the possessor and his or her family and guests;
   (B)   The making, transport and delivery of wine, cider, beer, mead, perry
or other alcoholic liquor by a person from fruits, vegetables, honey or grains,
or the product thereof, by simple fermentation and without distillation, if
made solely for the use of the maker and his or her family and guests if such
alcoholic liquor is not sold or offered for sale; or if made without a permit
for an exhibition, festival or tasting competition, including exhibitions,
festivals or tasting competitions that are for nonprofit organizations such as
fundraising events, legally conducted under the act, if such alcoholic liquor
is not sold or offered for sale. Alcoholic liquor served pursuant to this
division (B) shall clearly be identified as alcoholic liquor that was
manufactured under an exception to the rules and regulations of the commission
by signage, and the location of the manufacturer shall be available upon
request. Free or reduced admission to the exhibition, festival, or tasting
competition shall not be considered a sale of the alcoholic liquor;
   (C)   Any duly licensed practicing physician or dentist from possessing or
using alcoholic liquor in the strict practice of his or her profession, any
hospital or other institution caring for the sick and diseased persons from
possessing and using alcoholic liquor for the treatment of bona fide patients
of such hospital or other institution, or any drug store employing a licensed
pharmacist from possessing or using alcoholic liquor in the compounding of
prescriptions of licensed physicians;
   (D)   The possession and dispensation of alcoholic liquor by an authorized
representative of any religion on the premises of a place of worship, for the
purpose of conducting any bona fide religious rite, ritual or ceremony;
   (E)   Persons who are 16 years old or older from carrying alcoholic liquor
from licensed establishments when they are accompanied by a person not a minor;
   (F)   Persons who are 16 years old or older from handling alcoholic liquor
containers and alcoholic liquor in the course of their employment;
   (G)   Persons who are 16 years old or older from removing and disposing of
alcoholic liquor containers for the convenience of the employer and customers
in the course of their employment;
   (H)   Persons who are 16 years old or older from completing a transaction
for the sale of alcoholic liquor in the course of their employment if they are
not handling or serving alcoholic liquor; or
   (I)   Persons who are 19 years old or older from serving or selling
alcoholic liquor in the course of their employment.
(Neb. RS 53-168.06) (Prior Code, § 10-119) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.18 ACQUISITION AND POSSESSION.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to purchase, receive, acquire,
accept or possess any alcoholic liquor acquired from any other person other
than one duly licensed to handle alcoholic liquor under this chapter and the
Nebraska Liquor Control Act, being Neb. RS 53-101 et seq. unless within
specific exemptions or exceptions provided in this chapter or the Act.
(Neb. RS 53-175)
   (B)   (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this section, it shall be
unlawful for any person to transport, import, bring, ship or cause to be
transported, imported, brought or shipped into this state for the personal use
of the possessor, his or her family, or guests a quantity of alcoholic liquor
in excess of nine liters in any one calendar month.
      (2)   Division (B)(1) of this section does not apply to a person
importing alcoholic liquor from a holder of a retail direct sales shipping
license or its equivalent, which alcoholic liquor is for personal use or for
use by such person’s family or guests, if the total amount imported by such
person in any one calendar year does not exceed 108 liters.
(Neb. RS 53-194.03) (Prior Code, § 10-120) (Ord. 96-23, passed 5-16-1996)
Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.19 REMOVAL OF INTOXICATED PERSONS FROM PUBLIC OR QUASI-PUBLIC PROPERTY.
   (A)   Any law enforcement officer with the power to arrest for traffic
violations may take a person who is intoxicated and in the judgment of the
officer dangerous to himself, herself or others, or who is otherwise
incapacitated, from any public or quasi-public property. An officer removing an
intoxicated person from public or quasi-public property shall make a reasonable
effort to take the intoxicated person to his or her home or to place the person
in any hospital, clinic or mental health substance use treatment center, or
with a medical doctor as may be necessary to preserve life or to prevent
injury. The effort at placement shall be deemed reasonable if the officer
contacts such facilities or doctor which have previously represented a
willingness to accept and treat such individuals and which regularly do accept
such individuals. If these efforts are unsuccessful or are not feasible, the
officer may then place the intoxicated person in civil protective custody,
except that civil protective custody shall be used only as long as is necessary
to preserve life or to prevent injury, and under no circumstances longer than
24 hours.
   (B)   The placement of the person in civil protective custody shall be
recorded at the facility or jail at which he or she is delivered and
communicated to his or her family or next of kin, if they can be located, or to
the person designated by the person taken into civil protective custody.
   (C)   The law enforcement officer who acts in compliance with this section
shall be deemed to be acting in the course of his or her official duty and
shall not be criminally or civilly liable for these actions.
   (D)   The taking of an individual into civil protective custody under this
section shall not be considered an arrest. No entry or other record shall be
made to indicate that the person has been arrested or charged with a crime.
   (E)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      MENTAL HEALTH SUBSTANCE USE TREATMENT. Has the same meaning as in Neb. RS
71-423.
      PUBLIC PROPERTY. Any public right-of-way, street, highway, alley, park or
other state, county or village-owned property.
      QUASI-PUBLIC PROPERTY. Private or publicly owned property utilized for
proprietary or business uses which invites patronage by the public or which
invites public ingress and egress.
(Neb. RS 53-1,121) (Prior Code, § 10-121) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.20 INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   The Board of Trustees shall cause frequent inspection to be made on
the premises of all retail licensees and bottle club licensees. If it is found
that any such licensee is violating any provision of this chapter, the Nebraska
Liquor Control Act, being Neb. RS 53-101 et seq. or the rules and regulations
of the Nebraska Liquor Control Commission, or is failing to observe in good
faith the purposes of this chapter or the Act, the license may be suspended,
canceled or revoked after the licensee is given an opportunity to be heard in
his or her defense.
   (B)   The Board of Trustees may inspect a charter bus providing service
under a certificate of public convenience and necessity granted by the Public
Service Commission when the owner or operator of the charter allows the
consumption of alcoholic liquor in the charter bus by an individual who is 21
years of age or older so long as the inspection is performed when the bus has
stopped for the purpose of allowing passengers to embark or disembark.
(Neb. RS 53-116.01) (Prior Code, § 10-122)
§ 110.21 CITIZEN COMPLAINTS.
   Any five residents of the village shall have the right to file a complaint
with the Board of Trustees stating that any retail licensee or bottle club
licensee subject to the jurisdiction of the Board of Trustees has been or is
violating any provision of the Nebraska Liquor Control Act, being Neb. RS 53-
101 et seq. or the rules or regulations issued pursuant to the Act. The
complaint shall be in writing in the form prescribed by the Board of Trustees
and shall be signed and sworn to by the parties complaining. The complaint
shall state the particular provision, rule or regulation believed to have been
violated and the facts in detail upon which belief is based. If the Board of
Trustees is satisfied that the complaint substantially charges a violation and
that from the facts alleged there is reasonable cause for that belief, it shall
set the matter for hearing within ten days from the date of the filing of the
complaint and shall serve notice upon the licensee of the time and place of the
hearing and of the particular charge in the complaint. The complaint shall in
all cases be disposed of by the Board of Trustees within 30 days from the date
the complaint was filed by resolution thereof, which resolution shall be deemed
the final order for purposes of appeal to the Nebraska Liquor Control
Commission as provided in Neb. RS 53-1,115.
(Neb. RS 53-134.04) (Prior Code, § 10-123)
§ 110.22 CATERING LICENSES.
   (A)   The holder of a license to sell alcoholic liquor at retail issued
under Neb. RS 53-124, a craft brewery license, a microdistillery license or a
farm winery license may obtain an annual catering license by filing an
application and license fee with the Nebraska Liquor Control Commission.
   (B)   Upon receipt from the Commission of the notice and a copy of the
application as provided in Neb. RS 53-124.12, the Board of Trustees shall
process the application in the same manner as provided in §
110.08.
   (C)   The Board of Trustees, with respect to catering licensees within its
corporate limits, may cancel a catering license for cause for the remainder of
the period for which that catering license is issued. Any person whose catering
license is canceled may appeal to the District Court.
   (D)   The Board of Trustees may impose an occupation tax on the business of
a catering licensee doing business within the liquor license jurisdiction of
the Board of Trustees. The tax may not exceed double the license fee for a
catering license.
(Neb. RS 53-124.12) (Prior Code, § 10-124) (Ord. 92-3, passed 5-21-1992; Ord.
95-31, passed 4-26-1995; Ord. 2001-1, passed 2-15-2001)
§ 110.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, or any person’s agent or servant, who violates any of the
provisions of this chapter, unless otherwise specifically provided herein,
shall be deemed guilty of an offense and upon conviction thereof shall be fined
in any sum not exceeding the amount set forth in the village master fee list. A
new violation shall be deemed to have been committed every 24 hours of failure
to comply with the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   (1)   Whenever a nuisance exists as defined in Chapter 92 of this code
of ordinances, the village may proceed by a suit in equity to enjoin, abate and
remove the same in the manner provided by law.
      (2)   Whenever, in any action, it is established that a nuisance exists,
the court may, together with the fine or penalty imposed, enter an order of
abatement as a part of the judgment in the case.
(Prior Code, § 10-801) (Ord. 2001-8, passed 2-15-2001)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-207, 17-505, 18-1720, 18-1722
CHAPTER 111: PEDDLERS AND HAWKERS
Section
   
111.01   Regulation
   
111.02   Exceptions
 
   
111.99   Penalty
§ 111.01 REGULATION.
   The practice of being in and upon residences in the village by solicitors,
peddlers, hawkers, itinerant merchants and transient vendors of merchandise,
not having been requested or invited to do so by the owner or owners, occupants
or occupants of said private residences, for the purpose of soliciting orders
for the sale of goods, wares, services and/or merchandise, and/or for the
purpose of disposing of and/or peddling or hawking the same, is hereby declared
to be a nuisance, and punishable as such nuisance.
(Ord. 2007-03, passed 4-17-2008) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.02 EXCEPTIONS.
   Those persons soliciting donations or the purchase of goods, wares or
merchandise for an established and sanctioned school fundraising campaign, or
other charitable organization recognized and approved by the Village Board of
Trustees, or those persons offering services from those entities underwritten
contract with the village to provide cable television, internet, telephone and
related utility services to the village shall be exempt from the provisions of
this chapter.
(Ord. 2007-03, passed 4-17-2008)
§ 111.99 PENALTY.
   A person who violates this chapter shall be punished by a fine not to exceed
the amount set forth in the village master fee list per offense per day.
(Ord. 2007-03, passed 4-17-2008)
CHAPTER 112: KENO LOTTERY
Section
   
112.01   Intent
   
112.02   Submission to village
   
112.03   Interruption or cessation of operations
   
112.04   Transfer of financial interest
   
112.05   Satellite keno location criteria
   
112.06   Restrictions on participation in village lottery
   
112.07   Keno checking account
   
112.08   Interlocal agreement
§ 112.01 INTENT.
   The following qualification standards are hereby established by the village
and shall be met by any individual, sole proprietorship, partnership, limited
liability company or corporation seeking to have its location qualify as an
authorized sales outlet location for conducting the village keno lottery.
(Res. 2017-04, passed 6-13-2017)
§ 112.02 SUBMISSION TO VILLAGE.
   Each applicant for a keno sales outlet location shall submit to the village:
   (A)   A copy of the completed Nebraska Schedule II/Form 50g-County/City
Lottery Sales Outlet Location application as required by the Division of
Charitable Gaming of the Nebraska Department of Revenue;
   (B)   A copy of the written agreement between the lottery operator and the
sales outlet location, hereinafter referred to as a satellite location; and
   (C)   Any other information reasonably requested by the village.
(Res. 2017-04, passed 6-13-2017)
§ 112.03 INTERRUPTION OR CESSATION OF OPERATIONS.
   The village shall be immediately notified of any interruption or cessation
of operations at any keno satellite location. The Village Board shall approve
all satellite locations subject to the procedures and criteria set forth herein
by resolution prior to the licensing of said satellite location and the
conducting of any keno lottery operation there.
(Res. 2017-04, passed 6-13-2017)
§ 112.04 TRANSFER OF FINANCIAL INTEREST.
   The direct or indirect transfer of any financial interest in the satellite
location shall automatically terminate the village’s approval of said satellite
location provided, however, the satellite operator shall be permitted to remain
in operation for a period not to exceed 120 days under an agency agreement with
the prior existing satellite operator. During said 120-day period, the
applicant shall diligently pursue the application process and procedure. Also
during said 120-day period the village may revoke continued operation of the
proposed application for due cause. Conduct of the keno lottery at said
satellite location shall thereafter continue only upon application to the
village and approval thereof pursuant to the terms and conditions of this
resolution.
(Res. 2017-04, passed 6-13-2017)
§ 112.05 SATELLITE KENO LOCATION CRITERIA.
   (A)   All locations shall provide the number of off-street parking stalls
required by the regulations of the village.
   (B)   All locations shall provide seating capacity sufficient to accommodate
persons who may wish to come to the location to observe or play keno or to
engage in any other activities conducted on the premises.
   (C)   All locations shall have sufficient facilities to permit the sale of
keno tickets.
   (D)   All locations shall have a board or other monitor, clearly visible to
players, on which the winning numbers are displayed.
   (E)   All locations shall have proper security for the keno lottery
operations and associated activities.
   (F)   All persons with any direct or indirect financial interest in the
operation of keno at any location must be of good character and financially
responsible.
   (G)   The operation of the keno lottery at any satellite location must not
create any undue impact on the surrounding neighborhood due to noise,
congestion or other circumstances.
   (H)   The lottery operator shall not be in material default under the
lottery operator agreement at the time the application is acted upon by the
Village Board.
   (I)   All locations and operations at all locations must meet all
requirements of applicable federal, state and local law.
(Res. 2017-04, passed 6-13-2017)
§ 112.06 RESTRICTIONS ON PARTICIPATION IN VILLAGE LOTTERY.
   (A)   No individual under the age of 19 shall play or participate in any way
in the lottery established and conducted by the village.
   (B)   No owner or officer of a lottery operator with whom the village
contracts to conduct its lottery shall play the lottery conducted by the
village at any time.
   (C)   No employee or agent of the village, lottery operator or sales outlet
location shall play the lottery of the village during such time as he or she is
actually working at such lottery or while on duty for the lottery. This
restriction also prohibits an individual from purchasing a multirace ticket for
which some or all of the games will be called while the individual is on duty.
(Res. 2017-08, passed 6-13-2017)
§ 112.07 KENO CHECKING ACCOUNT.
   (A)   The Village Board has determined it to be in the best interest of the
village to establish a keno checking account. This checking account is located
at Commercial State Bank, 127 West Main Street, Cedar Bluffs, Nebraska.
   (B)   The village shall execute and deliver to said bank a duly signed
document of the completed banking resolution and that the authority to transact
business, including, but not limited to, the maintenance of the checking
account, shall be as contained in said resolution with the named officers
therein authorized to so act on behalf of the village assigned authorization
for the keno checking account.
(Res. 2017-09, passed 6-13-2017)
§ 112.08 INTERLOCAL AGREEMENT.
   (A)   Under provisions of the Interlocal Cooperation Act, Neb. RS 13-801
through 13-827, the village is authorized to enter into an interlocal agreement
to provide for the establishment and operation of a keno satellite location in
the village by the City of Fremont under its lottery operator agreement with
EHPV Lottery Services LLC, a Nebraska limited liability company.
   (B)   The village desires to enter into such interlocal agreement to provide
keno satellite locations in the village.
   (C)   It is in the best interests of the village to enter into an interlocal
agreement for the operation of keno facilities in the village, and that the
village should enter into an agreement with the City of Fremont to allow the
establishment and operation of keno satellite facilities under the Fremont
lottery conducted under its Lottery Operator Agreement with EHPV Lottery
Services LLC. Pursuant to this section, the village is authorized to execute
and approve the interlocal agreement with the City of Fremont, a copy of said
interlocal agreement is attached hereto and incorporated by this reference as
if fully set forth herein.
(Res. 2017-04, passed 6-13-2017)
CHAPTER 113: TRAILERS
Section
   
113.01   Definitions
   
113.02   Permit required
   
113.03   Maintenance
   
113.04   Inspections
   
113.05   Liability of owners
   
113.06   Management
   
113.07   Revocation of permit
   
113.08   Prohibited location
   
113.09   Prohibited parking
   
113.10   Authorized camp
   
113.11   Alterations and additions
   
113.12   Water supply
   
113.13   Applicability of Plumbing, Electrical and Building Codes
   
113.14   Permitted exceptions
   
113.15   Temporary storage
 
   
113.99   Penalty
§ 113.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning. When no
definition is specified, the normal dictionary usage of the word shall apply.
   PERMIT. A written permit issued by the Village Clerk, permitting the trailer
court to operate under this code and any regulations promulgated thereunder.
   STREET. Any public street, avenue, road, alley or highway, located in the
village and established for the use of vehicles, the boundaries of which are
hereby determined to be the outer boundaries of said street, avenue, road or
alley, as platted and dedicated as shown by the official records of the village
and the county as shown on the official records in the office of the County
Clerk as official streets, avenues, roads or alleys within the corporate
limits.
   TRAILER CAMP. Any park, trailer park, trailer court, court, camp, site, lot,
parcel or tract of land designed, maintained or intended for the purpose of
supplying a location or accommodations for any trailer coach or trailer coaches
and upon which any trailer coach or trailer coaches are parked and shall
include all buildings used or intended for use as part of the equipment thereof
whether a charge is made for the use of the trailer camp and its facilities or
not. TRAILER CAMP shall not include automobile or trailer sales lots on which
unoccupied trailers are parked for purposes of inspection and sale.
   TRAILER COACH OR TRAILER. Any vehicle or structure so designed and
constructed in such manner as will permit occupancy thereof as sleeping
quarters for one or more persons, or the conduct of any business or profession,
occupation or trade (or use as a selling or advertising device), and so
designed that it is or may be mounted on wheels and used as a conveyance on
highways or village streets, propelled or drawn by its own or other motive
power, excepting a device used exclusively upon stationary rails or tracks.
   TRAILER SPACE. A plot of ground within a trailer court, designated for the
accommodation of one trailer coach.
   TRAVEL TRAILER, CAMPER and CONVERTED BUS. Any portable structure or vehicle
supported upon its own axle or axles used or so constructed as to permit its
being used as a conveyance upon the public streets or highways and duly
licensable as such and constructed in such a manner as will permit occupancy
thereof as a dwelling or sleeping place for one or more persons for a limited
or temporary time or basically designed for travel or camping purposes,
propelled or drawn by its own or other motive power.
(Prior Code, § 10-301)
§ 113.02 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to construct, maintain, operate or
alter any trailer camp within the corporate limits unless he or she holds a
valid permit, in the name of such person for the specific trailer camp. All
applications for permits shall be made to the County Clerk, who shall issue a
permit upon compliance by the applicant with provisions of this code relative
to trailer camps. No permit shall be transferable. Every person holding such a
permit shall give notice in writing to the Village Clerk within 72 hours after
having sold, transferred, given away or otherwise disposed of any interest in
or control of any trailer court. Such notice shall include the name and address
of the person succeeding to the ownership or control of such trailer court.
   (B)   Applications for permits shall be in writing, signed by the applicant,
and accompanied by an affidavit of the applicant as to the truth of the
application, and shall contain the following:
      (1)   The name and address of the applicant;
      (2)   The location and legal description of the trailer court;
      (3)   A complete plan of the trailer court, showing compliance with all
applicable provisions of this code and regulations promulgated thereunder; and
      (4)   Such further information as may be requested by the Board of Health
to enable him or her to determine that the proposed trailer court will comply
with legal requirements.
(Prior Code, § 10-302)
§ 113.03 MAINTENANCE.
   All trailer camps shall be maintained under the management and supervision
of the owner or person in control of the premises on which the same is located,
or of a duly authorized representative of such owner, who shall be personally
responsible for the maintenance of such trailer camp in accordance with all
sanitary and fire protection rules and regulations of the village and the
state.
(Prior Code, § 10-303)
§ 113.04 INSPECTIONS.
   All trailer camps shall be under the supervision of the Board of Health,
which Board shall make and provide for inspections of trailer camps at
reasonable times, and shall recommend to the Board of Trustees such additional
rules and regulations as may be deemed advisable or necessary for the
sanitation, safety and proper maintenance of said trailer camps.
(Prior Code, § 10-304)
§ 113.05 LIABILITY OF OWNERS.
   The operator of a trailer camp shall be primarily liable for all utility
service bills charged against each trailer house and shall make monthly
remittances to the village for such bills.
(Prior Code, § 10-305)
§ 113.06 MANAGEMENT.
   (A)   In every trailer camp there shall be an office building in which shall
be located the office of the person in charge of said camp. A copy of the camp
license shall be posted therein and the camp register shall at all times be
kept in said office.
   (B)   It is hereby made the duty of the attendant or person in charge,
together with the licensee to:
      (1)   Keep at all times a register of all occupants of each trailer space
which shall be open at all times to inspection by officers of the village
showing for all such occupants:
         (a)   Names and addresses;
         (b)   Dates of entrance and departure;
         (c)   License numbers of all trailers and other towed automobiles; and
         (d)    States issuing such licenses.
      (2)   Maintain the camp in a clean, orderly and sanitary condition at all
times;
      (3)   Report to the Director of Health all cases of persons or animals
affected or suspected of being affected with any communicable disease; and
      (4)   Prohibit the use of any trailer by a greater number of occupants
than that which it is designated to accommodate.
(Prior Code, § 10-306)
§ 113.07 REVOCATION OF PERMIT.
   A permit to establish and maintain a trailer camp may be revoked by the
Board of Trustees for cause, at any time, for a violation of the provisions of
this code or of the rules and regulations relating to trailers, or for any
other cause or conduct, reasonably deemed by the Board of Trustees as
sufficient cause of revocation of such permit. Before the revocation of such
permit, the village shall cause to be served on the operator of such trailer
camp, a notice to appear and show cause on a specified day and at a specified
time, why his or her permit for his or her trailer camp should not be revoked.
Such notice to show cause may be served by mailing the same in the United
States mails to the address of the operator given in his or her application in
such permit with sufficient postage affixed thereto. The operator of the
trailer camp involved shall be given reasonable opportunity to be heard at the
time fixed for his or her appearance to show cause, and no permit for such
trailer camp shall be revoked until the operator involved has been heard at the
designated time if he or she desires to be heard.
(Prior Code, § 10-307)
§ 113.08 PROHIBITED LOCATION.
   After the effective date hereof, except as otherwise provided, it shall be
unlawful for any person to park a trailer or trailer coach within the corporate
limits for purposes of using said trailers as a dwelling or sleeping place for
one or more persons or the conduct of any business or profession, occupation or
trade, or use as a selling or advertising device, except in a designated and
approved trailer camp for which a permit has been issued and is currently
valid.
(Prior Code, § 10-308) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.09 PROHIBITED PARKING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to park any trailer coach, travel
trailer, camper or converted bus on any official street, avenue, road, alley or
highway within the corporate limits for a period of time in excess of two
hours, and then only between the hours of sunrise and sunset, and subject to
any other and further prohibitions, regulations or limitations imposed by the
traffic and parking regulations as any resolution of the Board of Trustees may
provide relating thereto.
(Prior Code, § 10-309)
§ 113.10 AUTHORIZED CAMP.
   (A)   Trailer camps shall be located on well-drained sites, and shall be so
located that drainage will not endanger any water supply. All such trailer
courts shall be in areas free from marshes, swamps or other potential breeding
places for insects or rodents.
   (B)   The area of the trailer camp shall be large enough to accommodate the
following:
      (1)   The designated number of trailer court spaces;
      (2)   Necessary streets and roadways;
      (3)   Parking areas for motor vehicles; and
      (4)    Service areas and playgrounds for trailer camps in which
independent trailer coaches only are parked.
   (C)   The number of trailers to be accommodated in any trailer camp shall
not exceed the number obtained by dividing the total square foot area of the
trailer camp site by 2,600. Each trailer space shall be clearly defined and
shall be laid out in such a manner that a minimum of 20 feet of space exists
between any two trailers or ten feet between any trailer and any building. No
trailers shall be less than five feet from any adjacent property of the trailer
court. Each trailer space shall abut on a driveway with unobstructed access to
a public street. No trailer camp shall be licensed unless the same is large
enough to accommodate a minimum of 15 trailers.
   (D)   It shall be illegal to park a trailer coach less than two feet from
any street or highway right-of-way, or so that any part of such trailer will
obstruct any roadway or walkway.
   (E)   It shall be illegal to allow any trailer coach to remain while being
occupied for dwelling or sleeping purposes in a trailer camp unless a trailer
space is available.
   (F)   Access roads shall be provided to each trailer coach space. Each
access road shall be continuous, shall connect with a street or highway, and
shall have a minimum width of 20 feet.
   (G)   Areas shall be provided for the parking of motor vehicles. Such areas
shall have motor vehicle parking spaces in a number equal to or in excess of
the number of trailer coach spaces provided.
   (H)   Playground areas, when required, shall be provided, and shall be
restricted to such use. These areas shall be protected from the main highway
and from parking areas. A minimum of 100 square feet per coach space shall be
made available in one or more places for such playground areas.
(Prior Code, § 10-310) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.11 ALTERATIONS AND ADDITIONS.
   (A)   No permanent enclosed additions of any kind shall be built onto, nor
become a part of, any trailer coach. Skirting of coaches is permissible, but
such skirting shall not attach the trailer permanently to the ground, provide a
harborage for rodents, or create a fire hazard.
   (B)   The wheels of the trailer shall not be removed, except temporarily
when necessary for repairs. Jacks or stabilizers may be placed under the frame
of the trailer to prevent movement on the springs while the trailer is parked
and occupied. Four anchors shall be provided for each trailer coach space. Each
trailer shall be anchored as soon as possible after location on space.
(Prior Code, § 10-311)
§ 113.12 WATER SUPPLY.
   An adequate supply of pure water, furnished through a pipe distribution
system connected directly with a village water main, with supply outlets
located at every trailer space, shall be provided.
(Prior Code, § 10-312)
§ 113.13 APPLICABILITY OF PLUMBING, ELECTRICAL AND BUILDING CODES.
   All plumbing, electrical, building, and other work on or at any camp shall
be in accordance with the laws of the village regulating such work.
(Prior Code, § 10-313)
§ 113.14 PERMITTED EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   Trailers commonly referred to as “double wide” or any other trailer
coach or coaches having a minimum outside width of 20 feet and containing 800
square feet or more of living space, when placed upon permanent foundation or
support, with axle, wheels and towing apparatus removed, on premises owned or
leased by the owner of said trailer coach, when used as a residence or a trade
or business shall be exempt and excepted from the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   Any trailer coach which qualified under the exceptions herein shall be
so located and placed in such a manner that the same shall comply with the
building code, and further shall comply and be so placed in such a manner as to
safeguard the health and safety of the occupants of the trailer and of the
general public.
(Prior Code, § 10-314)
§ 113.15 TEMPORARY STORAGE.
   It shall be lawful for any person to store or otherwise keep on any premises
travel trailers, or campers, propelled or drawn by their own or other motive
power, upon any area; provided, that said trailer or camper be stored as near
as possible to the back of the premises. It further shall be lawful for any
person to keep and maintain a travel trailer or camper, propelled or drawn by
its own or other motive power, upon any premises to be used for occupancy as
dwelling or sleeping space for any period not to exceed two weeks in duration.
Any travel trailer or camper, propelled or drawn by its own or other motive
power, so temporarily placed shall be placed upon said premises or portion
thereof as far away as possible from the street abutting said premises.
(Prior Code, § 10-315)
§ 113.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, or any person’s agent or servant, who violates any of the
provisions of this chapter, unless otherwise specifically provided herein,
shall be deemed guilty of an offense and upon conviction thereof shall be fined
in any sum not exceeding the amount set forth in the village master fee list. A
new violation shall be deemed to have been committed every 24 hours of failure
to comply with the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   (1)   Whenever a nuisance exists as defined in Chapter 92 of this code
of ordinances, the village may proceed by a suit in equity to enjoin, abate and
remove the same in the manner provided by law.
      (2)   Whenever, in any action, it is established that a nuisance exists,
the court may, together with the fine or penalty imposed, enter an order of
abatement as a part of the judgment in the case.
(Prior Code, § 10-801) (Ord. 2001-8, passed 2-15-2001)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-207, 17-505, 18-1720, 18-1722
CHAPTER 114: JUNK YARDS
Section
   
114.01   Definitions
   
114.02   Regulation
   
114.03   Owner’s responsibility
   
114.04   Inspections
   
114.05   Nuisance
   
114.06   Records
   
114.07   Premises
   
114.08   Rodents
 
   
114.99   Penalty
§ 114.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning. Where no
definition is specified, the normal dictionary usage of the word shall apply.
   JUNK. Includes scrap metals, scrap materials, whether they are liquids,
solids or gases, branches of trees, and dismantled or wrecked automobiles,
tractors and machinery or parts thereof.
   JUNK COLLECTOR. Any person going from place to place, or house to house,
collecting or buying iron, copper, brass and zinc scraps, rags, bottles or old
paper, and selling the same to a junk dealer.
   JUNK DEALER. Any person engaged in the business of buying, selling,
receiving, collecting or dealing in metal scraps, scrap iron, metals of any
kind and in any form, bottles, rags and used tires; the dismantling or taking
apart of automobiles, other than for repair, or the wrecking of automobiles;
the storage of automobiles unfit for operation; the storage of automobile
bodies and parts thereof; the storage of automobiles or parts thereof kept for
salvage; the storage of scraps from automobiles; or the storage of iron, metals
or junk.
   JUNK YARD. Any place in the village where or from which any person shall
conduct, engage in or carry on the business of junk dealer as herein defined.
(Neb. RS 17-207) (Prior Code, § 10-401)
§ 114.02 REGULATION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to own, operate or hold open for public
use any junk yard as herein defined without first obtaining a license to do so
from the village. Application for a license to own, operate or hold open for
public use any junk yard shall be made in writing to the Village Clerk and
shall require such information and documents, or copies thereof, that the Board
of Trustees deems necessary to determine whether to grant or reject the said
application. Upon approval of the application, the Village Clerk shall issue
the license upon the payment of a fee set by resolution of the Board of
Trustees. The licensee shall then be subject to any occupation taxes, bond
requirements, and other rules and regulations which the Board of Trustees may
determine to be beneficial to the village. Any such bond shall be set by
resolution of the Board of Trustees and will be conditioned upon the faithful
observance of the provisions of this code. The bond shall be held for the
benefit of any person who may suffer damage by the improper management of the
said junk yard.
(Prior Code, § 10-402) Penalty, see §
114.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 69-202
§ 114.03 OWNER’S RESPONSIBILITY.
   The owner of the premises upon which a junk yard is located shall be equally
responsible with the operator, director or employee thereof to see that the
provisions of this code will not be violated. In the event the provisions of
this code are violated, he or she shall be equally liable with the operator,
director or employee for the said violation of the provisions herein.
(Prior Code, § 10-403)
§ 114.04 INSPECTIONS.
   The village police, health officials and the Board of Trustees shall have
the power and authority to inspect and examine the premises on which a junk
yard is located; provided, that the said inspection is at a reasonable time.
Upon a finding that the owner, operator, director or employee has allowed a
health or safety hazard to develop, the Board of Trustees shall give written
notice to the owner to remove the said health hazard within 30 days.
(Prior Code, § 10-404)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 69-204
§ 114.05 NUISANCE.
   Any junk yard that becomes a danger to the public health, or is not operated
in the manner herein provided, shall be deemed to be a public nuisance after
the said 30-day period of grace. The Board of Trustees shall then request the
Municipal Attorney to prosecute the owner, operator, director or employee of
the said nuisance for violation of the provisions of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 10-405)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 18-1720
§ 114.06 RECORDS.
   Any person who shall be engaged in the junk business shall keep a book which
shall be legibly written in ink at the time of any purchase of goods or
articles at the time the same was received and the name, residence and
description of the person doing the selling. The said book, as well as the
article purchased, shall be at all reasonable times subject to the inspection
of the Board of Trustees or any member of the village police.
(Prior Code, § 10-406)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 69-204
§ 114.07 PREMISES.
   Any area or parcel of land used as a junk yard shall not have more than two
entrances and two exits each of which shall not exceed 15 feet in width at the
perimeter of the premises. Such premises or parcel of land shall be enclosed
with either a solid nontransparent wall or fence or link-weave steel wire, or
combination thereof, with a minimum height of seven feet from the ground level,
except for entrances and exits. The fence shall not contain any poster or
advertising of any kind except one sign of the licensee not exceeding 100
square feet.
(Prior Code, § 10-407)
§ 114.08 RODENTS.
   Any person who owns, operates, directs or is employed by a junk yard shall
make a diligent and continuous effort to exterminate all rats, mice and other
harmful rodents frequenting the said junk yard.
(Prior Code, § 10-408)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 18-1720
§ 114.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, or any person’s agent or servant, who violates any of the
provisions of this chapter, unless otherwise specifically provided herein,
shall be deemed guilty of an offense and upon conviction thereof shall be fined
in any sum not exceeding the amount set forth in the village master fee list. A
new violation shall be deemed to have been committed every 24 hours of failure
to comply with the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   (1)   Whenever a nuisance exists as defined in Chapter 92 of this code
of ordinances, the village may proceed by a suit in equity to enjoin, abate and
remove the same in the manner provided by law.
      (2)   Whenever, in any action, it is established that a nuisance exists,
the court may, together with the fine or penalty imposed, enter an order of
abatement as a part of the judgment in the case.
(Prior Code, § 10-801) (Ord. 2001-8, passed 2-15-2001)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-207, 17-505, 18-1720, 18-1722
CHAPTER 115: RAILROAD COMPANIES
Section
   
115.01   Safe crossing
 
   
115.99   Penalty
§ 115.01 SAFE CROSSING.
   It shall be the duty of every railroad company doing business in, or
traveling through, the village to keep in a suitable, and safe condition the
crossings and right-of-way in the village. If any such crossing shall at any
time fall into disrepair and become unsafe, or inconvenient for public travel,
the Board of Trustees may, by resolution, call upon the said company to make
whatever repairs that it may deem necessary to correct the dangerous condition.
Notice of the said resolution shall be served upon the local agent of the said
company. In the event that the railroad shall fail, or neglect to repair, and
correct the said condition as aforesaid within 48 hours, neglect for each 24
hours thereafter shall be deemed, and is hereby made a separate, and distinct
offense against the provisions herein.
(Prior Code, § 10-501) Penalty, see §
115.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-143, 17-144, 17-551, 17-552, 74-1333, 74-
1336
§ 115.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, or any person’s agent or servant, who violates any of the
provisions of this chapter, unless otherwise specifically provided herein,
shall be deemed guilty of an offense and upon conviction thereof shall be fined
in any sum not exceeding the amount set forth in the village master fee list. A
new violation shall be deemed to have been committed every 24 hours of failure
to comply with the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   (1)   Whenever a nuisance exists as defined in
Chapter 92 of this code of ordinances, the village may proceed by a suit in
equity to enjoin, abate and remove the same in the manner provided by law.
      (2)   Whenever, in any action, it is established that a nuisance exists,
the court may, together with the fine or penalty imposed, enter an order of
abatement as a part of the judgment in the case.
(Prior Code, § 10-801) (Ord. 2001-8, passed 2-15-2001)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-207, 17-505, 18-1720, 18-1722
CHAPTER 116: STOCKYARDS
Section
   
116.01   Unlawful
 
   
116.99   Penalty
§ 116.01 UNLAWFUL.
   It shall be unlawful for any person within the corporate limits to use or
employ any building or premises, now or hereafter erected, or existing in this
village, as a stockyard, animal weighing pen, whether temporarily used for
weighing, loading or unloading during transportation or not, or as a commercial
cattle, hog, sheep or animal feed lot, or to use or employ buildings, sheds or
pavilions used as interior sales barns. Nothing herein shall apply to any
person now operating within the corporate limits a commercial sale barn,
stockyard or animal weighing pen, or who presently uses or employs buildings,
sheds or pavilions as interior sale barns, but shall apply to any assignee of
such person.
(Prior Code, § 10-601) Penalty, see §
116.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-121, 18-1720
§ 116.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, or any person’s agent or servant, who violates any of the
provisions of this chapter, unless otherwise specifically provided herein,
shall be deemed guilty of an offense and upon conviction thereof shall be fined
in any sum not exceeding the amount set forth in the village master fee list. A
new violation shall be deemed to have been committed every 24 hours of failure
to comply with the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   (1)   Whenever a nuisance exists as defined in 
Chapter 92 of this code of ordinances, the village may proceed by a suit in
equity to enjoin, abate and remove the same in the manner provided by law.
      (2)   Whenever, in any action, it is established that a nuisance exists,
the court may, together with the fine or penalty imposed, enter an order of
abatement as a part of the judgment in the case.
(Prior Code, § 10-801) (Ord. 2001-8, passed 2-15-2001)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-207, 17-505, 18-1720, 18-1722
CHAPTER 117: OCCUPATION TAXES
Section
   
117.01   Amounts
   
117.02   Fire insurance companies
   
117.03   Collection date
   
117.04   Certificates
   
117.05   Failure to pay
 
   
117.99   Penalty
§ 117.01 AMOUNTS.
   For the purpose of raising revenue an occupation tax is hereby levied on the
following businesses:
 
Fire insurance companies             Amount as set forth in the village master
                                     fee list
Retailer of alcoholic beverages,     Amount as set forth in the village master
including beer, on-sale and off-sale fee list
 
(Prior Code, § 10-701)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-525
§ 117.02 FIRE INSURANCE COMPANIES.
   For the use, support and maintenance of the Municipal Fire Department all
revenue realized from the occupation tax on Fire Insurance Companies shall be
appropriated to the Fire Department Fund.
(Prior Code, § 10-702)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 35-106
§ 117.03 COLLECTION DATE.
   Unless provided otherwise or levied daily, any occupation taxes imposed by
the Board of Trustees shall be due and payable on May 1 of each year, except
that any occupation taxes collected from Class C liquor licensees shall be due
and payable on November 1 of each year. Upon payment of an occupation tax by
any person to the Village Clerk, the Clerk shall give a receipt, properly
dated, specifying the person paying the tax and the amount paid. Any revenue
collected shall be deposited into the General Fund by the Village Treasurer
except as otherwise specifically provided. The Treasurer shall keep an accurate
account of all revenue turned over to him or her. All forms and receipts herein
mentioned shall be issued in duplicate. One copy shall then be kept by each
party in the transaction.
(Prior Code, § 10-703)
§ 117.04 CERTIFICATES.
   The receipt issued after the payment of any occupation tax shall be the
occupation tax certificate. The certificate shall specify the amount of the tax
and the name of the person and business that paid the tax. The occupation tax
certificate shall then be displayed in a prominent place or carried in such a
way as to be easily accessible while business is being conducted.
(Prior Code, § 10-704)
§ 117.05 FAILURE TO PAY.
   If any person, company, or corporation fails or neglects to pay the
occupation taxes as provided in this chapter on the day they become due and
payable, the village shall then proceed by civil suit to collect the amount
due. All delinquent taxes shall bear interest at the rate of 1% per month until
paid.
(Prior Code, § 10-705)
§ 117.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, or any person’s agent or servant, who violates any of the
provisions of this chapter, unless otherwise specifically provided herein,
shall be deemed guilty of an offense and upon conviction thereof shall be fined
in any sum not exceeding the amount as set forth in the village master fee
list. A new violation shall be deemed to have been committed every 24 hours of
failure to comply with the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   (1)   Whenever a nuisance exists as defined in 
Chapter 92 of this code of ordinances, the village may proceed by a suit in
equity to enjoin, abate and remove the same in the manner provided by law.
      (2)   Whenever, in any action, it is established that a nuisance exists,
the court may, together with the fine or penalty imposed, enter an order of
abatement as a part of the judgment in the case.
(Prior Code, § 10-801) (Ord. 2001-8, passed 2-15-2001)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-207, 17-505, 18-1720, 18-1722
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC PEACE
      
131.   OFFENSES AGAINST PROPERTY
      
132.   SEX OFFENDER REGISTRY
CHAPTER 130: OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC PEACE
Section
   
130.01   Resisting officer
   
130.02   Obstructing a peace officer
   
130.03   Interfering with a firefighter
   
130.04   Disturbing the peace
   
130.05   Disorderly conduct
   
130.06   Fire equipment
   
130.07   Fire hose
   
130.08   Removal and possession of highway signs, markers or notices
   
130.09   Disturbing the peace
   
130.10   Loud car stereos
   
130.11   Skate-boards, roller-skates, roller-blades and coasters
   
130.12   Drinking on public property; possession of open alcoholic beverage
container
   
130.13   Curfew
   
130.14   Discharge of firearms
   
130.15   Slingshots; air guns
   
130.16   Prohibited places for carrying concealed firearms by permit holders
 
   
130.99   Penalty
§ 130.01 RESISTING OFFICER.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to resist any village police officer
when such officer is in the lawful performance of his or her duties.
(Neb. RS 28-729) (Prior Code, § 6-301) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.02 OBSTRUCTING A PEACE OFFICER.
   (A)   A person commits the offense of obstructing a peace officer when, by
using or threatening to use violence, force, physical interference or obstacle,
he or she intentionally obstructs, impairs or hinders:
      (1)   The enforcement of the penal law or the preservation of the peace
by a peace officer or judge acting under color of his or her official
authority; or
      (2)   A police animal assisting a peace officer acting pursuant to the
peace officer’s official authority.
   (B)   For purposes of this section, POLICE ANIMAL means a horse or dog owned
or controlled by the state or any county, city or village for the purpose of
assisting a peace officer acting pursuant to his or her official authority.
(Neb. RS 28-906) (Prior Code, § 6-302) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.03 INTERFERING WITH A FIREFIGHTER.
   A person commits the offense of interfering with a firefighter if at any
time and place where any firefighter is discharging or attempting to discharge
any official duties, the person willfully:
   (A)   Resists or interferes with the lawful efforts of any firefighter in
the discharge or attempt to discharge an official duty;
   (B)   Disobeys the lawful orders given by any firefighter while performing
his or her duties;
   (C)   Engages in any disorderly conduct which delays or prevents a fire from
being extinguished within a reasonable time; or
   (D)   Forbids or prevents others from assisting or extinguishing a fire, or
exhorts another person, as to whom he or she has no legal right or obligation
to protect or control, not to assist in extinguishing a fire.
(Neb. RS 28-908) (Prior Code, § 6-303) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.04 DISTURBING THE PEACE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person intentionally to disturb the peace and
quiet of any person, family or neighborhood.
(Neb. RS 28-1322) (Prior Code, § 6-304) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.05 DISORDERLY CONDUCT.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in conduct or behavior which
disturbs the peace and good order of the village by clamor or noise,
intoxication, drunkenness, fighting or using obscene or profane language in the
streets or other public places or otherwise violating the public peace by
indecent or disorderly conduct or lewd or lascivious behavior.
(Prior Code, § 6-313) Penalty, see §
130.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority to regulate noise, riots, and routs, see Neb. RS 17-556
§ 130.06 FIRE EQUIPMENT.
   It shall be unlawful for any person who is not an active member of the
Village Fire Department to deface, destroy, handle or loiter about the
equipment and property of the Fire Department.
(Prior Code, § 6-319) Penalty, see §
130.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 28-519
§ 130.07 FIRE HOSE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, without the consent of the Fire Chief,
or the Assistant Fire Chief to drive any vehicle over the unprotected hose of
the Fire Department at any time.
(Prior Code, § 6-320) Penalty, see §
130.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 60-6,184
§ 130.08 REMOVAL AND POSSESSION OF HIGHWAY SIGNS, MARKERS OR NOTICES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, other than those authorized to do so,
to remove any sign, traffic control or traffic surveillance device placed along
a public street, road or highway for traffic control, warning or informational
purposes. Moreover, it shall be unlawful for any person to possess such a sign
or device which has been removed in violation of this section.
(Prior Code, § 6-322) Penalty, see §
130.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 60-6,130
§ 130.09 DISTURBING THE PEACE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to assemble or gather within
the village with the intent to do an unlawful or disorderly act or acts, by
force or violence against the village, or residents therein, or who shall
disturb the public peace, quiet, security, repose or sense of morality. Any
person or persons so assembled or gathered shall be deemed to be guilty of a
misdemeanor.
(Neb. RS 28-818) (Prior Code, § 6-325) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.10 LOUD CAR STEREOS.
   (A)   Definitions.
      (a)   Uncontrolled sound amplification systems in vehicles disturb the
peace and tranquillity of persons and neighborhoods within the vicinity of the
sound and creates a traffic hazard. Excessively loud amplification systems
distract other drivers and interfere with the sounds of police and emergency
vehicles. Noise from sound amplification systems in vehicles cannot be
practically regulated by imposing decibel limits as decibel measurements are
difficult to obtain from moving vehicles.
      (2)   For the purpose of this section SOUND AMPLIFICATION SYSTEM means
any device, instrument or system, whether electrical or mechanical or otherwise
for amplifying sound or for producing or reproducing sound, including, but not
limited to, any radio, stereo, musical instrument, compact disc, or sound or
musical recorder or player.
   (B)   Limitations on use.
      (1)   Except as authorized by law, no person shall operate or permit the
operation of any sound amplification system in or on a vehicle in such a manner
or with such volume as to annoy or disturb the quiet, comfort or repose of any
person or neighborhood in the vicinity.
      (2)   Except as authorized by law, no person shall operate or permit the
operation of any sound amplification system in or on a vehicle which can be
heard at a distance of 150 feet or which causes a person to be aware of
vibrations accompanying the sound at a distance of 150 feet.
   (C)   Exemptions.
      (1)   Amplifications systems being operated to request assistance of an
emergency nature or to warn of a hazardous situation;
      (2)   Authorized emergency vehicles;
      (3)   Vehicles operated by utility companies;
      (4)   Vehicles used in parades, concerts, festivals, fairs or similar
activities subject to any sound limits in any approval by the village; or
      (5)   Amplification systems in vehicles which operate on private property
with the permission of the owner and which are not audible beyond the property
line.
(Prior Code, § 6-329) (Ord. 2000-1, passed 6-15-2000) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.11 SKATE-BOARDS, ROLLER-SKATES, ROLLER-BLADES AND COASTERS.
   (A)   It is unlawful to ride a skate-board or other recreational conveyance
upon and/or along sidewalks or streets on Main Street between First Street and
Second Street, also known as the business district.
   (B)   All persons riding a recreational conveyance must obey all traffic
laws regarding their use on roadways and sidewalks. All pedestrian traffic must
be given the right-of-way. No ramps or jumps of a temporary or permanent nature
shall be constructed on public property or upon the public right-of-way by
private individuals. Violation of this section is a misdemeanor and can result
in the seizure of the recreational conveyance as evidence of the violation.
(Prior Code, § 6-330) (Ord. 2000-5, passed 1-18-2001) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.12 DRINKING ON PUBLIC PROPERTY; POSSESSION OF OPEN ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE
CONTAINER.
   (A)   Except when the Nebraska Liquor Control Commission has issued a
license as provided in Neb. RS 53-186(2) or as provided in Neb. RS 60-6,211.08,
it is unlawful for any person to consume alcoholic liquor upon property owned
or controlled by the state or any governmental subdivision thereof unless
authorized by the governing bodies having jurisdiction over such property.
(Neb. RS 53-186)
   (B)   It is unlawful for any person owning, operating, managing or
conducting any bottle club, dance hall, restaurant, café, or club or any place
open to the general public to permit or allow any person to consume alcoholic
liquor upon the premises except as permitted by a license issued for such
premises pursuant to the Nebraska Liquor Control Act. It is unlawful for any
person to consume alcoholic liquor in any bottle club, dance hall, restaurant,
café or club or any place open to the general public except as permitted by a
license issued for such premises pursuant to the Act. This division (B) does
not apply to a retail licensee while lawfully engaged in the catering of
alcoholic beverages or to limousines or buses operated under Neb. RS 60-
6,211.08.
(Neb. RS 53-186.01) (Prior Code, § 6-631) (Ord. 2001-6, passed 2-15-2001)
Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.13 CURFEW.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any child 16 years of age and under, not in
the company of his or her parents, guardian or other adult having legal care
and custody of said child, to loiter, play, congregate or run at large in any
public place, empty building, vacant lot or any street, sidewalk or alley or
operate or ride within or upon any motor vehicle upon the streets, alleys,
parks or parking areas, without any apparent lawful destination, or parked
thereon or therein, exclusive of his or her own home, between the hours of 12:
00 midnight and 5:00 a.m.
   (B)   It is an exemption to a violation under this section that the person
engaged in the prohibited conduct while:
      (1)   Accompanied by the minor’s parent or guardian;
      (2)   On an errand at the direction of the minor’s parent or guardian,
without any detour or stop;
      (3)   In a motor vehicle involved in interstate travel;
      (4)   Engaged in an employment activity, or going to or returning home
from an employment activity, without any detour or stop;
      (5)   Involved in an emergency;
      (6)   On the sidewalk abutting the minor’s residence or abutting the
residence of a next-door neighbor if the neighbor did not complain to the
Police Department about the minor’s presence;
      (7)   Attending an official school, religious or other recreational
activity supervised by adults and sponsored by the village, a civic
organization or another similar entity that takes responsibility for the minor,
or going to or returning home from, without any detour or stop, an official
school, religious
or other recreational activity supervised by adults and sponsored by the
village, a civic organization or another similar entity that takes
responsibility for the minor;
      (8)   Exercising First Amendment rights protected by the United States
Constitution, such as the free exercise of religion, freedom of speech and the
right of assembly; or
      (9)   Married or had been married or had disabilities of minority removed
in accordance with state law.
(Prior Code, § 6-316) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.14 DISCHARGE OF FIREARMS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, except an officer of the law in the
discharge of official duty, to fire or discharge any gun, pistol or other
fowling piece within the village, except that nothing in this section shall be
construed to apply to officially sanctioned public celebrations if the persons
so discharging firearms have written permission from the Board of Trustees.
(Prior Code, § 6-327) (Ord. 98-5, passed 6-18-1998) Penalty, see §
130.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority to regulate, see Neb. RS 17-556
§ 130.15 SLINGSHOTS; AIR GUNS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to discharge a slingshot, air gun, BB
gun, or the like loaded with rock or other dangerous missiles at any time or
under any circumstances within the village.
(Prior Code, § 6-328) (Ord. 98-6, passed 6-18-1998) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.16 PROHIBITED PLACES FOR CARRYING CONCEALED FIREARMS BY PERMIT HOLDERS.
   (A)   Section 018, of Chapter 21, of Title 272 of the Nebraska
Administrative Code establishes prohibited places where permit holders may not
carry a concealed firearm.
   (B)   Section 018.03 establishes that persons, entities or employers in
control of a place which is open to the public may prohibit the carriage of a
concealed firearm by a permit holder by posting a conspicuous notice that
carrying a concealed firearm is prohibited in or on the premises.
   (C)   It is the intent of the Board to serve the village’s compelling
interest to promote, protect and improve the health, safety and welfare of the
citizens of the village by prohibiting the carriage of concealed firearms by
permit holders within or upon the Village Office and Village Auditorium.
   (D)   The Village Office and Village Auditorium are designated prohibited
places as specified in Section 016.010, of Chapter 21, of Title 272 of the
Nebraska Administrative Code and that such premises shall be conspicuously
posted prohibiting the carriage of concealed firearms by permit holders in
accordance with Section 016.04, of Chapter 21, of Title 272 of the Nebraska
Administrative Code.
(Res. 2007-5, passed 1-18-2007)
§ 130.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, or any person’s agent or servant, who violates any of the
provisions of this chapter, unless otherwise specifically provided herein,
shall be deemed guilty of an offense and upon conviction thereof shall be fined
in any sum not exceeding the amount as set forth in the village master fee
list. A new violation shall be deemed to have been committed every 24 hours of
failure to comply with the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   (1)   Whenever a nuisance exists as defined in
Chapter 92 of this code of ordinances, the village may proceed by a suit in
equity to enjoin, abate and remove the same in the manner provided by law.
      (2)   Whenever, in any action, it is established that a nuisance exists,
the court may, together with the fine or penalty imposed, enter an order of
abatement as a part of the judgment in the case.
(Prior Code, § 6-401) (Ord. 2001-8, passed 2-15-2001)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-207, 17-505, 18-1720, 18-1722
CHAPTER 131: OFFENSES AGAINST PROPERTY
Section
   
131.01   Maintaining a nuisance
   
131.02   Prohibited fences
   
131.03   Appliances in yard
   
131.04   Weeds; litter; stagnant water
   
131.05   Raising or producing stagnant water
   
131.06   Putting carcass or filthy substance into well, spring, brook or stream
   
131.07   Injury to trees
   
131.08   Obstruction of public ways
   
131.09   Obstructing water flow
   
131.10   Collection of taxes, real estate, bonded indebtedness, destruction or
removal of buildings
   
131.11   Wood storage
   
131.12   Littering
   
131.13   Abandoned automobiles
   
131.14   Abandonment of vehicles
   
131.15   Unlicensed or inoperable vehicles
 
   
131.99   Penalty
§ 131.01 MAINTAINING A NUISANCE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to erect, keep up or continue and
maintain any nuisance to the injury of any part of the citizens of the village.
(Prior Code, § 6-305) Penalty, see §
131.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 18-1720, 28-1321
§ 131.02 PROHIBITED FENCES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to erect, or cause to be erected, and
maintain any barbed wire or electric fence within the corporate limits, where
the fence abuts a public sidewalk, street or alley.
(Prior Code, § 6-306) Penalty, see §
131.99
Statutory reference:
   Restrictions on barbed wire fences, see Neb. RS 39-307
§ 131.03 APPLIANCES IN YARD.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to permit a refrigerator, icebox,
freezer or any other dangerous appliance to be in the open and accessible to
children whether on private or public property unless the person first removes
all doors and makes the same reasonably safe.
(Prior Code, § 6-307) Penalty, see §
131.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority to prohibit nuisances within zoning jurisdiction, see Neb. RS 18-
1720
§ 131.04 WEEDS; LITTER; STAGNANT WATER.
   (A)   Lots or pieces of ground within the village or within its
extraterritorial zoning jurisdiction shall be drained or filled so as to
prevent stagnant water or any other nuisance accumulating thereon.
   (B)   The owner or occupant of any lot or piece of ground within the village
or within its extraterritorial zoning jurisdiction shall keep the lot or piece
of ground and the adjoining streets and alleys free of any growth of 12 inches
or more in height of weeds, grasses or worthless vegetation.
   (C)   The throwing, depositing or accumulation of litter on any lot or piece
of ground within the village or within its one-mile zoning jurisdiction is
prohibited.
   (D)   It is hereby declared to be a nuisance to permit or maintain any
growth of 12 inches or more in height of weeds, grasses or worthless vegetation
on any lot or piece of ground within the village or within its one-mile zoning
jurisdiction or on the adjoining streets or alleys or to litter or cause litter
to be deposited or remain thereon except in proper receptacles.
   (E)   Any owner or occupant of a lot or piece of ground shall, upon
conviction of violating this section, be guilty of an offense.
   (F)   (1)   Notice to abate and remove such nuisance shall be given to each
owner or owner’s duly authorized agent and to the occupant, if any. The village
shall establish the method of notice by ordinance. If notice is given by first-
class mail, such mail shall be conspicuously marked as to its importance.
Within five days after receipt of such notice, the owner or occupant of the lot
or piece of ground may request a hearing with the village to appeal the
decision to abate or remove a nuisance by filing a written appeal with the
office of the Village Clerk. A hearing on the appeal shall be held within 14
days after the filing of the appeal and shall be conducted by an elected or
appointed officer as designated in the ordinance. The hearing officer shall
render a decision on the appeal within five business days after the conclusion
of the hearing. If the appeal fails, the village may have such work done.
Within five days after receipt of such notice, if the owner or occupant of the
lot or piece of ground does not request a hearing with the village or fails to
comply with the order to abate and remove the nuisance, the village may have
such work done.
      (2)   The costs and expenses of any such work shall be paid by the owner.
If unpaid for two months after such work is done, the village may either:
         (a)   Levy and assess the costs and expenses of the work upon the lot
or piece of ground so benefitted as a special assessment in the same manner as
other special assessments for improvements are levied and assessed; or
         (b)   Recover in a civil action the costs and expenses of the work
upon the lot or piece of ground and the adjoining streets and alleys.
   (G)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      LITTER. Includes but is not limited to:
         (a)   Trash, rubbish, refuse, garbage, paper, rags and ashes;
         (b)   Wood, plaster, cement, brick or stone building rubble;
         (c)   Grass, leaves and worthless vegetation except when used as
ground mulch or in a compost pile;
         (d)   Dead animals; and
         (e)   Any machine or machines, vehicle or vehicles, or parts of a
machine or vehicle which have lost their identity, character, utility or
serviceability as such through deterioration, dismantling, or the ravages of
time, are inoperative or unable to perform their intended functions, or are
cast off, discarded or thrown away or left as waste, wreckage or junk.
      WEEDS. Include, but are not limited to: bindweed (Convolvulus arvensis),
puncture vine (Tribulus terrestris), leafy spurge (Euphorbia esula), Canada
thistle (Cirsium arvense), perennial peppergrass (Lepidium draba), Russian
knapweed (Centaurea picris), Johnson grass (Sorghum halepense), nodding or musk
thistle, quack grass (Agropyron repens), perennial sow thistle (Sonchus
arvensis), horse nettle (Solanum carolinense), bull thistle (Cirsium
lanceolatum), buckthorn (Rhamnus sp.) (tourn), hemp plant (Cannabis sativa) and
ragweed (Ambrosiaceae).
(Neb. RS 17-563) (Prior Code, § 6-308) (Ord. 92-2, passed 5-21-1992) Penalty,
see §
131.99
§ 131.05 RAISING OR PRODUCING STAGNANT WATER.
   Whoever shall build, erect, continue or keep up any dam or other obstruction
in any river or stream of water in the village and thereby raise an artificial
pond, or produce stagnant waters, which shall be manifestly injurious to the
public health and safety shall be guilty of an offense and the court shall,
moreover, order every such nuisance to be abated or removed.
(Neb. RS 28-1303) (Prior Code, § 6-310) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.06 PUTTING CARCASS OR FILTHY SUBSTANCE INTO WELL, SPRING, BROOK OR
STREAM.
   Whoever shall put any dead animal, carcass or part thereof, or other filthy
substance into any well, or into any spring, brook or branch of running water,
of which use is made for domestic purposes, shall be guilty of an offense.
(Neb. RS 28-1304) (Prior Code, § 6-311) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.07 INJURY TO TREES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person purposely or carelessly and
without lawful authority to cut down, carry away, injure, break down, or
destroy any fruit, ornamental, shade or other tree or trees standing or growing
on any land belonging to another person or persons or on any public land in the
corporate limits.
   (B)   Any public service company desiring to trim or cut down any tree,
except on property owned and controlled by it, shall make an application to the
Board of Trustees to do so, and the written permit of the Board of Trustees in
accordance with their decision to allow such an action shall constitute the
only lawful authority on the part of the company to do so.
(Prior Code, § 6-312) Penalty, see §
131.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-555, 18-806, 28-519
§ 131.08 OBSTRUCTION OF PUBLIC WAYS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to erect, maintain, or suffer to remain
on any street or public sidewalk a stand, wagon, display, or other obstruction
inconvenient to or inconsistent with the public use of the same.
(Prior Code, § 6-314) Penalty, see §
131.99
Statutory reference:
   Additional authority, see Neb. RS 17-555, 17-557
   Penalties for injuring or obstructing roads, see Neb. RS 39-301, 39-302
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-142, 39-301, 39-303
§ 131.09 OBSTRUCTING WATER FLOW.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to stop or obstruct the passage of water
in a street gutter, culvert, water pipe or hydrant.
(Prior Code, § 6-315) Penalty, see §
131.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority to abate nuisances, see Neb. RS 17-555
   Authority to prevent water obstruction, see Neb. RS 17-920
§ 131.10 COLLECTION OF TAXES, REAL ESTATE, BONDED INDEBTEDNESS, DESTRUCTION OR
REMOVAL OF BUILDINGS.
   Except in any village which has adopted a building code with provisions for
demolition of unsafe buildings or structures, it shall be unlawful for any
person to tear down or remove any building situated on any real estate while
there are any delinquent taxes unpaid thereon, or to remove any building
situated within the corporate limits of any village which has an unpaid bonded
indebtedness or which village is a part of or all of a school district which
has such bonded indebtedness, to a point outside of such village, without
paying to the County Treasurer, to be deposited by said Treasurer in the bond
sinking fund of said village, school district or village and school district,
as the case may be, an amount that bears the same proportion to the total
outstanding bonded indebtedness of such village, if such village has such
bonded indebtedness, as the assessed valuation for the preceding calendar year
of the building sought to be removed bears to the total assessed valuation of
all taxable property in such village for the preceding calendar year or, if
such school district has such outstanding bonded indebtedness, an amount which
is a similar proportion of the assessed valuation of such building sought to be
removed to the total outstanding bonded indebtedness of such school district,
or both such amounts, as the case may be. Any person so offending shall be
guilty of a Class 5 misdemeanor, and shall moreover be liable to the county, to
be recovered in a civil action, for the amount of all delinquent taxes on such
real estate and to such village for the amount of said proportion of any
outstanding bonded indebtedness of such village to be recovered in the name of
such village and also to such school district for the amount of said proportion
of any outstanding bonded indebtedness of such school district to be covered in
the name of such school district; provided, such action may be brought in the
name of such county, village or school district for such delinquent taxes and
also for such proportion or proportions, if the one bringing such action has an
interest in any of such taxes or amounts, for the benefit of all those
interested in the same. Such proportion of such indebtedness, in either or all
of such cases is hereby made and shall be a lien upon such building so removed
from such village and said lien and the lien of such taxes shall follow and
adhere to such building or the materials thereof wherever situated, or into
whatever form the same may be converted.
(Prior Code, § 6-321)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 77-1725.01
§ 131.11 WOOD STORAGE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to store more than five cords of cut
wood on any property within the corporate limits; provided that this limitation
shall not apply to wood stored within a home, shed or other securely built
structure that is in good repair.
(Prior Code, § 6-323) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.12 LITTERING.
   (A)   Any person who deposits, throws, discards or otherwise disposes of any
litter on any public or private property or in any waters commits the offense
of littering unless:
      (1)   The property is an area designated by law for the disposal of that
type of material and the person is authorized by the proper public authority to
so use the property; or
      (2)   The litter is placed in a receptacle or container installed on the
property for that purpose.
   (B)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      LITTER. Includes all waste material susceptible of being dropped,
deposited, discarded or otherwise disposed of by any person upon any property
in the state, but does not include wastes of primary processes of farming or
manufacturing.
      WASTE MATERIAL. Any material appearing in a place or in a context not
associated with that material’s function or origin.
   (C)   Whenever litter is thrown, deposited, dropped or dumped from any motor
vehicle or watercraft in violation of this section, the operator of the motor
vehicle or watercraft commits the offense of littering.
(Neb. RS 28-523) (Prior Code, § 6-326) (Ord. 95-24, passed 4-26-1995) Penalty,
see §
131.99
§ 131.13 ABANDONED AUTOMOBILES.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      ABANDONED VEHICLE.
         (a)   A motor vehicle is an ABANDONED VEHICLE:
            1.   If left unattended, with no license plates or valid “In
Transit” stickers issued pursuant to the Motor Vehicle Registration Act, being
Neb. RS 60-301 et seq. affixed thereto, for more than six hours on any public
property;
            2.   If left unattended for more than 24 hours on any public
property, except a portion thereof on which parking is legally permitted;
            3.   If left unattended for more than 48 hours, after the parking
of such vehicle has become illegal, if left on a portion of any public property
on which parking is legally permitted;
            4.   If left unattended for more than seven days on private
property if left initially without permission of the owner, or after permission
of the owner is terminated;
            5.   If left for more than 30 days in the custody of a village law
enforcement agency after the agency has sent a letter to the last-registered
owner and lienholder under division (D) of this section; or
            6.   If removed from private property by the village pursuant to a
village ordinance or this code.
         (b)   An all-terrain vehicle or minibike is an ABANDONED VEHICLE:
            1.   If left unattended for more than 24 hours on any public
property, except a portion thereof on which parking is legally permitted;
            2.   If left unattended for more than 48 hours, after the parking
of such vehicle has become illegal, if left on a portion of any public property
on which parking is legally permitted;
            3.   If left unattended for more than seven days on private
property if left initially without permission of the owner, or after permission
of the owner is terminated;
            4.   If left for more than 30 days in the custody of a village law
enforcement agency after the agency has sent a letter to the last-registered
owner and lienholder under division (D) of this section; or
            5.   If removed from private property by the village pursuant to a
village ordinance or this code.
         (c)   A MOBILE HOME is an abandoned vehicle if left in place on
private property for more than 30 days after a local governmental unit,
pursuant to an ordinance or resolution, has sent a certified letter to each of
the last-registered owners and posted a notice on the mobile home, stating that
the mobile home is subject to sale or auction or vesting of title as set forth
in Neb. RS 60-1903.
         (d)   No motor vehicle subject to forfeiture under Neb. RS 28-431
shall be an ABANDONED VEHICLE under this definition.
      MOBILE HOME. A movable or portable dwelling constructed to be towed on
its own chassis, connected to utilities, and designed with or without a
permanent foundation for year-round living. It may consist of one or more units
that can be telescoped when towed and expanded later for additional capacity,
or of two or more units, separately towable but designed to be joined into one
integral unit, and shall include a manufactured home as defined in Neb. RS 71-
4603. MOBILE HOME does not include a mobile home or manufactured home for which
an affidavit of affixture has been recorded pursuant to Neb. RS 60-169.
      PRIVATE PROPERTY. Any privately owned property which is not included
within the definition of public property.
      PUBLIC PROPERTY. Any public right-of-way, street, highway, alley or park
or other state, county or village-owned property.
(Neb. RS 60-1901)
   (B)   If an abandoned vehicle, at the time of abandonment, has no license
plates of the current year or valid “In Transit” stickers issued pursuant to
Neb. RS 60-376 affixed and is of a wholesale value, taking into consideration
the condition of the vehicle, of the amount as set forth in the village master
fee list, title shall immediately vest in the village. Any certificate of title
issued under this division to the village shall be issued at no cost to the
village.
(Neb. RS 60-1902)
   (C)   (1)   Except for vehicles governed by division (B) of this section,
the village shall make an inquiry concerning the last-registered owner of such
vehicle as follows:
         (a)   Abandoned vehicle with license plates affixed, to the
jurisdiction which issued such license plates; or
         (b)   Abandoned vehicle with no license plates affixed, to the
Department of Motor Vehicles.
      (2)   The village shall notify the last-registered owner, if any, and any
lienholder, if any, within 15 business days that the vehicle in question has
been determined to be an abandoned vehicle and that, if unclaimed, either:
         (a)   It will be sold or will be offered at public auction after five
days from the date such notice was mailed; or
         (b)   Title will vest in the village 30 days after the date such
notice was mailed.
      (3)   If the agency described in division (C)(1)(a) or (C)(1)(b) of this
section also notifies the village that a lien or mortgage exists, such notice
shall also be sent to the lienholder or mortgagee. Any person claiming such
vehicle shall be required to pay the cost of removal and storage of such
vehicle.
      (4)   Title to an abandoned vehicle, if unclaimed, shall vest in the
village:
         (a)   Five days after the date the notice is mailed if the vehicle
will be sold or offered at public auction under division (C)(2)(a) of this
section;
         (b)   Thirty days after the date the notice is mailed if the village
will retain the vehicle; or
         (c)   If the last-registered owner cannot be ascertained, when notice
of such fact is received.
      (5)   After title to the abandoned vehicle vests pursuant to division (C)
(4) of this section, the village may retain for use, sell or auction the
abandoned vehicle. If the village has determined that the vehicle should be
retained for use, the village shall, at the same time that the notice, if any,
is mailed, publish in a newspaper of general circulation in the jurisdiction an
announcement that the village intends to retain the abandoned vehicle for its
use and that title will vest in the village 30 days after the publication.
(Neb. RS 60-1903)
   (D)   (1)   If a village law enforcement agency has custody of a motor
vehicle for investigatory purposes and has no further need to keep it in
custody, it shall send a certified letter to each of the last-registered
owners, if any, and lienholders, if any, within 15 calendar days stating that
the vehicle is in the custody of the law enforcement agency, that the vehicle
is no longer needed for law enforcement purposes, and that after 30 days the
agency will dispose of the vehicle.
      (2)   This division (D) shall not apply to motor vehicles subject to
forfeiture under Neb. RS 28-431.
      (3)   No storage fees shall be assessed against the registered owner of a
motor vehicle held in custody for investigatory purposes under this division
(D) unless the registered owner or the person in possession of the vehicle when
it is taken into custody is charged with a felony or misdemeanor related to the
offense for which the law enforcement agency took the vehicle into custody. If
a registered owner or the person in possession of the vehicle when it is taken
into custody is charged with a felony or misdemeanor but is not convicted, the
registered owner shall be entitled to a refund of the storage fees.
(Neb. RS 60-1903.01)
   (E)   (1)   A law enforcement agency is authorized to remove an abandoned or
trespassing vehicle from private property upon the request of the private
property owner on whose property the vehicle is located and upon information
indicating that the vehicle is an abandoned or trespassing vehicle. After
removal, the law enforcement agency with custody of the vehicle shall follow
the procedures in Neb. RS 60-1902 and 60-1903.
      (2)   A law enforcement agency is authorized to contact a private towing
service in order to remove an abandoned or trespassing vehicle from private
property upon the request of the private property owner on whose property the
vehicle is located and upon information indicating that the vehicle is an
abandoned or trespassing vehicle. A vehicle towed away under this division (E)
is subject to Neb. RS 52-601.01 to 52-605 and 60-2410 by the private towing
service which towed the vehicle.
      (3)   A private property owner is authorized to remove or cause the
removal of an abandoned or trespassing vehicle from such property and may
contact a private towing service for such removal. A private towing service
that tows the vehicle shall notify, within 24 hours, the designated law
enforcement agency in the jurisdiction from which the vehicle is removed and
provide the registration plate number, the vehicle identification number, if
available, the make, model, and color of the vehicle, and the name of the
private towing service and the location, if applicable, where the private
towing service is storing the vehicle. A vehicle towed away under this division
(E) is subject to Neb. RS 52-601.01 to 52-605 and 60-2410 by the private towing
service that towed the vehicle.
      (4)   For purposes of this section, a trespassing vehicle is a vehicle
that is parked without permission on private property that is not typically
made available for public parking.
(Neb. RS 60-1903.02)
   (F)   If a state agency caused an abandoned vehicle described in division
(A) in the definition of ABANDONED VEHICLE in division (a)5. or(b)4. of that
definition to be removed from public property in this village, the state agency
shall be entitled to custody of the vehicle. If a state agency caused an
abandoned vehicle described in division (A) in the definition of ABANDONED
VEHICLE in division (a)1., (a)2., (a)3. or (a)4. or (b)1., (b)2. or (b)3. of
that definition to be removed from public property in this village, the state
agency shall deliver the vehicle to the village which shall have custody.
(Neb. RS 60-1904)
   (G)   Any proceeds from the sale of an abandoned vehicle in the village’s
custody less any expenses incurred by the village shall be held by the village
without interest, for the benefit of the owner or lienholders of such vehicle
for a period of two years. If not claimed within such two-year period, the
proceeds shall be paid into the General Fund of the village.
(Neb. RS 60-1905)
   (H)   Neither the owner, owner’s agent, owner’s employee, lessee, nor
occupant of the premises from which any abandoned vehicle is removed, nor the
village, shall be liable for any loss or damage to such vehicle which occurs
during its removal or while in the possession of the village or its contractual
agent, while in the possession of a private towing service, or as a result of
any subsequent disposition.
(Neb. RS 60-1906)
   (I)   No person shall cause any vehicle to be an abandoned vehicle described
in division (A) in the definition of ABANDONED VEHICLE in division (a)1.,
(a)2., (a)3. or (a)4. or (b)1., (b)2. or (b)3. of that definition.
(Neb. RS 60-1907)
   (J)   No person other than one authorized by the village or appropriate
state agency shall destroy, deface, or remove any part of a vehicle which is
left unattended on a highway or other public place without license plates
affixed or which is abandoned. Anyone violating this division (J) shall be
guilty of an offense.
(Neb. RS 60-1908)
   (K)   The last-registered owner of an abandoned vehicle shall be liable to
the village for the costs of removal and storage of such vehicle.
(Neb. RS 60-1909)
   (L)   Any person violating the provisions of this section shall be guilty of
an offense.
(Prior Code, § 6-317) (Ord. 2001-5, passed 2-15-2001) Penalty, see §
131.99
Statutory reference:
   Motor Vehicle Registration Act, see Neb. RS 60-301
§ 131.14 ABANDONMENT OF VEHICLES.
   No person shall abandon any vehicle within the village or on village
property within or without the corporate limits, and no person shall leave any
vehicle at any place within the village or on village property within or
without the corporate limits for such time and under such circumstances as to
cause such vehicle reasonably to appear to have been abandoned.
(Prior Code, § 6-318) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.15 UNLICENSED OR INOPERABLE VEHICLES.
   (A)   No person in charge or control of any property within the village,
other than village property, whether as owner, tenant, occupant, lessee or
otherwise, shall allow any partially dismantled, inoperable, wrecked, junked or
discarded vehicle to remain on that property longer than 30 days.
   (B)   No unlicensed vehicle shall be permitted to remain on any private or
public property for any length of time, provided that this section shall not
apply to the following:
      (1)   A vehicle bearing a valid “In Transit” sticker;
      (2)   A vehicle in an enclosed building;
      (3)   A vehicle on the premises of a business enterprise operated in a
lawful place and manner when the vehicle is necessary to the lawful operation
of the business; or
      (4)   A vehicle in an appropriate storage place or depository maintained
in a lawful place and manner by the village.
   (C)   Any vehicle allowed to remain on property in violation of this section
shall constitute a nuisance and shall be abated, and any person violating this
section shall be guilty of an offense.
(Prior Code, § 6-324) Penalty, see §
131.99
Statutory reference:
   “In Transit” stickers, see Neb. RS 60-376
§ 131.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, or any person’s agent or servant, who violates any of the
provisions of this chapter, unless otherwise specifically provided herein,
shall be deemed guilty of an offense and upon conviction thereof shall be fined
in any sum not exceeding the amount as set forth in the village master fee
list. A new violation shall be deemed to have been committed every 24 hours of
failure to comply with the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   (1)   Whenever a nuisance exists as defined in
Chapter 92 of this code of ordinances, the village may proceed by a suit in
equity to enjoin, abate and remove the same in the manner provided by law.
      (2)   Whenever, in any action, it is established that a nuisance exists,
the court may, together with the fine or penalty imposed, enter an order of
abatement as a part of the judgment in the case.
(Prior Code, § 6-401) (Ord. 2001-8, passed 2-15-2001)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-207, 17-505, 18-1720, 18-1722
CHAPTER 132: SEX OFFENDER REGISTRY
Section
   
132.01   Findings
   
132.02   Definitions
   
132.03   Sex offender residence prohibition
   
132.04   Exceptions
 
   
132.99   Penalty
§ 132.01 FINDINGS.
   (A)   The Nebraska Legislature has found that certain sex offenders present
a high risk to commit repeat offenses and has enabled municipalities to
restrict such persons’ place of residency as provided in the Sexual Predator
Residency Restriction Act.
   (B)   Sex offenders who prey upon children and who are at high risk to
repeat such offenses present an extreme threat to public safety. The cost of
sex offender victimization to children and to society at large, while
incalculable, is exorbitant.
   (C)   It is the intent of this chapter to serve the village’s compelling
interest to promote, protect and improve the health, safety and welfare of the
citizens of the village. To wit, by creating certain areas and locations where
children regularly congregate in concentrated numbers as areas where sexual
predators are prohibited from establishing temporary or permanent residence.
(Ord. 2006-6, passed 5-18-2006)
§ 132.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CHILD CARE FACILITY. Any facility licensed pursuant to the Child Care
Licensing Act, being Neb. RS 71-1908 et seq.
   RESIDE. To sleep, live, dwell, abide or lodge at a place, which may include
more than one location, whether fixed, mobile or transitory.
   RESIDENCE. A place where the person abides, lodges or resides, which may
include more than one location, whether fixed, mobile, or transitory.
   SCHOOL. Any public, private, denominational or parochial school which meets
the requirements for state accreditation or approval.
   SEXUAL PREDATOR. Anyone subject to the Nebraska Sex Offender Registration
Act (Neb. RS 29-4016) or any amendments thereto, who has a high risk of
recidivism and is classified as a sex offender as determined by the Nebraska
State Patrol under Neb. RS 29-4016, and who has victimized a person 18 years of
age or younger.
(Ord. 2006-6, passed 5-18-2006)
§ 132.03 SEX OFFENDER RESIDENCE PROHIBITION; EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   Prohibited location of residence. It is unlawful for any person who is
a sexual predator as defined by §
132.02, to reside within 500 feet of any school or child care facility.
   (B)   Measurement of distance. For the purposes of determining the minimum
distance separation, the requirement shall be measured by following a straight
line from the outer property line of the residence to the nearest outer
property line of the school or child care facility.
(Ord. 2006-6, passed 5-18-2006) Penalty, see §
132.99
§ 132.04 EXCEPTIONS.
   A person residing within 500 feet of any school or child care facility does
not commit a violation of this chapter if any of the following apply:
   (A)   The school or child care facility within 500 feet of the persons
residence was opened after the person established the residence and reported
and registered the residence pursuant to the Sex Offender Registration Act;
   (B)   The residence was established by the person prior to July 1, 2006, and
that person has not moved, and the residence was reported and registered in
accordance with the Nebraska Sex Offender Registration Act; or
   (C)   Resides within a prison or correctional facility or treatment facility
operated by the state or a political subdivision.
(Ord. 2006-6, passed 5-18-2006)
§ 132.99 PENALTY.
   A person who violates this section shall be punished by a fine not to exceed
the amount as set forth in the village master fee list. Each 24-hour period
shall constitute a new offense.
(Ord. 2006-6, passed 5-18-2006)
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   BUILDING REGULATIONS
      
151.   PUBLIC WAYS AND PROPERTY
      
152.   FLOOD PREVENTION
      
153.   MUNICIPAL PLANNING
CHAPTER 150: BUILDING REGULATIONS
Section
Building Inspector
   
150.001   Power and authority
   
150.002   Right of entry
   
150.003   Time of inspection
   
150.004   Appeal from decision
   
150.005   Barricades and lights
Building Permits
   
150.020   Building permits; generally
   
150.021   Limitation
   
150.022   Duplicate to County Assessor
Building Moving
   
150.035   Regulations
   
150.036   Deposit
Unsafe Buildings
   
150.050   Definition
   
150.051   Prohibition
   
150.052   Determination and notice
   
150.053   Hearing and appeal
   
150.054   Emergency
   
150.055   Special assessments
Plumbing Code
   
150.070   National Plumbing Code; adopted by reference
Nebraska Energy Code
   
150.085   Adopted
Residential Porches
   
150.100   Generally
Carports
   
150.115   Open carports
Shipping Containers as Storage Buildings
   
150.130   Intent
   
150.131   Prohibition
   
150.132   Notice
   
150.133   Failure to comply
Outdoor Swimming Pools; Enclosure
   
150.145   Enclosure
   
150.146   Annual permit
 
   
150.999   Penalty
BUILDING INSPECTOR
§ 150.001 POWER AND AUTHORITY.
   The Building Inspector shall be the village official who shall have the duty
of enforcing all village building and housing regulations, if any. He or she
shall inspect all buildings repaired, altered, built or moved in the village as
often as necessary to ensure compliance with all village ordinances. He or she
shall have the power and authority to order, at the direction of the Board of
Trustees, all work stopped on any construction, alteration or relocation which
violates any provisions prescribed in any village building and housing
regulations. He or she shall, at the direction of the Board of Trustees, issue
permission to continue any construction, alteration or relocation when the
Board of Trustees is satisfied that no provision will be violated. If the stop
order is an oral one, it shall be followed by a written stop order within one
hour. This written order may be served by any village police officer. In the
event that the village has building and housing regulations and the Board of
Trustees fails to appoint a Building Inspector, the chief village law
enforcement officer shall be the Building Inspector ex officio.
(Prior Code, § 9-101)
§ 150.002 RIGHT OF ENTRY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to refuse to allow the Building
Inspector entry into any building or structure where the work of construction,
alteration, repair or relocation is taking place, for the purpose of making
official inspections at any reasonable hour.
(Prior Code, § 9-102) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.003 TIME OF INSPECTION.
   The Building Inspector, upon notification from the permit holder or his or
her agent, shall make the following inspections of the building or structure
and shall either approve that portion of the construction as completed or shall
notify the permit holder or his or her agent that the work fails to comply with
the requirements of the village code: foundation inspection shall be made after
trenches are excavated and the necessary forms erected; frame inspection shall
be made after the roof, framing, fire-blocking and backing is in place and all
pipes, chimneys and vents are complete; and final inspection shall be made
after the building is completed and ready for occupancy. It shall be unlawful
for any person to do work or cause work to be done beyond the point indicated
in each successive inspection without the written approval of the Building
Inspector.
(Prior Code, § 9-103) Penalty, see §
10.999
§ 150.004 APPEAL FROM DECISION.
   In the event it is claimed that the true intent and meaning of any village
building or housing regulation has been wrongly interpreted by the Building
Inspector, that the time allowed for compliance with any order of the Building
Inspector is too short, or that conditions peculiar to a particular building
make it unreasonably difficult to meet the literal requirements prescribed by
the regulation and by the Building Inspector, the owner, his or her agent, or
the occupant may file a notice of appeal within ten days after the decision or
order of the Building Inspector has been made. The Board of Trustees shall hear
all appeals and shall have the power and authority, when appealed to, to modify
the decision or order of the Building Inspector. Such a decision shall be
final, subject only to any remedy which the aggrieved person may have at law or
equity. Applications for review shall be in writing and shall state the reasons
why the variance should be made. A variance shall be granted only where it is
evident that reasonable safety and sanitation is assured and may include
conditions not generally specified by the building or housing regulation to
achieve that end. A copy of any variance so granted shall be sent to both the
Building Inspector and the applicant.
(Prior Code, § 9-104)
§ 150.005 BARRICADES AND LIGHTS.
   Any owner, tenant or lessee causing the construction, demolition or moving
of any building or improvement within the village shall protect all
excavations, exposures, open basements, building materials and debris by
suitable barricades or guards by day and by warning lights at night. The
failure, neglect or refusal of the owner, tenant or lessee to erect and
maintain such protections shall constitute a violation of this section, and the
Building Inspector or other village law enforcement authority may stop all work
upon the buildings and improvements until suitable protections are erected and
maintained in the required manner.
(Prior Code, § 9-105) Penalty, see §
150.999
BUILDING PERMITS
§ 150.020 BUILDING PERMITS; GENERALLY.
   Any person desiring to commence or proceed to erect, construct, repair,
enlarge, demolish, or relocate any building or dwelling, satellite dish or
antenna or cause the same to be done, when the cost of materials and labor
shall be at least the amount as set forth in the village master fee list, shall
file with the Village Clerk an application for a building permit. The
application shall be in writing on a form to be furnished by the Village Clerk
for that purpose. Every such application shall set forth the legal description
of the land upon which the construction or relocation is to take place, the
nature of the use or occupancy, the principal dimensions, the estimated cost,
the names of the owner, architect and contractor, and such other information as
may be requested thereon. The application, plans and specifications so filed
with the Village Clerk shall be checked and examined by the Board of Trustees
and if they are found to be in conformity with the requirements of this chapter
and all other ordinances applicable thereto, the Board of Trustees shall
authorize the Village Clerk to issue the said applicant a permit upon the
payment of the permit fee set by resolution of the Board of Trustees. Whenever
there is a discrepancy between permit application procedures contained herein
and those contained in any building code adopted by reference, the provisions
contained herein shall govern.
(Neb. RS 17-550, 17-1001) (Prior Code, § 9-201) (Ord. 93-13, passed 8-16-1993)
§ 150.021 LIMITATION.
   If the work for which a permit has been issued shall not have begun within
six months of the date thereof, or if the construction is discontinued for a
period of six months, the permit shall be void. Before work can be resumed, a
new permit shall be obtained in the same manner and form as an original permit.
(Prior Code, § 9-202) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.022 DUPLICATE TO COUNTY ASSESSOR.
   Whenever a building permit is issued for the erection, alteration or repair
of any building within the village’s corporate limits or extraterritorial
zoning jurisdiction, if the improvement is the amount as set forth in the
village master fee list, a duplicate of the permit shall be issued to the
County Assessor.
(Neb. RS 18-1743) (Prior Code, § 9-203)
BUILDING MOVING
§ 150.035 REGULATIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to move any
building or structure within the village without a written permit to do so.
Application may be made to the Village Clerk and shall include the present and
future location of the building to be moved, the proposed route, the equipment
to be used and such other information as the Board of Trustees may require. The
application shall be accompanied by a certificate issued by the County
Treasurer to the effect that all the provisions regulating the moving of
buildings have been complied with on the part of the owner of the real estate
upon which the building is presently located.
   (B)   The Village Clerk shall refer the application to the Board of Trustees
or its designee for approval of the proposed route over which the building is
to be moved. Upon approval, the Village Clerk shall issue the permit, provided
that a good and sufficient corporate surety bond, check or cash in an amount
set by motion of the Board of Trustees and conditioned upon moving the building
without doing damage to any private or village property is filed with the
Village Clerk prior to the granting of any permit.
   (C)   No moving permit shall be required to move a building that is ten feet
wide or less, and 20 feet long or less, and when in a position to move, 15 feet
high or less.
   (D)   In the event it will be necessary for any licensed building mover to
interfere with the telephone or telegraph poles and wires, or a gas line, the
company or companies owning, using or operating the poles, wires or line shall,
upon proper notice of at least 24 hours, be present and assist by disconnecting
the poles, wires or line relative to the building moving operation. All expense
of the disconnection, removal or related work shall be paid in advance by the
licensee unless the disconnection or work is furnished on different terms as
provided in the company’s franchise.
   (E)   Whenever the moving of any building necessitates interference with a
water main, sewer main, pipes or wire belonging to the village, notice in
writing of the time and route of the building moving operation shall be given
to the various officials in charge of the village utility departments, who
shall proceed in behalf of the village and at the expense of the mover to make
such disconnections and do such work as is necessary.
(Prior Code, § 9-301) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.036 DEPOSIT.
   At such time as the building moving has been completed, the Building
Inspector or other designated official shall inspect the premises and report to
the Village Clerk as to the extent of damages, if any, resulting from the
relocation and whether any village laws have been violated during the
operation. Upon a satisfactory report from the Building Inspector or other
designated official, the Village Clerk shall return the corporate surety bond,
cash or check deposited by the applicant. In the event the basement, foundation
or portion thereof is not properly filled, covered or in a clean and sanitary
condition, the Board of Trustees may apply the money deposited for the purpose
of defraying the expense of correcting the conditions. If the expense of
correcting the hazardous condition is greater than the amount of the deposit
set by the Board of Trustees, the Board of Trustees may recover the excess
expense by civil suit or otherwise as prescribed by law.
(Prior Code, § 9-302)
UNSAFE BUILDINGS
§ 150.050 DEFINITION.
   (A)   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      UNSAFE BUILDING. Includes any building, shed, fence or other human-made
structure:
         (a)   Which is dangerous to the public health because of its condition
and which may cause or aid in the spread of disease or injury to the health of
the occupants of it or neighboring structures;
         (b)   Which because of faulty construction, age, lack of proper repair
or any other cause is especially liable to fire and constitutes or creates a
fire hazard; or
         (c)   Which by reason of faulty construction or any other cause is
liable to cause injury or damage by the collapse or fall of all or any part of
the structure.
   (B)   Any such unsafe building in the village is hereby declared to be a
nuisance.
(Prior Code, § 9-401) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.051 PROHIBITION.
   It shall be unlawful to maintain or permit the existence of any unsafe
building in the village, and it shall be unlawful for the owner, occupant or
person in custody of any dangerous building to permit the same to remain in an
unsafe condition or to occupy the building or permit it to be occupied while it
is in an unsafe condition.
(Prior Code, § 9-402) Penalty, see §
150.999
Statutory reference:
   Authority to prevent and abate nuisances, see Neb. RS 18-1720
§ 150.052 DETERMINATION AND NOTICE.
   (A)   (1)   Whenever the Board of Trustees or its designee has made a
determination that a building or other structure in the village is an unsafe
building, it shall be the duty of the Village Clerk to post the property
accordingly and to file a copy of such determination or resolution in the
office of the County Register of Deeds to be recorded.
(Neb. RS 18-1722.01)
      (2)   The Clerk shall also serve written notice upon the owner and any
occupant of the building or other structure by certified mail or personal
service.
   (B)   This notice shall state that the building has been declared to be in
an unsafe condition, that the dangerous condition must be removed or remedied
by repairing or altering the building or by demolishing it, and that the
condition must be remedied within 60 days from the date of receipt. The notice
may be in the following terms:
      “To __________________________________ (owner-occupant of premises), of
the premises known and described as _________________________________.
      “You are hereby notified that _______________________________ (describe
building) on the premises above mentioned has been determined to be an unsafe
building and a nuisance after inspection by ________________________________.
The causes for this decision are ________________________ (here insert the
facts as to the dangerous condition).
      “You must remedy this condition or demolish the building within 60 days
from the date of receipt of this notice or the village will proceed to do so.
Appeal of this determination may be made to the Board of Trustees, acting as
the Board of Appeals, by filing with the Village Clerk within ten days from the
date of receipt of this notice a request for a hearing.”
   (C)   If the person receiving the notice has not complied within 60 days
from the date of receipt of the notice, or taken an appeal from the
determination that a dangerous building exists within ten days from the time
when this notice is served upon that person by personal service or certified
mail, the Building Inspector or other designated official may, upon orders of
the Board of Trustees, proceed to remedy the condition or demolish the unsafe
building.
(Prior Code, § 9-403)
§ 150.053 HEARING AND APPEAL.
   (A)   Upon receiving the notice to repair or demolish the building, the
owner of the building, within the time stipulated, may in writing to the
Village Clerk request a hearing before the Board of Trustees, sitting as the
Board of Appeals, to present reasons why the building should not be repaired or
demolished. The Board of Trustees shall grant such a hearing within ten days
from the date of receiving the request. A written notice of the Board of
Trustees’ decision following the hearing shall be sent to the property owner by
certified mail.
   (B)   If the Board of Trustees rejects the appeal, the owner shall have 60
days from the sending of the decision to begin repair or demolition and
removal. If after the 60-day period the owner has not begun work, the Board of
Trustees shall proceed to cause the work to be done, except that the property
owner may appeal the decision to the appropriate court for adjudication, during
which proceedings the decision of the Board of Trustees shall be stayed.
   (C)   Any village police officer or member of the Board of Trustees shall at
once inform the County Treasurer of the removal or demolition of or a levy of
attachment upon any item of real property known to him or her.
(Neb. RS 77-1725.01) (Prior Code, § 9-404)
§ 150.054 EMERGENCY.
   Where any unsafe building or structure poses an immediate danger to the
health, safety or general welfare of any person or persons and the owner fails
to remedy the situation in a reasonable time after notice to do so, the village
may summarily repair or demolish and remove that building or structure.
(Prior Code, § 9-405)
§ 150.055 SPECIAL ASSESSMENTS.
   (A)   If any owner of any building or structure fails, neglects or refuses
to comply with notice by or on behalf of the village to repair, rehabilitate or
demolish and remove a building or structure which is an unsafe building or
structure and a public nuisance, the village may proceed with the work
specified in the notice to the property owner. A statement of the cost of this
work shall be transmitted to the Board of Trustees.
   (B)   The Board of Trustees may:
      (1)   Levy the cost as a special assessment against the lot or real
estate upon which the building or structure is located. Such special assessment
shall be a lien on the real estate and shall be collected in the manner
provided for special assessments; or
      (2)   Collect the cost from the owner of the building or structure and
enforce the collection by civil action in any court of competent jurisdiction.
(Neb. RS 18-1722) (Prior Code, § 9-406)
PLUMBING CODE
§ 150.070 NATIONAL PLUMBING CODE; ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The National Plumbing Code is adopted by reference. One copy of the adopted
National Standard Plumbing Code shall be kept on file with the Village Clerk
and available for inspection by any member of the public during office hours.
(Prior Code, § 9-502) (Ord. 95-30, passed 4-26-1995)
NEBRASKA ENERGY CODE
§ 150.085 ADOPTED.
   The Nebraska Energy Code is adopted by reference. One copy of the adopted
Nebraska Energy Code shall be kept on file with the Village Clerk and available
for inspection by any member of the public during office hours.
(Res. 2005-5, passed 6-23-2005)
RESIDENTIAL PORCHES
§ 150.100 GENERALLY.
   In the event an existing porch deteriorates in condition and needs
replacement, the same may be replaced even if the original porch violated the
setback requirements, but may be replaced only to its original condition and
size. Setback requirements cannot be violated for any additional porches or
enclosures.
(Prior Code, § 9-601) (Ord. 93-13, passed 8-16-1993)
CARPORTS
§ 150.115 OPEN CARPORTS.
   Open carports may be erected and attached to residences or multi-family
dwellings. The same should be constructed so that in the future the carport can
be enclosed without modification of the frame. Footings for the carport shall
be the same as a house or 42-inch poured slab with headers over all future
openings.
(Prior Code, § 9-701) (Ord. 93-13, passed 8-16-1993)
SHIPPING CONTAINERS AS STORAGE BUILDINGS
§ 150.130 INTENT.
   It is the intent of this subchapter to limit, except as provided herein, the
placement and use of any shipping container as an accessory building, storage
building or living unit within the corporate limits of the village except on
highway commercial property. This limitation is to protect the public health
and safety and the aesthetic quality of the village.
(Ord. 2012-02, passed 7-14-2020)
§ 150.131 PROHIBITION.
   No person shall place or cause to be placed, or use or permit the use of any
shipping container as an accessory building, storage building or living unit
within the corporate limits of the village except on highway commercial
property.
(Ord. 2012-02, passed 7-14-2020) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.132 NOTICE.
   Whenever the Board of Trustees discovers or it is brought to its attention
that there is a shipping container located on any property within the village,
the Village Clerk shall cause written notice to be served upon the owner of the
property on which the shipping container is located by registered mail or by
personal service. Such notice shall state that the shipping container shall be
removed within ten days of receipt of such notice.
(Ord. 2012-02, passed 7-14-2020)
§ 150.133 FAILURE TO COMPLY.
   (A)   If the owner or occupant of the lot or piece of ground fails to comply
with the order to abate and remove the shipping container, within ten days of
notice to abate, the village may have such work done and the cost of such work
shall be paid by the owner of the property.
   (B)   If unpaid after two months after such work is done, the village may
either levy and assess the costs and expenses of the work upon the lot or piece
of ground so benefitted in the same manner as other special taxes for
improvements are levied and assessed, or recover in a civil action the costs
and expenses of the work.
(Ord. 2012-02, passed 7-14-2020)
OUTDOOR SWIMMING POOLS; ENCLOSURE
§ 150.145 ENCLOSURE.
   (A)   Every outdoor private, residential or family pool shall be completely
surrounded by a fence or wall not less than six feet in height which shall be
so constructed as not to have openings, holes or gaps larger than four inches
in dimensions except for doors and gates, and if a picket fence is erected or
maintained the horizontal dimension shall not exceed four inches. A dwelling or
accessory building may be used as part of such enclosure.
   (B)   All fences enclosing private, residential or family pools shall be
constructed to conform to the requirements of the Building Code regulations.
   (C)   All gate or doors opening through such enclosure shall be equipped
with a self-closing and self- latching device keeping the gate or door securely
closed at all times, except that the door of and dwelling which forms a part of
the enclosure need not be so equipped.
   (D)   This requirement shall be applicable to all new family pools
hereinafter constructed, other than indoor pools, and shall apply to all
existing pools which have a minimum depths of 18 inches of water. No person in
possession of land within the village, either as owner, purchaser, lessee,
tenant or licensee, upon which is situated a family pool having a depth of 18
inches or more, shall fail to provide and maintain such fence or wall as herein
provided.
(Ord. 2014-01, passed - -2014) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.146 ANNUAL PERMIT.
   A yearly swimming pool permit will be required by the village to any
resident having an outdoor pool.
(Ord. 2014-01, passed - -2014)
§ 150.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, or any person’s agent or servant, who violates any of the
provisions of this chapter, unless otherwise specifically provided herein,
shall be deemed guilty of an offense and upon conviction thereof shall be fined
in any sum not exceeding the amount as set forth in the village master fee
list. A new violation shall be deemed to have been committed every 24 hours of
failure to comply with the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   (1)   Whenever a nuisance exists as defined in 
Chapter 92 of this code of ordinances, the village may proceed by a suit in
equity to enjoin, abate and remove the same in the manner provided by law.
      (2)   Whenever, in any action, it is established that a nuisance exists,
the court may, together with the fine or penalty imposed, enter an order of
abatement as a part of the judgment in the case.
(Neb. RS 17-207, 17-505, 18-1720, 18-1722) (Prior Code, § 9-801) (Ord. 2001-8,
passed 2-15-2001)
CHAPTER 151: PUBLIC WAYS AND PROPERTY
Section
Village Property
   
151.001   Definitions
   
151.002   Maintenance and control
   
151.003   Trees
   
151.004   Obstructions
   
151.005   Sale and conveyance
   
151.006   Permitted obstructions
   
151.007   Weeds
   
151.008   Overhanging branches
   
151.009   Improvement district; land adjacent
   
151.010   Special improvement district; assessment and creation procedure
   
151.011   Acquisition of property; construction; elections when required
   
151.012   Acquisition of real property
   
151.013   Acquisition of property; appraisal
Sidewalks
   
151.025   Kept clean
   
151.026   Beneath
   
151.027   Maintenance
   
151.028   Repair
   
151.029   Construction by owner
   
151.030   Municipal construction
   
151.031   Construction bids
   
151.032   Construction by petition
   
151.033   New additions
Streets
   
151.045   Names and numbering
   
151.046   Crossings
   
151.047   Widening or opening
   
151.048   Excavation
   
151.049   Driving stakes
   
151.050   Mixing concrete
   
151.051   Harmful liquids
   
151.052   Eave and gutter spouts
   
151.053   Heavy equipment
   
151.054   Construction notice
   
151.055   Pipe lines and wires
   
151.056   Construction assessment
   
151.057   Petition for improvements
   
151.058   Improvement districts; objections
   
151.059   Improvement of streets on corporate limits
   
151.060   Improvement of main thoroughfares
   
151.061   Deferral from special assessments
   
151.062   Vacating public ways: definitions and ascertaining damages
   
151.063   Vacating public ways; procedures
Curb and Gutter
   
151.075   Cutting curb
 
   
151.999   Penalty
VILLAGE PROPERTY
§ 151.001 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   SIDEWALK SPACE. The portion of a street between curb lines and adjacent
property lines.
   VILLAGE STREETS OFFICIAL. The village official with general charge,
direction and control of streets and sidewalks. If one official is responsible
for streets and another official is responsible for sidewalks, VILLAGE STREETS
OFFICIAL shall mean whichever one is appropriate in the context the term is
used.
(Prior Code, § 8-101)
§ 151.002 MAINTENANCE AND CONTROL.
   The Board of Trustees shall have the care, supervision and control of all
public highways, bridges, streets, alleys, public squares and commons within
the village and shall cause such highways, bridges, streets, alleys, public
squares and commons to be kept open and in repair and free from nuisances.
(Neb. RS 17-567) (Prior Code, § 8-102)
§ 151.003 TREES.
   (A)   No person shall plant any tree or allow any tree to grow within the
sidewalk space without first making a written or verbal application to and
receiving a written permit from the village street official upon payment of the
fee, if any, established by the Board of Trustees.
   (B)   Any tree planted within the sidewalk space after the adoption of this
prohibition shall be deemed to be unlawfully planted and growing and may be
determined to be a nuisance. Nothing in this section shall be construed to
apply to any trees growing within the sidewalk space prior to the adoption of
this prohibition.
   (C)   When any such tree is determined to be a nuisance, the village may
proceed against the owner or occupant of the property adjacent to the sidewalk
space as provided in §
92.03 of this code of ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 8-103) Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.004 OBSTRUCTIONS.
   (A)   The village may remove all obstructions from the sidewalks,
curbstones, gutters and crosswalks at the expense of the person placing them
there or at the expense of the village and require and regulate the planting
and protection of shade trees in and along the streets and the trimming and
removing of such trees.
   (B)   The village may regulate the building of bulkheads, cellar and
basement ways, stairways, railways, windows, doorways, awnings, lampposts,
awning posts, all other structures projecting upon or over and adjoining, and
all other excavations through and under the sidewalks in the village.
(Neb. RS 17-555) (Prior Code, § 8-104)
§ 151.005 SALE AND CONVEYANCE.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (G) of this section, the power of the
village to convey any real property owned by it, including land used for park
purposes and public squares, except real property used in the operation of
public utilities, shall be exercised by resolution, directing the sale at
public auction or by sealed bid of that property and the manner and terms of
such sales, except that the property shall not be sold at public auction or by
sealed bid when:
      (1)   The property is being sold in compliance with the requirements of
federal or state grants or programs;
      (2)   The property is being conveyed to another public agency; or
      (3)   The property consists of streets and alleys.
   (B)   The Board of Trustees may establish a minimum price for real property
at which bidding shall begin or shall serve as a minimum for a sealed bid.
   (C)   After the passage of the resolution directing the sale, notice of all
proposed sales of property described in division (A) of this section and the
terms of such sales shall be published once each week for three consecutive
weeks in a legal newspaper in or of general circulation in the village.
   (D)   (1)   If within 30 days after the third publication of the notice a
remonstrance petition against the sale:
         (a)   Conforms to Neb. RS 32-628;
         (b)   Is signed by registered voters of the village equal in number to
30% of the registered voters of the village voting at the last regular village
election held therein; and
         (c)   Is filed with the Board of Trustees, that property shall not
then, nor within one year thereafter, be sold. If the date for filing the
petition falls upon a Saturday, Sunday or legal holiday, the signatures shall
be collected within the 30-day period, but the filing shall be considered
timely if filed or postmarked on or before the next business day.
      (2)   Upon the receipt of the petition, the Board of Trustees, with the
aid and assistance of the Election Commissioner or County Clerk, shall
determine the validity and sufficiency of signatures on the petition. The Board
of Trustees shall deliver the petition to the Election Commissioner or County
Clerk by hand carrier, by use of law enforcement officials, or by certified
mail, return receipt requested.
      (3)   Upon receipt of the petition, the Election Commissioner or County
Clerk shall issue to the Board of Trustees a written receipt that the petition
is in the custody of the Election Commissioner or County Clerk. The Election
Commissioner or County Clerk shall compare the signature of each person signing
the petition with the voter registration records to determine if each signer
was a registered voter on or before the date on which the petition was filed
with the Board of Trustees. The Election Commissioner or County Clerk shall
also compare the signer’s printed name, street and number or voting precinct,
and village or post office address with the voter registration records to
determine whether the signer was a registered voter. The signature and address
shall be presumed to be valid only if the Election Commissioner or County Clerk
determines that the printed name, street and number or voting precinct, and
village or post office address match the registration records and that the
registration was received on or before the date on which the petition was filed
with the Board of Trustees. The determinations of the Election Commissioner or
County Clerk may be rebutted by any credible evidence which the Board of
Trustees finds sufficient. The express purpose of the comparison of names and
addresses with the voter registration records, in addition to helping to
determine the validity of the petition, the sufficiency of the petition, and
the qualifications of the signer, shall be to prevent fraud, deception and
misrepresentation in the petition process.
      (4)   Upon completion of the comparison of names and addresses with the
voter registration records, the Election Commissioner or County Clerk shall
prepare in writing a certification under seal setting forth the name and
address of each signer found not to be a registered voter and the signature
page number and line number where the name is found, and if the reason for the
invalidity of the signature or address is other than the nonregistration of the
signer, the Election Commissioner or County Clerk shall set forth the reason
for the invalidity of the signature. If the Election Commissioner or County
Clerk determines that a signer has affixed his or her signature more than once
to the petition and that only one person is registered by that name, the
Election Commissioner or County Clerk shall prepare in writing a certification
under seal setting forth the name of the duplicate signature and shall count
only the earliest dated signature.
      (5)   The Election Commissioner or County Clerk shall certify to the
Board of Trustees the number of valid signatures necessary to constitute a
valid petition. The Election Commissioner or County Clerk shall deliver the
petition and the certifications to the Board of Trustees within 40 days after
the receipt of the remonstrance from the Board of Trustees. The delivery shall
be by hand carrier, by use of law enforcement officials, or by certified mail,
return receipt requested. Not more than 20 signatures on one signature page
shall be counted.
      (6)   The Board of Trustees shall, within 30 days after the receipt of
the petition and certifications from the Election Commissioner or County Clerk,
hold a public hearing to review the remonstrance and certifications and receive
testimony regarding them. The Board of Trustees shall, following the hearing,
vote on whether or not the remonstrance is valid and shall uphold the petition
if sufficient valid signatures have been received.
   (E)   Real estate now owned or hereafter owned by the village may be
conveyed without consideration to the state for state armory sites or, if
acquired for state armory sites, shall be conveyed strictly in accordance with
the conditions of Neb. RS 18-1001 through 18-1006.
   (F)   (1)   Following passage of the resolution directing a sale, publishing
of the notice of the proposed sale, and passing of the 30-day right-of-
remonstrance period, the property shall then be sold.
      (2)   The sale shall be confirmed by passage of an ordinance stating the
name of the purchaser and terms of the sale.
(Neb. RS 17-503)
   (G)   Divisions (A) through (F) of this section shall not apply to the sale
of real property if the authorizing resolution directs the sale of real
property, the total fair market value of which is less than the amount as set
forth in the village master fee list. Following passage of the resolution
directing the sale of the property, notice of the sale shall be posted in three
prominent places within the village for a period of not less than seven days
prior to the sale of the property. The notice shall give a general description
of the property offered for sale and state the terms and conditions of sale.
Confirmation of the sale by passage of an ordinance may be required.
(Neb. RS 17-503.01)
(Prior Code, § 8-105)
§ 151.006 PERMITTED OBSTRUCTIONS.
   Any person engaged in the erection, construction, reconstruction, wrecking
or repairing of any building, or the construction or repair of a sidewalk along
any street, may occupy the public street space with the building material and
equipment as long as is necessary if such person makes application to and
receives a permit to do so in writing from the village street official. No
permit shall authorize the occupancy of more than one-third of the roadway of
the public space adjacent to the real estate on which the building or sidewalk
is to be erected, constructed, reconstructed, wrecked or repaired. A suitable
passageway for pedestrians shall be maintained within the public space included
in the permit, which passageway shall be protected and lighted in the manner
required by the village street official.
(Prior Code, § 8-106) Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.007 WEEDS.
   It is hereby the duty of the Utilities Superintendent or the Chief of Police
or a duly authorized agent to view and inspect the sidewalk space within the
corporate limits for growing weeds during the growing season, and if rank and
noxious weeds are found growing thereon, he or she shall notify the owner or
occupant thereof, to cut down such weeds as close to the ground as can be
practicably done and keep the weeds cut thereon in like manner during the
growing season for weeds; provided, any weeds growing in excess of 12 inches on
any sidewalk space shall be considered a violation of this section. In the
event that the owner of the lot or parcel of land abutting said sidewalk space
within the village is a nonresident of the village or cannot be found therein
the notice may be given to any person having the care, custody or control of
such lot or parcel of land. In the event that there can be found no one within
the village to whom notice can be given, it shall be the duty of the Utilities
Superintendent or his or her agent to post a copy of the notice on the premises
and then to cut or cause the weeds thereon to be cut as therein provided and
report the cost thereof in writing to the Board of Trustees. The cost shall
then be audited and paid by the village and the amount thereof shall be
assessed against the lot or parcel of land as a special tax thereon and shall
be collected as are other taxes of the village or may be recovered by civil
suit brought by the village against the owner of the parcel of land. In the
event the property owner is a nonresident of the county in which the property
lies, the village shall, before levying any special assessment against that
property, send a copy of any notice required by law to be published by means of
certified mail, return receipt requested to the last known address of the
nonresident property owner. The last known address shall be that address listed
on the current tax rolls at the time such required notice was first published.
(Prior Code, § 8-107) Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.008 OVERHANGING BRANCHES.
   (A)   The owner or occupant of any lot, piece or parcel of ground abutting
or adjacent to any street or sidewalk over which there extend the branches of
trees shall at all times keep the branches or limbs thereof trimmed to the
height of at least eight feet above the surface of the walk and at least 14
feet above the surface of the street or to the heights otherwise specified by
the Board of Trustees.
   (B)   Whenever the branches or limbs of any tree extend over streets or
sidewalks contrary to such provisions so as to interfere with the lighting of
the street from street lights or with the convenience of the public using the
street or sidewalk, the village may proceed against the owner or occupant of
the property abutting or adjacent to the street or sidewalk as provided in §
92.03 of this code of ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 8-108) Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.009 IMPROVEMENT DISTRICT; LAND ADJACENT.
   Supplemental to any existing law on the subject, a village may include land
adjacent to such village when creating an improvement district, such as a
sewer, paving, water, water extension or sanitary sewer extension district. The
Board of Trustees shall have power to assess, to the extent of special
benefits, the costs of such improvements upon the properties found especially
benefitted thereby, except as provided in §
151.062.
(Prior Code, § 8-109)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 19-2427
§ 151.010 SPECIAL IMPROVEMENT DISTRICT; ASSESSMENT AND CREATION PROCEDURE.
   (A)   The village’s Board of Trustees may, by ordinance, create a special
improvement district for the purpose of replacing, reconstructing or repairing
an existing street, alley, water line, sewer line or any other such
improvement.
   (B)   Except as provided in Neb. RS 19-2428 to 19-2431, the Board of
Trustees shall have power to assess, to the extent of such benefits, the costs
of such improvements upon the properties found especially benefitted thereby,
whether or not such properties were previously assessed for the same general
purpose. In creating such special improvement district, the Board of Trustees
shall follow procedures applicable to the creation and assessment of the same
type of improvement district as otherwise provided by law.
(Prior Code, § 8-110)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 18-1751
§ 151.011 ACQUISITION OF PROPERTY; CONSTRUCTION; ELECTIONS WHEN REQUIRED.
   (A)   The village is authorized and empowered to purchase, accept by gift or
devise, purchase real estate upon which to erect, and erect a building or
buildings for an auditorium, fire station, village building or community house
for housing village enterprises and social and recreation purposes, and other
public buildings, including the construction of buildings authorized to be
constructed by Neb. RS Chapter 72, Article 14, and including construction of
buildings to be leased in whole or in part by the village to any other
political or governmental subdivision of the state authorized by law to lease
such buildings, and maintain, manage, and operate the same for the benefit of
the inhabitants of the village.
   (B)   Except as provided in division (C) of this section, before any such
purchase can be made or building erected, the question shall be submitted to
the electors of the village at a general village election or at an election
duly called for that purpose, or as set forth in division (D) of this section,
and be adopted by a majority of the electors voting on such question.
(Neb. RS 17-953)
   (C)   If the funds to be used to finance the purchase or construction of a
building pursuant to this section are available other than through a bond
issue, then either:
      (1)   Notice of the proposed purchase or construction shall be published
in a legal newspaper in or of general circulation in the village and no
election shall be required to approve the purchase or construction unless
within 30 days after the publication of the notice, a petition against the
purchase or construction is signed by registered voters of the village equal in
number to 15% of the registered voters of the village voting at the last
regular village election held therein and is filed with the Board of Trustees.
If the date for filing the petition falls upon a Saturday, Sunday or legal
holiday, the signatures shall be collected within the 30-day period, but the
filing shall be considered timely if filed or postmarked on or before the next
business day. If a petition with the necessary number of qualified signatures
is timely filed, the question shall be submitted to the voters of the village
at a general village election or a special election duly called for that
purpose. If the purchase or construction is not approved, the property involved
shall not then, nor within one year following the election, be purchased or
constructed; or
      (2)   The Board of Trustees may proceed without providing the notice and
right of petition required in division (C)(1) of this section if the property
can be purchased below the fair market value as determined by an appraisal,
there is a willing seller, and the purchase price is less than the amount as
set forth in the village master fee list. The purchase shall be approved by the
Board of Trustees after notice and public hearing.
(Neb. RS 17-953.01)
   (D)   (1)   The Board of Trustees adopting the proposition to make such
purchase or erect such building or buildings for the purposes set forth in
division (A) of this section shall have the power to borrow money and pledge
the property and credit of the village upon its negotiable bonds. No such bonds
shall be issued until after the same have been authorized by a majority vote of
the electors voting on the proposition of their issuance, at a general village
election or at a special election called for the submission of such
proposition. The question of such purchase or erection of such a building or
buildings, as set forth in division (A) of this section, and the question of
the issuance of the negotiable bonds referred to in this division (D) may be
submitted as one question at a general village or special election if so
ordered by resolution or ordinance.
      (2)   Notice of the time and place of the election shall be given by
publication in some legal newspaper printed in or of general circulation in the
village three successive weeks immediately prior thereto.
      (3)   No such election for the issuance of such bonds shall be called
until a petition therefor signed by at least 10% of the legal voters of the
village has been presented to the Board of Trustees. The number of voters
voting at the last regular village election prior to the presenting of the
petition shall be deemed the number of votes in the village for the purpose of
determining the sufficiency of the petition.
      (4)   The question of bond issues for such purpose in the village when
defeated shall not be resubmitted for six months from and after the date of
such election.
      (5)   When the building to be constructed is to be used by the state or
its agency or agencies under a lease authorized by Neb. RS Chapter 72, Article
14, or the building is to be leased by any other political or governmental
subdivision of the state, when the combined area of the building to be leased
by the state or its agency or agencies and the political or governmental
subdivision of the state is more than 50% of the area of the building, and when
such sum does not exceed the amount as set forth in the village master fee
list, then no such vote of the electors will be required.
(Neb. RS 17-954)
(Prior Code, § 8-111)
§ 151.012 ACQUISITION OF REAL PROPERTY.
   (A)   The village shall acquire an interest in real property by purchase or
eminent domain only after the Board of Trustees has authorized the acquisition
by action taken in a public meeting after notice and public hearing.
   (B)   The village shall provide to the public a right of access for
recreational use to real property acquired for public recreational purposes.
Such access shall be at designated access points and shall be equal to the
right of access for recreational use held by adjacent landowners. The right of
access granted to the public for recreational use shall meet or exceed such
right held by a private landowner adjacent to the real property.
(Neb. RS 18-1755) (Prior Code, § 8-112)
§ 151.013 ACQUISITION OF PROPERTY; APPRAISAL.
   Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the village shall not purchase,
lease-purchase or acquire for consideration real property having an estimated
value of the amount as set forth in the village master fee list or more unless
an appraisal of such property has been performed by a certified real property
appraiser.
(Neb. RS 13-403) (Prior Code, § 8-113)
SIDEWALKS
§ 151.025 KEPT CLEAN.
   It shall be unlawful for the occupant of any lot or lots or the owner of any
vacant lot or lots within the corporate limits to allow snow, sleet, mud, ice
or other substance to accumulate on the sidewalks or to permit any snow, sleet,
ice, mud or other substance to remain upon the sidewalk. Unless the Board of
Trustees has provided otherwise, all sidewalks within the business district
shall be cleaned within five hours after the cessation of a storm, unless the
storm or fall of snow shall have taken place during the night, in which case
the sidewalk shall be cleaned before 9:00 a.m. the following day, and sidewalks
within the residential areas of the village shall be cleaned within 24 hours
after the cessation of the storm.
(Prior Code, § 8-201) Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.026 BENEATH.
   No person shall be allowed to keep or use the space beneath the sidewalk
lying between lot line and curb line unless a permit has been obtained from the
Board of Trustees. Before any permit is granted, the applicant shall submit
plans and specifications of any present or proposed construction to the Village
Engineer. If the plans or specifications are disapproved by the Engineer, no
permit shall be granted. All permits hereafter granted shall continue only upon
the condition that the party receiving them builds, maintains, and keeps in
repair a sidewalk over the space used or constructed to be used and pays all
damages that may be sustained by any person by reason of such use or by reason
of the sidewalk being defective or in a dangerous condition. As a condition
precedent to the issuance or continuance of any permit for the use of any space
underneath the village sidewalks as contemplated in this section, the Board of
Trustees may require the applicant to furnish a bond to the village as obligee
for the benefit of any person who may suffer an injury or damage by reason of
such use. The bond shall be in such sum as the Board of Trustees, in its
discretion, may designate.
(Prior Code, § 8-202) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 151.027 MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   The village shall have power to prevent and remove all encroachments,
including snow, ice, mud or other obstructions, into and upon all sidewalks,
streets, avenues, alleys and other village property.
(Neb. RS 17-557)
   (B)   If the abutting property owner refuses or neglects, after five days’
notice by publication or, in place thereof, personal service of such notice, to
remove all encroachments from sidewalks, as provided in division (A) of this
section, the village through the proper officers may cause such encroachments
to be removed, and the cost of removal shall be paid out of the street fund.
The Board of Trustees shall assess the cost of the notice and removal of the
encroachment against the abutting property as a special assessment. The special
assessment shall be known as a special sidewalk assessment and, together with
the cost of notice, shall be levied and collected as a special assessment in
addition to the general revenue taxes and shall be subject to the same
penalties as other special assessments and shall draw interest from the date of
the assessment. Upon payment of the assessment, the assessment shall be
credited to the street fund.
(Neb. RS 17-557.01)
(Prior Code, § 8-203)
§ 151.028 REPAIR.
   The village official in charge of sidewalks may require sidewalks of the
village to be repaired. Notice to the owners of property upon which such
sidewalks in disrepair are located shall require within 48 hours from issuance
of notice said owners to make arrangements to have the sidewalk repaired. Said
repairs shall be completed within 21 days after issuance of said notice. No
special assessment shall be levied against the property unless said owner shall
neglect or refuse to repair within the time prescribed and in the event that
such owner fails to repair, the village shall cause the repairs to be made and
assess the property owner the expense of such repairs. In the event the
property owner is a nonresident of the county in which the property lies, the
village shall, before levying any special assessment against that property,
send a copy of any notice required by law to be published by means of certified
mail, return receipt requested to the last known address of the nonresident
property owner. The last known address shall be that address listed on the
current tax rolls at the time such required notice was first published.
(Prior Code, § 8-204)
§ 151.029 CONSTRUCTION BY OWNER.
   (A)   Any person desiring to construct, or cause to be constructed, any
sidewalk shall do so only as provided in this section. It shall be unlawful for
any person to construct any sidewalk without first having obtained a permit.
   (B)   The owner shall make application in writing for a permit and file such
application in the office of the Village Clerk. The permit shall give a
description of the lot or piece of land along which the sidewalk is to be
constructed. The village street official shall issue the desired permit unless
good cause appears why the permit should be denied, except that if it is
desired to construct the sidewalk at any other than the regularly prescribed
location, grade or elevation, the village street official shall submit the
application to the Board of Trustees for determination as to whether the permit
should be granted or denied. It shall be unlawful for any person to construct,
or cause to be constructed, such sidewalk at any other location, grade or
elevation than so designated by the village. All sidewalks shall be built and
constructed on the established grade or elevation, and if there is no
established grade, then on the grade or elevation indicated by the village
street official.
(Prior Code, § 8-205) Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.030 MUNICIPAL CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   (1)   The Board of Trustees may construct and repair sidewalks or
cause the construction and repair of sidewalks in such manner as the Board of
Trustees deems necessary and assess the expense of such construction or repairs
on the property in front of which such construction or repairs are made, after
having given notice:
         (a)   By publication in one issue of a legal newspaper in or of
general circulation in the village; and
         (b)   By either causing a written notice to be served upon the
occupant in possession of the property involved or to be posted upon such
premises ten days prior to the commencement of such construction or repair.
      (2)   The powers conferred under this section are in addition to those
provided in Neb. RS 17-509 to 17-521 and may be exercised without creating an
improvement district.
      (3)   If the owner of any property abutting any street or avenue or part
thereof fails to construct or repair any sidewalk in front of the owner’s
property within the time and in the manner as directed and requested by the
Board of Trustees, after having received due notice to do so, the Board of
Trustees may cause the sidewalk to be constructed or repaired and may assess
the cost of such construction or repairs against the property.
(Neb. RS 17-522)
   (B)   All sidewalks shall be constructed and repaired in conformity with
such plans and specifications as may be approved by the Board of Trustees.
   (C)   Assessments made under the provisions of this section shall be made
and assessed in the following manner:
      (1)   Such assessment shall be made by the Board of Trustees at a special
meeting, by a resolution, taking into account the benefits derived or injuries
sustained in consequence of such improvements, and the amount charged against
the same, which, with the vote, shall be recorded in the minutes. Notice of the
time of holding such meeting and the purpose for which it is to be held shall
be published in a legal newspaper in or of general circulation in the village
at least four weeks before the same shall be held or, in lieu thereof, personal
service may be made upon persons owning or occupying property to be assessed;
and
      (2)   All such assessments shall be known as special assessments for
improvements and shall be levied and collected as a separate tax, in addition
to the taxes for general revenue purposes, and shall be placed on the tax roll
for collection, subject to the same penalties and collected in like manner as
other village taxes.
(Neb. RS 17-524)
(Prior Code, § 8-206)
Statutory reference:
   Authority to improve through sidewalk district, see Neb. RS 19-2417 through
19-2419
§ 151.031 CONSTRUCTION BIDS.
   Whenever the village shall construct, widen, replace or reconstruct any
sidewalk, notice prepared by the Village Attorney, specifying the work to be
done and calling for bids for doing such work and supplying the necessary
materials and labor shall be published in at least one issue of a legal
newspaper of general circulation in the village; provided, bids so invited
shall be filed in the office of the Village Clerk within ten days after the
date of publication. Bids shall be opened at the next regular or special
meeting of the Board of Trustees, and the Board of Trustees shall then award
the work to the lowest responsible bidder. Upon approval of the work, the Board
of Trustees may require the contractor to accept payment in certificates issued
to him or her by the Village Clerk entitling him or her to all assessments or
special taxes, against such real estate whenever such assessments or special
taxes, shall be collected together with the interest or penalty collected
thereon. Each certificate shall give the legal description of the lot, lots or
parcel of ground against which the assessments or special taxes are assessed.
Such certificate or certificates may be assigned and transferred, entitling the
holder to the same rights as if held by the original contractor. The County
Treasurer shall pay over to such contractor or other holder of the certificate
or certificates all assessments or special taxes against such real estate,
together with the interest and penalty thereon, at any time upon presentation
of such certificate or certificates after said assessments or special taxes
against such real estate together with interest or penalty thereon shall have
been collected.
(Prior Code, § 8-207)
§ 151.032 CONSTRUCTION BY PETITION.
   If the owners of the record title representing more than 60%of the front
footage of the directly abutting property, subject to assessment for sidewalk
improvements, petition the Board of Trustees to make the same, the Board of
Trustees shall proceed in all things as though such construction had been
ordered by it. Upon the petition of any freeholder who is an abutting owner in
fee simple of property subject to assessment for sidewalk improvements, the
Board of Trustees may order permanent sidewalks built in accordance with this
subchapter upon the freeholder making, executing and delivering to the village
an agreement to the effect that the petitioning freeholder will pay the
engineering service fee and all other incidental construction costs until paid
shall be a perpetual lien upon the real estate along which the freeholder
desires such sidewalk to be constructed and that the petitioner gives and
grants to the village the right to assess and levy the costs of such
construction against the freeholder’s real estate abutting the sidewalk
improvement and promises to pay such costs with interest. The total cost of
such improvement shall be levied, allocated, financed and specially assessed as
provided by law. In the event the property owner is a nonresident of the county
in which the property lies, the village shall, before levying any special
assessment against that property, send a copy of any notice required by law to
be published by means of certified mail, return receipt requested to the last
known address of the nonresident property owner. The last known address shall
be that address listed on the current tax rolls at the time such required
notice was first published.
(Prior Code, § 8-208)
§ 151.033 NEW ADDITIONS.
   All new residential, business and industrial additions built after the
adoption of this subchapter shall be required to construct sidewalks in
conformance with the provisions of this subchapter and the zoning regulations
of the village.
(Prior Code, § 8-209)
STREETS
§ 151.045 NAMES AND NUMBERING.
   The Board of Trustees may at any time, by ordinance, rename any street or
provide a name for any new street. Buildings used for residence or business
purposes and located along those streets shall retain those numbers as the
Board of Trustees may require. It shall be the duty of the village street
official, upon the erection of any new building, to assign the proper numbers
to the building and give notice to the owner and occupant of the same.
(Prior Code, § 8-301) Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.046 CROSSINGS.
   (A)   The Board of Trustees may order and cause to be constructed, under the
supervision of the village street official, those street, avenue and alley
crossings as the Board of Trustees deems necessary. When a petition for the
construction of any such crossings is filed by an interested resident in the
office of the Village Clerk, the Village Clerk shall refer the application to
the village street official, who shall investigate and make a recommendation to
the Board of Trustees.
   (B)   Action by the Board of Trustees on the application, whether the
application is approved or rejected, shall be considered final.
(Prior Code, § 8-302)
§ 151.047 WIDENING OR OPENING.
   (A)   (1)   The village shall have power to open, widen or otherwise improve
or vacate any street, avenue, alley or lane within the limits of the village
and also to create, open, and improve any new street, avenue, alley or lane.
All damages sustained by the citizens of the village, or by the owners of the
property therein, shall be ascertained in that manner as shall be provided by
ordinance.
      (2)   Whenever any street, avenue, alley or lane is vacated, such street,
avenue, alley or lane shall revert to the owners of the abutting real estate,
one-half on each side thereof, and become a part of that property, unless the
village reserves title in the ordinance vacating such street or alley. If title
is retained by the village, such property may be sold, conveyed, exchanged or
leased upon such terms and conditions as shall be deemed in the best interests
of the village.
      (3)   When a portion of a street, avenue, alley or lane is vacated only
on one side of the center thereof, the title to the land shall vest in the
owner of the abutting property and become a part of that property, unless the
village reserves title in the ordinance vacating a portion of such street,
avenue, alley or lane. If title is retained by the village, such property may
be sold, conveyed, exchanged or leased upon such terms and conditions as shall
be deemed in the best interests of the village.
      (4)   When the village vacates all or any portion of a street, avenue,
alley, or lane, the village shall, within 30 days after the effective date of
the vacation, file a certified copy of the vacating ordinance with the Register
of Deeds for the county in which the vacated property is located to be indexed
against all affected lots.
      (5)   The title to property vacated pursuant to this section shall be
subject to the following:
         (a)   There is reserved to the village the right to maintain, operate,
repair and renew public utilities existing at the time title to the property is
vacated there; and
         (b)   There is reserved to the village, any public utilities, and any
cable television systems the right to maintain, repair, renew and operate water
mains, gas mains, pole lines, conduits, electrical transmission lines, sound
and signal transmission lines, and other similar services and equipment and
appurtenances, including lateral connections or branch lines, above, on or
below the surface of the ground that are existing as valid easements at the
time title to the property is vacated for the purposes of serving the general
public or the abutting properties and to enter upon the premises to accomplish
such purposes at any and all reasonable times.
(Neb. RS 17-558)
   (B)   The village shall have power to create, open, widen or extend any
street, avenue, alley, off-street parking area or other public way, or annul,
vacate or discontinue such street, avenue, alley, area or public way.
(Neb. RS 17-559) (Prior Code, § 8-303)
§ 151.048 EXCAVATION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to make an excavation in any street or
streets for any purpose whatsoever unless a written permit is issued by the
village street official authorizing those excavations.
(Prior Code, § 8-304) Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.049 DRIVING STAKES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to drive any peg or stake of any kind
into the pavement in any street or alley without first procuring the written
consent of the village street official.
(Prior Code, § 8-305) Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.050 MIXING CONCRETE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to mix any concrete or plastering
material directly on the street pavement for any reason whatsoever.
(Prior Code, § 8-306) Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.051 HARMFUL LIQUIDS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to place or permit to leak in the gutter
of any street any waste gasoline, kerosene or high lubricating oils, which
damage or act as a solvent upon the streets.
(Prior Code, § 8-307) Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.052 EAVE AND GUTTER SPOUTS.
   It is hereby declared unlawful for any person to erect or maintain any
dwelling house or business building within the limits of the village where the
said dwelling or building abuts on any sidewalk or street without providing
proper guttering and eave spouts to receive the waste waters that collect on
the said sidewalks and streets. All eave spouts erected on any dwelling house
or business building shall be constructed to drain into the alleys, or shall be
buried beneath the sidewalks and drain into the streets where it is found to be
impossible to drain said eave spouts into the alley.
(Prior Code, § 8-308)
§ 151.053 HEAVY EQUIPMENT.
   It shall hereafter be unlawful for any person or person to move or operate
heavy equipment across any curb, gutter, bridge, culvert, sidewalk, crosswalk
or crossing on any unpaved street without first having protected such curb,
gutter, bridge, culvert, sidewalks, crosswalk or crossing with heavy plank
sufficient in strength to warrant against the breaking or damaging of such
curb, gutter, bridge, culvert, sidewalk, crosswalk or crossing. Hereafter, it
shall be unlawful to run, drive, move, operate or convey over or across any
paved street a vehicle, machine or implement with sharp discs or sharp wheels
that bear upon said pavement; with wheels having cutting edges; with wheels
having lugs, any protruding parts, or bolts thereon that extend beyond a plain
tire so as to cut, mark, mar, indent or otherwise injure or damage any
pavement, gutter or curb; provided, where heavy vehicles, structures and
machines move along paved or unpaved streets the village police are hereby
authorized and empowered to choose the route over which the moving of such
vehicles, structures or machines will be permitted and allowed. It shall be
permissible to use a rubber tired crane with a fixed load when such vehicle
will be transported on a state highway or on any road within the corporate
limits of the village, the village in which the crane is intended to be
transported has authorized a one-day permit for the transportation of the crane
and specified the route to be used and the hours during which the crane can be
transported, such vehicle is escorted by another vehicle or vehicles assigned
by the village, and such vehicle’s gross weight does not exceed the limits set
out in Neb. RS 60-6,294(10) and it shall be permissible to use tire chains of
reasonable proportions upon any vehicle when required for safety because of
snow, ice or other condition tending to cause a vehicle to slide or skid.
(Prior Code, § 8-309) Penalty, see §
151.999
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 60-6,250
§ 151.054 CONSTRUCTION NOTICE.
   The chief street official shall notify the owners in fee simple of real
estate abutting a street, alley, or a part thereof which is to be put under
contract for paving or repaving. Notice shall also be given to all gas,
electric service and telephone companies. Notice shall also be given to all
consumers of gas, water and sewer services which will be discontinued during
such construction. Said notice shall be published one time in a legal newspaper
at least 20 days prior to the beginning of such construction by the party
undertaking such construction and said notice shall state at what date
connections must be made and excavation completed. All gas, water, sewer and
underground connections must be made prior to the paving or repaving of the
street under construction. After expiration of such time, permits for
excavation will not be issued, nor will excavation be allowed, until after the
completion of the pavement in said street or alley, and the formal final
acceptance thereof by the proper officials of the village.
(Prior Code, § 8-310)
§ 151.055 PIPE LINES AND WIRES.
   Poles, wires, gas mains, pipe lines and other appurtenances of public
service companies shall be located, or erected over, upon or under the streets,
alleys and common grounds of the village. Application for location of the above
shall be made to the Board of Trustees in writing. Approval by that body shall
be issued in writing. Any public service company granted a right-of-way for the
erection and maintenance of poles, conduits, gas mains, pipe lines and wires
shall at all times erect and locate their poles, wires, gas mains, pipe lines
and other appurtenances at such places and in such manner as shall be
designated by the Board of Trustees. Such poles, wires, gas mains, pipe lines
and other appurtenances, shall be removed or relocated by said companies at
their own expense when requested to do so by the Board of Trustees. Any such
relocation shall be ordered by resolution of the Board of Trustees and the
Village Clerk shall notify any and all companies affected. Said companies
shall, within 24 hours after receiving notice, at their own expense, cause the
poles, wires, gas mains, pipe lines or other appurtenances to be removed. The
Board of Trustees shall designate another location as closely as possible where
said poles, wires, gas mains, pipe lines or other appurtenances, may be reset
or placed. All poles, wires, gas mains, pipe lines or other appurtenances,
shall be reset, placed or erected in such a manner that they will not interfere
with the water system; sewerage system; poles, wires and mains of any public
utility; adjacent buildings; or with travel on the public ways and property.
Whenever possible, all pole lines, wires, gas mains, pipe lines or
appurtenances shall be confined to the alleys of the village.
(Prior Code, § 8-311)
§ 151.056 CONSTRUCTION ASSESSMENT.
   To defray the costs and expenses of street improvements, as may be
authorized by law, the Board of Trustees shall have power and authority to levy
and collect special taxes and assessments upon the lots and pieces of ground
adjacent to, abutting upon, or especially benefitting from, the street, avenue,
alley or sidewalk in whole or in part opened, widened, curbed, curbed and
guttered, graded, paved, repaired, graveled, macadamized, parked, extended,
constructed, or otherwise improved or repaired. The Board of Trustees sitting
as the Board of Equalization shall review all such improvements in accordance
with the procedure provided by law. All special assessments shall be made by
the Board of Trustees at a regular or special meeting by resolution, taking
into account the benefits derived or injuries sustained in consequence of such
improvements and the amount charged against same. The vote shall be recorded in
the minutes. Notice of the time of holding such meeting and the purpose for
which it is to be held shall be published in some legal newspaper published, or
of general circulation, in the village at least four weeks before the same
shall be held. In lieu of such aforementioned notice, personal service may be
had upon the persons owning or occupying the property to be assessed. Such
assessments shall be known as “special assessments for improvements” and with
the cost of notice shall be levied and collected as a special tax in addition
to the taxes for general revenue purposes, subject to the same penalties and
collected in like manner as other village taxes and shall be certified to the
County Clerk by the Village Clerk forthwith after the date of levy, for
collection by the Treasurer of said county unless otherwise specified. After it
shall become delinquent said assessment shall draw interest at the legal
interest rate per annum. In the event the property owner is a nonresident of
the county in which the property lies, the village shall, before levying any
special assessment against that property, send a copy of any notice required by
law to be published by means of certified mail, return receipt requested to the
last known address of the nonresident property owner. The last known address
shall be that address listed on the current tax rolls at the time such required
notice was first published.
(Prior Code, § 8-312)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-511, 17-524, 19-2428 through 19-2431, 45-
104.01
§ 151.057 PETITION FOR IMPROVEMENTS.
   Whenever a petition signed by the owners of record title representing more
than 60% of the front footage of the property directly abutting upon the
street, streets, alley, alleys, public way or the public grounds proposed to be
improved, shall be presented and filed with the Village Clerk, petitioning
therefor, the Board of Trustees shall by ordinance create a paving, graveling
or other improvement district or districts, and shall cause such work to be
done or such improvement to be made, and shall contract therefor, and shall
levy assessments on the lots and parcels of land abutting on or adjacent to
such street, streets, alley or alleys, especially benefitted thereby in such
district in proportion to such benefits, to pay the cost of such improvement.
The Board of Trustees shall have the discretion to deny the formation of the
proposed district when the area has not previously been improved with a water
system, sewer system and grading of streets. If the Board of Trustees should
deny a requested improvement district formation, it shall state the grounds for
such denial in a written letter to interested parties.
(Prior Code, § 8-313)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-510
§ 151.058 IMPROVEMENT DISTRICTS; OBJECTIONS.
   Whenever the Board of Trustees deems it necessary to make any improvements
allowed by statute which are to be funded by a levy of special assessment on
the property especially benefitted, the Board of Trustees shall by ordinance
create a paving, graveling or other improvement district and, after the
passage, approval and publication or posting of such ordinance, shall publish
notice of the creation of any such district for six days in a legal newspaper
of the village, if a daily newspaper, or for two consecutive weeks if it is a
weekly newspaper. If no legal newspaper is published in the village, the
publication shall be in a legal newspaper of general circulation in the
village. If the owners of the record title representing more than 50% of the
front footage of the property directly abutting on the street or alley to be
improved file with the Village Clerk within 20 days after the first publication
of such notice written objections to the creation of such district, such
improvement shall not be made as provided in such ordinance, but such ordinance
shall be repealed. If objections are not filed against the district in the time
and manner prescribed in this section, the Board of Trustees shall immediately
cause such work to be done or such improvement to be made, shall contract for
the work or improvement, and shall levy assessments on the lots and parcels of
land abutting on or adjacent to such street or alley especially benefitted in
such district in proportion to such benefits to pay the cost of such
improvement.
(Prior Code, § 8-314) (Ord. 96-22, passed 5-16-1996)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-511
§ 151.059 IMPROVEMENT OF STREETS ON CORPORATE LIMITS.
   The Chairperson and Board of Trustees shall have the power to improve any
street or part thereof which divides the village corporate area and the area
adjoining the village. When creating an improvement district including land
adjacent to the village, the Board of Trustees shall have power to assess, to
the extent of special benefits, the costs of such improvements upon the
properties found especially benefitted thereby.
(Prior Code, § 8-315)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-509
§ 151.060 IMPROVEMENT OF MAIN THOROUGHFARES.
   The Chairperson and Board of Trustees shall have the power by a three-
fourths vote of the Board of Trustees, to create by ordinance a paving,
graveling or other improvement district and to order such work done upon any
federal or state highway in the village or upon a street or route, designated
by the Chairperson and Board of Trustees as a main thoroughfare that connects,
on both ends, to either a federal or state highway or a county road. The Board
of Trustees shall contract therefor and shall have the power to assess, to the
extent of special benefits, the costs of such improvements upon the properties
found especially benefitted thereby.
(Prior Code, § 8-316)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-512
§ 151.061 DEFERRAL FROM SPECIAL ASSESSMENTS.
   (A)   Whenever the Board of Trustees of a village creates an improvement
district as specified in §
151.009 which includes land adjacent to the village which is within an
agricultural use zone and is used exclusively for agricultural use, the owners
of record title of such adjacent land may apply for a deferral from special
assessments. For purposes of this section, the terms agricultural use and
agricultural use zone shall have the meaning specified in Neb. RS 77-1343.
   (B)   Any owner of record title eligible for the deferral granted by this
section shall, to secure such assessment, make application to the Board of
Trustees of the village within 90 days after creation of an improvement
district as specified in §
151.010. Any owner of record title who makes application for the deferral
provided by this section shall notify the County Register of Deeds of such
application in writing prior to approval by the Board of Trustees. The Board of
Trustees shall approve the application of any owner of record title upon
determination that the property:
      (1)   Is within an agricultural use zone and is used exclusively for
agricultural use; and
      (2)   The owner has met the requirements of this section.
   (C)   The deferral provided for in this section shall be terminated upon any
of the following events:
      (1)   Notification by the owner of record title to the Board of Trustees
to remove such deferral;
      (2)   Sale or transfer to a new owner who does not make a new application
within 60 days of the sale or transfer, except as provided in division (C)(3)of
this section;
      (3)   Transfer by reason of death of a former owner to a new owner who
does not make application within 125 days of the transfer;
      (4)   The land is no longer being used as agricultural land; or
      (5)   Change of zoning to other than an agricultural zone.
   (D)   Whenever property which has received a deferral pursuant to this
section becomes disqualified for such deferral, the owner of record title of
such property shall pay to the village an amount equal to:
      (1)   The total amount of special assessments which would have been
assessed against such property, to the extent of special benefits, had such
deferral not been granted; and
      (2)   Interest upon the special assessments not paid each year at the
rate of 6% from the dates at which such assessments would have been payable if
no deferral had been granted.
   (E)   In cases where the deferral provided by this section is terminated as
a result of a sale or transfer described in division (C)(2) or (C)(3) of this
section the lien for assessments and interest shall attach as of the day
preceding such sale or transfer.
(Prior Code, § 8-317)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 19-2428 through 19-2431
§ 151.062 VACATING PUBLIC WAYS: DEFINITIONS AND ASCERTAINING DAMAGES.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      SPECIAL DAMAGES. Only those losses or damages or injuries which a
property owner suffers that are peculiar or special or unique to his or her
property and which result from the Board of Trustees vacating a street, avenue,
alley, lane or similar public way. SPECIAL DAMAGES shall not mean those losses
or damages or injuries that a property owner suffers that are in common with
the rest of the village or public at large, even though those losses or damages
or injuries suffered by the property owner are greater in degree than the rest
of the village or public at large.
   (B)   The Chairperson shall appoint three or five or seven disinterested
residents of the village to a special commission to ascertain the amount of
special damages that the abutting property owners are entitled to receive and
which resulted from the Board of Trustees vacating the street, avenue, alley,
lane or similar public way. The appointees of the special commission shall be
approved by the Board of Trustees. Only special damages shall be awarded to the
abutting property owners.
   (C)   In determining the amount of compensation to award the abutting
property owners as special damages, the commission shall use the following
rule:
      An abutting property owner is entitled to recover as compensation the
difference between the value of the property immediately before and immediately
after the vacating of the street, avenue, alley, lane or similar public way. If
no difference in value exists, the abutting property owner is entitled to no
compensation.
(Prior Code, § 8-318)
§ 151.063 VACATING PUBLIC WAYS; PROCEDURES.
   Whenever the Board of Trustees decides that it would be in the best
interests of the village to vacate a street, avenue, alley, lane or similar
public way, the Board of Trustees shall comply with the following procedure.
   (A)   Notice. Notice shall be given to all abutting property owners either
by first class mail to their last known address or if there is no known address
then by publishing the notice in a newspaper that is of general circulation in
the village. The content of the notice shall advise the abutting property
owners that the Board of Trustees will consider vacating that street, avenue,
alley, lane or similar public way at its next regular meeting, or, if a special
meeting is scheduled for the discussion, then the date, time and place of that
meeting.
   (B)   Consent; waiver. The Board of Trustees may have all the abutting
property owners sign a form stating that they consent to the action being taken
by the Board of Trustees and waive their right of access. The signing of this
form shall have no effect on claims for special damages by the abutting
property owners but shall create the presumption that the Board of Trustees’
action was proper. If the abutting property owners do not sign the consent/
waiver form, the Board of Trustees may still proceed with vacating the street,
avenue, alley, lane or similar public way under the authority granted by Neb.
RS 17-558 and 17-559.
   (C)   Ordinance. The Board of Trustees shall pass an ordinance that includes
essentially the following provisions:
      (1)   A declaration that the action is expedient for the public good or
in the best interests of the village;
      (2)   A statement that the village will have an easement for maintaining
all utilities; and
      (3)   A method or procedure for ascertaining special damages to abutting
property owners.
(Prior Code, § 8-319)
CURB AND GUTTER
§ 151.075 CUTTING CURB.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to cut into any paving, curb or
sidewalk for the purpose of constructing a driveway or any other purpose
whatsoever without first having obtained a written permit from the Board of
Trustees. Before any person obtains a permit, he or she shall inform the
Village Clerk of the place where such cutting is to be done and it shall be the
duty of the village street official to inspect the proposed place of entry into
the paving, sidewalk or curb.
   (B)   When cutting into any paving, curb or sidewalk, it shall be the duty
of the party to comply with such rules and regulations as may be prescribed by
the Board or the Village Engineer. When the applicant is ready to close the
opening made, he or she shall inform the village street official, who shall
supervise and inspect the materials used and the work done in closing the
opening.
   (C)   It shall be discretionary with the Board to order the village street
official, under the supervision and inspection of the Village Engineer or the
committee of the Board on the streets and alleys, to do the cutting and closing
of the paving, curb, or sidewalk and charge the costs thereof to the party who
obtained the permit. The Board may consent to the cutting and closing of the
paving, curb or sidewalk by the party holding the permit.
   (D)   Before any permit is issued by the Board, the applicant for the permit
shall deposit with the Village Treasurer a sum set by resolution of the Board
for all paving, curb or sidewalk to be cut. Such sum shall be set on a per
square foot cost of construction basis. The deposit shall be retained by the
village for the purpose of replacing the paving, curb or sidewalk in the event
the work is done by the village. If the Board elects to require the applicant
to replace the paving, curb or sidewalk, the deposit shall be retained by the
village until the work is completed to the satisfaction of the village street
official or of the committee of the Board on streets and alleys.
   (E)   In addition to making the deposit, the applicant shall, before any
permit is issued, execute a bond to the village with a good and sufficient
surety to be approved by the Board in a sum set by resolution.
(Prior Code, § 8-401) Penalty, see §
151.999
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-567
§ 151.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, or any person’s agent or servant, who violates any of the
provisions of this chapter, unless otherwise specifically provided herein,
shall be deemed guilty of an offense and upon conviction thereof shall be fined
in any sum not exceeding the amount as set forth in the village master fee
list. A new violation shall be deemed to have been committed every 24 hours of
failure to comply with the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   (1)   Whenever a nuisance exists as defined in 
Chapter 92 of this code of ordinances, the village may proceed by a suit in
equity to enjoin, abate and remove the same in the manner provided by law.
      (2)   Whenever, in any action, it is established that a nuisance exists,
the court may, together with the fine or penalty imposed, enter an order of
abatement as a part of the judgment in the case.
(Neb. RS 17-207, 17-505, 18-1720, 18-1722) (Prior Code, § 8-501) (Ord. 2001-8,
passed 2-15-2001)
CHAPTER 152: FLOOD PREVENTION
Section
   
152.01   Statutory authorization; finding of fact; statement of purpose
   
152.02   Local administrator responsibilities
   
152.03   Local administrator additional responsibilities
   
152.04   Designation of current FIRM
   
152.05   Permits required
   
152.06   Development permit applications review
   
152.07   All application review
   
152.08   Subdivision applications
   
152.09   Water and sewage systems
   
152.10   Storage of materials and equipment
   
152.11   Flood-carrying capacity within any watercourse
   
152.12   Variance procedures
   
152.13   Nonconforming use
   
152.14   Abrogation and greater restrictions
   
152.15   Interpretation
   
152.16   Warning and disclaimer of liability
   
152.17   Severability
   
152.18   Appeal
   
152.19   Conflicting ordinances/resolutions
   
152.20   Definitions
 
   
152.99   Penalty
§ 152.01 STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION; FINDING OF FACT; STATEMENT OF PURPOSE.
   (A)   Statutory authorization. The Legislature of the state has in Neb. RS
31-1001 to 31-1022 (as amended), assigned the responsibility to local
governmental units to adopt floodplain management regulations, designed to
protect the public health, safety and general welfare. Therefore, the Village
Board of Trustees of Cedar Bluffs, Nebraska ordains as follows.
   (B)   Findings of fact.
      (1)   Flood losses resulting from periodic inundation. The flood hazard
areas of the village are subject to inundation which results in loss of life
and property, health and safety hazards, disruption of commerce and
governmental services, extraordinary public expenditures for flood protection
and relief, and impairment of the tax base all of which adversely affect the
public health, safety and general welfare.
      (2)   General causes of the flood losses. These flood losses are caused
by:
         (a)   The cumulative effect of obstructions in floodplains causing
increases in flood heights and velocities; and
         (b)   The occupancy of flood hazard areas by uses vulnerable to floods
or hazardous to others, which are inadequately elevated or otherwise
unprotected from flood damages.
   (C)   Statement of purpose. It is the purpose of this chapter to promote the
public health, safety and general welfare and to minimize those losses
described in division (B)(1) of this section by applying the provisions of this
chapter to:
      (1)   Restrict or prohibit uses which are dangerous to health, safety or
property in times of flooding or cause undue increases in flood heights or
velocities;
      (2)   Require that uses vulnerable to floods, including public facilities
which serve such uses, be provided with flood protection at the time of initial
construction;
      (3)   Protect individuals from buying lands which are unsuited for
intended purposes because of flood hazard; and
      (4)   Assure that eligibility is maintained for property owners in the
community to purchase flood insurance in the National Flood Insurance Program.
(Ord. 2010-01, passed 8-26-2010)
§ 152.02 LOCAL ADMINISTRATOR RESPONSIBILITIES.
   The Village Chairperson hereby has these added responsibilities and is
authorized and directed to enforce all of the provisions of this chapter and
all other ordinances/resolutions of the village now in force or hereafter
adopted, related to zoning, subdivision or building codes.
(Ord. 2010-01, passed 8-26-2010)
§ 152.03 LOCAL ADMINISTRATOR ADDITIONAL RESPONSIBILITIES.
   The Village Chairperson shall be appointed to these additional
responsibilities by resolution of the Board of Trustees and his or her
appointment shall continue during good behavior and satisfactory service.
During temporary absence or disability of the Village Chairperson, the Board of
Trustees of the village shall designate an acting administrator.
(Ord. 2010-01, passed 8-26-2010)
§ 152.04 DESIGNATION OF CURRENT FIRM.
   The Board of Trustees of the village hereby designates the current Flood
Hazard Boundary Map/Flood Insurance Rate Map dated April 5, 2010, as the
official map to be used in determining those areas of special flood hazard.
(Ord. 2010-01, passed 8-26-2010)
§ 152.05 PERMITS REQUIRED.
   No person, firm or corporation shall initiate any floodplain development or
substantial improvement or cause the same to be done without first obtaining a
separate permit for development as defined in this chapter.
   (A)   Permits. Within special flood hazard areas on the official map,
separate floodplain development permits are required for all new construction,
substantial improvements and other developments, including the placement of
manufactured homes.
   (B)   Application.
      (1)   To obtain a floodplain development permit, the applicant shall
first file an application therefore in writing on a form finished for that
purpose.
      (2)   Every such application shall:
         (a)   Identify and describe the development to be covered by the
floodplain development permit for which application is made;
         (b)   Describe the land on which the proposed development is to be
done by lot, block, tract and house and street address, or similar description
that will readily identify and definitely locate the proposed building or
development;
         (c)   Indicate the use or occupancy for which the proposed development
is intended;
         (d)   Be accompanied by plans and specifications for proposed
construction;
         (e)   Be signed by the permittee or his or her authorized agent who
may be required to submit evidence to indicate such authority
         (f)   Within designated floodplain areas, be accompanied by elevations
of the lowest floor, including basement, or in the case of floodproofed
nonresidential structures, the elevation to which it shall be floodproofed.
Documentation or certification of such elevations will be maintained by the
Village Chairperson; and
         (g)   Give such other information as reasonably may be required by the
Village Chairperson (i.e., require a statement from the applicant that they are
aware that elevating or floodproofing structures above the minimum levels will
result in premium reduction, especially in the case of nonresidential
floodproofing when a minus one foot penalty is assessed at the time of rating
the structure for the policy premium.)
(Ord. 2010-01, passed 8-26-2010)
§ 152.06 DEVELOPMENT PERMIT APPLICATIONS REVIEW.
   The Village Chairperson shall review all development permit applications to
determine of the site of the proposed development is reasonably safe from
flooding and that all necessary permits have been received as required by
federal or state law.
(Ord. 2010-01, passed 8-26-2010)
§ 152.07 ALL APPLICATION REVIEW.
   The Village Chairperson, in reviewing all applications for new construction,
substantial improvements, prefabricated buildings, placement of manufactured
homes and other development(s) (as defined in §
152.20) will:
   (A)   Obtain, review and reasonably utilize, if available, any regulatory
flood elevation data and floodway data available from federal, state or other
sources, until such other data is provided by the Federal Insurance
Administration in a Flood Insurance Study; and require within special flood
hazard areas on the official map that the following performance standards be
met:
      (1)   That until a floodway has been designated. No development or
substantial improvement may be permitted within the identified floodplain
unless the applicant has demonstrated that the proposed development or
substantial improvement, when combined with all other existing and reasonably
anticipated developments or substantial improvements, will not increase the
water surface elevation of the 100-year flood more than one foot at any
location;
      (2)   Residential construction. New construction or substantial
improvement of any residential structure shall have the lowest floor, including
basement, elevated at least one foot above the base flood elevation;
      (3)   Nonresidential construction. New construction or substantial
improvement of any commercial, industrial or other nonresidential structure
shall either have the lowest floor, including basement, elevated at least one
foot above the base flood elevation or, together with attendant utility and
sanitary facilities, be floodproofed so that below such a level the structure
is watertight with walls substantially impermeable to the passage of water and
with structural components having the capability of resisting hydrostatic and
hydrodynamic loads and effects of buoyancy. A registered professional engineer
or architect shall certify that the standards of this division (A)(3) are
satisfied. Such certification shall be provided to the Village Chairperson; and
      (4)   Require for all new construction and substantial improvements. That
fully enclosed areas below the lowest floor that are usable solely for parking
of vehicles, building access or storage in an area other than a basement and
which are subject to flooding shall be designed to automatically equalize
hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls by allowing for the entry and exit
of floodwaters. Designs for meeting this requirement must either be certified
by a registered professional engineer or architect or meet or exceed the
following minimum criteria. A minimum of two openings having a total net area
of not less than one square inch for every square foot of enclosed area subject
to flooding shall be provided. The bottom of all openings shall be no higher
than one foot above grade. Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers,
valves or other coverings or devices provided that they permit the automatic
entry and exit of floodwaters.
   (B)   Require the use of construction materials that are resistant to flood
damage;
   (C)   Require the use of construction methods and practices that will
minimize flood damage;
   (D)   Require that new structures be designed (or modified) and adequately
anchored to prevent flotation, collapse or lateral movement of the structure
resulting from hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads, including the effects of
buoyancy;
   (E)   New structures be constructed with electrical, heating, ventilation,
plumbing and air conditioning equipment and other service facilities that are
designed and/or located so as to prevent water from entering or accumulating
within the components during conditions of flooding;
   (F)   Assure that all manufactured homes shall be anchored to resist
flotation, collapse or lateral movement. Manufactured homes must be anchored in
accordance with state laws, local building codes and FEMA guidelines. In the
event that over-the-top frame ties to ground anchors are used, the following
specific requirements (or their equivalent) shall be met:
      (1)   Over-the-top ties be provided at each of the four corners of the
manufactured home with two additional ties per side at the intermediate
locations and manufactured homes less than 50 feet long requiring one
additional tie per side;
      (2)   Frame ties be provided at each corner of the home with five
additional ties per side at intermediate points and manufactured homes less
than 50 feet long requiring four additional ties per side;
      (3)   All components of the anchoring system be capable of carrying a
force of 4,800 pounds; and
      (4)   Any additions to manufactured homes be similarly anchored.
   (G)   Assure that all manufactured homes that are placed or substantially
improved within special flood hazard areas on the community’s official map on
sites:
      (1)   Outside of a manufactured home park or subdivision;
      (2)   In a new manufactured home park or subdivision;
      (3)   In an expansion to an existing manufactured home park or
subdivision; or
      (4)   In an existing manufactured home park or subdivision on which a
manufactured home has incurred “substantial damage” as the result of a flood,
be elevated on a permanent foundation such that the lowest floor of the
manufactured home is elevated at least one foot above the base flood elevation
and be securely anchored to an adequately anchored foundation system in
accordance with the provisions of division (F) of this section.
   (H)   Assure that manufactured homes to be placed or substantially improved
on sites in an existing manufactured home park or subdivision within special
flood hazard areas on the community’s official map that are not subject to the
provisions of division (G) of this section be elevated so that either:
      (1)   The lowest floor of the manufactured home is at least one foot
above the base flood elevation; or
      (2)   The manufactured home chassis is supported by reinforced piers or
other foundation elements of at least equivalent strength that are no less than
36 inches in height above grade and be securely anchored to an adequately
anchored foundation system in accordance with the provisions of division (F) of
this section.
   (I)   (1)   Require that recreational vehicles placed on sites within the
identified special flood hazard areas on the community’s official map either:
         (a)   Be on the site for fewer than 180 consecutive days;
         (b)   Be fully licensed and ready for highway use; or
         (c)   Meet the permit requirements and the elevation and anchoring
requirements for “manufactured homes” of this chapter.
      (2)   A recreational vehicle is ready for highway use if it is on its
wheels or jacking system is attached to the site only by quick disconnect type
utilities and security devices, and has no permanently attached additions.
(Ord. 2010-01, passed 8-26-2010)
§ 152.08 SUBDIVISION APPLICATIONS.
   The Board of Trustees of the village shall review all subdivision
applications and other proposed new developments (including manufactured home
parks or subdivisions) and shall make findings of fact and assure that:
   (A)   All such proposed developments are consistent with the need to
minimize flood damage;
   (B)   Subdivision proposals and other proposed new developments (including
proposals for manufactured home parks and subdivisions), greater than five
acres or 50 lots, whichever is lesser, include within such proposals regulatory
flood elevation data in special flood hazard areas;
   (C)   Adequate drainage is provided so as to reduce exposure to flood
hazards; and
   (D)   All public utilities and facilities are located so as to minimize or
eliminate flood damage.
(Ord. 2010-01, passed 8-26-2010)
§ 152.09 WATER AND SEWAGE SYSTEMS.
   New and replacement water and sewage systems shall be constructed to
eliminate or minimize infiltration by, or discharge into floodwaters. Moreover,
on-site waste disposal systems will be designed to avoid impairment or
contamination during flooding.
(Ord. 2010-01, passed 8-26-2010)
§ 152.10 STORAGE OF MATERIALS AND EQUIPMENT.
   The storage or processing of materials that are in time of flooding buoyant,
flammable, explosive or could be injurious to human, animal or plant life is
prohibited. Storage of other material or equipment may be allowed if not
subject to major damage by floods and firmly anchored to prevent flotation or
if readily removable from the area within the time available after flood
warning.
(Ord. 2010-01, passed 8-26-2010)
§ 152.11 FLOOD-CARRYING CAPACITY WITHIN ANY WATERCOURSE.
   The Board of Trustees of the village will ensure that the flood-carrying
capacity within the altered or relocated portion of any watercourse is
maintained. The village will notify, in riverine situations, adjacent
communities and the State Coordinating Office (Nebraska Department of Natural
Resources) prior to any alteration or relocation of a watercourse, and submit
copies of such notifications to the Federal Emergency Management Agency.
Moreover, the village will work with appropriate state and federal agencies in
every way possible in complying with the National Flood Insurance Program in
accordance with the Flood Disaster Protection Act of 1973, being 42 U.S.C. §§
4001 et seq.
(Ord. 2010-01, passed 8-26-2010)
§ 152.12 VARIANCE PROCEDURES.
   (A)   The Board of Trustees as established by the village shall hear and
decide appeals and requests for variances from the requirements of this
chapter.
   (B)   The Board of Trustees shall hear and decide appeals when it is alleged
that there is an error in any requirement, decision or determination made by
the Village Chairperson in the enforcement or administration of this chapter.
   (C)   Any person aggrieved by the decision of the Board of Trustees or any
taxpayer may appeal such decision to the District Court as provided in Neb. RS
19-912.
   (D)   In passing upon such applications, the Board of Trustees shall
consider all technical evaluation, all relevant factors, standards specified in
other sections of this chapter, and:
      (1)   The danger that materials may be swept onto other lands to the
injury of others;
      (2)   The danger to life and property due to flooding or erosion damage;
      (3)   The susceptibility of proposed facility and its contents to flood
damage and the effect of such damage on the individual owner;
      (4)   The importance of the services provided by the proposed facility to
the community;
      (5)   The necessity to the facility of a waterfront location, where
applicable;
      (6)   The availability of alternative locations, not subject to flooding
or erosion damage, for the proposed use;
      (7)   The compatibility of the proposed use with existing and anticipated
development;
      (8)   The relationship of the proposed use to the comprehensive plan and
floodplain management program for that area;
      (9)   The safety of access to the property in times of flood for ordinary
and emergency vehicles:
         (a)   The expected heights, velocity, duration, rate of rise and
sediment transport of the flood waters and the effects of wave action, if
applicable, expected at the site; and
         (b)   The costs of providing governmental services during and after
flood conditions including maintenance and repair of public utilities and
facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical and water systems, and streets and
bridges.
   (E)   Conditions for variances.
      (1)   (a)   Generally variances may be issued for new construction and
substantial improvements to be erected on a lot of one-half acre or less in
size contiguous to and surrounded by lots with existing structures constructed
below the base flood level, providing divisions (E)(2) through (E)(5) of this
section have been fully considered.
         (b)   As the lot size increases beyond the one-half acre, the
technical justification required for issuing the variance increases.
      (2)   Variances may be issued for the repair or rehabilitation of
historic structures upon a determination that the proposed repair or
rehabilitation will not preclude the structure’s continued designation as a
historic structure and the variance is the minimum necessary to preserve the
historic character and design of the structure.
      (3)   Variances shall only be issued upon a determination that the
variance is the minimum necessary, considering the flood hazard, to afford
relief.
      (4)   Variances shall only be issued upon:
         (a)   A showing of good and sufficient cause;
         (b)   A determination that failure to grant the variance would result
in exceptional hardship to the applicant; and
         (c)   A determination that the granting of a variance will not result
in increased flood heights, additional threats to public safety, extraordinary
public expense, create nuisances, cause fraud on or victimization of the
public, or conflict with existing local laws or ordinances/resolutions.
      (5)   (a)   The applicant shall be given a written notice over the
signature of a community official that:
            (1)   The issuance of a variance to construct a structure below
base flood level will result in increased premium rates for flood insurance
coverage in the amount as set forth in the village master fee list; and
            (2)   Such construction below the base flood level increases risks
to life and property.
         (b)   Such notification shall be maintained with the record of all
variance actions as required by this chapter.
(Ord. 2010-01, passed 8-26-2010)
§ 152.13 NONCONFORMING USE.
   (A)   A structure or the use of a structure or premises which was lawful
before the passage or amendment of the chapter, but which is not in conformity
with the provisions of this chapter may be continued subject to the following
conditions.
      (1)   If such use is discontinued for 12 consecutive months, any future
use of the building premises shall conform to this chapter. The Utility
Department shall notify the Chairperson of the Board in writing of instances of
nonconforming uses where utility services have been discontinued for a period
of 12 months.
      (2)   Uses or adjuncts thereof which are or become nuisances shall not be
entitled to continue as nonconforming uses.
   (B)   If any nonconforming use or structure is destroyed by any means,
including flood, it shall not be reconstructed if the cost is more than 50% of
the market value of the structure before the damage occurred except that if it
is reconstructed in conformity with the provisions of this chapter. This
limitation does not include the cost of any alteration to comply with existing
state or local health, sanitary, building or safety codes or regulations or the
cost of any alteration of a structure listed on the National Register of
Historic Places or a State Inventory of Historic Places.
(Ord. 2010-01, passed 8-26-2010)
§ 152.14 ABROGATION AND GREATER RESTRICTIONS.
   It is not intended by this chapter to repeal, abrogate or impair any
existent easements, covenants or deed restrictions. However, where this chapter
imposes greater restrictions, the provision of this chapter shall prevail. All
other ordinances/resolutions inconsistent with this chapter are hereby repealed
to the extent of the inconsistency only.
(Ord. 2010-01, passed 8-26-2010)
§ 152.15 INTERPRETATION.
   In their interpretation and application, the provisions of this chapter
shall be held to be minimum requirements and shall be liberally construed in
favor of the Board of Trustees and shall not be deemed a limitation or repeal,
of any other powers granted by state statutes.
(Ord. 2010-01, passed 8-26-2010)
§ 152.16 WARNING AND DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY.
   The degree of flood protection required by this chapter is considered
reasonable for regulatory purposes and is based on engineering and scientific
methods of study. Larger floods may occur on rare occasions or the flood height
may be increased by human-made or natural causes, such as ice jams and bridge
openings restricted by debris. This chapter does not imply that areas outside
floodplain district boundaries or land uses permitted within such districts
will be free from flooding or flood damage. This chapter shall not create
liability on the village or any officer or employee thereof for any flood
damages that may result from reliance on this chapter or any administrative
decision lawfully made thereunder.
(Ord. 2010-01, passed 8-26-2010)
§ 152.17 SEVERABILITY.
   If any section, clause, provision or portion of this chapter is adjudged
unconstitutional or invalid by a court of competent jurisdiction, the remainder
of this chapter shall not be affected thereby.
(Ord. 2010-01, passed 8-26-2010)
§ 152.18 APPEAL.
   Where a request for a permit to develop or a variance is denied by the
Chairperson of the Board, the applicant may apply for such permit or variance
directly to the Board of Appeals.
(Ord. 2010-01, passed 8-26-2010)
§ 152.19 CONFLICTING ORDINANCES/RESOLUTIONS.
   This chapter shall take precedence over conflicting ordinances/resolutions
or parts of ordinances/resolutions. The Board of Trustees of the village may,
from time to time, amend this chapter to reflect any and all changes in the
Flood Disaster Protection Act of 1973, being 42 U.S.C. §§ 4001 et seq. The
regulations of this chapter are in compliance with the National Flood Insurance
Program Regulations as published in C.F.R. Title 44 and the 1983 Nebraska
Floodplain Management Act, being 42 U.S.C. §§ 31-1001 et seq.
(Ord. 2010-01, passed 8-26-2010)
§ 152.20 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BASE FLOOD. The flood having 1% chance of being equaled or exceeded in any
given year.
   BASEMENT. Any area of the building having its floor subgrade (below ground
level) on all sides.
   DEVELOPMENT. Any human-made change to improved or unimproved real estate,
including, but not limited to, buildings or other structures, mining, dredging,
filling, grading, paving, excavation or drilling operations or storage of
equipment or materials.
   EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including, at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is complete before the effective date
of the floodplain management regulations adopted by a community.
   EXPANSION OF EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. The preparation
of additional sites by the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including the installation of
utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site grading or the
pouring of concrete pads).
   FLOOD. A general and temporary condition of partial or complete inundation
of normally dry land areas from:
      (1)   The overflow of inland or tidal waters; and
      (2)   The unusual and rapid accumulation of runoff of surface waters from
any source.
   FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (FIRM). An official map of a community, on which
the Administrator has delineated both the special flood hazard areas and the
risk premium applicable to the community.
   FLOODPLAIN. Any land area susceptible to being inundated by water from any
source.
   FLOODPROOFING. Any combination of structural and non-structural additions,
changes or adjustments to structures which reduce or eliminate flood damage to
real estate or improved real property, water and sanitary facilities,
structures and their contents.
   FLOODWAY. The channel of the river or other watercourse and the adjacent
land areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the base flood without
cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation more than a designated
height.
   HISTORIC STRUCTURE. Any structure that is:
      (1)   Listed individually in the National Register of Historic Places (a
listing maintained by the Department of Interior) or preliminarily determined
by the Secretary of the Interior as meeting the requirements for individual
listing on the National Register;
      (2)   Certified or preliminarily determined by the Secretary of the
Interior as contributing to the historical significance of a registered
historic district or a district preliminarily determined by the Secretary to
qualify as a registered historic district;
      (3)   Individually listed on a state inventory of historic places in
states with historic preservation programs which have been approved by the
Secretary of the Interior; or
      (4)   Individually listed on a local inventory of historic places in
communities with historic preservation programs that have been certified
either:
         (a)   By an approved state program as determined by the Secretary of
the Interior; or
         (b)   Directly by the Secretary of the Interior in states without
approved programs.
   LOWEST FLOOR. The lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area (including
basement). An unfinished or flood-resistant enclosure, usable solely for
parking of vehicles, building access or storage, in an area other than a
basement area, is not considered a building’s LOWEST FLOOR, provided that such
enclosure is not built so as to render the structure in violation of the
applicable non-elevation design requirements of this chapter.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. A structure, transportable in one or more sections, which
is built on a permanent chassis and is designed for use with or without a
permanent foundation when attached to the required utilities. The term
MANUFACTURED HOME does not include a recreational vehicle.
   MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A parcel (or contiguous parcels) of
land divided into two or more manufactured home lots for rent or sale.
   NEW CONSTRUCTION. For floodplain management purposes, NEW CONSTRUCTION means
structures for which the start of construction commenced on or after the
effective date of the floodplain management regulation adopted by a community
and includes any subsequent improvements to such structures.
   NEW MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including at a minimum the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed on or after the effective
date of floodplain management regulations adopted by a community.
   ONE HUNDRED YEAR FLOOD (100-YEAR FLOOD). The condition of flooding having a
1% chance of annual occurrence.
   PRINCIPALLY ABOVE GROUND. That at least 51% of the actual cash value of the
structure is above ground.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. A vehicle which is:
      (1)   Built on a single chassis;
      (2)   Four hundred square feet or less when measured at the largest
horizontal projection;
      (3)   Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light
duty truck; and
      (4)   Designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling but as
temporary living quarters for recreational, camping, travel or seasonal use.
   REGULATORY FLOOD ELEVATION. The water surface elevation of the 100-year
flood.
   SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA. The land in the floodplain within a community
subject to 1% or greater chance of flooding in any given year.
   START OF CONSTRUCTION. For other than new construction or substantial
improvements under the Coastal Barrier Resources Act (Pub. L. 97-348), being 16
U.S.C. §§ 3501 et seq, includes substantial improvement, and means the date the
building permit was issued, provided the actual start of construction, repair,
reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition, placement or other improvement was
within 180 days of the permit date. The ACTUAL START means the first placement
of permanent construction of a structure on a site, such as the pouring of slab
or footings, the installation of piles, the construction of columns or any work
beyond the stage of excavation; or the placement of a manufactured home on a
foundation. Permanent construction does not include land preparation, such as
clearing, grading and filling; nor does it include the installation of streets
and/or walkways; nor does it include excavation for a basement, footings, piers
or foundations or the erection of temporary forms; nor does it include the
installation on the property of accessory buildings, such as garages or sheds
not occupied as dwelling units or not part of the main structure. For a
substantial improvement, the ACTUAL START OF CONSTRUCTION means the first
alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor or other structural part of a building,
whether or not the alteration affects the external dimensions of the building.
   STRUCTURE. A walled and roofed building that is principally above ground, as
well as a manufactured home, and a gas or liquid storage tank that is
principally above ground.
   SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE. Damage of any origin sustained by a structure whereby
the cost of restoring the structure to its before-damaged condition would equal
or exceed 50% of the market value of the structure before the damage occurred.
   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT.
      (1)   Any reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition or other improvement
of a structure, the cost of which equals or exceeds 50% of the market value of
the structure before “start of construction” of the improvement.
      (2)   This includes structures which have incurred “substantial damage,”
regardless of the actual repair work performed. The term does not, however,
include either:
         (a)   Any project for improvement of a structure to correct existing
violations of state or local health, sanitary or safety code specifications
which have been identified by the local code enforcement official and which are
the minimum necessary to assure safe living conditions; or
         (b)   Any alteration of a “historic structure”, provided that the
alteration will not preclude the structure’s continued designation as a
“historic structure”.
   VARIANCE. A grant of relief to a person from the terms of a floodplain
management ordinance.
   VIOLATION. The failure of a structure or other development to be fully
compliant with the community’s floodplain management regulations.
(Ord. 2010-01, passed 8-26-2010)
§ 152.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Violation of the provisions of this chapter or failure to comply with
any of its requirements (including violations of conditions and safeguards
established in connection with grants of variances or special exceptions) shall
constitute a misdemeanor. Any person who violates this chapter or fails to
comply with any of its requirements shall upon conviction thereof be fined not
more than the amount as set forth in the village master fee list, and in
addition, shall pay all costs and expenses involved in the case. Each day such
violation continues shall be considered a separate offense.
   (B)   Nothing herein contained shall prevent the village or other
appropriate authority from taking such other lawful action as is necessary to
prevent or remedy any violation.
(Ord. 2010-01, passed 8-26-2010)
CHAPTER 153: MUNICIPAL PLANNING
Section
Comprehensive Plan
   
153.01   Adopted
Zoning Regulations
   
153.15   Adopted
Subdivision Regulations
   
153.30   Adopted
 
   
153.99   Penalty
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN
§ 153.01 ADOPTED.
   (A)   The Comprehensive Plan for the village is hereby adopted by reference.
   (B)   The Comprehensive Plan, published in pamphlet form, including any
amendments thereto as may be made therein from time to time, has been adopted
by Ordinance 47, passed July 17, 1974.
   (C)   One copy of the adopted Comprehensive Plan shall be kept on file with
the Village Clerk and available for inspection by any member of the public
during office hours.
(Prior Code, § 11-101)
ZONING REGULATIONS
§ 153.15 ADOPTED.
   (A)   For the purpose of setting minimum standards to promote the public
health, safety, morals, convenience, order, prosperity and general welfare of
the community, and to lessen congestion in the streets; to secure safety from
fire, panic and other dangers; to provide adequate light and air; to prevent
the overcrowding of land; to avoid undue concentration of population; and to
facilitate the adequate provision of transportation, water, sewerage, schools,
parks and other public requirements, the zoning regulations for the village,
published in pamphlet form, including any amendments thereto as may be made
therein from time to time, have been adopted by Ordinance 48, passed July 17,
1974.
   (B)   One copy of the adopted zoning regulations shall be kept on file with
the Village Clerk and available for inspection by any member of the public
during office hours.
(Prior Code, § 11-201) (Ord. 2003-3, passed 10-15-2003)
SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
§ 153.30 ADOPTED.
   (A)   Subdivision regulations for the village are hereby adopted by
reference.
   (B)   Subdivision regulations, including any amendments thereto as may be
made therein from time to time, have been adopted by Ordinance 49, passed July
17, 1974.
   (C)   One copy of the adopted subdivision regulations shall be kept on file
with the Village Clerk and available for inspection by any member of the public
during office hours.
(Prior Code, § 11-301) (Ord. 2003-3, passed 10-15-2003)
§ 153.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, or any person’s agent or servant, who violates any of the
provisions of this chapter, unless otherwise specifically provided herein,
shall be deemed guilty of an offense and upon conviction thereof shall be fined
in any sum not exceeding the amount as set forth in the village master fee
list. A new violation shall be deemed to have been committed every 24 hours of
failure to comply with the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   (1)   Whenever a nuisance exists as defined in
Chapter 92 of this code of ordinances, the village may proceed by a suit in
equity to enjoin, abate and remove the same in the manner provided by law.
      (2)   Whenever, in any action, it is established that a nuisance exists,
the court may, together with the fine or penalty imposed, enter an order of
abatement as a part of the judgment in the case.
(Neb. RS 17-207, 17-505, 18-1720, 18-1722) (Prior Code, § 11-401) (Ord. 2001-8,
passed 2-15-2001)
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Nebraska Revised Statutes
References to Prior Code
References to Resolutions
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO NEBRASKA REVISED STATUTES
Neb. RS Section Code Section
Neb. RS Section              Code Section
10-101 through 10-143        37.10
11-101                       30.002
11-101.01                    36.11
11-104                       30.001
11-105                       30.001
11-109                       30.001
11-110                       30.001
11-111                       30.001
11-112                       30.001
11-113                       30.001
11-114                       30.001
11-115                       30.001
11-116                       30.001
11-117                       30.001
11-118                       30.001
13-403                       151.013
13-501 et seq.               37.31—
                             37.33
13-504                       37.26
13-505                       37.26
13-506                       37.27;
                             37.28
13-509.01                    37.29
13-509.02                    37.29
13-511                       37.33
13-518 through 13-522        37.28;
                             37.33
13-519                       36.06
13-606                       37.03
13-801 et seq.               31.03
13-801 through 13-827        112.08
13-903                       37.04
13-1802                      35.02
13-2016.01                   91.01
16-318(3)                    32.05
17-121                       116.01
17-123                       93.03
17-142                       131.08
17-143                       115.01
17-144                       115.01
17-149                       52.003
                             31.02;
17-202                       36.01;
                             36.02
17-203                       31.02;
                             36.02
                             30.024;
                             93.03;
                             94.999;
                             110.99;
                             113.99;
                             114.01;
                             114.99;
17-205                       115.99;
                             116.99;
                             117.99;
                             130.99;
                             131.99;
                             150.999;
                             151.999;
                             153.99
                             10.99;
                             31.03;
17-207                       90.99;
                             91.03;
                             91.99;
                             92.99;
                             32.01;
17-208                       90.01;
                             90.02
17-209                       30.045
                             30.045;
17-209.02                    31.02;
                             32.02
17-210                       31.01;
                             31.26
17-213                       32.09
17-213.01                    32.07
17-502                       30.003
17-503                       151.005
17-503.01                    151.005
                             10.99;
                             31.20;
                             90.99;
                             91.99;
                             92.99;
                             94.999;
                             110.99;
                             113.99;
17-505                       114.99;
                             115.99;
                             116.99;
                             117.99;
                             130.99;
                             131.99;
                             150.999;
                             151.999;
                             153.99
17-509                       151.059
17-509 to 17-521             151.030
17-510                       151.057
17-511                       151.056;
                             151.058
17-512                       151.060
17-522                       151.030
17-524                       151.030;
                             151.056
17-525                       117.01
                             93.02;
                             93.35;
17-526                       93.37;
                             93.46—
                             93.50
17-531                       51.01
17-534                       51.01
17-536                       51.16
                             50.01;
                             51.03;
                             51.06;
17-537                       51.08;
                             51.13;
                             51.14;
                             51.18;
                             51.20
17-538                       50.04;
                             51.12
17-539                       51.17
17-540                       37.09;
                             51.09
17-541                       32.08
17-542                       51.07;
                             51.10
17-543                       32.08
17-547                       93.02
17-548                       93.52
17-549                       94.065;
                             94.080
                             94.030—
17-550                       94.033;
                             150.020
17-551                       115.01
17-552                       115.01
                             92.06;
17-555                       131.07—
                             131.09;
                             151.004
                             94.034;
                             94.051;
17-556                       94.065;
                             94.080;
                             130.05;
                             130.14
                             Ch. 75, Sch. III;
17-557                       131.08;
                             151.027
17-557.01                    151.027
17-558                       151.047;
                             151.063
17-559                       151.047;
                             151.063
17-563                       92.03;
                             131.04
17-567                       151.002;
                             151.075
17-568                       32.07
17-568.01                    32.07;
                             37.02
17-568.02                    37.02
17-601.01                    36.09
17-601.02                    36.09
17-601.03                    36.09
17-602                       36.12
                             30.001;
17-604                       30.045;
                             32.01
17-605                       32.04
17-606                       32.05
17-606(2)                    32.05
17-607                       37.08
17-608                       37.09
17-609                       37.09
17-610                       32.06
17-611                       30.045
17-612                       30.045
                             31.23;
17-613                       31.26—
                             31.28;
                             37.02
                             10.15;
17-614                       31.24;
                             31.25;
                             31.29
17-615                       31.27
17-616                       31.25
17-701                       37.25
17-702                       37.07;
                             37.50
17-706                       37.31
17-708                       37.01
17-709                       37.01
17-710                       37.06
17-711                       37.05
17-714                       37.04
17-715                       37.04
17-718                       34.01
17-901                       52.004;
                             52.005
17-902                       52.004;
                             52.005
17-919                       32.07
17-920                       131.09
17-925.01                    50.04;
                             52.001
17-925.02                    52.011
17-948                       95.01
17-948 through 17-952        95.01
17-949                       95.01
17-951                       95.01
17-952                       33.03;
                             95.01
17-953 et seq.               34.01
17-953 through 17-955        96.01
                             96.02;
17-953                       96.03;
                             151.011
17-953.01                    151.011
17-954                       151.011
17-1001                      92.03;
                             150.020
17-1237 et seq.              37.09
17-1269 et seq.              37.09
18-131                       31.26
                             31.20;
18-132                       90.03;
                             94.025
18-305 through 18-312        30.046
18-412.01                    37.02
                             50.01;
18-503                       50.04;
                             52.003—
                             52.005
18-509                       52.006
18-806                       131.07
18-1001 through 18-1006      151.005
18-1214                      37.52
                             91.15;
18-1303                      91.17;
                             91.18
18-1701                      32.04
                             10.99;
                             31.03;
                             90.99;
                             91.99;
                             92.01—
                             92.04;
                             92.06;
                             92.99;
                             94.999;
                             110.99;
                             113.99;
                             114.05;
18-1720                      114.08;
                             114.99;
                             115.99;
                             116.01;
                             116.99;
                             117.99;
                             130.99;
                             131.01;
                             131.03;
                             131.99;
                             150.051;
                             150.999;
                             151.999;
                             153.99
                             10.99;
                             90.99;
                             91.99;
                             92.99;
                             94.999;
                             110.99;
                             113.99;
                             114.99;
18-1722                      115.99;
                             116.99;
                             117.99;
                             130.99;
                             131.99;
                             150.055;
                             150.999;
                             151.999;
                             153.99
18-1722.01                   150.052
18-1736                      73.25
                             73.25;
18-1737                      73.26;
                             73.33
18-1741.01                   73.27;
                             73.34
18-1741.04                   73.34
18-1741.06                   73.34
18-1743                      150.022
18-1748                      52.069
18-1751                      151.010
18-1752                      91.16
18-1755                      151.012
18-1756                      37.02
18-1801 through 18-1805      37.10
18-2102.01                   33.02
18-2715                      33.02
                             37.25;
18-2801 et seq.              37.26;
                             37.32
18-2803                      37.32
18-2804                      37.32
18-2805                      37.32
18-2806                      37.32
18-2807                      37.32
18-2808                      37.32
18-3301                      32.07
19-710                       92.05
19-901 et seq.               33.02
19-902                       90.03;
                             94.025
19-903                       33.02
19-912                       152.12
19-915                       31.29
19-916                       33.02
19-922                       31.20;
                             94.025
19-925 through 19-933        33.02
19-926                       33.02
19-927                       33.02
19-928                       33.02
19-929                       33.02
19-930 to 19-933             33.02
19-1101                      32.05
19-1102                      32.04
19-1103                      32.04;
                             32.05
19-1301                      37.07
19-1302                      37.07
19-1303                      37.07
19-1304                      37.07
19-1305                      51.01
19-1309                      37.45—
                             37.47
19-1310                      37.48
19-1311                      37.49
19-1404                      50.01
19-2106                      91.02
19-2417 through 19-2419      151.030
19-2427                      151.009
19-2428 through 19-2431      151.056;
                             151.061
19-2428 to 19-2431           151.010
19-2701                      51.04
19-2901 through 19-2909      37.03
19-3101                      31.05
19-3701                      31.28
20-203                       93.65
23-122                       32.04
25-1801                      50.05
25-21,275                    50.05
25-21,276                    50.05
25-21,277                    50.05
25-21,278                    50.05
25-2703                      31.20
27-101                       93.20—
                             93.22
28-109                       93.99
Chapter 28, Art. 3           110.06
Chapter 28, Art. 4           110.06
28-431                       131.13
28-515.02                    50.03;
                             50.05
                             94.003;
28-519                       130.06;
                             131.07
28-520                       93.65
28-521                       93.65
28-523                       95.02;
                             131.12
Chapter 28, Art. 7           110.06
28-729                       130.01
Chapter 28, Art. 8           110.06
28-818                       130.09
28-906                       93.44;
                             130.02
28-907                       94.009
                             94.002;
                             94.004;
28-908                       94.006;
                             94.010;
                             130.03
Chapter 28, Art. 10          110.06
28-1008                      93.45;
                             93.65
28-1012.1                    93.45
28-1013                      93.45
Chapter 28, Art. 11          110.06
Chapter 28, Art. 12          110.06
28-1213                      94.065;
                             94.080
28-1229                      94.065;
                             94.080
28-1233                      94.065;
                             94.080
28-1233(3)                   94.065;
                             94.080
28-1241                      94.050;
                             94.051
28-1244                      94.051
28-1245                      94.051
28-1246 through 28-1250      94.052
28-1303                      131.05
28-1304                      131.06
                             92.03;
28-1321                      92.06;
                             131.01
28-1322                      130.04
29-215                       35.02
29-4016                      132.02
31-1001 to 31-1022           152.01
                             31.02;
32-101 et seq.               36.04;
                             36.06;
                             37.07
32-101                       31.02
32-110                       36.12
32-115                       36.12
32-230                       36.10
32-238                       36.11
32-404                       36.04
32-404(2)                    36.01
32-405                       36.06
32-4,111                     36.14
32-4,152                     36.14
32-532                       31.02;
                             36.02
32-554                       31.02;
                             36.02
32-556                       36.01;
                             36.04
32-557                       31.02
32-559                       36.06
32-560                       31.04;
                             31.05
32-560 through 32-572        31.04
32-561                       31.04
32-564                       36.06
32-568                       36.15
32-569                       31.04;
                             36.15
32-602                       31.02;
                             36.16
32-604                       31.02
32-606                       36.16
32-608                       36.07;
                             36.08
32-611                       36.16
32-615                       36.08
32-616                       36.08
32-617                       36.08
32-618                       36.08
32-621                       36.08
32-625(2)                    36.08
32-627                       36.08
32-628                       36.08;
                             151.005
32-629                       36.08
32-630                       36.08
32-702                       36.16
32-710                       36.08
32-802                       36.05
32-805                       36.13
32-918                       36.17
32-952 through 32-959        36.06
32-1122                      36.03
32-1202                      36.06
32-1308                      31.04
32-1525                      36.17
33-139.01                    34.03
33-141                       32.05
35-102                       34.03
35-103                       34.03
35-106                       117.02
35-108                       34.03
35-520                       94.009
Chapter 39                   74.99
39-301                       131.08
39-302                       131.08
39-303                       131.08
39-307                       131.02
39-311                       72.01;
                             72.02
39-697                       73.03;
                             73.04
44-4301 through 44-4339      30.060
44-4303                      30.060
45-104.01                    151.056
45-601 et seq.               37.11
45-623                       37.11
48-101 et seq.               34.03
48-115                       34.03
48-1503                      37.02
49-801(16)                   10.05
49-1408                      30.045
49-1425                      30.046
49-1499.03 through 49-14,103 30.046
49-1499.04                   30.046
49-14,102                    30.046
49-14,103.01                 30.046
49-14,103.02                 30.046
49-14,103.03                 30.046
49-14,103.04                 30.046
49-14,103.05                 30.046
49-14,103.06                 30.046
49-14,123(13)                36.16
51-215                       37.07
51-216                       37.07
52-601.01 to 52-605          131.13
                             110.02;
                             110.05;
                             110.06;
                             110.08—
53-101 et seq.               110.10;
                             110.17;
                             110.18;
                             110.20;
                             110.21
53-103.01 through 53-103.51  110.01
53-116.01                    110.20
53-118                       110.16
53-123.12                    110.08
53-124                       110.08;
                             110.22
53-124.01                    110.08
53-124.12                    110.22
53-124.15                    110.03
53-124.17                    110.08
53-125                       110.06
53-129                       110.08
53-131                       110.08
53-132                       110.08
53-133                       110.03;
                             110.08
53-134                       110.08
                             110.08;
53-134.03                    110.14;
                             110.16
53-134.04                    110.21
53-135                       110.07
53-135.01                    110.07;
                             110.08
53-148                       110.05
53-168.06                    110.02
53-175                       110.18
53-177                       110.03
53-178                       110.04
53-179                       110.15
53-180                       110.11
53-183                       110.12
53-184                       110.13
53-186                       130.12
53-186(2)                    130.12
53-186.01                    130.12
53-194.03                    110.18
53-1,101                     110.09
53-1,102                     110.10
53-1,115                     110.21
53-1,121                     110.19
54-601                       93.49
54-602                       93.49
54-603                       93.35;
                             93.37
54-603(3)                    93.35
54-605                       93.40;
                             93.42
54-606                       93.38
54-607                       93.02
54-617                       93.65
54-618                       93.66
54-619                       93.67
54-620                       93.68
54-621                       93.68
54-622.01                    93.69;
                             93.99
54-623                       93.69;
                             93.99
54-624                       93.69
55-133                       70.01
Chapter 60                   74.32;
                             74.99
60-101 et seq.               37.52
60-169                       131.13
Chapter 60, Article 3        70.02
                             37.52;
60-301 et seq.               70.02;
                             73.11;
                             131.13
60-301                       131.13
60-376                       131.13;
                             131.15
60-3,104                     37.52
60-3,113 et seq.             73.27;
                             73.28
60-3,113.01 et seq.          73.28—
                             73.30
60-3,113.04                  73.25;
                             73.26
60-3,113.07                  73.32
60-3,113.08                  73.25;
                             73.26
60-3,115.05                  73.31
Chapter 60, Article 4        70.02
60-4,126                     74.32
                             70.01;
60-601 et seq.               71.45;
                             73.13
60-606 through 60-676        70.01
60-607                       70.01
60-610                       70.01
60-613                       70.01
60-624                       70.01
60-631                       70.01
60-638                       70.01
60-646                       70.01
60-654                       70.01
60-656                       70.01
60-658.01                    70.01
60-661                       70.01
60-669                       70.01
60-670                       70.01
60-671                       70.01
60-672                       70.01
60-676                       70.01
                             71.02—
                             71.04;
                             71.15;
                             71.31;
60-680                       73.01;
                             73.02;
                             73.05;
                             73.08;
                             73.10;
                             73.12
60-681                       71.01
60-682                       70.99
60-684 through 60-694.01     70.99
60-689                       70.99
60-6,114                     73.13
60-6,118                     70.01
60-6,119                     71.45
60-6,121                     71.45
60-6,127                     71.47
60-6,129                     71.46;
                             71.48
60-6,130                     71.48
60-6,133                     71.31
60-6,142                     74.15
60-6,146 through 60-6,154    71.30
60-6,151                     71.32
60-6,159                     71.16
60-6,160                     71.15
60-6,164                     73.01
60-6,165                     73.14
                             73.06;
60-6,166                     73.07;
                             94.005
60-6,167                     73.02;
                             73.09
60-6,183                     94.008
60-6,184                     94.007;
                             130.07
60-6,186                     Ch. 75, Sch. II
60-6,211.08                  130.12
60-6,250                     151.053
60-6,278 through 60-6,282    74.01
60-6,288 to 60-6,290         73.13
60-6,294                     73.13;
                             151.053
60-6,315                     74.15
60-6,317                     74.15
60-6,318                     74.15
60-6,356                     74.30
60-6,356(2)                  74.32
60-6,357                     74.34
60-6,358                     74.35
60-6,359                     74.36
60-6,360                     74.37
60-6,361                     74.38
60-6,362                     74.99
60-1901                      131.13
60-1902                      131.13
60-1903                      131.13
60-1903.01                   131.13
60-1903.02                   131.13
60-1904                      131.13
60-1905                      131.13
60-1906                      131.13
60-1907                      131.13
60-1908                      131.13
60-1909                      131.13
60-2410                      131.13
69-202                       114.02
69-204                       114.04;
                             114.06
70-624.04                    30.045
70-1601 through 70-1615      50.03;
                             50.05
70-1602                      50.02
70-1603                      50.02
70-1604                      50.02
70-1607                      50.02
70-1608 to 70-1614           50.02
70-1615                      50.02
71-423                       110.19
71-1908 et seq.              132.02
71-4401                      93.38
71-4406                      93.51
71-4408                      93.52
71-4411                      93.52
71-4412                      93.35
71-4603                      131.13
Chapter 72, Article 14       151.011
73-101 et seq.               37.02
74-1333                      115.01
74-1336                      115.01
77-1343                      151.061
77-1601                      37.51
77-1606                      37.51
77-1632                      37.51
77-1725                      131.10
77-1725.01                   150.053
77-2201                      32.05
77-2201 through 77-2215      32.05
77-2202                      32.05
77-2209                      32.05
77-2210                      32.05
77-2212                      32.05
77-2341                      37.09
77-2362                      37.08
77-2363                      37.08
77-2364                      37.08
77-2365.01                   37.08
77-2366                      37.07
77-2386 et seq.              37.08
77-23,109 et seq.            37.09
77-3442                      95.01
77-3444                      36.06
81-145 through 81-162        37.02
81-501.01 to 81-531          34.08
81-502                       94.025
81-506                       34.12
81-512                       34.08;
                             94.027
81-542 et seq.               34.09
81-520.01                    94.035
81-829.36 through 81-829.75  33.06
81-829.51                    37.33
81-1438 through 81-1446      35.03
81-15,117 et seq.            34.09
84-712 through 84-712.09     32.04;
                             32.05
84-712(2)                    32.04
84-1201 et seq.              32.04
84-1407 et seq.              30.017;
                             30.023
84-1408                      30.017
84-1409                      30.015;
                             30.016
84-1410                      30.018;
                             30.030
                             30.017;
84-1411                      30.019;
                             30.022;
                             30.023
84-1411(7)                   30.017
84-1412                      30.023
                             30.017;
84-1413                      30.020;
                             30.021
                             
 
 
REFERENCES TO PRIOR CODE
Prior Code Section Code Section
Prior Code Section  Code Section
1-101               31.01
1-102               31.02
1-103               31.03
1-104               31.04
1-201               32.01
1-202               32.02
1-203               32.03
1-204               32.04
1-205 through 1-207 32.05
1-208               32.06
1-209               32.07
1-210               32.08
1-211               32.09
1-212               32.10
1-213               32.11
1-214               32.12
1-215               32.13
1-301               30.001
1-302               30.002
1-401               30.003
1-501               30.015
1-502               30.016
1-503               30.017
1-504               30.018
1-505               30.019
1-506               30.020
1-507               30.021
1-508               30.022
1-509               30.023
1-510               30.024
1-511               30.025
1-512               30.026
1-513               30.027
1-514               30.028
1-515               30.029
1-601               31.20
1-602               31.21
1-603               31.22
1-604               31.23
1-605               31.24
1-606               31.25
1-607               31.26
1-608               31.27
1-609               31.28
1-610               31.29
1-701               36.01
1-702               36.02
1-704               36.04
1-705               36.05
1-706               36.06
1-707               36.07
1-708               36.08
1-709               36.09
1-710               36.10
1-712               36.12
1-718               36.17
1-801               37.25
1-802               37.26
1-803               37.27
1-804               37.28
1-804.01            37.29
1-805               37.30
1-806               37.31
1-807               37.45
1-808               37.46
1-809               37.47
1-810               37.48
1-811               37.49
1-812               37.50
1-813               37.01
1-814               37.02
1-815               37.03
1-816               37.04
1-817               37.05
1-818               37.06
1-819               37.07
1-820               37.08
1-821               37.09
1-822               37.10
1-823               37.52
1-824               37.11
1-825               37.32
1-826               37.51
1-827               37.33
1-901               30.045
1-902               30.046
1-1001              30.060
2-101               33.01
2-201               33.02
2-203               33.03
3-101               51.01
3-102               51.02
3-103               51.03
3-104               51.04
3-105               51.05
3-106               51.06
3-107               51.07
3-108               51.08
3-109               51.09
3-110               51.10
3-111               51.11
3-112               51.12
3-113               51.13
3-114               51.14
3-115               51.15
3-116               51.16
3-117               51.17
3-118               51.18
3-119               51.19
3-120               51.20
3-121               51.21
3-123               51.22
3-125               51.23
3-126               51.35
3-127               51.36
3-128               51.37
3-129               51.38
3-130               51.39
3-131               51.40
3-132               51.41
3-133               51.42
3-134               51.43
3-135               51.44
3-136               51.45
3-137               51.46
3-138               51.47
3-139               51.48
3-140               51.49
3-141               53.01
3-142               53.02
3-143               53.03
3-144               53.04
3-145               53.99
3-201               52.001
3-202               52.002
3-203               52.003
3-204               52.004
3-205               52.005
3-206               52.006
3-207               52.007
3-208               52.008
3-209               52.009
3-210               52.010
3-211               52.011
3-212               52.012
3-213               52.030
3-214               52.031
3-215               52.032
3-216               52.033
3-217               52.045
3-218               52.046
3-219               52.047
3-220               52.048
3-221               52.049
3-222               52.050
3-223               52.065
3-224               52.066
3-225               52.067
3-226               52.068
3-227               52.069
3-228               52.070
3-229               52.071
3-230               52.072
3-231               52.073
3-232               52.074
3-233               52.075
3-234               52.013
3-235               52.090
3-236               52.091
3-237               52.092
3-238               52.093
3-239               52.105
3-240               52.014
3-241               52.120
3-242               52.121
3-243               52.094
3-244               52.135
3-245               52.136
3-246               52.137
3-247               52.999
3-248               52.016
3-249               52.017
3-250               52.015
3-301               50.01
3-302               50.02
3-303               50.03
3-304               50.04
3-305               50.05
3-401               34.01
3-402               34.02
3-403               34.03
3-404               34.04
3-405               34.05
3-406               34.06
3-407               34.07
3-408               34.08
3-409               34.09
3-410               34.10
3-411               34.11
3-412               34.12
3-501               35.01
3-502               35.02
3-601               95.01
3-602               95.02
3-701               96.01
3-702               96.02
3-703               96.03
3-801               33.06
4-101               90.01
4-102               90.02
4-103               90.03
4-104               90.04
4-201               91.01
4-202               91.01
4-203               91.01
4-203.01            91.01
4-204               91.02
4-205               91.03
4-206               91.15
4-207               91.16
4-208               91.17
4-209               91.18
4-301               92.01
4-302               92.02
4-303               92.03
4-304               92.04
4-305               92.05
4-306               92.06
                    90.99;
4-401               91.99;
                    92.99
5-101               70.01
5-201               71.01
5-202               71.02
5-203               71.03
5-204               71.15
5-205               71.16
5-206               71.30
5-207               71.31
5-208               71.32
5-209               71.04
5-210               71.45
5-211               71.48
5-301               72.01
5-302               72.02
5-303               71.46
5-304               71.47
5-305               74.01
5-306               70.02
5-307               74.99
5-308               Ch. 75, Sch. I
5-401               74.15
5-501               73.01
5-502               73.02
5-503               73.03
5-504               73.04
5-505               73.05
5-506               73.06
5-507               73.07
5-508               73.08
5-509               73.09
5-510               73.10
5-511               73.25
5-511.01            73.26
5-511.02            73.27
5-511.03            73.28
5-511.04            73.29
5-511.05            73.30
5-511.06            73.31
5-511.07            73.32
5-511.08            73.33
5-511.09            73.34
5-512               73.11
5-513               73.12
5-514               Ch. 75, Sch. III
5-515               73.13
5-516               73.14
5-603               74.34
5-604               74.35
5-605               74.36
5-606               74.37
5-607               74.38
5-608               74.99
5-609               74.39
5-701               70.99
6-101               93.35
6-102               93.36
6-103               93.37
6-104               93.38
6-105               93.39;
                    93.99
6-106               93.40
6-107               93.41
6-108               93.42
6-109               93.43
6-110               93.44
6-111               93.45
6-112               93.46
6-113               93.47
6-114               93.48
6-115               93.49
6-116               93.50
6-117               93.51
6-118               93.52
6-119               93.65
6-120               93.66
6-121               93.67
6-122               93.68
6-123               93.69
6-201               93.02
6-202               93.03
6-203               93.04
6-204               93.05
6-205               93.06
6-206               93.07
6-207               93.20
6-208               93.21
6-209               93.22
6-301               130.01
6-302               130.02
6-303               130.03
6-304               130.04
6-305               131.01
6-306               131.02
6-307               131.03
6-308               131.04
6-310               131.05
6-311               131.06
6-312               131.07
6-313               130.05
6-314               131.08
6-315               131.09
6-316               130.13
6-317               131.13
6-318               131.14
6-319               130.06
6-320               130.07
6-321               131.10
6-322               130.08
6-323               131.11
6-324               131.15
6-325               130.09
6-326               131.12
6-327               130.14
6-328               130.15
6-329               130.10
6-330               130.11
6-401               130.99;
                    131.99
6-631               130.12
7-101               94.001
7-102               94.002
7-103               94.003
7-104               94.004
7-105               94.005
7-106               94.006
7-107               94.007
7-108               94.008
7-109               94.009
7-110               94.010
7-201               94.025
7-202               94.026
7-203               94.027
7-204               94.028
7-205               94.029
7-206               94.030
7-207               94.031
7-208               94.032
7-209               94.033
7-210               94.034
7-211               94.035
7-301               94.050
7-302               94.051
7-303               94.052
7-401               94.065
7-501               94.080
7-601               94.999
8-101               151.001
8-102               151.002
8-103               151.003
8-104               151.004
8-105               151.005
8-106               151.006
8-107               151.007
8-108               151.008
8-109               151.009
8-110               151.010
8-111               151.011
8-112               151.012
8-113               151.013
8-201               151.025
8-202               151.026
8-203               151.027
8-204               151.028
8-205               151.029
8-206               151.030
8-207               151.031
8-208               151.032
8-209               151.033
8-301               151.045
8-302               151.046
8-303               151.047
8-304               151.048
8-305               151.049
8-306               151.050
8-307               151.051
8-308               151.052
8-309               151.053
8-310               151.054
8-311               151.055
8-312               151.056
8-313               151.057
8-314               151.058
8-315               151.059
8-316               151.060
8-317               151.061
8-318               151.062
8-319               151.063
8-401               151.075
8-501               151.999
9-101               150.001
9-102               150.002
9-103               150.003
9-104               150.004
9-105               150.005
9-201               150.020
9-202               150.021
9-203               150.022
9-301               150.035
9-302               150.036
9-401               150.050
9-402               150.051
9-403               150.052
9-404               150.053
9-405               150.054
9-406               150.055
9-502               150.070
9-601               150.100
9-701               150.115
9-801               150.999
10-101              110.01
10-102              110.02
10-103              110.03
10-104              110.04
10-105              110.05
10-106              110.06
10-108              110.07
10-109              110.08
10-110              110.09
10-111              110.10
10-112              110.11
10-113              110.12
10-115              110.13
10-116              110.14
10-117              110.15
10-118              110.16
10-119              110.17
10-120              110.18
10-121              110.19
10-122              110.20
10-123              110.21
10-124              110.22
10-301              113.01
10-302              113.02
10-303              113.03
10-304              113.04
10-305              113.05
10-306              113.06
10-307              113.07
10-308              113.08
10-309              113.09
10-310              113.10
10-311              113.11
10-312              113.12
10-313              113.13
10-314              113.14
10-315              113.15
10-401              114.01
10-402              114.02
10-403              114.03
10-404              114.04
10-405              114.05
10-406              114.06
10-407              114.07
10-408              114.08
10-501              115.01
10-601              116.01
10-701              117.01
10-702              117.02
10-703              117.03
10-704              117.04
10-705              117.05
                    110.99;
                    113.99;
10-801              114.99;
                    115.99;
                    116.99;
                    117.99
11-101              153.01
11-201              153.15
11-301              153.30
11-401              153.99
                    
 
 
REFERENCES TO RESOLUTIONS
Res. No. Date Passed Code Section
Res. No. Date Passed Code Section
2005-5   6-23-2005   150.085
2005-7   8-18-2005   38.01
2006-10  6-15-2006   30.090
2007-5   1-18-2007   130.16
2007-07  2-15-2007   35.03
2007-08  2-15-2007   Ch. 75, Sch. II
2007-10  4-19-2007   50.01
2007-2   10-30-2007  50.21
2007-3   10-30-2007  50.20
2009-02  9-18-2008   97.01
2010-04  9-16-2010   38.01
2010-06  10-21-2010  30.091
2011-1   3-17-2011   50.21
2011-2   3-17-2011   50.20
2012-05  8-14-2012   50.08
2013-04  - -2013     30.092
2013-03  3-12-2013   50.07
2015-03  5-12-2015   50.21
2015-04  5-12-2015   50.20
2015-05  7-14-2015   30.091
2017-03  5-9-2017    38.02
                     112.01—
2017-04  6-13-2017   112.05;
                     112.08
2017-08  6-13-2017   112.06
2017-09  6-13-2017   112.07
2017-12  10-10-2017  50.01
2019-07  12-10-2019  50.02
2020-05  6-9-2020    50.01
2020-09  10-13-2020  30.091
2021-06  3-9-2021    50.06
                    
 
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
90-10    3-22-1990   93.39;
                     93.99
92-2     5-21-1992   131.04
92-3     5-21-1992   110.22
92-5     5-21-1992   73.25—
                     73.33
92-6     5-21-1992   110.13
92-7     5-21-1992   70.02
93-4     3-10-1993   Ch. 75, Sch. III
93-6     5-20-1993   32.04
93-7     5-20-1993   30.016
93-8     5-20-1993   30.018
93-9     5-20-1993   73.30
93-10    5-20-1993   73.33
                     150.020;
93-13    8-16-1993   150.100;
                     150.115
95-1     4-26-1995   30.018
95-2     4-26-1995   31.25
95-3     4-26-1995   37.26
95-4     4-26-1995   37.28
95-5     4-26-1995   37.29
95-6     4-26-1995   37.31
95-7     4-26-1995   37.11
95-8     4-26-1995   37.32
                     50.01;
                     51.07;
95-10    4-26-1995   51.08;
                     52.002;
                     52.003;
                     52.006
95-11    4-26-1995   51.35—
                     51.49
95-12    4-26-1995   35.02
95-13    4-26-1995   33.06
95-14    4-26-1995   91.01
95-15    4-26-1995   92.06
95-16    4-26-1995   70.01
95-17    4-26-1995   71.30
95-18    4-26-1995   74.01
95-19    4-26-1995   74.15
95-21    4-26-1995   73.25
95-22    4-26-1995   73.34
95-24    4-26-1995   131.12
95-25    4-26-1995   94.065
95-26    4-26-1995   94.080
95-30    4-26-1995   150.070
95-31    4-26-1995   110.22
96-1     5-16-1996   31.01
96-2     5-16-1996   31.02
96-3     5-16-1996   30.028
96-4     5-16-1996   30.029
96-5     5-16-1996   36.01
96-6     5-16-1996   36.02
96-7     5-16-1996   37.25
96-8     5-16-1996   37.28
96-9     5-16-1996   37.31
96-11    5-16-1996   50.05
96-12    5-16-1996   70.02
96-13    5-16-1996   73.25
96-14    5-16-1996   73.27
96-15    5-16-1996   73.28
96-16    5-16-1996   73.29
96-17    5-16-1996   73.30
96-18    5-16-1996   73.31
96-19    5-16-1996   73.32
96-20    5-16-1996   73.33
96-22    5-16-1996   151.058
96-23    5-16-1996   110.18
                     53.01—
96-24    11-21-1996  53.04;
                     53.99
98-2     3-19-1998   Ch. 75, Sch. I
98-5     6-18-1998   130.14
98-6     6-18-1998   130.15
2000-1   6-15-2000   130.10
2000-5   1-18-2001   130.11
2001-1   2-15-2001   110.22
2001-2   2-15-2001   37.51
2001-3   2-15-2001   110.08
2001-4   2-15-2001   37.33
2001-5   2-15-2001   131.13
2001-6   2-15-2001   130.12
2001-7   2-15-2001   31.03
                     90.99;
                     91.99;
                     92.99;
                     94.999;
                     110.99;
                     113.99;
                     114.99;
2001-8   2-15-2001   115.99;
                     116.99;
                     117.99;
                     130.99;
                     131.99;
                     150.999;
                     151.999;
                     153.99
2003-3   10-15-2003  153.15;
                     153.30
                     132.01—
2006-6   5-18-2006   132.04;
                     132.99
                     111.01;
2007-03  4-17-2008   111.02;
                     111.99
                     152.01—
2010-01  8-26-2010   152.20;
                     152.99
2013-04  12-10-2013  110.15
2014-01  - -2014     150.145;
                     150.146
-        5-12-2020   94.036
2020-02  5-12-2020   93.46
2012-02  7-14-2020   150.130—
                     150.133
                     74.30—
2007-1   8-11-2020   74.33;
                     74.99
2021-01  1-12-2021   Ch. 75, Sch. III
2023-02  10-10-2023  50.21
2023-03  10-10-2023  50.20
                    
 
 
